ANTIS TOWNSHIP, PENNSYLVANIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1-2020, passed 12-3-2020
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  *  www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Approval, adoption and title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation and definitions
   
10.03   Effect of code on previous provisions
   
10.04   Sections and ordinances repealed
   
10.05   Exemptions from repeal
   
10.06   Application to future ordinances
   
10.07   Changes and revisions in previously adopted ordinances
   
10.08   Interpretation of provisions
   
10.09   Headings, editor’s notes, statutory references
   
10.10   Filing copies of code
   
10.11   Amendments to the code; code books to be kept up-to-date
   
10.12   Severability
   
10.13   Reference to other sections
   
10.14   Errors and omissions
   
10.15   Sections histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Altering or tampering with the code; penalties for violation
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  APPROVAL, ADOPTION AND TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to 53 P.S. § 66601(d), the codification of all ordinances of
a permanent and general nature for Antis Township, Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated
into component codes, titles, chapters and sections, are approved, adopted,
ordained and enacted as a single ordinance of Antis Township, and shall be
known and designated as the Antis Township Code, for which designation “code of
ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  RULES OF INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical  words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning
in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural and
words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE.  All departments and the personnel thereof
established by the Township Code or ordinance.
      ADOPTING ORDINANCE.  The ordinance of Antis Township adopting the
codified ordinances of Antis Township, Pennsylvania, in accordance with the
Township Code of Pennsylvania.
      AND.  May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
      AUTHORITY.  Whenever in this code, authority is given to an officer or an
act is required to be performed, the authority may be exercised and the act may
be performed, at the instance of the officer, by a deputy or subordinate,
unless contrary to law or to the clear intent of any particular provision.
      BOARD.  The Board of Supervisors of Antis Township, Pennsylvania.
      BUDGET.  The annual budget of the township.
      CALENDAR/COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The terms MONTH and YEAR mean the CALENDAR
MONTH or YEAR.  The time expressed in days within which an act is to be done or
a period is to expire shall be computed by excluding the first and including
the last day, unless the last day is a Sunday, in which case it shall be
excluded. If time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday shall be excluded.
      CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION.  The management of the execution of contracts
between the township and any individual, partnership, association, corporation
or governmental body.
      COUNTY.  The County of Blair, Pennsylvania.
      ENGINEER.  The engineer of the township.
      KEEPER and PROPRIETOR.  Persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs
and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or
employee.
      LAND/REAL ESTATE.  Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal
nature.
      LAW.  All applicable laws and ordinances of the United States of America,
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the County of Blair.
      MANAGER.  The TOWNSHIP MANAGER of Antis Township.
      OATH.  Includes AFFIRMATION.  When an oath is required or authorized by
law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken by a person having
conscientious scruples about taking an oath. An AFFIRMATION shall have the same
effect as an OATH.
      ORDINANCE.  Any ordinance of Antis Township, including this code.
      OWNER.  When applied to property, includes a part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or any part of the property.
      PERSON.  An individual, association, club, corporation, firm,
partnership, body politic or any other legal entity.
      PREMISES.  When used as applicable to property, extends to and includes
land and buildings.
      PROPERTY.  Includes real and personal property and any mixed and lesser
estates or interests therein.  PERSONAL PROPERTY includes every kind of
property except REAL PROPERTY.  REAL PROPERTY includes lands, tenements and
hereditaments.
      REASONABLE TIME.  In all cases where provision is made for and act to be
done or notice to be given within a REASONABLE TIME, it shall be deemed to mean
the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act or the
giving of the notice.
      SIDEWALK.  Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
      SOLICITOR.  The solicitor of the township.
      STATE and COMMONWEALTH.  The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      STREET.  Alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, streets, state
highways and other public ways in the township.
      TENANT and OCCUPANT.  As applied to buildings or land, shall extend and
be applied to any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies
the whole or any part of, a building or land, alone or with others.
      TIME.  Whenever any time established in the codified ordinances for the
taking of any action expires on a Sunday or legal holiday, the time shall not
expire on the day but shall expire on the next week day.
      TOWNSHIP and MUNICIPALITY.  Antis Township of Pennsylvania.
§ 10.03  EFFECT OF CODE ON PREVIOUS PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this code, insofar as they are substantially the same as
those of ordinances and resolutions in force immediately prior to the enactment
of this code of ordinances, are intended as a continuation of the ordinances
and resolutions, and not as new enactments, and the effectiveness of the
provisions shall date from the date of adoption of the prior ordinance or
resolution. All the provisions are hereby continued in full force and effect
and are hereby reaffirmed as to their adoption by the Township Board, and it is
the intention of the Township Board that each provision contained within the
code is hereby reenacted and reaffirmed as it appears in the code.
§ 10.04  SECTIONS AND ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of
this code are hereby repealed.
§ 10.05  EXEMPTIONS FROM REPEAL.
   The repeal provided for in §
10.04 shall not affect the following ordinances, resolutions, rights and
obligations which are hereby expressly saved from repeal; provided, however,
that the repeal of ordinances or parts thereof in §
10.04, or the saving from repeal of ordinances or parts thereof pursuant to
this section, shall not be construed so as to revive an ordinance or part
thereof previously repealed, superseded or no longer of any effect:
   (A)   Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing, before the adoption
of these codified ordinances;
   (B)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money by or to the township, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the
township, or any evidence of the township’s indebtedness, or any contract or
obligation assumed by the township;
   (C)   Any ordinance or resolution of the Board not in conflict or
inconsistent with the provisions of these codified ordinances;
   (D)   Any right, license or franchise conferred by any ordinance or
resolution of Board or any other person or corporation;
   (E)   Any ordinance establishing, naming, relocating or vacating any street
or other public way;
   (F)   Any ordinance or part thereof providing for the establishment of
positions, for salaries, or compensation;
   (G)   Any prosecution, suit or other proceeding pending, or any judgment
rendered, on or prior to the adoption of these codified ordinances;
   (H)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes or assessments;
   (I)   Any ordinance establishing or changing the boundaries of the township;
or
   (J)   Any ordinance or resolution adopted by Board after the adoption of the
codified ordinances.
§ 10.06  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I, compatible with future legislation, shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.07  CHANGES AND REVISIONS IN PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Nonsubstantive grammatical changes. In compiling and preparing the
ordinances and resolutions of the township for adoption and revision as part of
the code, certain nonsubstantive grammatical and style changes were made in one
or more of the ordinances. It is the intention of the Township Board of
Supervisors that all the changes be adopted as part of the code as if the
ordinances and resolutions so changed had been previously formally amended to
read as such.
   (B)   Substantive changes and revisions. In addition to the changes and
revisions in division (A) above, changes and revisions of a substantive nature
are hereby made to various ordinances and resolutions included in the code.
These changes are enacted to bring provisions into conformity with the desired
policies of the Township Board, and it is the intent of the Township Board that
all the changes be adopted as part of the code as if the ordinances and
resolutions so changed have been previously formally amended to read as such.
All changes and revisions shall be deemed to be in effect as of the effective
date of this code.
§ 10.08  INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS.
   In interpreting and applying the provision of the code, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety,
comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where the provisions of the code
impose greater restrictions or requirements than those of any state statute,
other ordinance, resolution or regulation, the provisions of the code shall
control. Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance, resolution or
regulation impose greater restrictions or requirements, the provisions of the
statute, other ordinance, resolution or regulation shall control.
§ 10.09  HEADINGS, EDITOR’S NOTES, STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   Headings of titles, chapters, sections and divisions in the code, or
in supplements to the code, are inserted into the code, and may be inserted
into the supplements to the code, for the convenience of persons using the code
and are not part of the legislation.
   (B)   Editors’s notes and/or statutory references indicating sources of
sections, giving other information or referring the statutes or to other parts
of the code are inserted in the code, and may be inserted in supplements to the
code, for the convenience of persons using the code and are not part of the
legislation.
§ 10.10  FILING COPIES OF CODE.
   One copy of the code in a bound volume shall be retained at the offices of
the township and shall remain there for use and examination of the public. One
attested copy shall be filed with the County Law Library as required by 53 P.S.
§ 66601(a) or shall be filed electronically as permitted by 53 P.S. § 66601
(a.1).
§ 10.11  AMENDMENTS TO THE CODE; CODE BOOKS TO BE KEPT UP-TO-DATE.
   (A)   Any and all additions, deletions, amendments or supplements to the
code, when passed and adopted so as to indicate the intention of Township Board
to be a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into the code so that
the references in the code shall be understood and intended to include the
changes. When any and all additions, deletions, amendments or supplements to
the code shall be adopted, they shall be printed and inserted in the bound code
book as amendments and supplements to it.
   (B)   The Township Manager or someone authorized or directed by him or her
shall keep the certified copies of the code book, which are required to be kept
in the Township Manager’s office for public use,  up-to-date. All changes in
the code, and all ordinances and resolutions adopted subsequent to the
effective date of this code, which the Township Board specifically adopts as
part of the code, shall be included in the code book by reference until the
changes or new ordinances or resolutions are printed as supplements to the code
book and inserted into the code book.
§ 10.12  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any title, chapter, section, division or part thereof of this code
now enacted or subsequently amended or its application to any person or
circumstances is held to be illegal, invalid or unconstitutional by a court of
competent jurisdiction, that determination shall not affect, impair or
invalidate the remainder thereof, but is confined in its operation and
application to the title, chapter, section, division or part thereof determined
illegal, invalid or unconstitutional.
   (B)   It is the intent of the Township Board to declare that this code would
have been adopted if the illegal, invalid or unconstitutional title, chapter,
section, division or part thereof would not have been included.
§ 10.13  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.14  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   (1)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and
passage date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are
listed following the text of the code section.
      (2)   Example:  (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970;
Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
     (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. 
Example: (65 Pa.C.S.A. § 704) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1985).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.  Example:
         § 39.10  OPEN MEETINGS.
            Official action and deliberations by a quorum of the members of an
agency shall take place at a meeting open to the public unless otherwise
permitted..
         Statutory reference:
            Open meetings and public records, see 65 Pa.C.S. §§ 701 et seq.
§ 10.16  ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH THE CODE; PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to improperly change or amend, by additions
or deletions, or to alter or tamper with the code or any part or portion
thereof, in any manner which will cause the law of the township to be
misrepresented thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
      Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
township for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be
subject to the following:
   (A)   Civil enforcement. Except as provided in division (B), when the
penalty imposed for the violation of this code of ordinances enacted pursuant
to the provisions of the Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq.,
is not voluntarily paid to the township, the township shall initiate a civil
enforcement proceeding before a district justice.
      (1)   The civil enforcement proceeding shall be initiated by complaint or
by such other means as may be provided by the Pennsylvania Rules of Civil
Procedure. An ordinance which is to be enforced through a civil enforcement
proceeding may prescribe civil penalties not to exceed $600 per violation.
      (2)   In addition to or in lieu of civil actions before a district
justice, the township may enforce this code of ordinance in equity.
      (3)   In any case where a penalty for a violation of this code of
ordinances has not been timely paid and the person upon whom the penalty was
imposed is found to have been liable therefor in civil proceedings, the
violator shall be liable for the penalty imposed, including additional daily
penalties for continuing violations, plus court costs and reasonable attorney
fees incurred by the township in the enforcement proceedings.
      (4)   The township shall be exempt from the payment of costs in any civil
case brought to enforce an ordinance in accordance with this division.
   (B)   Summary offenses. For any provision of this code of ordinances
regulating building, housing, property maintenance, health, fire, public
safety, parking, solicitation, curfew, water, air or noise pollution, the Board
of Supervisors shall provide that its enforcement shall be by action brought
before a district justice in the same manner provided for the enforcement of
summary offenses under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure. The
municipal solicitor may assume charge of the prosecution without the consent of
the district attorney as required under Pa.R.Crim.P. No. 83(c) (relating to
trial in summary cases). The Board of Supervisors may prescribe criminal fines
not to exceed $1,000 per violation and may prescribe imprisonment to the extent
allowed by law for the punishment of summary offenses.
   (C)   Existing ordinances. With regard to ordinances enacted prior to 5-7-
1996, those regulating building, housing, property maintenance, health, fire,
public safety, parking, solicitation, curfew, water, air or noise pollution
shall be deemed automatically amended so that they shall be enforced by an
action brought before a district justice in the same manner provided for the
enforcement of summary offenses in accordance with division (B). All other
ordinances enacted prior to 5-7-1996, shall be deemed automatically amended so
that they shall be enforced through a civil enforcement proceeding in
accordance with division (A).
   (D)   Enforcement in equity. This code of ordinances may be enforced by the
township through an action in equity brought in the Court of Common Pleas of
Blair County.
   (E)   Separate offenses. A penalty shall be assessed for each day or portion
thereof in which a violation is found to exist or for each section of this code
of ordinances which is found to have been violated.
   (F)   Payment to Secretary-Treasurer. All fines and penalties collected for
the violation of this code of ordinances shall be paid to the Township
Secretary-Treasurer.
   (G)   Enforcement officers or agents. The Board of Supervisors may delegate
the initial determination of the violation of this code of ordinances and the
service of notice of the violation(s) to such officers or agents as the
township shall deem qualified for that purpose.
(53 P.S. § 66601(c.1))
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
      
32.   FIRE COMPANIES, VOLUNTEER
      
33.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Service fee for tax certification
   
30.02   Reward for information
§ 30.01  SERVICE FEE FOR TAX CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   The township hereby appoints the elected Tax Collector as the
municipal officer authorized to provide tax certifications.
   (B)   The township hereby imposes a service fee of $5 to be assessed to each
person, firm or corporation requesting a certification as to the payment status
of real estate taxes or a duplicate tax statement from the Township Tax
Collector’s office.
   (C)   By further determination of this township, this shall be set, from
time to time, by resolution, in the event the township determines a need to
alter the fee as initially established.
(Ord. 2-2004, passed 3-4-2004)
§ 30.02  REWARD FOR INFORMATION.
   (A)   Authorization for payment. The township hereby authorizes the payment
of rewards for certain information, as described herein.
   (B)   Rewards restricted to particular crimes or offenses. The Township
Board of Supervisors may, from time to time, establish the particular crimes or
offenses for which the provision of information shall lead to such rewards.
Rewards will be given only for the offenses and only in the amounts explicitly
stated in such township resolution.
   (C)   Rewards paid by township.
      (1)   The rewards paid by the township shall be offered only for
information that leads to the arrest and conviction of persons who commit
capital crimes within the township or for the violation of any township
ordinance.
      (2)   Although any resolution of the Supervisors may limit the number and
type of offenses for which information will be rewarded, no such resolution may
expand the reward program to cover any offenses not described in this section.
   (D)   Amounts.
      (1)   The members of the Board of Supervisors hereby offer to any
individual the following rewards for any information that leads to the arrest
and conviction of persons who commit the following acts, in violation of
township ordinance(s):
 
Ordinance                              Reward
Dumping of trash or other debris       $1,000
Stealing signs erected by the township $1,000
Vandalism                              $1,000
 
      (2)   Should more than one person provide information leading to the
arrest and conviction of the same person(s) for the same offense(s), the reward
described above shall be paid to the first person furnishing such information
to the township.
(Ord. 6-2003, passed 7-3-2003; Res. 8-2003, passed 8-7-2003)
CHAPTER 31:  EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Salaries and compensation
Township Manager
   
31.15   Creation of position
   
31.16   Appointment and removal
   
31.17   Powers and duties
   
31.18   Disability or absence
   
31.19   Bond
   
31.20   Compensation
   
31.21   Delegation of nonlegislative powers and duties
   
31.22   Emergencies
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  SALARIES AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Supervisor’s compensation fixed. Each Supervisor of the township
elected or appointed to office on or after November 4, 1997, shall receive
compensation as a Supervisor in the annual amount of $2,500.
(1987 Code, § 32-1)
   (B)   Method of payment. Such compensation shall be paid in monthly/
quarterly installments.
(1987 Code, § 32-2)
(Ord. 5-85, passed 12-18-1985; Ord. 3-97, passed 12-18-1997)
TOWNSHIP MANAGER
§ 31.15  CREATION OF POSITION.
   The position of Township Manager is hereby created by the Board of
Supervisors of the township, hereinafter referred to as “Board of Supervisors”.
(1987 Code, § 18-1)  (Ord. 7-2000, passed 10-6-2000)
§ 31.16  APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL.
   A Township Manager, hereinafter “Manager,” may be appointed for an
indefinite term by a majority of all the members of the Board of Supervisors.
The Manager, if appointed, shall serve at the pleasure of the Board and may be
removed at any time by a majority vote of the Board. At least 30 days before
any removal becomes effective, the Board shall furnish the Manager with a
written statement setting forth its intention of removal.
(1987 Code, § 18-2)  (Ord. 7-2000, passed 10-6-2000)
§ 31.17  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Manager are subject to recall or modification
by ordinance or resolution of the Board of Supervisors. The specific job duties
and responsibilities are attached hereto marked as “Township Manager Job
Description”. (Said job description is on file in the township offices.)
(1987 Code, § 18-3)  (Ord. 7-2000, passed 10-6-2000)
§ 31.18  DISABILITY OR ABSENCE.
   If the Manager becomes ill or needs to be absent from the township, the
duties of the Manager shall be performed during his or her absence by such
person as may be designated by the Board of Supervisors.
(1987 Code, § 18-4)  (Ord. 7-2000, passed 10-6-2000)
§ 31.19  BOND.
   The Manager shall post bond to the township with a bonding company as
surety, to be approved by the Board of Supervisors, in such amount as directed
by the Board of Supervisors. Said bond shall be conditioned on the faithful
performance of the Manager’s duties. The township shall pay the premium of the
bond.
(1987 Code, § 18-5)  (Ord. 7-2000, passed 10-6-2000)
§ 31.20  COMPENSATION.
   The Manager’s salary shall be established from time to time by resolution by
the Township Board of Supervisors.
(1987 Code, § 18-6)  (Ord. 7-2000, passed 10-6-2000)
§ 31.21  DELEGATION OF NONLEGISLATIVE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Supervisors may, by resolution, delegate, subject to recall,
any of its nonlegislative powers and duties to the Township Manager.
(1987 Code, § 18-7)  (Ord. 7-2000, passed 10-6-2000)
§ 31.22  EMERGENCIES.
   In case of accident, disaster or other circumstances creating a public
emergency, the Township Manager may award contracts and make purchases for the
purpose of meeting said emergency; but the Manager shall file promptly with the
Township Board of Supervisors a certificate showing such emergency and the
necessity for such action, together with an itemized account of all
expenditures.
(1987 Code, § 18-8)  (Ord. 7-2000, passed 10-6-2000)
CHAPTER 32:  FIRE COMPANIES, VOLUNTEER
Section
Activities of Minors
   
32.01   Training and firefighting activities of minors
   
32.02   Activities of minors 16 years of age limited
   
32.03   Activities of minors 14 and 15 years of age limited
   
32.04   Vacation employment certificate
   
32.05   Conspicuous posting of ordinance
Reimbursement
   
32.15   Purpose
   
32.16   Definitions
   
32.17   Authority to recover emergency response costs
   
32.18   False and/or nuisance alarms
   
32.19   Policy for billing
   
32.20   Procedure for billing
   
32.21   Saving clause
 
   
32.99   Penalty
ACTIVITIES OF MINORS
§ 32.01  TRAINING AND FIREFIGHTING ACTIVITIES OF MINORS.
   Minors who are members of a volunteer fire company, including all
classifications of membership, may participate in training and firefighting
activities in compliance with the following.
   (A)   Drivers of trucks, ambulances or other official vehicles shall be 18
years of age.
   (B)   Minors 17 years of age who have successfully completed a course of
training equal to the standards for basic firefighting established by the
Department of Education may engage in general firefighting activities, provided
that such minors are under the direct supervision and control of the fire chief
or a trained, experienced officer over 21 years of age, except that minors may
not do the following:
      (1)   Operate an aerial ladder, aerial platform hydraulic jack or high-
pressure hose;
      (2)   Ascend ladders;
      (3)   Use rubber electrical gloves, insulated wire gloves, insulated wire
cutters, life nets or acetylene cutting units; or
      (4)   Enter a burning structure.
(1987 Code, § 14-1)  (Ord. 2-81, passed 9-1-1981)
§ 32.02  ACTIVITIES OF MINORS 16 YEARS OF AGE LIMITED.
   The activities of minors 16 years of age at the scene of a fire shall be
limited to the following:
   (A)   First aid; and
   (B)   Clean-up service outside of the structure, after the fire has been
declared by the fire official in charge to be under control.
(1987 Code, § 14-2)  (Ord. 2-81, passed 9-1-1981)
§ 32.03  ACTIVITIES OF MINORS 14 AND 15 YEARS OF AGE LIMITED.
   The activities of minors 14 and 15 years of age shall be limited to the
following:
   (A)   Training; provided, however, the said minors are not permitted to ride
on fire equipment or to participate in firefighting activities; and
   (B)   Cleaning and storing of equipment.
(1987 Code, § 14-3)  (Ord. 2-81, passed 9-1-1981)
§ 32.04  VACATION EMPLOYMENT CERTIFICATE.
   All fire companies shall provide the township office with a copy of a
vacation employment certificate for each minor who is a member of their fire
company; and said fire company shall otherwise comply with all the provisions
of the Child Labor Act (43 P.S. §§ 40.1 et seq.).
(1987 Code, § 14-4)  (Ord. 2-81, passed 9-1-1981)
§ 32.05  CONSPICUOUS POSTING OF ORDINANCE.
   This subchapter shall be posted in a conspicuous place in all volunteer fire
companies within the township at all times.
(1987 Code, § 14-6)  (Ord. 2-81, passed 9-1-1981)
REIMBURSEMENT
§ 32.15  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide the authority, procedures and
requirements to seek collection and reimbursement for the reasonable costs of
responding to emergency incidents, either directly or in coordination with the
Blair County Emergency Management Agency (EMA), the Antis Township Township
Emergency Management Coordinator (EMC), and/or any recognized fire company
serving Antis Township. Fire service calls, false alarms, nuisance alarms,
hazardous material incidents, environmental incidents, and safety and rescue
incidents coordinated via Blair County EMA and 911 responses, and those that
use hazardous material abatement equipment and materials, also are eligible for
reimbursement.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 12-3-2020)
§ 32.16  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the term FIRE COMPANY or FIRE COMPANIES
shall refer to the Bellwood Excelsior Fire Company, the Pinecroft Volunteer
Fire Company, and/or any fire company hereafter recognized formally by township
ordinance.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 12-3-2020)
§ 32.17  AUTHORITY TO RECOVER EMERGENCY RESPONSE COSTS.
   The Antis Township Board of Supervisors by and through its authority and
relationship with the fire companies, hereby authorizes the recovery of real
and reasonable costs incurred by such volunteer emergency services organization
involving any hazardous material incident, environmental incident or safety and
rescue incident or operation, including, but not limited to, vehicular
accidents and fires, that occur in Antis Township.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 12-3-2020)
§ 32.18  FALSE AND/OR NUISANCE ALARMS.
   (A)   False and/or nuisance alarms are deemed to be a waste of time,
manpower, and equipment and create the potential for serious injury to fire
company personnel and other responding emergency personnel. FALSE ALARM means
the activation of any alarm system which results in a response by the fire
company and which is caused by the negligence or intentional misuse of the
alarm system by the owner, its employees, agents or any other activation of an
alarm system not caused by heat, smoke, or fire, exclusive of a nuisance alarm.
NUISANCE ALARM means the activation of any alarm system which results in a
response by the fire company, caused by mechanical failure, malfunction,
improper installation, lack of proper maintenance, or any other response for
which the fire company is unable to determine the apparent cause of the alarm
activation. Alarm activations caused by earthquakes, severe weather, or power
outages are not considered false or nuisance alarms.
   (B)   No fee shall be assessed for the first three false alarms or nuisance
alarms at the same premises responded to by the fire company during any 12
consecutive months. Thereafter, the owner shall pay the following fees for
false alarms or nuisance alarms responded to by the fire company at the same
premises during any 12 consecutive months:
 
Number of False/Nuisance Alarms Service Fee per False/Nuisance Alarm
First to third                  $0
Fourth                          $100
Fifth                           $200
Sixth and above                 Doubles each time
 
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 12-3-2020)
§ 32.19  POLICY FOR BILLING.
   (A)   Antis Township recognizes the need to bill for volunteer fire, rescue
and hazmat services conducted within the township to aid in the provision of
emergency services.
   (B)   No person, firm, corporation requiring emergency services shall be
denied services due to lack of insurance or ability to pay.
   (C)   Any applicable charges for volunteer emergency services rendered shall
be billed directly to the user of such services or user's insurance company.
   (D)   Antis Township and/or any recognized fire company may, either directly
or through any third-party billing agency with which it has contracted for
billing and/or collections for volunteer fire, rescue, and hazmat services,
make arrangements with users of such services and/or their financially
responsible party for installment payments of bills.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 12-3-2020)
§ 32.20  PROCEDURE FOR BILLING.
   (A)   The Antis Township Board of Supervisors, and/or any recognized fire
company, is hereby authorized to enter into a contract with a third-party
billing agency and/or collection agency for performance of emergency, rescue
and hazmat services billing and/or collection services, provided that the
following standards for third-party billing contracts are met:
      (1)   The third-party billing service is to be provided at a rate not to
exceed 20% of fees collected or at an amount consistent with the fair-market
value for services rendered.
      (2)   Neither the billing agency nor any of its employees are subject to
exclusion from any user fee.
      (3)   The billing agency is bonded and/or insured in amounts satisfactory
to Antis Township.
   (B)   The township and/or any recognized fire company may, in its
discretion, bill additionally for material and vehicle costs in the case of any
major, extraordinary, or unique incidents, including, but not limited to,
hazardous materials spills, fire emergency and rescue incidents that destroy or
severely damage emergency services equipment.
   (C)   User fees.
      (1)   Volunteer fire and rescue services shall initiate user fees for the
delivery of emergency services, supplies and equipment to the scene of any
hazardous material incident, environmental incident or safety and rescue
incident or operation, including vehicular accidents and fires that occur on
the roadways in Antis Township. The rate of the user fee shall be that which is
usual, customary and reasonable in accordance with standard practice and
industry standards.
      (2)   Every person and/or utility that is provided with volunteer
emergency, rescue and hazmat services shall be billed a user fee in accordance
with this article.
      (3)   The user fee for volunteer emergency services rendered shall be
billed directly to the user of such services' insurance company. If the
insurance company is not known, the user of services shall be billed directly,
with instructions to forward the bill to his/her insurance provider.
      (4)   Any and all amounts collected as a result of this article shall be
used for the replacement and maintenance of emergency services materials and
equipment.
      (5)   Antis Township may implement rules and/or regulations and/or revoke
or amend existing rules and/or regulations as may be deemed necessary for the
billing and/or collection of user fees pursuant to this article.
   (D)   Uncollectible accounts.
      (1)   The user fee is anticipated to be paid by the user's insurance
company. In the instance where the township receives official notification from
the insurance carrier that it will not honor the invoice, the township and/or
any recognized fire company is authorized to invoice the responsible party
directly and take any legal action necessary to collect the fee(s), including
negotiating a settlement.
      (2)   The township, Antis Township Fire Company No. 1 and/or any
recognized fire company may, at its discretion, write off the uncollected fee
amounts as a bad debt, without prejudice to the responsible party.
      (3)   Should the township and/or any recognized fire company determine
that an insurance carrier has remitted the fee to the responsible party
involved and that the party has failed to remit the fee, the township and/or
any recognized fire company are authorized to pursue all legal means and
appropriate action in order to collect the account.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 12-3-2020)
§ 32.21  SAVING CLAUSE.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding
pending in any court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any
cause of action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby; nor
shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired, or
affected by this article.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 12-3-2020)
§ 32.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates or permits a violation of §§
32.01 through
32.05 , upon being found liable thereof in a civil enforcement proceeding,
shall pay a fine of not more than $600, plus all court costs, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred by the township in the enforcement of §§
32.01 through
32.05 . Such fines shall be determined by the officer of the township
authorized to do so by the Board of Supervisors. No judgment shall be imposed
until the date of the determination of the violation by the District Justice
and/or court. If the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment,
the township may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable rules of civil
procedure. Each day a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
Further, the appropriate officers or agents of the township are hereby
authorized to seek equitable relief, including injunction, to enforce
compliance herewith.
(1987 Code, § 14-5)  (Ord. 2-81, passed 9-1-1981; Ord. 4-87, passed 10-6-1987;
Ord. 3-96, passed 9-3-1996)
CHAPTER 33:  TAXATION
Section
Per Capita Tax
   
33.001   Imposition of tax
   
33.002   Assessment
   
33.003   Collection; duties of Collector; enforcement
   
33.004   Purpose
   
33.005   Imposition of interest as penalty
   
33.006   Exemptions
Real Estate Transfer Tax
   
33.020   Definitions
   
33.021   Imposition of tax
   
33.022   Tax Collector; tax collection
   
33.023   Interest and penalties
   
33.024   Collection of tax due and in default
   
33.025   Enforcement; adoption of regulations
   
33.026   Statutory authority; effective date
   
33.027   Collection of delinquent realty transfer taxes
Flat-Rate Occupation Tax
   
33.040   Title
   
33.041   Definitions
   
33.042   Imposition of tax; exemptions; refunds; disposition
   
33.043   Administration of tax
   
33.044   Collection; penalties for nonpayment; late filing fees
   
33.045   Applicability
   
33.046   Enforcement
   
33.047   Word usage
   
33.048   When effective
   
33.049   Liability of spouse
Local Services Tax
   
33.060   Definitions
   
33.061   Levy of tax
   
33.062   Exemption and refunds
   
33.063   Duty of employers to collect
   
33.064   Returns
   
33.065   Dates for determining tax liability and payment
   
33.066   Self-employed individuals
   
33.067   Individuals engaged in more than one occupation or employed in more
than one political subdivision
   
33.068   Nonresidents subject to tax
   
33.069   Administration of tax
   
33.070   Suits for collection
   
33.071   Interpretation
   
33.072   Effective date
Earned Income Tax
   
33.085   Definitions
   
33.086   Imposition of tax
   
33.087   No exemption from tax
   
33.088   Individual tax returns and payments
   
33.089   Employer withholding, remittance and tax returns
   
33.090   Tax Collector
   
33.091   Interest, penalties, cost and fines
   
33.092   Purpose/repeal
 
   
33.999   Penalty
PER CAPITA TAX
§ 33.001  IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   Pursuant to the authority granted the Local Tax Enabling Act, as amended (53
P.S. §§ 6924.101 to 6924.312) a per capita or head tax of $5 per annum is
hereby imposed upon every individual resident or inhabitant of the township of
the age of 18 or over, such tax to be for the use of the township. Every
husband against whose wife a per capita or head tax is imposed by the
provisions of this subchapter shall be liable for the payment of such tax, and
collection thereof from such husband may be made and enforced in the manner
provided by this subchapter for the collection of such husband’s own per capita
or head tax.
(1987 Code, § 114-33)  (Ord. 321, passed 2-6-1962)  Penalty, see §
33.999
Editor’s Note:
   This subchapter became effective 2-11-1967
§ 33.002  ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   In order that the tax imposed hereby may be collected from those
persons upon whom the same is imposed, it shall be the duty of the Assessor of
the township, at and immediately after the effective date of this subchapter,
to prepare a list of residents or inhabitants of the township of the age of 18
years or over and certify such list to the Tax Collector of the township within
20 days of the effective date of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Assessor shall, at the same time, certify an identical list to the
Board of Supervisors of the township, the two lists and any additions thereto
made in accordance with other provisions hereof constituting the per capita or
head tax duplicate. In case the Assessor shall at any time after the making and
certifying of such original list find any resident or inhabitant of the age of
18 years or over whose name does not appear on such original list, he or she
shall forthwith certify the name of such person to the Tax Collector.
   (C)   Every resident or inhabitant of the township whose name has not
theretofore been placed upon the list of persons taxable under this subchapter
and certified to the Tax Collector shall, upon attaining the age of 18 years
or, being of the age of 18 years or over and becoming a resident or inhabitant
of said township, notify the Township Assessor of his or her becoming of age or
becoming a resident or inhabitant; such notice to be given within 90 days after
the happening of the event of which the notice is to be given.
   (D)   If the Board of Supervisors of the township shall at any time find
within the township any resident or inhabitant of the age of 18 years or over
whose name does not appear on the list of those taxable under the provisions of
this subchapter, it may, by resolution, determine that the name of such person
belongs on such list and may certify the same to the Tax Collector, with
direction to collect the proper taxes from such person for the current year
and, in the case of annual reenactment of the article, for the preceding years,
if such person has been liable for such taxes under this subchapter or a
reenactment thereof.
(1987 Code, § 114-34)  (Ord. 321, passed 2-6-1962; Ord. 16-86, passed 12-22-
1986)  Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.003  COLLECTION; DUTIES OF COLLECTOR; ENFORCEMENT.
   The per capita or head tax imposed under or by virtue of this subchapter
shall be due, payable and collectible on the sixtieth day following the
effective date hereof. The tax shall be collected and payment of the same shall
be enforced in the same manner as is provided for the collection and
enforcement of payment of taxes by the Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. §§
6924.101 to 6924.312). The rights and duties of the Tax Collector in collection
of the per capita tax duplicate shall be coextensive with his or her rights and
duties in the collection of any duplicate under the aforesaid Act of Assembly.
(1987 Code, § 114-35)  (Ord. 321, passed 2-6-1962)  Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.004  PURPOSE.
   The reason, in the judgment of the Board of Supervisors of the township,
which necessitates the imposition of this tax is the increase in operating
costs and expenses of the township the increased costs of fire protection and
in order to equalize more equitably the burden of taxation within the township.
The amount of revenue estimated to be derived from this tax is $6,000.
(1987 Code, § 114-37)  (Ord. 321, passed 2-6-1962; Ord. 16-86, passed 12-22-
1986)  Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.005  IMPOSITION OF INTEREST AS PENALTY.
   If, for any reason, the per capita tax is not paid before November 1 of each
year, a penalty of 10% on the amount of said tax shall be added and collected.
(1987 Code, § 114-38)  (Ord. 321, passed 2-6-1962; Ord. 1-86, passed 1-6-1986)
Editor’s Note:
   This amendment also provided for it to be effective retroactive to 1-1-1986
§ 33.006  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Enumeration of exemptions:
      (1)   Every resident of the township whose income from all sources is
less than $5,000 per year shall be exempt from paying the township per capita
tax; and
      (2)   Every resident of the township who has attained the age of 70 years
by July 1 shall be exempt from the payment of the township per capita tax.
   (B)   Proof of income of less than $5,000 per year and/or being 70 years of
age shall be upon the resident who claims such exemption and shall be submitted
to the Tax Collector of the township upon forms provided by the township for
this purpose.
(1987 Code, § 114-38.1)  (Ord. 321, passed 2-6-1962; Ord. 5-87, passed 11-4-
1987)
REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX
§ 33.020  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION.  A partnership, limited partnership or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise, owned or conducted by two or more persons.
   COLLECTOR.  The person designated by the Antis Township Supervisors, in
accordance with other provisions hereof, to collect and evidence payment of the
tax imposed hereby.
   CORPORATION.  A corporation or joint-stock association, organized under the
laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the United States or any other state,
territory or foreign country or dependency, including but not limited to
banking institutions.
   DOCUMENT.  Any deed, instrument or writing whereby any real estate or
interest therein within the township is conveyed or transferred to a grantee or
purchaser or other person, but does not include wills, leases, mortgages or
sale of real estate under agreement, commonly called an “article of agreement”.
   PERSON.  Every natural person, association or corporation. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a fine or imprisonment or both, the word
PERSON, as applied to associations, shall mean the partners or members thereof
and, as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   STAMP.  An indelible endorsement affixed to the document, showing amount of
and payment of tax due hereunder, date of payment, identity of payor and
verified by the signature or initials of the Collector of this tax.
   TRANSACTION.  The making, executing, delivering, accepting or presenting for
recording of a document, as herein defined, and closing and settlement of sale
of real estate.
   VALUE.  In the case of any document conveying or transferring real estate or
any interest therein, the amount of the actual consideration therefor,
including liens or other encumbrances thereon, or a commensurate part of the
liens or other encumbrances thereon where such liens or other encumbrances also
encumber or are charged against other real estate or any interest therein,
provided that in the case of gift, except between persons exempted by this
subchapter, or other document without consideration, VALUE shall be the actual
monetary worth of the real estate or interest therein as determined by the
current county appraisal of market value of the real estate.
(1987 Code, § 114-39)  (Ord. 241, passed 3-7-1960)
§ 33.021  IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   Rate of tax. From and after the effective date of this subchapter,
there is hereby levied, assessed and imposed a tax for general revenue purposes
of the township upon conveyances or transfers of real estate, or any interest
therein, within said township, at the rate of 1% of the value, as herein
defined, of the real estate or interest therein conveyed or transferred;
provided, however, that when any real estate or interest therein so conveyed or
transferred is situate partly within and partly without the township, the tax
shall be calculated on the value of that portion lying within the geographical
confines of the township. The tax imposed hereby shall be due and payable
regardless of where the document or documents effecting the transfer is or are
made, executed, acknowledged or delivered and regardless of the place of
closing and settlement of such transfers.
   (B)   Who shall pay the tax. Unless otherwise specifically agreed between
the parties to the transaction, or unless the conveyor, transferor or grantor
is a sovereignty or a political subdivision or agency or instrumentality of the
United States of America or of the commonwealth by law immune to liability for
or duty of payment of taxes imposed by second class townships, the liability
for and duty of payment of the tax imposed hereby shall be primarily upon the
conveyor, transferor or grantor, and only secondarily upon the transferee or
grantee, except in transactions where the conveyor, transferor or grantor is a
corporation or association organized exclusively for a charitable, religious or
educational purpose, and no part of the income of such corporation or
association or of the consideration for the conveyance or transfer inures to
the benefit of any private shareholder, member or individual, in which case
such conveyor, transferor or grantor shall be exempt from liability for or duty
of payment of the tax, but the transferee or grantee shall be primarily liable
for and have the duty of payment.
   (C)   Transactions exempt.
      (1)   Transactions where the transferee or grantee is a corporation or
association organized exclusively for a charitable, religious or educational
purpose, and no part of the income of such corporation or association inures to
the benefit of any private shareholder, member or individual, shall not be
taxable, regardless of whether the transaction is a sale for value or in the
nature of gift.
      (2)   Transactions between husband and wife, or between parent and child
or spouse of such child, shall not be taxable if such transaction is in the
nature of a gift, but shall be taxable as other transactions if sales for value
in which a monetary or other valuable consideration passes.
      (3)   Transactions, the only purpose of which is to correct a document
effecting a prior transfer, and for which no consideration passes, shall not be
taxable.
   (D)   Verification of tax due or exemption claimed. Every document relating
to real property located within the township, when presented to or lodged with
the Recorder of Deeds in and for the county, for recording, shall set forth
therein and as a part of such document the true, full and complete value
thereof, or shall be accompanied by an affidavit, executed by a responsible
person connected with the transaction, showing such connection and setting
forth the true, full and complete value of the transaction and the document
effecting the same, or the reason, if any, why such document is not subject to
tax under this subchapter.
(1987 Code, § 114-40)  (Ord. 241, passed 3-7-1960)
§ 33.022  TAX COLLECTOR; TAX COLLECTION.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be collected by such person
or persons within or without the township as shall be designated by resolution
of the Board of Supervisors of the township; the Collector shall receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of said Board, and his or her
term of office shall be at the pleasure of said Board.
   (B)   Upon collection and receipt of the tax due and payable upon any
transaction, the Collector shall affix to the document effecting the same a
stamp evidencing payment of the tax, said stamp to be supplied him or her by
the Board of Supervisors, and shall write therein or thereon the identity of
the person paying the tax. the date of payment, the amount of tax and shall
verify the same by his signature or initials, In cases where exemption is
claimed and granted, the Collector shall stamp the document and write in the
date and the words “Exemption Granted - Document” or “Exemption Granted -
Affidavit”, depending on whether the exemption is granted on the basis of
information from the document itself or from an accompanying affidavit, and
shall verify with his or her signature or initials as in other eases. The
affixing of a stamp evidencing exemption shall not preclude the township from
subsequent collection of the tax. Should it be later determined that the
transaction was taxable and the exemption granted improperly or in error, the
Collector may issue separate receipts for any tax paid and collected.
   (C)   The Collector shall, on or before the tenth day of each month, pay
over unto the Board of Supervisors of the township, the amount of taxes
collected and received during the preceding month, less his or her prescribed
compensation or commission, together with a report of all transactions, taxable
or not and the value thereof, as well as a report of exemptions granted and the
reasons therefor. The Collector shall retain in his or her records, for
production at the request of the Township Supervisors, all affidavits
accompanying documents for which exemption has been claimed and granted.
(1987 Code, § 114-41)  (Ord. 241, passed 3-7-1960)
§ 33.023  INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   In absence of proof of a different date, all taxes imposed by this
subchapter shall be presumed to be due and payable as of the date of any
document effecting a transaction or transfer and shall, if not paid within 30
days of due date, bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum from due date,
together with a penalty of 0.5% per month during the first six months after due
date that the taxes remain due and unpaid.
(1987 Code, § 114-42)  (Ord. 241, passed 3-7-1960)
§ 33.024  COLLECTION OF TAX DUE AND IN DEFAULT.
   (A)   All taxes imposed by this subchapter, together with penalty and
interest as aforesaid and costs, shall be recoverable as other debts of like
character are recovered.
   (B)   The tax imposed by this subchapter, together with penalty and interest
as aforesaid, shall become a lien upon the real estate or interest therein
which is described in or is the subject of the document effecting or evidencing
the transaction, said lien to begin at the time when the tax is due and payable
and continue until discharged by payment or in accordance with law, and the
Solicitor for the township is authorized to file a municipal or tax claim in
the Court of Common Pleas of the county in accordance with the Municipal Lien
Law, Act of May 16, 1923, Pub. L. No. 207, as amended, 53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq.
(1987 Code, § 114-43)  (Ord. 241, passed 3-7-1960)
§ 33.025  ENFORCEMENT; ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS.
   The Township Supervisors are hereby charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of this subchapter and may, by resolution, adopt rules and
regulations for enforcement, administration and collections, as well as do all
other acts or things necessary to effect the provisions hereof as are not
inconsistent herewith.
(1987 Code, § 114-45)  (Ord. 241, passed 3-7-1960)
§ 33.026  STATUTORY AUTHORITY; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter has been enacted and the tax hereunder levied in pursuance
of the authority granted by the Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et
seq., and 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 to 6924.312. The effective date of this
subchapter is April 6, 1960.
(1987 Code, § 114-46)  (Ord. 241, passed 3-7-1960)
§ 33.027  COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT REALTY TRANSFER TAXES.
   (A)   Any realty transfer tax imposed by this township, and all applicable
interest and penalties, shall be administered, collected and enforced under The
Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 to 6924.312; provided, that if the
correct amount of tax is not paid by the last date prescribed for timely
payment, the Board of Supervisors, pursuant to § 1102-D of the Tax Reform Code
of 1971 (72 P.S. § 8102-D), authorizes and directs the Department of Revenue of
the commonwealth to determine, collect and enforce the tax, interest and
penalties, at no cost to the township.
   (B)   Any realty transfer tax imposed by the township and that is not paid
by the date the tax is due shall bear interest as prescribed for interest on
delinquent municipal claims under the Act of May 16, 1923 (Pub. L. No. 207, No.
153, 53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq.), as amended, known as the Municipal Claims and
Tax Liens Act. The interest rate shall be the lesser of the maximum amount
imposed by the Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act and the interest rate imposed
upon delinquent Commonwealth taxes as provided in § 806 of the Act of April 9,
1929 (Pub. L. No. 343, No. 176, 72 P.S. § 806), as amended, known as the
“Fiscal Code”.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 9-7-2006)
FLAT-RATE OCCUPATION TAX
§ 33.040  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Flat-Rate Occupation Tax
Ordinance”.
(1987 Code, § 114-47)  (Ord. 13-86, passed 12-2-1986)
§ 33.041  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OCCUPATION.  Any means of livelihood, including, but not limited to, a
profession, business, trade or employment.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR.  The person authorized and empowered by the Board of
Supervisors of the township to oversee the collection of taxes imposed hereby
and the enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
   TAX COLLECTOR.  The Tax Collector and delinquent Tax Collector of the
township designated to collect taxes and enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
(1987 Code, § 114-48)  (Ord. 13-86, passed 12-2-1986)
§ 33.042  IMPOSITION OF TAX; EXEMPTIONS; REFUNDS; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Every person, unless otherwise provided herein, residing in the
township, shall pay a flat-rate tax on his or her occupation in the amount of
$10. A person shall not be taxed on any more than one occupation during one
fiscal year.
   (B)   All persons who are less than 18 years of age deriving less than a
total of $2,500 per year from salaries, wages, commissions and other
compensation and/or net profits are exempt from paying the tax but are required
to file the form and show proof of their income.
   (C)   Any excess amount paid by the taxpayer will be refunded to him or her,
provided that he or she files a written claim for a refund within two years of
the tax payment
   (D)   All permanently disabled and permanently retired persons having no net
profits and/or income to report during the previous year shall be excused from
filing the annual form; provided, however, that during the initial tax year the
annual form shall be filed in order to record the status of the excused
taxpayer. In the event that these individuals would again have net profits and/
or income to report, it would be their responsibility to contact the Tax
Collector and file the proper form on a timely basis. In the event that these
individuals do not file the proper form when applicable, the penalties and
fines provided in this subchapter and the Local Tax Enabling Act (53 P.S. §§
6924.101 to 6924.312) shall be imposed.
   (E)   The proceeds of this tax shall become general funds of the township,
and shall be used for general township purposes.
(1987 Code, § 114-49)  (Ord. 13-86, passed 12-2-1986)
§ 33.043  ADMINISTRATION OF TAX.
   (A)   This occupation tax shall be in addition to all other property, per
capita, personal and other taxes levied by the said township.
   (B)   The Tax Collector shall collect and receive all occupation taxes,
furnish receipts for payment and keep a record showing the amount received by
him or her from or her each taxpayer under this subchapter and the date of
payment to him or her. He or she shall pay over one-half of all taxes received
by him or her to the Secretary-Treasurer of said township in accordance with
the Local Tax Enabling Act, as amended (53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 to 6924.312), and
shall submit his or her records to the auditor of the accounts of said
township. He or she shall furnish such bond in such amount as may be required
by the Board of Supervisors of the township.
   (C)   The Tax Collector and/or Tax Administrator, subject to policies
adopted by the Board of Supervisors of the township, is further charged with
the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter and is
hereby empowered to prescribe, adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and
regulations relating to any matter pertaining to the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter.
(1987 Code, § 114-50)  (Ord. 13-86, passed 12-2-1986)
§ 33.044  COLLECTION; PENALTIES FOR NONPAYMENT; LATE FILING FEES.
   (A)   All taxes imposed by this subchapter, together with all interest and
penalties, shall be recoverable by action at law in the name of the township as
other debts of like amount are recoverable.
   (B)   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate
of 6% per annum on the amount of said tax, and an additional penalty of 0.5% of
the amount of the unpaid tax for each month or fraction thereof during which
the tax remains unpaid, shall be added and collected. Where suit is brought for
the recovery of any such tax, the person liable therefor shall, in addition, be
liable for the costs of collection and the interest and penalties herein
imposed.
   (C)   A late filing fee of $2 will be assessed to all residents failing to
file their return by the April 15 deadline.
   (D)   In addition to the late filing fee of $3 for costs will be assessed to
all delinquent taxpayers, with the first notice mailed to them following the
April 15 deadline for failure to file their return.
(1987 Code, § 114-51)  (Ord. 13-86, passed 12-2-1986; Ord. 1-87, passed 2-3-
1987)
§ 33.045  APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any person or property as to whom or
which it is beyond the legal power of said township to impose the tax herein
imposed.
(1987 Code, § 114-52)  (Ord. 13-86, passed 12-2-1986)
§ 33.046  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Tax Collector of said township is authorized to use any remedy or
remedies now provided by law to enforce the collection and payment of the tax.
In the event that legal process is necessary for the collection of said tax,
the costs and expenses incurred by the Tax Collector shall be added to the
amount of the tax to be collected and shall be collected with the delinquent
tax as an additional penalty thereon.
(1987 Code, § 114-53)  (Ord. 13-86, passed 12-2-1986)
§ 33.047  WORD USAGE.
   In this subchapter, the singular shall include the plural, and the masculine
shall include the feminine and neuter.
(1987 Code, § 114-54)  (Ord. 13-86, passed 12-2-1986)
§ 33.048  WHEN EFFECTIVE.
   This subchapter and the tax herein levied shall be effective for the
calendar year beginning January 1, 1987, and continuing for each calendar year
thereafter.
(1987 Code, § 114-55)  (Ord. 13-86, passed 12-2-1986)
§ 33.049  LIABILITY OF SPOUSE.
   Every spouse against whose spouse said occupation tax is levied shall be
liable for the payment of said tax. Collection thereof from said spouse may be
made and enforced in the manner provided by law for the collection and
enforcement of other taxes of such spouse, including the collection thereof
from the spouse’s employer.
(1987 Code, § 114-56)  (Ord. 13-86, passed 12-2-1986)
LOCAL SERVICES TAX
§ 33.060  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR.  The person, public employee or private agency designated by the
political subdivision to collect and administer the tax herein imposed.
   DCED.  The Department of Community and Economic Development of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   EARNED INCOME.  Compensation as this term is defined in the Local Tax
Enabling Act (relating to earned income taxes), 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 to
6924.312, as amended.
   EMPLOYER.  An individual, partnership, association, limited liability
corporation, limited liability partnership, corporation, governmental body,
agency or other entity employing one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission or other compensation basis, including a self-employed person.
   HE, HIS or HIM.  Indicates the singular and plural number, as well as male,
female and neuter genders.
   INDIVIDUAL.  Any person, male or female, engaged in any occupation, trade or
profession within the corporate limits of the political subdivision.
   NET PROFITS.  The net income from the operation of a business, profession;
or other activity, as this term is defined in § 13 (relating to earned income
taxes) of the Local Tax Enabling Act§§ 6924.101 to 6924.312, as amended.
   OCCUPATION.  Any trade, profession, business or undertaking of any type,
kind or character, including services, domestic or other, earned on or
performed within the corporate limits of the political subdivision for which
compensation is charged or received; whether by means of salary, wages,
commission or fees for services rendered.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION.  The area within the corporate limits of the
township.
   TAX.  The local services tax at the rate fixed in §
33.061.
   TAX YEAR.  The period from January 1 until December 31 in any year; a
calendar year.
(Ord. 5-2013, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 33.061  LEVY OF TAX.
   (A)   For specific revenue purposes, an annual tax is hereby levied and
assessed, commencing January 1, 2014; upon the privilege of engaging in an
occupation with a primary place of employment within the township during the
tax year.
   (B)   Each natural person who exercises such privilege for any length of
time during any tax year shall pay the tax for that year in the amount of $52,
assessed on a pro rata basis, in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   This tax may be used solely for the following purposes as the same may
be allocated by the township from time to time:
      (1)   Emergency services, which shall include emergency medical services,
police services and/or fire services;
      (2)   Road construction and/or maintenance;
      (3)   Reduction of property taxes; or
      (4)   Property tax relief through implementation of a homestead and
farmstead exclusion in accordance with 53 Pa.C.S. Ch. 85, Subch. F (relating to
homestead property exclusion).
   (D)   The political subdivision shall use no less than 25% of the funds
derived from the tax for emergency services. This tax is in addition to all
other taxes of any kind or nature heretofore levied by the political
subdivision. The tax shall be no more than $52 on each person for each calendar
year, irrespective of the number of political subdivisions within which a
person maybe employed.
(Ord. 5-2013, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 33.062  EXEMPTION AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   Exemption. Any person whose total earned income and net profits from
all sources within the political subdivision is less than $12,000 for any
calendar year in which the tax is levied is exempt from the payment of the tax
for that calendar year. In addition, the following persons are exempt from
payment of the tax:
      (1)   Any person who has served in any war or armed conflict in which the
United States was engaged and is honorably discharged or released under
honorable circumstances from active service if, as a result of military
service, the person is blind, paraplegic or a double or quadruple amputee or
has a service-connected disability declared by the United States Veterans’
Administration or its successor to be a total 100% disability.
      (2)   Any person who serves as a member of a reserve component of the
armed forces and is called to active duty at any time during the taxable year.
For the purposes of division (A)(2), RESERVE COMPONENT OF THE ARMED FORCES
shall mean the United States Army Reserve, United States Navy Reserve, United
States Marine Corps Reserve, United States Coast Guard Reserve, United States
Air Force Reserve, the Pennsylvania Army National Guard or the Pennsylvania Air
National Guard.
   (B)   Procedure to claim exemption.
      (1)   A person seeking to claim an exemption from the local services tax
may annually file an exemption certificate with the political subdivision and
with the person’s employer affirming that the person reasonably expects to
receive earned income and net profits from all sources within the political
subdivision of less than $12,000 in the calendar year for which the exemption
certificate is filed. In the event the political subdivision utilizes a tax
collection officer, it shall provide a copy of the exemption certificate to
that officer. The exemption certificate shall have attached to it a copy of all
the employee’s last pay stubs or W-2 forms from employment within the political
subdivision for the year prior to the fiscal year for which the employee is
requesting to be exempted from the tax. Upon receipt of the exemption
certificate and until otherwise instructed by the political subdivision or
except as required by division (B)(2) below, the employer shall not withhold
the tax from the person during the calendar year or the remainder of the
calendar year for which the exemption certificate applies. Employers shall
ensure that the exemption certificate forms are readily available to employees
at all times and shall furnish each new employee with a form at the time of
hiring. The exemption certificate form shall be the uniform form provided by
the political subdivision.
      (2)   With respect to a person who claimed an exemption for a given
calendar year from the tax, upon notification to an employer by the person or
by the political subdivision that the person has received earned income and net
profits from all sources within the political subdivision equal to or in excess
of $12,000 in that calendar year or that the person is otherwise ineligible for
the tax exemption for that calendar year, or upon an employer’s payment to the
person of earned income within the municipality in an amount equal to or in
excess of $12,000 in that calendar year, an employer shall withhold the local
services tax from the person under division (B)(3) below.
      (3)   If a person who claimed an exemption for a given calendar year from
the tax becomes subject to the tax for the calendar year under division (B)(2)
above, the employer shall withhold the tax for the remainder of that calendar
year. The employer shall withhold from the person, for the first payroll period
after receipt of the notification under division (B)(2) above, a lump sum equal
to the amount of tax that was not withheld from the person due to the exemption
claimed by the person under this subsection, plus the per payroll amount due
for that first payroll period. The amount of tax withheld per payroll period
for the remaining payroll periods in that calendar year shall be the same
amount withheld for other employees. In the event the employment of a person
subject to withholding of the tax under this clause is subsequently severed in
that calendar year, the person shall be liable for any outstanding balance of
tax due, and the political subdivision may pursue collection under this
subchapter.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) above, it is the intent of
this division (B) that employers shall not be responsible for investigating
exemption certificates, monitoring tax exemption eligibility or exempting any
employee from the local services tax.
   (C)   Refunds. The township, in consultation with the Collector and DCED,
shall establish procedures for the processing of refund claims for any tax paid
by any person who is eligible for exemption, which procedures shall be in
accord with provisions of the general municipal law relating to refunds of
overpayments and interest on overpayments. Refunds made within 75 days of a
refund request or 75 days after the last day the employer is required to remit
the tax for the last quarter of the calendar year, whichever is later, shall
not be subject to interest. No refunds shall be made for amounts overpaid in a
calendar year that do not exceed $1. The township or the Collector shall
determine eligibility for exemption and provide refunds to exempt persons.
(Ord. 5-2013, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 33.063  DUTY OF EMPLOYERS TO COLLECT.
   (A)   Each employer within the political subdivision, as well as each
employer situated outside the political subdivision but who engages in business
within the political subdivision, is hereby charged with the duty of collecting
the tax from each of his or her employees engaged by him or her or performing
for him or her within the political subdivision and making a return and payment
thereof to the Collector. Further, each employer is hereby authorized to deduct
this tax for each employee in his or her employ, whether said employee is paid
by salary, wage or commission and whether or not all such services are
performed within the political subdivision.
   (B)   A person subject to the tax shall be assessed by the employer a pro
rata share of the tax for each payroll period in which the person is engaging
in an occupation. The pro rata share of the tax assessed on the person for a
payroll period shall be determined by dividing the rate of the tax levied for
the calendar year by the number of payroll periods established by the employer
for the calendar year. For purposes of determining the pro rata share, an
employer shall round down the amount of the tax collected each payroll period
to the nearest one-hundredth of a dollar. Collection of the tax shall be made
on a payroll period basis for each payroll period in which the person is
engaging in an occupation, except as provided in division (D) below. For
purposes of this division (B), COMBINED RATE shall mean the aggregate annual
rate of the tax levied by the school district and the municipality.
   (C)   No person shall be subject to the payment of the local services tax by
more than one political subdivision during each payroll period.
   (D)   In the case of concurrent employment, an employer shall refrain from
withholding the tax if the employee provides a recent pay statement from a
principal employer that includes the name of the employer, the length of the
payroll period and the amount of the tax withheld along with a statement from
the employee that the pay statement is from the employee’s principal employer.
The employee will notify other employers of a change in principal place of
employment within two weeks of its occurrence. The employee’s statement shall
be provided on the form approved by DCED.
   (E)   The tax shall be no more than $52 on each person for each calendar
year, irrespective of the number of political subdivisions within which a
person maybe employed. The political subdivision shall provide a taxpayer a
receipt of payment upon request by the taxpayer.
   (F)   No employer shall be held liable for failure to withhold the tax or
for the payment of the withheld tax money to the political subdivision if the
failure to withhold taxes arises from incorrect information submitted by the
employee as to the employee’s place or places of employment, the employee’s
principal office or where the employee is principally employed. Further, an
employer shall not be liable for payment of the local services tax in an amount
exceeding the amount withheld by the employer if the employer complies with the
provisions of division (B) above and this section and remits the amount so
withheld in accordance with this subchapter.
   (G)   Employers shall be required to remit the local services taxes 30 days
after the end of each quarter of a calendar year.
(Ord. 5-2013, passed 11-7-2013)  Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.064  RETURNS.
   Each employer shall prepare and file a return showing a computation of the
tax on forms to be supplied to the employer by the Collector. If an employer
fails to file the return and pay the tax, whether or not the employer makes
collection thereof from the salary, wages or commissions paid by him or her to
an employee, except as provided hereafter in this subchapter, the employer
shall be responsible for the payment of the tax in full as though the tax had
been originally levied against the employer.
(Ord. 5-2013, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 33.065  DATES FOR DETERMINING TAX LIABILITY AND PAYMENT.
   In each tax year, each employer shall use his or her employment records to
determine the number of employees from whom such tax shall be deducted and paid
over to the Collector on or before the thirtieth day following the end of each
calendar quarter of each such tax year.
(Ord. 5-2013, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 33.066  SELF-EMPLOYED INDIVIDUALS.
   Each self-employed individual who performs services of any type or kind or
engages in any occupation or profession within a primary place of employment
within the political subdivision shall be required to comply with this
subchapter and pay the pro rata portion of the tax due to the Collector on or
before the thirtieth day following the end of each quarter.
(Ord. 5-2013, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 33.067  INDIVIDUALS ENGAGED IN MORE THAN ONE OCCUPATION OR EMPLOYED IN MORE
THAN ONE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   The situs of the tax shall be the place of employment on the first day
the person becomes subject to the tax during each payroll period. In the event
a person is engaged in more than one occupation, that is, concurrent
employment, or an occupation that requires the person working in more than one
political subdivision during a payroll period, the priority of claim to collect
the local services tax shall be in the following order:
      (1)   First, the political subdivision in which a person maintains his or
her principal office or is principally employed;
      (2)   Second, the political subdivision in which the person resides and
works if the tax is levied by that political subdivision; and
      (3)   Third, the political subdivision in which a person is employed and
which imposes the tax nearest in miles to the person’s home.
   (B)   In case of dispute, a tax receipt of the taxing authority for that
calendar year declaring that the taxpayer has made prior payment constitutes
prima facie certification of payment to all other political subdivisions.
(Ord. 5-2013, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 33.068  NONRESIDENTS SUBJECT TO TAX.
   All employers and self-employed individuals residing or having their places
of business outside of the political subdivision but who perform services of
any type or kind or engage in any occupation or profession within the political
subdivision do, by virtue thereof, agree to be bound by and subject themselves
to the provisions, penalties and regulations promulgated under this subchapter
with the same force and effect as though they were residents of the political
subdivision. Further, any individual engaged in an occupation within the
political subdivision and an employee of a nonresidential employer may, for the
purpose of this subchapter, be considered a self-employed person, and in the
event his or her tax is not paid, the political subdivision shall have the
option of proceeding against either the employer or employee for the collection
of this tax as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 5-2013, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 33.069  ADMINISTRATION OF TAX.
   (A)   The Collector shall be appointed by resolution of the political
subdivision. It shall be the duty of the Collector to accept and receive
payments of this tax and to keep a record thereof showing the amount received
by him or her from each employer of self-employed person, together with the
date the tax was received.
   (B)   The Collector is hereby charged with the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter and is hereby charged and empowered, subject to
municipal approval, to proscribe, adopt and promulgate rules and regulations
relating to any matter pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this
subchapter, including provisions for the examination of payroll records of any
employer subject to this subchapter, the examination and correction of any
return made in compliance with this subchapter and any payment alleged or found
to be incorrect or as to which overpayment is claimed or found to have
occurred. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Collector shall have the
right to appeal consistent with the Local Taxpayers Bill of Rights under Act 50
of 1998, being 52 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 8401 et seq.
   (C)   The Collector is hereby authorized to examine the books and payroll
records of any employer in order to verify the accuracy of any return made by
an employer or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax due. Each employer
is hereby directed and required to give the Collector the means, facilities and
opportunity for such examination.
(Ord. 5-2013, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 33.070  SUITS FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   In the event that any tax under this subchapter remains due or unpaid
30 days after the due dates above set forth, the Collector may sue for the
recovery of any such tax due or unpaid under this subchapter, together with
interest and penalty.
   (B)   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate
of 6% on the amount of such tax shall be calculated beginning with the due date
of the tax and a penalty of 5% shall be added to the flat rate of such tax for
nonpayment thereof. Where suit is brought for the recovery of this tax or other
appropriate remedy undertaken, the individual liable therefor shall, in
addition, be responsible and liable for the costs of collection.
(Ord. 5-2013, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 33.071  INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to empower the
political subdivision to levy and collect the tax hereby imposed on any
occupation not within the taxing power of the political subdivision under the
Constitution of the United States and the laws of the commonwealth.
   (B)   If the tax hereby imposed under the provisions of this subchapter
shall be held by any court of competent jurisdiction to be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States or of the laws of the commonwealth as to any
individual, the decision of the court shall not affect or impair the right to
impose or collect said tax or the validity of the tax so imposed on other
persons or individuals as herein provided.
(Ord. 5-2013, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 33.072  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be effective on January 1, 2014 and
all calendar years thereafter unless repealed or modified by ordinance of the
township.
(Ord. 5-2013, passed 11-7-2013)
EARNED INCOME TAX
§ 33.085  DEFINITIONS.
   All terms defined in the Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et
seq., shall have the meanings set forth therein. For the purpose of this
subchapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR.  The person or entity appointed as tax officer pursuant to the
Local Tax Enabling Act to collect the tax.
   EFFECTIVE DATE.  January 1, 2012.
   ENACTMENT.  This subchapter.
   GOVERNING BODY.  The Board of Supervisors of Antis Township
   LOCAL TAX ENABLING ACT.  The Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et
seq., and as amended in the future.
   TCC.  The tax collection committee established to govern and oversee the
collection of earned income tax within the TCD under the Local Tax Enabling
Act.
   TCP.  Any tax collection district to which the Taxing Authority or any part
of the Taxing Authority is assigned under the Local Tax Enabling Act.
   TAX.  The tax imposed by this subchapter.
   TAX RETURN.  A form prescribed by the Collector for reporting the amount of
tax or other amount owed or required to be withheld, remitted or reported under
this subchapter or the Local Tax Enabling Act.
   TAX YEAR.  The period from January 1 to December 31.
   TAXING AUTHORITY.  Antis Township, Blair County
(Ord. 5-2011, passed 11-3-2011)
§ 33.086  IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   General purpose residential tax. The Taxing Authority hereby imposes a
tax for general revenue purposes at the rate of 1% on earned income and net
profits of individual residents of the Taxing Authority.
   (B)   Ongoing tax. The tax shall continue at the above rates during the
current tax year and each tax year thereafter, without annual re-enactment,
until this subchapter is repealed or the rate is changed.
   (C)   Combined tax rate applicable to residents. Currently, the total rate
applicable to residents of the Taxing Authority, including the tax imposed by
the school district and municipality in which the individual resides, is 1%.
   (D)   Local Tax Enabling Act applicable. The tax is imposed under authority
of the Local Tax Enabling Act, and all provisions thereof that relate to a tax
on earned income or net profits are incorporated into this subchapter. Any
future amendments to the Local Tax Enabling Act that are required to be applied
to a tax on earned income or net profits will automatically become part of this
subchapter upon the effective date of such amendment, without the need for
formal amendment of this subchapter, to the maximum extent allowed by 1
Pa.C.S.A. § 1937.
   (E)   Applicable laws, regulations, policies and procedures. The tax shall
be collected and administered in accordance with:
      (1)   All applicable laws and regulations; and
      (2)   Policies and procedures adopted by the TCC or by the Collector.
This includes any regulations, policies, and procedures adopted in the future
to the maximum extent allowed by 1 Pa.C.S.A. § 1937.
(Ord. 5-2011, passed 11-3-2011)
§ 33.087  NO EXEMPTION FROM TAX.
   Although credits and deductions against tax are permitted under certain
circumstances as provided in applicable law and regulations, no individuals are
exempt from tax based on age, income or other factors.
(Ord. 5-2011, passed 11-3-2011)
§ 33.088  INDIVIDUAL TAX RETURNS AND PAYMENTS.
   Every individual receiving earned income or earning net profits in any tax
year shall file tax returns and pay tax in accordance with the Local Tax
Enabling Act.
(Ord. 5-2011, passed 11-3-2011)
§ 33.089  EMPLOYER WITHHOLDING, REMITTANCE AND TAX RETURNS.
   Every employer shall register, withhold and remit tax, and file tax returns
in accordance with the Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Ord. 5-2011, passed 11-3-2011)
§ 33.090  TAX COLLECTOR.
   The tax will be collected from individuals and employers by the Collector.
(Ord. 5-2011, passed 11-3-2011)
§ 33.091  INTEREST, PENALTIES, COST AND FINES.
   Individuals and employers are subject to interest, penalties, costs and
fines in accordance with the Local Tax Enabling Act, including costs imposed by
the Collector in accordance with authorization by the TCC having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 5-2011, passed 11-3-2011)
§ 33.092  PURPOSE/REPEAL.
   The primary purpose of this subchapter is to conform the earned income and
net profits tax currently imposed to the Local Tax Enabling Act, as amended and
restated by Act 32 of 2008, and to do so within the time frame required by Act
32. Any prior enactment or part of any prior enactment conflicting with the
provisions of this subchapter is rescinded insofar as the conflict exists. To
the extent the same as any enactment in force immediately prior to adoption of
this subchapter, the provisions of this subchapter are intended as a
continuation of such prior enactment and not as a new enactment. If this
subchapter is declared invalid, any prior enactment levying a similar tax shall
remain in full force and effect and shall not be affected in any manner by
adoption of this subchapter. The provisions of this subchapter shall not affect
any act done or liability incurred, nor shall such provisions affect any suit
or prosecution pending or to be initiated to enforce any right or penalty or to
punish offense under the authority of any enactment in force prior to adoption
of this subchapter. Subject to the foregoing provisions of this section, this
subchapter shall supersede and repeal on the effective date any enactment
levying a tax on earned income or net profits in force immediately prior to the
effective date.
(Ord. 5-2011, passed 11-3-2011)
§ 33.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   In the event that any person not therefor taxable under the provisions
of §§
33.001 through
33.006 shall attain the age of 18 years, or being of the age of 18 years or
over and becoming a resident or inhabitant of said township, shall fail to
notify the Township Assessor of his or her becoming of age or becoming a
resident or inhabitant of such township, within a period of 90 days as provided
in §
33.002, he or she shall be guilty of a violation of §§
33.001 through
33.006 and, upon conviction thereof in a summary proceeding before any District
Justice of the township, shall be sentenced to pay any tax due, together with a
fine not exceeding $300 and costs of prosecution and, in default of payment of
such tax, fine and costs, shall be imprisoned in the county jail for a period
not exceeding 30 days.
(1987 Code, § 114-36)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
33.020 through
33.027 shall, upon conviction thereof in a summary proceeding brought in the
name and for the use of the township before a District Justice, be sentenced to
pay a fine in an amount not exceeding $300 and costs of prosecution, and shall
be required to pay the amount of tax due, together with penalty and interest as
aforesaid, and, in default of payment of fine and costs, may be committed to
the county jail for a period not exceeding 30 days. All fines imposed and
collected hereunder shall be paid to the Secretary-Treasurer of the township to
apply to the general funds.
   (D)   Whoever makes any false or untrue statement on any return required by
§§
33.060 through
33.072, or whoever refuses inspection of the books, records or accounts in his
or her custody and control, setting forth the number of employees subject to
this tax who are in his or her employment, or whoever fails or refuses to file
any return required by §§
33.060 through
33.072, shall be guilty of a violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $600 and costs of prosecution, and, in
default of payment of such fine and costs, to imprisonment for not more than 30
days. The action to enforce the penalty herein prescribed may be instituted
against any person in charge of the business of any employer who shall have
failed or who refuses to file a return required by §§
33.060 through
33.072.
(1987 Code, § 114-44)
(Ord. 241, passed 3-7-1960; Ord. 16-86, passed 12-22-1986; Ord. 5-2013, passed
11-7-2013)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   CESSPOOLS AND OPEN WELLS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
54.   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
      
55.   DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATER
CHAPTER 50:  CESSPOOLS AND OPEN WELLS
Section
   
50.01   Dangerous and hazardous conditions
   
50.02   Filling or removing
   
50.03   Time limits on backfilling or removing
   
50.04   Property owner’s responsibility
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01  DANGEROUS AND HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS.
   All abandoned cesspools, open wells, air shafts, privies, vaults, septic
tanks which are not completely enclosed in concrete, and other similar openings
in the earth’s surface, constitute a dangerous and hazardous condition to the
general welfare and safety of the residents of the township.
(1987 Code, § 52-1)  (Ord. 3-72, passed 12-4-1972)
§ 50.02  FILLING OR REMOVING.
   All existing abandoned cesspools, open wells, air shafts, privies, vaults,
septic tanks which are not completely enclosed in concrete, and similar
openings in the earth’s surface, shall be removed or filled within three months
of the effective date of the passage of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 52-2)  (Ord. 3-72, passed 12-4-1972)
§ 50.03  TIME LIMITS ON BACKFILLING OR REMOVING.
   Whenever any cesspools, open well, air shaft, privy, vault, septic tank not
completely enclosed in concrete, and similar openings in the earth’s surface,
are abandoned because of the extension of water and/or sewer systems into the
affected area or for any other reason whatsoever, removal or backfilling must
be completed within three months of the abandonment.
(1987 Code, § 52-3)  (Ord. 3-72, passed 12-4-1972)
§ 50.04  PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   Removal, filling or backfilling shall be the responsibility of the property
owner whose premises contain an abandoned cesspool, open well, air shaft,
privy, vault, septic tank not completely enclosed in concrete, or similar
opening in the earth’s surface.
(1987 Code, § 52-4)  (Ord. 3-72, passed 12-4-1972)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   This chapter shall be enforced by action brought before a District Justice
in the same manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses under the
State Rules of Criminal Procedure. Any person who violates or permits the
violation of this chapter shall, upon conviction in a summary proceeding, be
punishable by a fine of not more that $1,000 or by imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 90 days. Each day or portion thereof that such violation continues,
or is permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense. Each section
of this chapter that is violated shall also constitute a separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 52-5)  (Ord. 3-72, passed 12-4-1972; Ord. 4-87, passed 10-6-1987;
Ord. 3-96, passed 9-3-1996; Ord. 1-97, passed 6-2-1997)
CHAPTER 51:  SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
Section
   
51.01   Title
   
51.02   Intent and purpose
   
51.03   Definitions
   
51.04   Point of collection
   
51.05   Waste service required
   
51.06   Transfer of municipal waste; compliance with laws
   
51.07   Miscellaneous
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Antis Township Solid Waste Storage,
Collection, Disposal and Processing Ordinance”.
(Ord. 3-2015, passed 8-6-2015)
§ 51.02  INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to promote the public health,
safety and welfare and to eliminate public health hazards, environmental
pollution and economic loss by providing that all residential, commercial and
industrial refuse accumulated or stored upon any property within the township
shall be collected and removed by a responsible person or hauler and shall be
disposed in an area authorized by and approved in accordance with all state,
federal and local laws and ordinances.
(Ord. 3-2015, passed 8-6-2015)
§ 51.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. In this
chapter, the singular shall include the plural and the masculine shall include
the feminine and the neuter. Other words not defined herein shall have the
meaning set forth in the Municipal Waste Planning, Recycling and Waste
Reduction Act (Act 101), being 53 P.S. §§ 4000.101 et seq., and any regulations
promulgated from this Act or related statutes, and any other applicable
ordinance or regulation of the township.
   ASHES.  Residue from the burning of coal, coke or other combustible
material.
   BULKY WASTES.  Municipal waste which is too large and/or heavy to be placed
in standard 30 gallon garbage (municipal waste) bags and/or garbage (municipal
waste) receptacles including, but not limited to, appliances, furniture and
large auto parts.
   CARTWAY.  Paved area of street, alley, road, avenue and the like.
   CONSTRUCTION and/or DEMOLITION WASTE.  Solid waste (as defined in Act 101),
53 P.S. §§ 4000.101 et seq., resulting from the construction and/or demolition
of buildings and other structures including, but not limited to, wood, plaster,
metals, asphaltic substances, brick block and unsegregated concrete. The term
also includes dredging waste. The term does not include the following, however,
if the same are separate from other waste and are used as “clean fill” (e.g.,
material used to level uneven areas of real estate):
      (1)   Uncontaminated, soil rock, stone, gravel, unused bricks and/or
concrete; and/or
      (2)   Waste from land bearing, grubbing and excavation, including trees,
brush, stumps and vegetative material.
   DISPOSAL.  Storage, collection, disposal or handling of garbage, municipal
waste and other refuse material.
   GARBAGE.  All crockery, dishes, ashes, cinders, rubber, linoleum, asphalt or
tarry products (e.g., roofing paper and shingles), grease and putrescible
animal, fish, foul, fruit or vegetable waste incident to and resulting from the
use, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HAULER.  A person who collects, transports and/or disposes of municipal
waste, other refuse material and/or recyclables from residential, commercial
and/or industrial establishments.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. 
      (1)   Any garbage, refuse, sludge from an industrial or other wastewater
treatment plant, sludge from a water supply treatment plant or air pollution
control facility and other discarded material, including solid, liquid,
semisolid or contain gaseous material resulting from municipal, commercial,
industrial, institutional, mining or agricultural operations and from community
activities or any combination of the above. Does not include solid or dissolved
material and domestic sewage or solid or dissolved materials in irrigation
return flows or industrial discharges which are point sources subject to
permits under § 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, being 33 U.S.C.
§ 1342, as amended, or source, special nuclear or byproduct material as defined
by the U.S. Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 42 U.S.C. §§ 2011 et seq., as amended,
which, because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics may:
         (a)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or
an increase in morbidity in either an individual or the total population; or
         (b)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
      (2)   The term of HAZARDOUS WASTE shall not include coal refuse, as
defined in the Coal Refuse Disposal Control Act, being 53 P.S. §§ 30.51 et seq.
HAZARDOUS WASTE shall not include treatment sludges from coal mine drainage
treatment plants, disposal of which is being carried on pursuant to and in
compliance with a valid permit issued pursuant to Clean Streams Law, 35 P.S. §§
691.1 et seq.
   MUNICIPAL WASTE.  Any garbage, refuse, industrial lunchroom or office waste
and other material, including liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous material,
resulting from the operation of residential, municipal, commercial or
institutional establishments and from community activities (including, but not
limited, festivals). The term does not include source separated recyclable
materials.
   MUNICIPALITY.  The Township of Antis.
   NUISANCE.  Any condition, structure or improvement which shall constitute a
threat to the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of the municipality.
   OCCUPANT.  Person generally in possession and control of any residential,
commercial, institutional or industrial establishment.
   PERSON.  Every natural person, association, firm or corporation. PERSON also
includes a lessee as well as an owner of a residential establishment and
includes a person, association, firm or corporation which owns a residence or
business.
   RECYCLABLES.  Materials generated by a person which can be separated from
municipal waste and returned to commerce to be reused as a resource in the
development of useful products. RECYCLABLES include at a minimum, the
following; newsprint, aluminum cans, bimetallic cans, clear and/or colored
glass, plastic beverage containers, high-grade office paper, corrugated paper
and paperboard, leaf waste and such other materials as may be designated or
deleted from time to time by resolution.
   RECYCLING PROCESSING CENTER.  A facility that receives, sorts, separates,
prepares and markets collected recyclables.
   REFUSE.  Any material other than residual waste, municipal waste, hazardous
waste and/or recyclables.
   RESIDENTIAL CONTAINER.  Any non-motorized and/or nonpropelled receptacle
designed to hold and/or receive municipal waste and/or other refuse material,
intended or actually used for the purpose of storing such material until
collected by a hauler or otherwise lawfully disposed.
   RESIDUAL WASTE.  Any garbage, refuse, other discarded material or other
waste including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous materials
resulting from industrial, mining and agricultural operations and any sludge
that is not otherwise hazardous from an industrial, mining or agricultural
water supply treatment facility, wastewater treatment facility or air pollution
control facility or recycling processing center, provided that is not
hazardous. The term RESIDUAL WASTE shall not include coal refuse, as defined in
the Coal Refuse Disposal Control Act. Residual waste shall not include
treatment sludges from coal mine drainage treatment plants, disposal of which
is being carried on pursuant to and in compliance with a valid permit issued
pursuant to the Clean Streams Law.
   SPECIAL RECYCLABLES.  Recyclables other than those recyclables mandated
herein to be collected at the curb side, that are marketable as scrap,
recyclable or reusable such as angle and cast iron, copper and the like.
   TOWNSHIP OF ANTIS.  The municipality adopting and enforcing this chapter and
any amendments thereto. Any reference to the township herein shall also be a
reference to any designee or agent of the said township.
   WASTE DUMPSTER.  Any non-motorized and/or nonpropelled receptacle designed
to hold and/or receive municipal waste and/or other refuse material, capable of
being lowered and lifted by motor vehicle or truck for the purpose of municipal
waste and/or other refuse material collection.
(Ord. 3-2015, passed 8-6-2015)
§ 51.04  POINT OF COLLECTION.
   (A)   Municipal waste, other refuse or recyclables shall be placed at the
edge of the cartway or any other designated place for collection no sooner than
24 hours before the scheduled day and time for collection each week.
   (B)   Each hauler shall collect all municipal waste, other refuse material
and/or all recyclables that have been placed at the side of the cartway or
other designated location by its customers for collection, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter or any other ordinance, resolution or regulation of
the municipality.
   (C)   Each hauler owning, leasing and/or otherwise placing or causing to be
placed any container at any type of establishment for the purpose of placing
municipal waste, other refuse material and/or recyclables therein for later
collection, shall ensure that any such container is emptied within 48 hours of
the same becoming full to capacity, regardless of whether the fee for
collection of the same has been paid. Nothing herein shall prevent the hauler
from removing said hauler owned or leased container from the establishment for
nonpayment of collection services so long as the container is emptied with
regard to municipal waste, at a permitted landfill facility licensed by the
commonwealth and, with regard to recyclables, at a recycling center licensed by
the municipality.
(Ord. 3-2015, passed 8-6-2015)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05  WASTE SERVICE REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of all residential establishments, rented
or otherwise occupied by said owner and of all establishments containing multi-
family rental housing property with four or more units and commercial,
municipal and institutional establishments to contract the services of a hauler
to collect any municipal waste and other refuse material (on at least a weekly
basis) resulting from the operation of any such establishment unless said
establishment, by some other means, disposes of the same at a duly approved
municipal waste facility or a duly approved recycling processing facility on a
regular basis, retaining as proof thereof, at a minimum, monthly or more
frequent disposal receipts from such a facility, and all such establishments
shall prepare said materials as follows.
   (A)   All municipal waste and/or material shall be drained of liquid insofar
as practical and shall be placed in sanitary residential containers made of
nonabsorbent material. Any type of residential container shall be permitted,
but all owners of residential establishments shall assure that such residential
containers are capable of keeping waste and/or material contained, and such
owner shall be responsible for the failure of any such residential container to
do so, whether or not the failure was caused by rusting, tearing or other
deterioration of the container itself or by animals, weather or any other
cause.
   (B)   Cans shall be furnished and kept clean by the occupant and shall be
replaced by the occupant when no longer in satisfactory condition.
   (C)   All municipal waste which cannot be disposed of in containers shall be
assembled, boxed or bundled separately in such a way that it can be handled
conveniently and will not be disseminated by wind or otherwise, while awaiting
collection.
   (D)   All refuse except bulky waste shall be of units and weight such as can
be handled by one person and shall be placed in containers or piled and
assembled in such a way as to facilitate collection.
   (E)   All containers shall be kept on the resident’s property until it is
placed for collection as in §
51.04.
   (F)   (1)   Establishments containing multi-family rental housing property
with four or more units and commercial, municipal and institutional
establishments shall place all municipal waste emanating from said
establishments in containers made from rust-resistant material of sufficient
size and strength to fully accommodate all such municipal waste and of such
design to prevent animals from gaining access to such waste.
      (2)   Said containers kept at such establishments shall be kept clean and
be replaced when needed by the occupants, owners, landlords and/or agents of
such persons.
   (G)   Construction and/or demolition waste must be placed in a rigid
container, roll off or solid waste vehicle and may not be stored on the ground,
next to structures and/or public rights-of-way.
   (H)   In addition to other burning prohibitions designated by state law or
local ordinances or regulations, no recyclable material or yard waste may be
burned in open fires or other outdoor burning devices.
(Ord. 3-2015, passed 8-6-2015)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06  TRANSFER OF MUNICIPAL WASTE; COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall transfer or permit the transfer of municipal
waste and/or other refuse material from one collection vehicle to another
collection vehicle in any area of the municipality, except as follows:
         (a)   When said vehicles are parked at a duly approved transfer
station; and
         (b)   When, due to terrain and/or weather conditions, the hauler’s
collection vehicle, due to its size and/or tire traction, is unable to gain
access to the area (e.g., a rural or extremely hilly area of the municipality)
where the said waste is placed by the hauler’s customer for collection.
      (2)   Only solid waste collected under these conditions may be so
transferred from one collection vehicle to another collection vehicle. Said
transfer must be from truck to truck and no waste, recyclable materials or
liquid leachate may touch or be left on the ground or pavement.
   (B)   All persons owning property in the township or creating, storing or
hauling waste or other material in the township shall comply at all times with
any and all applicable local, county, state or federal ordinances, laws or
regulations.
(Ord. 3-2015, passed 8-6-2015)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07  MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place or permit to remain any municipal waste
or refuse material or other material subject to decay, including recyclables,
except yard waste that is composted in an acceptable manner, anywhere in the
municipality, except in a tightly covered metal or plastic container.
   (B)   All haulers shall not in any manner be construed as an agent, servant
or employee of the municipality, but shall at all times be considered and
remain an independent contractor. Furthermore, any and all personal and/or real
property owned, leased or controlled by any hauler shall at all times be
considered and remain as the sole personal and/or real property of said person.
   (C)   The municipality is hereby authorized to promulgate rules and
regulations and to issue forms as necessary to implement this chapter.
   (D)   The Intel-Municipal Relations Committee and Municipality Code
Enforcement Department are hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this
chapter, and any and all solid waste and/or recycling ordinances, all as may be
amended from time to time, enacted by the municipality.
(Ord. 3-2015, passed 8-6-2015)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be, upon
conviction thereof, sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $100, nor more
than $1,000, plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3-2015, passed 8-6-2015)
CHAPTER 52:  WATER
Section
Connection to Public Water System
   
52.01   Connection required
   
52.02   Unlawful acts
   
52.03   Notice to connect; time extension
   
52.04   Connection to other sources
   
52.05   Connection conditions
   
52.06   Construction of connections
   
52.07   Neglect or refusal to comply
   
52.08   Mobile homes
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sewage disposal systems, see
Chapter 54
   Sewers, see
Chapter 55
CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM
§ 52.01  CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   Every owner of property (hereinafter “property owner”) including, but not
limited to, any individual, firm, corporation or other entity in the township
(hereinafter called the “township”) which properly has now or hereafter shall
have thereon a principal building located within 150 feet of any portion of any
public water supply and distribution system (hereinafter called the
“Authority”), shall, at the property owner’s cost, keep connected or connect
such principal building or other structure located on the property with the
aforementioned public water system.
(1987 Code, § 123-1)  (Ord. 3-2001, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 4-2013, passed 9-5-
2013)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02  UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any property owner to which the provisions of §
52.01 apply to fail to provide the means of connection to the public water
system by way of a service line and a tap to the Authority’s distribution
system and/or to fail to comply with the provisions of this subchapter,
including the payment of the tap fee, connection fee and the monthly service
fee to the Authority.
(1987 Code, § 123-2)  (Ord. 3-2001, passed 5-7-2001)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03  NOTICE TO CONNECT; TIME EXTENSION.
   It shall be the duty of the Township Manager or the authorized
representative of the Authority to notify the property owner, lessee or
occupier of each structure covered hereunder in writing, either by personal
service, certified mail or registered mail, to connect the same to said public
water system, as herein provided, within 60 days after receipt of such notice.
Any property owner, lessee or occupier of a structure who cannot comply with
the provisions of this section as to connection within the 60-day period
stipulated above due to causes beyond the control of said person shall apply to
the township or Authority within said 60-day period for a time extension of up
to six months in duration. Said application shall be made on a form to be
furnished by the township or the Authority and shall contain a voluntary
agreement on the part of the applicant under which the applicant shall agree to
commence paying the basic monthly service fee immediately even though actual
connection to the public water system will not be accomplished until some later
date within the said six-month extension period.
(1987 Code, § 123-3)  (Ord. 3-2001, passed 5-7-2001)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04  CONNECTION TO OTHER SOURCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any property owner and/or other person connected to
the public water system to connect to or permit the connection by any other
property owner and/or other person to any other source of water supply for any
purpose.
(1987 Code, § 123-4)  (Ord. 3-2001, passed 5-7-2001)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05  CONNECTION CONDITIONS.
   No property owner and/or other person not presently connected to the public
water system shall make or cause to be made any connection with the public
water system until said person, corporation or entity has fulfilled all of the
following conditions:
   (A)   Make application to the township or Authority upon a permanent form to
be formulated and supplied by the township or the Authority for permission to
connect to the aforementioned public water system as evidenced by a connection
permit. Among other things, the applicant must state the character and use of
each structure located on his or her property;
   (B)   Pay the required tap connection fee as provided under the rules and
regulations of the Authority;
   (C)   No work shall commence before the payment of the aforesaid tap
connection fee and issuance of the aforementioned connection permit;
   (D)   Give the designated inspector of the township (hereinafter
“inspector”) or the Authority at least 24-hours’ notice of the time when such
connection shall be made in order that said inspector can be present to inspect
and approve the work and connection. The inspector shall signify approval of
the connection by endorsing the inspector’s name in the presence of the
permittee; and
   (E)   At the time of inspection of the connection, the property owner shall
permit the inspector full and complete access to all water system facilities in
each building and in and about all parts of the property. No water connection
line shall be covered over, or in any way concealed, until after it has been
inspected and approved by said inspector.
(1987 Code, § 123-5)  (Ord. 3-2001, passed 5-7-2001)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06  CONSTRUCTION OF CONNECTIONS.
   The construction of all connections between the building and the public
water system, together with the use of the public water system of the Authority
by a property owner and/or other person, shall be done in accordance with the
specifications, plans and procedures established by the Authority in its rates,
rules and regulations, as the same may be from time to time published and
amended, copies of which will, upon adoption of the Authority, be maintained on
file with the township and/or Authority Secretary.
(1987 Code, § 123-6)  (Ord. 3-2001, passed 5-7-2001)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07  NEGLECT OR REFUSAL TO COMPLY.
   If any property owner and/or other person in the township shall neglect or
refuse to comply with the provisions of this subchapter or the written notice
as prescribed in §
52.03, the township or the Authority may perform the work or cause to be
furnished such material as may be necessary to comply with the provisions of
this subchapter at the cost and expense of such property owner or property
owners, together with 10% additional expense on all charges and expenses
incidental thereto, which sum shall be collected from said property owner or
property owners for the use of the township or the Authority as debts are by
law collectible, or the township or the Authority may, by its proper officer,
file a municipal claim or lien therefor against said premises as provided by
law.
(1987 Code, § 123-7)  (Ord. 3-2001, passed 5-7-2001)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08  MOBILE HOMES.
   If one or more mobile homes, located in a mobile home park, are subject to
the provision of this subchapter by reason of abutting or being located within
150 feet of the public water system of the Authority, all mobile homes in such
mobile home park shall be subject to the provisions of this subchapter,
regardless of whether or not located within 150 feet of the public water system
of the Authority.
(1987 Code, § 123-8)  (Ord. 3-2001, passed 5-7-2001)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   In addition to any penalty herein above prescribed or contained in any other
related ordinance, any property owner and/or other person failing to make the
proper connection within the time specified, after receipt of proper notice as
provided in §
52.03 or who is found in violation of any other provisions of this subchapter
shall, upon conviction hereof before a District Justice, pay a fine or penalty
of not less than $100 nor more than $300, and upon default of payment of either
thereof, shall be sentenced to undergo an imprisonment of not more than 30 days
in the county jail and shall also be subject to any other equitable proceedings
available to the township or authority. Each day that said violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation.
(1987 Code, § 123-9)  (Ord. 3-2001, passed 5-7-2001)
CHAPTER 53:  STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Purpose
   
53.002   Applicability
   
53.003   Waivers
   
53.004   Liability disclaimer
   
53.005   Definitions
   
53.006   Erosion and sedimentation control requirements
   
53.007   Inspections
   
53.008   Financial guarantees
   
53.009   Dedication of public improvements
   
53.010   Fee schedule
Stormwater Quantity Management Requirements
   
53.025   General standards
   
53.026   Stormwater runoff quantity control standards
Stormwater Quality Management Requirements
   
53.040   Applicability
   
53.041   Water quality requirements
   
53.042   BMP selection criteria
Design Criteria for Stormwater Management Controls
   
53.055   General criteria
   
53.056   Criteria for infiltration systems
   
53.057   Criteria for flow attenuation facilities
   
53.058   Criteria for stormwater detention facilities
   
53.059   Criteria for collection/conveyance facilities
Maintenance of Stormwater Management Controls
   
53.070   Maintenance responsibilities
   
53.071   Maintenance agreement for privately owned stormwater facilities
   
53.072   Municipal Stormwater Maintenance Fund
Stormwater Plan Requirements
   
53.085   General requirements
   
53.086   General exemptions
   
53.087   Stormwater plan contents
Plan Review Procedures
   
53.100   Pre-application phase
   
53.101   Stormwater plan reviews
   
53.102   Status of the stormwater plan after final approval
   
53.103   Stormwater plan modifications
Prohibitions
   
53.115   Prohibited discharges
   
53.116   Prohibited connections
   
53.117   Roof drains
   
53.118   Alternation of BMPs
Enforcement Procedures and Remedies
   
53.130   Right of entry
   
53.131   Notification
   
53.132   Preventative remedies
   
53.133   Enforcement remedies
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001  PURPOSE.
   These regulations have the following general purposes and objectives:
   (A)   To assure safe management of stormwater runoff resulting from land
alteration and disturbance activities in accordance with watershed stormwater
management plans adopted pursuant to the Pennsylvania Storm Water Management
Act, being 32 P.S. §§ 680.1 to 680.17, (Act 167 of 1978, as amended);
   (B)   To utilize and preserve the existing natural drainage systems and to
preserve the flood-carrying capacity of streams;
   (C)   To encourage natural infiltration of rainfall to preserve ground water
supplies and stream flows;
   (D)   To provide for adequate maintenance of all permanent stormwater
management structures in the municipality; and
   (E)   To achieve compliance with the requirements of the municipality’s
stormwater NPDES permit conditions.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.002  APPLICABILITY.
   The following activities involving alteration or development of land are
deemed to have possible effects upon stormwater runoff characteristics and are
included within the scope of this chapter:
   (A)   Subdivision;
   (B)   Land development;
   (C)   Construction of new or additional impervious surfaces or surfaces with
reduced permeability (driveways, parking lots and the like);
   (D)   Diversion or piping of any natural or human-made stream channel; and
   (E)   Installation, replacement or substantial repair of stormwater systems
or appurtenances.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.003  WAIVERS.
   If a majority of the Township Board of Supervisors feels that this chapter
causes undue hardship, it may grant a waiver, provided that it does not nullify
the intent and purpose of this chapter. In granting waivers, the Township Board
of Supervisors may impose such conditions as will, in its judgment, advance the
achievement of the intent of this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.004  LIABILITY DISCLAIMER.
   (A)   Neither the granting nor the denial of any approval nor the compliance
with the provisions of this chapter or with any condition imposed by the
municipality, its officials, employees or designated representatives
thereunder, shall relieve any person from any responsibility for damage to
persons or property resulting therefrom, or as otherwise imposed by law, nor
impose any liability upon the municipal officials, employees or its designated
representatives to the maximum extent permitted by law.
   (B)   Neither the granting nor the denial of any permit which includes any
stormwater management requirements shall not constitute a representation,
guarantee or warranty of any kind by the municipality, the municipal officials,
employees, or designated representatives thereof of the practicability or
safety of any stormwater structure or facility, use or other plan proposed, and
shall create no liability or cause of action upon any municipal official,
employee or designated representative thereof for any damage that may result
pursuant thereto to the maximum extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.005  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCELERATED EROSION.  The removal of the surface of the land through the
combined action of human activities and the natural processes, at a rate
greater than would occur because of the natural process alone.
   ACT.  The Storm Water Management Act (Act of October 4, 1978, Pub. L. No.
864 No. 167; 32 P.S. §§ 680.1 through 680.17, as amended by Act of May 24,
1984, No. 63).
   APPLICANT.  A landowner or developer who has filed an application for
development including his or her heirs, successors and assigns.
   BMP (BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE).  Activities, facilities, designs, measures
or procedures used to manage stormwater impacts to meet state water quality
requirements, to promote ground water recharge, and to otherwise meet the
purposes of this chapter.
   CHANNEL.  A perceptible natural or artificial waterway which periodically or
continuously contains moving water or which forms a connecting link between two
bodies of water. It has a definite bed and banks which confine the water.
   CONSERVATION DISTRICT.  The Blair County Conservation District.
   COUNTY.  Blair County, Pennsylvania.
   CULVERT.  A closed conduit for the free passage of surface drainage under a
highway, railroad, canal or other embankment.
   DESIGN CRITERIA.
      (1)   Engineering guidelines specifying construction details and
materials.
      (2)   Objectives, results or limits which must be met by a facility,
structure or process in performance of its intended functions.
   DESIGN STORM.  See STORM FREQUENCY.
   DETENTION.  The slowing, dampening or attenuating of runoff flows entering
the natural drainage pattern or storm drainage system by temporarily holding
water on a surface area in a detention basin or within the drainage system.
   DETENTION POND OR BASIN.  A basin or reservoir, usually small, constructed
to impound or retard surface runoff temporarily.
   DEVELOPER.  The person, persons or any corporation, partnership, association
or other entity or any responsible person therein or agent therefore that
undertakes the activities associated with changes in land use. The term
DEVELOPER is intended to include, but not necessarily be limited to, the term
“subdivider”, “owner” and “builder” even though the individuals involved in
successive stages of a project may vary.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any activity, construction, alteration, change in land use or
practice that affects stormwater runoff characteristics.
   DISCHARGE.  The flow or rate of flow from a canal, conduit, channel or other
hydraulic structure.
   DRAINAGE.  In general, the removal of surface water from a given area.
Commonly applied to surface water and ground water.
   DRAINAGE AREA.
      (1)   The area of a drainage basin or watershed, expressed in acres,
square miles or other unit of area. Also called CATCHMENT AREA, WATERSHED,
RIVER BASIN.
      (2)   The area served by a sewer system receiving storm and surface
water, or by a watercourse.
   ENCROACHMENT.  Any structure or activity which in any manner changes,
expands or diminishes, the course, current or cross-section of any watercourse,
floodway or body of water.
   EROSION.  Wearing away of the lands by running water, glaciers, winds and
waves.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN.  A plan for a project site which
identifies BMPs to minimize accelerated erosion and sedimentation.
   EROSION CONTROL.  The application of measures to reduce erosion of land
surfaces.
   GROUND COVER.  Materials covering the ground surface.
   GROUND WATER.  Subsurface water occupying the saturation zone, from which
wells and springs are fed.
   GROUND WATER RECHARGE.  Replenishment of ground water naturally by
precipitation or runoff or artificially by spreading or injection.
   IMPERVIOUS.  Not allowing or allowing only with great difficulty the
movement of water; impermeable.
   INFILTRATION.
      (1)   The flow or movement of water through the interstices or pores of a
soil or other porous medium.
      (2)   The absorption of liquid by the soil.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT.  Any of the following activities:
      (1)   The improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots, tracts
or parcels of land for any purpose involving:
         (a)   A group of two or more residential or non-residential buildings,
whether proposed initially or cumulatively, or a single non-residential
building on a lot or lots regardless of the number of occupants or tenure; or
         (b)   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially
or cumulatively, between or among two or more existing  or prospective
occupants by means of, or for the purpose of streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups or other features;
      (2)   A subdivision of land; and
      (3)   Development in accordance with 53 P.S. § 10503(1.1) of the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code.
   LAND DISTURBANCE.  Any activity involving the changing, grading,
transportation, fill and any other activity which causes land to be exposed to
the danger of erosion.
   MAINTENANCE.  The upkeep necessary for efficient operation of physical
properties.
   MUNICIPALITY.  Antis Township, Blair County
   MUNICIPAL ENGINEER.  A professional engineer licensed in the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, duly appointed by the township.
   NATURAL STORMWATER RUNOFF REGIME.  A watershed where natural surface
configurations, runoff characteristics and defined drainage conveyances have
attained the conditions of equilibrium.
   NPDES.  National pollutant discharge elimination system, the federal
government’s system for issuance of permits under the Clean Water Act, which is
delegated to DEP in Pennsylvania.
   OUTFALL.
      (1)   The point, location or structure where drainage discharges from a
sewer, drain or other conduit; and/or
      (2)   The conduit leading to the ultimate discharge point.
   OUTLET CONTROL STRUCTURE.  The means of controlling the relationship between
the headwater elevation and the discharge, placed at the outlet or downstream
end of any structure through which water may flow.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARD.  A standard which establishes an end result or outcome
which is to be achieved but does not prescribe specific means for achieving it.
   PEAK FLOW.  Maximum flow.
   PENNSYLVANIA DEP.  Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
   POINT SOURCE.  Any discernable, confined and discrete conveyance, including
but not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel or conduit from which
stormwater is or may be discharged, as defined in state regulations at 25 Pa.
Code § 92a.2.
   RELEASE RATE PERCENTAGE.  The watershed factor determined by comparing the
maximum rate of runoff from a subbasin to the contributing rate of runoff to
the watershed peak rate at specific points of interest.
   RETENTION POND.  A basin, usually enclosed by artificial dikes, that is used
to retard stormwater runoff by temporarily storing the runoff and releasing it
at a predetermined rate.
   RETURN PERIOD.  The average interval in years over which an event of a given
magnitude can be expected to recur.
   RUNOFF.  The part of precipitation which flows over the land.
   RUNOFF CHARACTERISTICS.  The surface components of any watershed which
affect the rate, amount, and direction of stormwater runoff. These may include
but are not limited to: vegetation, soils, slopes and human-made landscape
alterations.
   SCS.  U.S. Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service.
   SEDIMENT.  Mineral or organic solid material that is being transported or
has been moved from its site of origin by air, water or ice and has come to
rest.
   SEDIMENTATION.  The process by which mineral or organic matter is
accumulated or deposited by moving water, wind or gravity.
   STATE WATER QUALITY REQUIREMENTS.  As defined under state regulations -
protection of designated and existing uses (see 25 PA Code Chapters 93 and 96).
   STORAGE FACILITY.  See DETENTION POND AND RETENTION POND.
   STORM FREQUENCY.  The average interval in years over which a storm event of
a given precipitation volume can be expected to occur.
   STORM SEWER.  A sewer that carries intercepted surface runoff, street water
and other drainage but excludes domestic sewage and industrial waste.
   STORMWATER.  The portion of precipitation which runs over the land.
   STORMWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM.  Natural or human-made structures that collect
and transport stormwater through or from a drainage area to the point of final
outlet including, but not limited to, any of the following: conduits and
appurtenant features, canals, channels, ditches, streams, culverts, streets and
pumping stations.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.  The plan for managing stormwater runoff adopted
by Blair County as required by the Storm Water Management Act.
   SUBDIVISION.  The division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development, provided, however, that
the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into parcels of more
than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of access or any
residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   SURFACE WATER OF THE COMMONWEALTH.  Any and all rivers, streams, creeks,
rivulets, impoundments, ditches, watercourses, storm sewers, lakes, dammed
water, wetlands, ponds, springs, and all other bodies or channels of conveyance
of surface water, or parts thereof, whether natural or artificial, within or on
the boundaries of the commonwealth.
   SWALE.  A low-lying stretch of land which gathers or carries surface water
runoff.
   WATERCOURSE.  Any channel for conveyance of surface water having a defined
bed and banks, whether natural or artificial, with perennial or intermittent
flow.
   WATERSHED.  The entire region or area drained by a river or other body of
water whether natural or artificial. A DESIGNATED WATERSHED is an area
delineated by the State DEP and approved by the Environmental Quality Board for
which counties are required to develop watershed stormwater management plans.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.006  EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An erosion/sedimentation plan shall be prepared for each development
site in accordance with the Pennsylvania Erosion/Sedimentation Regulations (25
Pa. Code Chapter 102) and the standards and guidelines of the County
Conservation District.
   (B)   Developers that propose earthmoving activity in excess of 5,000 square
feet shall first be required to prepare and submit an erosion and sedimentation
control plan to the Township Planning Commission for review and the County
Conservation District for review and approval. The applicant shall also comply
with all provisions of the township’s erosion and sedimentation control
ordinance (
Chapter 151).
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.007  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Municipal Engineer or a designated representative of the
municipality shall inspect the construction of the temporary and permanent
stormwater management system for the development site; the permittee shall
notify the Municipal Engineer 48 hours in advance of the completion of the
following key development phases:
      (1)   At the completion of preliminary site preparation including
stripping of vegetation, stockpiling of topsoil and construction of temporary
stormwater management and erosion control facilities;
      (2)   At the completion of rough grading but prior to placing topsoil,
permanent drainage or other site development improvements and ground covers;
      (3)   During construction of the permanent stormwater facilities at such
times as specified by the Municipal Engineer;
      (4)   Completion of permanent stormwater management facilities including
established ground covers and plantings; and
      (5)   Completion of final grading, vegetative control measures or other
site restoration work done in accordance with the approved plan and permit.
   (B)   No work shall commence on any subsequent phase until the preceding one
has been inspected and approved. If there are deficiencies in any phase, the
Municipal Engineer shall issue a written description of the required
corrections and stipulate the time by which they must be made.
   (C)   If during construction, the contractor or permittee identifies any
site condition, such as subsurface soil conditions, alterations in surface or
subsurface drainage which could affect the feasibility of the approved
stormwater facilities, he or she shall notify the Municipal Engineer within 24
hours of the discovery of such condition and request a field inspection. The
Municipal Engineer shall determine if the condition requires a stormwater plan
modification.
   (D)   In cases where stormwater facilities are to be installed in areas of
landslide-prone soils or other special site conditions exist, the municipality
may require special precautions such as soil tests and core borings, full-time
inspectors and/or similar measures. All costs of any such measures shall be
borne by the permittee.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.008  FINANCIAL GUARANTEES.
   (A)   Guarantee of completion. A completion guarantee in the form of a bond,
cash deposit, certified check or other negotiable securities acceptable to the
municipality, shall be filed. The guarantee shall cover all streets, sanitary
sewers, stormwater management facilities, water systems, fire hydrants,
sidewalks and other required improvements; it shall be in the amount and form
prescribed by the State Municipal Planning Code, 53 P.S. § 10509.
   (B)   Release of completion guarantee. The procedures for requesting and
obtaining a release of the completion guarantee shall be in a manner prescribed
by the State Municipalities Planning Code 53 P.S. § 10510.
   (C)   Default of completion guarantee.
      (1)   If improvements are not installed in accordance with the approved
final plan, the governing body may enforce any corporate bond or other security
by appropriate legal and equitable remedies.
      (2)   If proceeds of such bond or other security are insufficient to pay
the cost of installing or making repairs or corrections to all the improvements
covered by said security, the governing body may at its option install part of
such improvements in all or part of the development and may institute
appropriate legal or equitable action to recover the moneys necessary to
complete the remainder of the improvements.
      (3)   All proceeds, whether resulting from the security or from any legal
or equitable action brought against the developer, or both, shall be used
solely for the installation of the improvements covered by such security and
not for any other municipal purpose.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.009  DEDICATION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   When streets, sanitary sewers, stormwater management facilities, water
lines or other required improvements in the development have been completed in
accordance with the final approved plan, such improvements shall be deemed
private until such time as they have been offered for dedication to the
municipality and accepted by separate ordinance or resolution or until they
have been condemned for use as a public facility.
   (B)   Prior to acceptance of any improvements or facilities, the Municipal
Engineer shall inspect them to ensure that they are constructed in accordance
with the approved plan and are functioning properly. In the case of any
stormwater control facility, it must be free of sediment and debris.
   (C)   The owner shall submit as-built plans for all facilities proposed for
dedication.
      (1)   Prior to acceptance of any improvements or facilities, the
applicant shall provide a financial security to secure the structural integrity
and functioning of the improvements.
      (2)   The security shall:
         (a)   Be in the form of a bond, cash, certified check or other
negotiable securities acceptable to the municipality;
         (b)   Be for a term of 18 months; and
         (c)   Be in an amount equal to 15% of the actual cost of the
improvements and facilities so dedicated.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.010  FEE SCHEDULE.
   The municipal governing body may adopt by resolution from time to time a
reasonable schedule of fees to cover the cost of plan reviews, inspections and
other activities necessary to administer the provisions of this chapter. All
fees shall be set in accordance with the applicable provisions of the State
Municipalities Planning Code and any dispute over the fee amount shall be
resolved in the manner prescribed by the State Municipalities Planning Code, 53
P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.025  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   All land disturbance activities shall be conducted in such a way as to
minimize accelerated erosion and sedimentation. Measures to control erosion and
sedimentation shall at a minimum meet the standards of the Conservation
District and the Rules and Regulations of the State Department of Environmental
Protection.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.026  STORMWATER RUNOFF QUANTITY CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Runoff rates. There shall be no increase in the peak rate of
stormwater runoff discharge from any activity covered by the ordinance
following the completion of the activity (post-development conditions) over the
rate that would have occurred from the land prior to the activity (pre-
development conditions); this criteria shall apply to the total activity even
if the activity is to take place in stages.
      (1)   Off site areas which drain through a proposed development site are
not subject to the control standard when determining allowable peak runoff
rates; however, on-site drainage facilities shall be designed to safely convey
off-site flows through the development site.
      (2)   Where the site area to be impacted through a proposed development
activity differs significantly from the total site area, only the proposed
impact area shall be subject to the runoff criteria.
   (B)   Storm frequencies. Stormwater management facilities on all development
sites shall control the peak stormwater discharge for the two-, ten-, 25- and
100-year storm frequencies. The USDA NRCS 24-hour, Type II Rainfall
Distribution shall be used for analyzing stormwater runoff for both pre- and
post-development conditions. The 24-hour total rainfall for these storm
frequencies in the watershed are:
 
Storm Frequency Rainfall Depth (Inches)
2-year          2.6
10-year         3.8
25-year         4.6
100-year        6.1
 
   (C)   Calculation methods.
      (1)   Development sites. For the purpose of computing peak flow rates and
runoff hydrographs from development sites, calculations shall be performed
using one of the following: USDA NRCS publications, Technical Release (TR) 55
or 20, HEC I or Penn State Runoff Model (PSRM) or Modified Rational Method.
Under special circumstances other computation methods may be used subject to
the approval of the municipality.
      (2)   Stormwater collection/conveyance facilities. For the purposes of
designing storm sewers, open swales and other stormwater runoff collection and
conveyance facilities, the Rational Method or other method as approved by the
municipality may be applied. Rainfall intensities for design should be obtained
from the State Department of Transportation rainfall charts.
      (3)   Routing of hydrographs through detention/retention facilities.
Routing of hydrographs through detention/retention facilities for the purpose
of designing those facilities shall be accomplished using the Modified-Puls
Method or other recognized reservoir routing method subject to the approval of
the municipality.
      (4)   Predevelopment conditions. Predevelopment conditions shall be
assumed to be those which exist on any site at the time prior to the
commencement of development activities. SCS runoff curve numbers selected for
use in the calculations shall accurately reflect existing conditions subject to
the approval of the municipality. At its discretion, the municipality may
direct that hydrologic conditions for all areas with pervious cover (i.e.,
fields, woods, lawn areas, pastures, cropland and the like) shall be assumed to
be in “good” condition, and the lowest recommended SCS runoff curve number (CN)
shall be applied for all pervious land uses within the respective range for
each land use and hydrologic soil group. Impervious cover shall include, but
not be limited to, any roof, parking or driveway areas, and any new streets and
sidewalks. For post-development conditions, any areas designed to initially be
gravel or crushed stone shall be assumed to be impervious for the purposes of
these criteria. The municipality has the authority to require that computed
existing runoff rates be reconciled with field observations and conditions. If
the designer can substantiate through actual physical calibration that more
appropriate runoff values should be used at a particular site, then appropriate
variations may be made upon review and recommendations of the Municipal
Engineer. Calibration shall require detailed gauge and rainfall data for the
particular site in question.
   (D)   Post-development rates of runoff. Post-development rates of runoff
shall not exceed the peak rates of runoff prior to development for the two-,
ten-, 25 and 100-year design storms.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.040  APPLICABILITY.
   In addition to the performance standards and design criteria requirements of
§§
53.025 and
53.026, the land developer shall implement the following water quality
requirements of this subchapter unless otherwise exempted by the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.041  WATER QUALITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No regulated activities within the municipality shall commence until
approval by the municipality of a plan which demonstrates compliance with state
water quality requirements after construction is complete.
   (B)   Stormwater BMPs must be designed, implemented, and maintained to meet
state water quality requirements, and any other more stringent requirements as
determined by the municipality.
   (C)   To control post-construction stormwater impacts from regulated
activities, state water quality requirements can be met by BMPs, including site
design, which provide for replication of pre-construction stormwater
infiltration and runoff conditions, so that post-construction discharges do not
degrade the physical, chemical or biological characteristics of the receiving
waters; this may be achieved by the following:
      (1)   Infiltration: replication of pre-construction stormwater
infiltration conditions;
      (2)   Treatment: use of water quality treatment BMPs to ensure removal of
the chemical and physical pollutants from the stormwater runoff; and
      (3)   Streambank and streambed protection: management of volume and rate
of post-construction stormwater discharges to prevent physical degradation of
receiving waters (e.g., from scouring).
         (a)   Provisions for the assurance of long-term operations and
maintenance of BMPs must be provided in accordance with §
53.042.
         (b)   Acceptable stormwater management BMPs must be provided to manage
the net increase in stormwater runoff volume from the land development
activities from a two-year/24-hour frequency storm. This equates to 2.6 inches
of rainfall occurring over a 24-hour period.
         (c)   Evidence of any necessary permit(s) for earth disturbance
activities from the appropriate DEP regional office must be provided to the
municipality.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.042  BMP SELECTION CRITERIA.
   (A)   BMP selection and application shall be in accordance with guidance
provided in the BMP handbooks and design manuals published by DEP; in selecting
the appropriate BMPs or combinations thereof, the land developer shall consider
the following:
      (1)   Total contributing area;
      (2)   Permeability and infiltration rate of the site soils;
      (3)   Slope and depth to bedrock;
      (4)   Seasonal high water table;
      (5)   Proximity to building foundations and well heads;
      (6)   Erodibility of soils; and
      (7)   Land availability and configuration of the topography.
   (B)   The following additional factors should be considered when evaluating
the suitability of the BMPs used to control water quality at a given
development site:
      (1)   Peak discharge and required volume control;
      (2)   Streambank erosion;
      (3)   Efficiency of the BMPs to mitigate potential water quality
problems;
      (4)   The volume of runoff that will be effectively treated;
      (5)   The nature of the pollutant(s) being removed;
      (6)   Maintenance requirements;
      (7)   Recreation value; and
      (8)   Enhancement of aesthetics and property values.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
DESIGN CRITERIA FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT CONTROLS
§ 53.055  GENERAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   Applicants may select runoff control techniques, or a combination of
techniques, which are most suitable to control stormwater runoff from the
development site. All controls shall be subject to approval of the Municipal
Engineer. The Municipal Engineer may request specific information on design
and/or operating features of the proposed stormwater controls in order to
determine their suitability and adequacy in terms of the standards of this
chapter.
   (B)   The applicant should consider the effect of the proposed stormwater
management techniques on any special soil conditions or geological hazards
which may exist on the development site. In the event such conditions are
identified on the site, the Municipal Engineer may require in-depth studies by
a competent geotechnical engineer. Not all stormwater control methods may be
advisable or allowable at a particular development site.
   (C)   In developing a stormwater management plan for a particular site,
stormwater controls shall be selected according to the following order of
preference:
      (1)   Infiltration and/or treatment of impervious surfaces during site
design;
      (2)   Flow attenuation by use of open vegetated swales and natural
depressions; and
      (3)   Stormwater detention/retention structures.
   (D)   Infiltration practices shall be used to the extent practicable to
reduce volume increases and promote ground water recharge. A combination of
successive practices may be used to achieve the applicable minimum control
requirements. Justification shall be provided by the applicant for rejecting
each of the preferred practices based on actual site conditions.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.056  CRITERIA FOR INFILTRATION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Infiltration systems shall be sized and designed based upon local soil
and ground water conditions.
   (B)   Infiltration systems greater than three feet deep shall be located at
least ten feet from basement walls.
   (C)   Infiltration systems shall not be used to handle runoff from
commercial or industrial working or parking areas. This prohibition does not
extend to roof areas which are demonstrated to be suitably protected from the
effects of the commercial/industrial activities.
   (D)   Infiltration systems may not receive runoff until the entire drainage
area to the system has received final stabilization.
   (E)   The stormwater infiltration facility design shall provide an overflow
system with measures to provide a non-erosive velocity of flow along its length
and at the outfall.
   (F)   Areas proposed for infiltration BMPs shall be protected from
sedimentation and compaction during the construction phase, so as to maintain
their maximum infiltration capacity.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.057  CRITERIA FOR FLOW ATTENUATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   If flow attenuation facilities are employed to assist in the control
of peak rates of discharge, their effects must be quantified using the SCS
Technical Release (TR) 55 Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds or other
approved method. The effects of the flow attenuation facilities on travel time
should be reflected in the calculations.
   (B)   Flow attenuation facilities such as swales and natural depressions
should be properly graded to ensure positive drainage and avoid prolonged
ponding of water.
   (C)   Swales shall be properly vegetatively stabilized or otherwise lined to
prevent erosion.
   (D)   Swales shall be designed according to the recommendations contained in
the Commonwealth of State Erosion and Sediment Pollution Control Program
Manual.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.058  CRITERIA FOR STORMWATER DETENTION FACILITIES.
   (A)   If detention facilities are utilized for the development site, the
facility(ies) shall be designed such that post-development peak runoff rates
from the developed site are controlled to those rates defined by this chapter.
   (B)   All detention facilities shall be equipped with outlet structures to
provide discharge control for the four designated storm frequencies. Provisions
shall also be made to safely pass the post-development 100-year storm runoff
without damaging or impairing the continued function of the facilities. Should
any stormwater management facilities be regulated by 25 Pa. Code Chapter 105
regulations, the facility shall be designed in accordance with those
regulations and meet the regulations concerning dam safety which may require
the passage of storms larger than the 100-year event.
   (C)   Shared-storage facilities which provide detention of runoff for more
than one development site within a single subarea are encouraged wherever
feasible and provided such facilities meet the criteria contained in this
section. In addition, runoff from the development sites involved shall be
conveyed to the facility in a manner that avoids adverse impacts (such as
flooding or erosion) to channels and properties located between the development
site and the shared-storage facilities.
   (D)   Where detention facilities will be utilized, multiple use facilities,
such as wetlands, lakes, ballfields or similar recreational/open space uses are
encouraged wherever feasible, subject to the approval of the municipality and
compliance with 25 Pa. Code Chapter 105 regulations.
   (E)   Other considerations which should be incorporated into the design of
the detention facilities include.
      (1)   Inflow and outflow structures shall be designed and installed to
prevent erosion and bottoms of impoundment type structures should be protected
from soil erosion.
      (2)   Control and removal of debris both in the storage structure and in
all inlet or outlet devices shall be a design consideration.
      (3)   Inflow and outflow structures, pumping stations and other
structures shall be designed and protected to minimize safety hazards.
      (4)   The water depth at the perimeter of a storage pond should be
limited to that which is safe for children. Restriction of access (fence, walls
and the like) may be necessary depending on the location of the facility and
the maximum depths of water.
      (5)   Side slope of storage ponds shall not exceed a ratio of two and
one-half to one horizontal to vertical dimension.
      (6)   Landscaping shall be provided for the facility which harmonizes
with the surrounding area.
      (7)   Facilities shall be located to facilitate maintenance, considering
the frequency and type of equipment that will be required.
      (8)   Bottoms of detention basins should be graded with sufficient slope
to provide positive surface drainage. A subdrainage system may be required
depending on the location of the pond bottom relative to ground water levels.
      (9)   All detention ponds shall be provided with a fence of a height and
type subject to the approval of the municipality and shall be designed to
assure access for maintenance. In all cases, the fence height shall be a
minimum of five feet.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.059  CRITERIA FOR COLLECTION/CONVEYANCE FACILITIES.
   (A)   All stormwater runoff collection or conveyance facilities, whether
storm sewers or other open or closed channels, shall be designed in accordance
with the following basic standards.
      (1)   All sites shall be graded to provide drainage away from and around
the structure in order to prevent any potential flooding damage.
      (2)   Lots located on the high side of streets shall extend roof and
French drains to the curb line storm sewer (if applicable). Low side lots shall
extend roof and french drains to a stormwater collection/conveyance/control
system or natural watercourse in accordance with the approved stormwater
management plan for the development site.
      (3)   Collection/conveyance facilities should not be installed parallel
and close to the top or bottom of a major embankment to avoid the possibility
of failing or causing the embankment to fail.
      (4)   All collection/conveyance facilities shall be designed to convey
the 25-year storm peak flow rate from the contributing drainage area and to
carry it to the nearest suitable outlet such as a stormwater control facility,
curbed street, storm sewer or natural watercourse without damage to the
drainage structure or roadway, with runoff from the 25-year design storm at a
minimum one foot of freeboard measured below the lowest point along the top of
the roadway. Roadway crossings Located within designated floodplain areas must
be able to convey runoff from a 100-year design storm with a minimum of one-
foot freeboard measured below the lowest point along the top of the roadway.
When it can be shown that, due to topographic conditions, natural drainage ways
on the site cannot adequately provide for drainage, open channels may be
constructed conforming substantially to the line and grade of such natural
drainage ways. Work within natural drainage ways shall be subject to approval
by PADEP through the joint permit application process, or, where appropriate by
PADEP, through the general permit process.
      (5)   Where drainage swales or open channels are used, they shall be
suitably lined to prevent erosion and designed to avoid excessive velocities.
      (6)   Stormwater drainage systems shall be provided in order to permit
unimpeded flow along natural watercourses, except as modified by stormwater
management facilities or open channels consistent with this chapter.
      (7)   Existing points of concentrated drainage that discharge onto
adjacent property shall not be altered without permission of the altered
property owner(s) and shall be subject to any applicable discharge criteria
specified in this chapter.
      (8)   Areas of existing diffused drainage discharge shall be subject to
any applicable discharge criteria in the general direction of existing
discharge, whether proposed to be concentrated or maintained as diffused
drainage areas, except as otherwise provided by this chapter. If diffused flow
is proposed to be concentrated and discharged onto adjacent property, the
developer must document that adequate downstream conveyance facilities exist to
safely transport the concentrated discharge, or otherwise prove that no
erosion, sedimentation, flooding or other harm will result from the
concentrated discharge.
      (9)   Where a development site is traversed by watercourses, drainage
easements shall be provided conforming to the line of such watercourses. The
terms of the easements shall prohibit excavation, the placing of fill or
structures, and any alterations that may adversely affect the flow of
stormwater within any portion of the easement. Also maintenance, including
mowing of vegetation within the easement shall be prohibited, except as
approved by the appropriate governing authority.
      (10)   Any stormwater management facilities regulated by this chapter
that would be located in or adjacent to waters of the commonwealth or wetlands
shall be subject to approval by PADEP through the joint permit application
process, or, where deemed appropriate by PADEP, the general permit process.
When there is a question whether wetlands may be involved, it is the
responsibility of the developer or his or her agent to show that the land in
question cannot be classified as wetlands, otherwise approval to work in the
area must be obtained by PADEP.
      (11)   Any stormwater management facilities regulated by this chapter
that would be located on state highway rights-of-way shall be subject to
approval by the State Department of Transportation.
      (12)   In order to promote overland flow and infiltration/percolation of
runoff where it is advantageous to do so, roof drains must not be connected to
streets, sanitary or storm sewers, or roadside ditches. When it is more
advantageous to connect directly to streets or storm sewers, then it shall be
permitted on a case-by-case basis by the municipality.
   (B)   Wherever storm sewers are proposed to be utilized, they shall comply
with the following criteria.
      (1)   Where practical, designed to traverse under seeded and planted
areas. If constructed within ten feet of road paving, walks or other surfaced
areas, drains shall have a narrow trench and maximum compaction of backfill to
prevent settlement of the superimposed surface or development.
      (2)   Preferably installed after excavating and filling in the area to be
traversed is completed, unless the drain is installed in the original ground
with a minimum of three feet cover and/or adequate protection during the fill
construction.
      (3)   Designed: with cradle when traversing fill areas of indeterminate
stability; with anchors when gradient exceeds 20%; and with encasement or
special backfill requirements when traversing under a paved area.
      (4)   Designed to adequately handle the anticipated stormwater flow and
be economical to construct and maintain. The minimum pipe size shall be 15
inches in diameter.
      (5)   Drain pipe, trenching, bedding and backfilling requirements shall
conform to the requirements of the municipality and/or applicable PennDOT
Specifications, Form 408.
      (6)   Storm inlets and structures shall be designed to be adequate, safe,
self-cleaning and unobtrusive and consistent with municipal standards.
      (7)   Approved grates shall be designed for all catch basins, stormwater
inlets and other entrance appurtenances.
      (8)   Manholes shall be designed so that the top shall be at finished
grade and sloped to conform to the slope of the finished grade. Top castings of
structures located in roads or parking areas shall be machined or installed to
preclude “rattling”.
      (9)   Where a proposed storm sewer connects with an existing storm sewer
system, the applicant shall demonstrate that sufficient capacity exists in the
downstream system to handle the additional flow.
      (10)   Storm sewer outfalls shall be equipped with energy dissipation
devices to prevent erosion and conform with applicable requirements of the
State DEP for stream encroachments (25 Pa. Code Chapter 105).
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
MAINTENANCE OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT CONTROLS
§ 53.070  MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The maintenance plan for stormwater management facilities located on
the development site shall establish responsibilities for the continuing
operation and maintenance of all proposed stormwater control facilities,
consistent with the following principals.
      (1)   If a development consists of structures or lots which are to be
separately owned and in which streets, storm sewers and other public
improvements are to be dedicated to the municipality, stormwater control
facilities should also be dedicated to and maintained by the municipality.
      (2)   If a development site is to be maintained in single ownership or if
storm sewers and other public improvements are to be privately owned and
maintained, then the ownership and maintenance of stormwater control facilities
should be the responsibility of the owner or private management entity.
   (B)   The governing body, upon recommendation of the Municipal Engineer,
shall make the final determination on the continuing maintenance
responsibilities prior to final approval of the stormwater management plan. The
governing body reserves the right to accept the ownership and operating
responsibility for any or all of the stormwater management controls and to
determine the terms and conditions under which it will accept ownership and
operating responsibility.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.071  MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT FOR PRIVATELY OWNED STORMWATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   Prior to final approval of the site’s stormwater management plan, the
applicant and municipality shall execute a maintenance agreement covering all
stormwater control facilities which are to be privately owned.
      (1)   The maintenance agreement shall be recorded with the final
subdivision/land development plan for the site.
      (2)   The agreement shall stipulate that:
         (a)   All facilities shall be maintained in accordance with the
approved maintenance schedule and in a safe and attractive manner;
         (b)   Easements and or rights-of-way shall be conveyed to the
municipality to assure access for periodic inspections by the municipality and
maintenance if required;
         (c)   The name, address and telephone number of the person or company
responsible for maintenance activities shall be filed with the municipality. In
the event of a change, new information will be submitted to the municipality
within ten days of the change; and
         (d)   If the facility owner fails to maintain the stormwater control
facilities, the municipality may perform the necessary maintenance work or
corrective work following due notice by the municipality to the facility owner
to correct the problem(s). The facility owner shall reimburse the municipality
for all costs.
   (B)   Other items may be included in the agreement where determined
necessary to guarantee the satisfactory maintenance of all facilities.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.072  MUNICIPAL STORMWATER MAINTENANCE FUND.
   (A)   Persons installing stormwater storage facilities shall be required to
pay a specified amount to the Municipal Stormwater Maintenance Fund to help
defray costs of periodic inspections and maintenance expenses; the amount of
the deposit shall be determined as follows.
      (1)   If the storage facility is to be privately owned and maintained,
the deposit shall cover the cost of periodic inspections performed by the
municipality for a period of ten years, as estimated by the Municipal Engineer.
After that period of time, inspections will be performed at the expense of the
municipality.
      (2)   If the storage facility is to be owned and maintained by the
municipality, the deposit shall cover the estimated costs for maintenance and
inspections for ten years. The Municipal Engineer will establish the estimated
costs utilizing information submitted by the applicant.
      (3)   The amount of the deposit to the fund shall be converted to present
worth of the annual series values. The Municipal Engineer shall determine the
present worth equivalents which shall be subject to the approval of the
governing body.
   (B)   If a storage facility is proposed that also serves as a recreation
facility (e.g., ballfield, lake), the municipality may reduce or waive the
amount of the Maintenance Fund deposit based upon the value of the land for
public recreation purposes.
   (C)   If in the future a storage facility (whether publicly or privately
owned) is eliminated due to the installation of storm sewers or other storage
facility, the unused portion of the Maintenance Fund deposit will be applied to
the cost of abandoning the facility and connecting to the storm sewer system or
other facility.
   (D)   Any amount of the deposit remaining after the costs of abandonment are
paid will be returned to the depositor.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
STORMWATER PLAN REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.085  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No final subdivision/land development plan shall be approved, no permit
authorizing construction shall be issued, or an earth moving or land
disturbance activity initiated until the final stormwater management plan for
the site is approved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.086  GENERAL EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following activities are specifically exempt for the plan
preparation provisions of this chapter unless the municipality determines that
the activity is likely to, has, or will negatively impact the purposes and
objectives set forth in §§
53.001 through
53.004. For example, where an activity occurs on very steep terrain or where an
activity is the latest in a series of incremental developments expected to
cause pronounced stormwater impacts, it may be that these activities will be
required to comply with the plan preparation requirements contained herein even
though their activities qualify under the listing in this section. Upon making
such determination, the municipality shall give notice in writing to the land
owner and the developer, if known, and direct the landowner and any developer
to immediately cease and desist all activity and affirmatively comply with the
formal plan, submission and approval procedures of this chapter.
   (B)   Exemption shall not relieve the applicant from providing adequate
stormwater management to meet the purpose of this chapter.
      (1)   Any regulated activity that would create 5,000 square feet or less
of impervious area. This criteria shall apply to the total development even if
development is to take place in phases.
      (2)   Land disturbances associated with existing one- and two-family
dwellings provided that the activities will not create in excess of 5,000
square feet of impervious area.
      (3)   Use of land for gardening for home consumption.
      (4)   Agriculture when operated in accordance with a conservation plan or
erosion and sedimentation control plan approved by the County Conservation
District. The agricultural activities such as growing crops, rotating crops,
filling of soil and grazing animals and other such activities are specifically
exempt from complying with the requirements of this chapter when such
activities are conducted in accordance with a conservation plan prepared by the
County Conservation District. The construction of buildings, parking lots or
any activity that may result in impervious surface which increases the rate and
volume of stormwater runoff shall comply with the requirements of this chapter.
      (5)   Forest management operations which are following the Department of
Environmental Protection’s management practices contained in its publication
“Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Guidelines for Forestry” and are
operating under an erosion and sedimentation control plan.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.087  STORMWATER PLAN CONTENTS.
   (A)   General format. The stormwater plan shall be drawn to a scale of not
less than one inch equals 100 feet. All sheets shall contain a title block with
name and address of applicant and engineer, scale, north arrow, legend and date
of preparation.
   (B)   Existing and proposed features. The plan shall show the following
under both pre-development and post-development conditions:
      (1)   Watershed location: provide a key map showing the location of the
development site within the watershed(s) and watershed subarea(s). On all site
drawings, show the boundaries of the watershed(s) and subarea(s) as they are
located on the development site and identify watershed names(s) and subarea
number(s);
      (2)   Floodplain boundaries: identify 100-year floodplains on the
development site (as appropriate) based on the municipal flood insurance study
maps;
      (3)   Natural features: show all bodies of water (natural or artificial),
watercourses (permanent and intermittent), swales, wetlands and other natural
drainage courses on the development site, or which will be affected by runoff
form the development;
      (4)   Soils: provide an overlay showing soil types and boundaries within
the development site (consult county, SCS and U.S. Geological Survey for
information);
      (5)   Contours: show existing and final contours at intervals of two
feet; in areas with slopes greater than 15%, five-foot contour intervals may be
used;
      (6)   Land cover: show existing and final land cover classifications as
necessary to support and illustrate the runoff calculations performed;
      (7)   Drainage area delineations: show the boundaries of the drainage
areas employed in the runoff calculations performed; and
      (8)   Stormwater management controls: show any existing stormwater
management or drainage controls and/or structures, such as storm sewers,
swales, culverts and the like, which are located on the development site, or
which are located off-site but will be affected by runoff from the development.
   (C)   Professional certification. The principal in charge of preparing the
stormwater management plan (including all calculations) shall be a registered
professional engineer or registered land surveyor and the stormwater management
plan shall be sealed by a registered professional engineer or professional land
surveyor with training and expertise in hydrology and hydraulics. Documentation
of qualifications may be required by the municipality.
   (D)   Runoff calculations. Calculations for determining pre- and post-
development discharge rates and for designing proposed stormwater control
facilities must be submitted with the stormwater management plan. All
calculations shall be prepared using the methods and data prescribed by §
53.026.
   (E)   Stormwater controls. All proposed stormwater runoff control measures
must be shown on the plan including methods for collecting, conveying and
storing stormwater runoff on-site, which are to be used both during and after
construction.
      (1)   Erosion and sedimentation controls shall be shown in accordance
with §
53.006. The plan shall provide information on the exact type, location, sizing,
design and construction of all proposed facilities and their relationship to
the existing watershed drainage system.
      (2)   The plan shall include technical specifications for materials and
methods to be used in the construction of the stormwater management facilities.
         (a)   If the development is to be constructed in stages, the applicant
must demonstrate that stormwater facilities will be installed to manage
stormwater runoff safely during each stage of development.
         (b)   A schedule for the installation of all temporary and permanent
stormwater control measures and devices shall be submitted.
         (c)   If appropriate, a justification should be submitted as to why
any preferred stormwater management techniques, as listed in §§
53.040 through
53.042 and §§
53.055 through
53.059, are not proposed for use.
   (F)   Easements, rights-of-way, deed restrictions. All existing and proposed
easements and rights-of-way for drainage and/or access to stormwater control
facilities shall be shown along with any areas subject to special deed
restrictions relative to or affecting stormwater management on the development
site.
   (G)   Other permits/approvals. A list of any approvals/permits relative to
stormwater management that will be required from other governmental agencies
(25 Pa. Code Chapters 105 and 106 permits and/or NPDES permit) and anticipated
dates of submission/receipt should be included with the stormwater plan
submission. Copies of permit applications may be requested by the municipality
where they may be helpful for the plan review.
   (H)   Maintenance program. The proposed maintenance plan for all stormwater
control facilities shall:
      (1)   Identify the proposed ownership entity (e.g., municipality,
property owner, private corporation, homeowner’s association or other entity);
      (2)   Identify the type of maintenance, probable frequencies, personnel
and equipment requirements and estimated annual maintenance costs;
      (3)   Identify the method for financing the continuing operation and
maintenance of the facility if the facility is to be owned by other than a
governmental agency; and
      (4)   Include copies of any legal agreements required to implement the
maintenance program and, if applicable, copies of the maintenance agreement as
required by §§
53.070 through
53.072.
   (I)   Financial guarantees. Submit financial guarantees in accordance with
the provisions of §§
53.008 and
53.009.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 53.100  PRE-APPLICATION PHASE.
   (A)   Before submitting the stormwater plan, applicants are urged to consult
with the municipality on the applicable regulations and techniques for safely
managing runoff from the development site. The municipality may also be helpful
in providing necessary data for the stormwater management plan.
   (B)   Applicants are encouraged to submit a sketch plan with a narrative
description of the proposed stormwater management controls for general guidance
and discussion with the municipality and other agencies.
   (C)   The pre-application phase is not mandatory; any review comments
provided by the municipality are advisory only and do not constitute any
legally binding action on the part of the municipality.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.101  STORMWATER PLAN REVIEWS.
   (A)   Submission of plans. Stormwater plan applications shall be submitted
with the preliminary and final subdivision/land development applications.
   (B)   Notification of affected municipalities. The developer is required to
notify municipalities immediately downstream of the development site that a
stormwater control plan has been submitted. Copies of the plans will be made
available to the municipalities upon request. Comments received from any
affected municipality will be considered by the Municipal Engineer and county
agencies in their reviews.
   (C)   Municipal Engineer’s review. The Municipal Engineer shall recommend
approval or disapproval of the stormwater management plan based on the
requirements of the municipal ordinances, the standards and criteria of the
watershed plan and good engineering practice. The engineer shall submit a
written report, along with supporting documentation, stating their reasons for
approval or disapproval.
   (D)   Township Planning Commission review. The stormwater management plan
shall be submitted to the Township Planning Commission for review.
   (E)   Permits required from other governmental agencies. Where the proposed
development requires an obstruction permit from the State DEP or an erosion/
sedimentation permit from the County Conservation District, final stormwater
management plan approval shall be granted subject to the receipt of such
permits. No building permit shall be issued, nor construction started, until
the permits are received and copies filed with the municipality.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.102  STATUS OF THE STORMWATER PLAN AFTER FINAL APPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon final stormwater plan approval, receipt of all necessary permits,
and recording of the final subdivision or land development plan in the County
Recorder of Deeds’ office, the applicant may commence to install or implement
the approved stormwater management controls.
   (B)   If site development or building construction does not begin within two
years of the date of final approval of the stormwater management plan, then
before doing so, the applicant shall resubmit the stormwater management plan to
verify that no condition has changed within the watershed that would affect the
feasibility or effectiveness of the previously approved stormwater management
controls. Further, if for any reason development activities are suspended for
two years or more, then the same requirement for resubmission of the stormwater
management plan shall apply.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.103  STORMWATER PLAN MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   If the request for a plan modification is initiated before
construction begins, the stormwater plan must be resubmitted and reviewed
according to the procedures contained in §
53.101.
   (B)   If the request for a plan modification is initiated after construction
is underway, the Municipal Engineer shall recommend approval or disapproval of
the modification based on field inspection provided:
      (1)   The requested changes in stormwater controls do not result in any
modifications to other approved municipal land use/development requirements
(e.g., building setbacks, yards and the like); and
      (2)   The performance standards in §§
53.025 and
53.026 and §§
53.040 through
53.042 are met.
   (C)   Notification of the engineer’s action shall be sent to the governing
body which may issue a stay of the plan modification within 14 days and require
the permittee to resubmit the plan modification for full stormwater plan review
in accordance with §
53.101.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 53.115  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person in the municipality shall allow, or cause to allow,
stormwater discharges into the municipalities separate storm sewer system which
are not composed entirely of stormwater, except: as provided in division (B)
below; and discharges allowed under a state or federal permit.
   (B)   Discharges which may be allowed, based on a finding by the
municipality that the discharges do not significantly contribute to pollution
to surface waters of the commonwealth, are:
      (1)   Discharges from firefighting activities;
      (2)   Potable water sources including dechlorinated water line and fire
hydrant flushings;
      (3)   Irrigation drainage;
      (4)   Routine external building washdown (which does not use detergents
or other compounds);
      (5)   Air conditioning condensate;
      (6)   Water from individual residential car washing;
      (7)   Water from crawl space pumps;
      (8)   Uncontaminated water from foundation or from footing drains;
      (9)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
      (10)   Lawn watering;
      (11)   Pavement washwaters where spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous
materials have not occurred (unless all spill material has been removed) and
where detergents are not used;
      (12)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
      (13)   Uncontaminated ground water; and
      (14)   Springs.
   (C)   In the event that the municipality determines that any of the
discharged identified in division (B) above significantly contribute to
pollution of waters of the commonwealth, or is so notified by DEP, the
municipality will notify the responsible person to cease the discharge.
   (D)   Upon notice provided by the municipality under division (C) above, the
discharge will have a reasonable time, as determined by the municipality, to
cease the discharge consistent with the degree of pollution caused by the
discharge.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall affect a discharger’s responsibilities
under state law.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.116  PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   The following connections are prohibited, except as provided in §
53.115(B):
   (A)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which
allows any non-stormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and
wash water, to enter the separate storm sewer system, and any connections to
the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks, and
   (B)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land
use to the separate storm sewer system which has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records, and approved by the municipality.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.117  ROOF DRAINS.
   (A)   Roof drains shall not be connected to streets, sanitary or storm
sewers or roadside itches except as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   When it is more advantageous to connect directly to streets or storm
sewers, connections of roof drains to streets or roadside ditches may be
permitted to the municipality.
   (C)   Roof drains shall discharge to infiltration areas or vegetative BMPs
to the maximum extent practicable.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.118  ALTERNATION OF BMPS.
   (A)   No person shall modify, remove, fill, landscape or alter any existing
stormwater BMP, unless it is part of an approved maintenance program without
the written approval of the municipality.
   (B)   No person shall place any structure, fill, landscaping or vegetation
into a stormwater BMP or within a drainage easement, which would limit or alter
the functioning of the BMP without the written approval of the municipality.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
53.999
ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES AND REMEDIES
§ 53.130  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, duly authorized representatives of
the municipality may enter at reasonable times upon any property to investigate
or ascertain the condition of the subject property in regard to an aspect
regulated by this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.131  NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   In the event that the applicant, developer, owner or his or her agent
fails to comply with the requirements of this chapter or fails to conform to
the requirements of any permit, a written notice of violation shall be issued
by the Municipal Engineer or any designated municipal official.
   (B)   Such notification shall set forth the nature of the violations(s) and
establish a time limit for correction of the violation(s).
   (C)   Upon failure to comply within the time specified, unless otherwise
extended by the municipality, the applicant, developer, owner or his or her
agent shall be subject to the enforcement remedies of this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.132  PREVENTIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   In addition to other remedies, the municipality may institute and
maintain appropriate actions at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate
a violation, to prevent unlawful construction, to recover damages and to
prevent illegal occupancy of a building or premises.
   (B)   In accordance with the State Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §
10515.1, the municipality may refuse to issue any permit or grant approval to
further improve or develop any property which has been developed in violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.133  ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   In addition to the above remedies, the municipality may also seek remedies
and penalties under applicable state statutes, or regulations adopted pursuant
thereto, including but not limited to the Storm Water Management Act (32 P.S.
§§ 693.1 through 693.27) and the Erosion and Sedimentation Regulations (25
Pennsylvania Code Chapter 102). Any activity conducted in violation of this
chapter or any state-approved watershed stormwater management plan is declared
a public nuisance by the municipality and abatable as such.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 53.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, who has violated or permitted the violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon being found liable therefor in a civil
enforcement proceeding commenced by the municipality, pay a fine of $600 plus
court costs, including reasonable attorney fees and engineers and other expert
witness fees incurred by the municipality. No judgment shall commence or be
imposed, levied or be payable until the date of the determination of a
violation by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   If the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the
municipality may enforce the judgment pursuant to applicable rules of civil
procedure.
   (C)   Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation unless the court of competent jurisdiction further determines that
there was a good faith basis for the person violating the ordinance to have
believed that there was no such violation. In such case there shall be deemed
to have been only one such violation until the fifth day following the date of
the initial determination of a violation; thereafter, each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   (D)   All judgments, costs and reasonable attorney fees collected for the
violation of this chapter shall be paid over to the municipality.
   (E)   A court of competent jurisdiction, upon petition, may grant an order
of stay, upon cause shown, tolling the per diem fine pending a final
adjudication of the violation and judgment.
   (F)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed or interpreted to
grant to any person or entity other than the municipality the right to commence
any action for enforcement pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
CHAPTER 54:  SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
Section
Connections to Sewage Disposal Systems
   
54.01   Compliance with connection procedures
   
54.02   Applications made to Committee
   
54.03   Approval of applications
   
54.04   Applications to be in writing; signature
   
54.05   Fees established
   
54.06   Malfunctioning systems; repairs
   
54.07   Sewer connection and service project
Holding Tanks
   
54.20   Purpose
   
54.21   Definitions
   
54.22   Grant of rights and privileges
   
54.23   Rules and regulations
   
54.24   Rates and charges
   
54.25   Exclusiveness of rights and privileges
   
54.26   Duties of improved property owner
   
54.27   Abatement of nuisances
Municipal Management
   
54.40   Title; introduction; purpose
   
54.41   Definitions
   
54.42   Applicability
   
54.43   Permit requirements
   
54.44   Inspections; correction of malfunctioning systems
   
54.45   Discharge regulations
   
54.46   Maintenance
   
54.47   System rehabilitation
   
54.48   Failure of owner to maintain or repair system; liens
   
54.49   Disposal of septage
   
54.50   Administration
   
54.51   Appeals
 
   
54.99   Penalty
CONNECTIONS TO SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 54.01  COMPLIANCE WITH CONNECTION PROCEDURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation to
connect on to any existing sewage disposal system within the limits of the
township unless he or she shall file an application and receive approval
thereof as hereinafter provided. If after obtaining approval, it shall also be
unlawful for any of the aforesaid to maintain a sewage disposal system which is
malfunctioning.
(1987 Code, § 105-1)  (Ord. 4-81, passed 11-14-1981)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.02  APPLICATIONS MADE TO COMMITTEE.
   All applications shall be made to the County Sanitary Administrative
Committee through the Certified Sewage Enforcement Office of the Committee.
(1987 Code, § 105-2)
§ 54.03  APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS.
   The enforcement officer shall approve the application when tests indicate
that there is no surface discharge of sewage. The term SEWAGE shall be defined
as set forth in the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et
seq.).
(1987 Code, § 105-3)
§ 54.04  APPLICATIONS TO BE IN WRITING; SIGNATURE.
   Applications for permits shall be in writing, shall be signed by the
applicant and shall be on a form adopted by the County Sanitary Administrative
Committee.
(1987 Code, § 105-4)
§ 54.05  FEES ESTABLISHED.
   The fee charged for the application required herein shall be established by
the County Sanitary Administrative Committee and shall be paid by the applicant
to the County Sanitary Administrative Committee at the time of filing of the
application. The fee shall be used to defer in part the cost of processing the
application and conducting the tests required for granting of the approval and
shall not be refunded to the applicant in the event that approval is not
granted.
(1987 Code, § 105-5)
§ 54.06  MALFUNCTIONING SYSTEMS; REPAIRS.
   In the event of a malfunctioning sewage disposal system after approval has
been granted to connect on thereto, the person, firm, association or
corporation who remains connected on to said sewage disposal system must repair
said system so that it will meet all requirements and standards provided by the
State Department of Environmental Resources.
(1987 Code, § 105-6)
§ 54.07  SEWER CONNECTION AND SERVICE PROJECT.
   (A)   Undertaking of project by authority. The first project to be
undertaken by the Authority shall be to acquire, hold, construct, improve,
maintain and operate, own and/or lease, either in the capacity of lessor or
lessee, collector sewers, interceptor sewers, force mains, pumping stations and
related sewer facilities in and for the incorporating municipalities and for
such other territory as it may be authorized to serve and to rehabilitate the
Tyrone sewage collection system, all as more fully specified in the recitals
hereto, and said Authority shall not undertake any other project unless
specifically authorized to do so by ordinances duly enacted by the
incorporating municipalities.
(1987 Code, § 35-7)
   (B)   Adoption of sewer system connection rules. The Board hereby adopts the
following rules and regulations with respect to the making of connections to
the sewer system.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
         ANTIS. The Township of Antis, County of Blair, Pennsylvania.
         OCCUPIED BUILDING. Each single dwelling unit, household unit, flat or
apartment unit, store, shop, office, business, commercial or industrial unit,
or family unit contained within any structure, erected and intended for
continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy or use by human beings or animals
and from which structure sanitary sewage and industrial wastes, or either
thereof, is or may be discharged, located in the township.
         PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, associate, society, corporation
or group.
         SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which is part of the sewer system and which
carries sanitary sewage and/or treated industrial wastes and to which storm-,
surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
         SEWAGE. Any combination of water-carried wastes from residences,
buildings, industrial establishments, institutions, manufacturing plants,
processing plants, commercial establishments or other places in which such
wastes are produced, together with such ground-, surface, storm or other water
as may be present.
         SNYDER. The Township of Snyder, County of Blair, Pennsylvania.
         TOWNSHIP ENGINEER. An engineer employed by the township or an
authorized member of his or her staff.
      (2)   Use of public sewers required.
         (a)   Unlawful actions; unapproved sewer lines. It shall be unlawful
for any owner of property who is required to connect to the sewer system
pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) below, to construct or maintain any privately
owned sewer line not approved by the township, privy, privy vault or cesspool
or septic tank, intended or used for the disposal of sewage within the
township.
         (b)   Required installation and connection. Each owner of any occupied
building situate on property abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in
which there has been constructed a sanitary sewer and where any part of such
building is within 150 feet of said sewer and having accessible to it the use
thereof, shall at his or her own expense, install suitable sanitary facilities
therein and connect such facilities directly with such sewer in accordance with
the provisions of this section within 60 days after the date of official notice
to do so, given in the manner provided by law. In the event that any such owner
shall refuse or neglect to so connect within said 60-day period, he or she
shall be deemed to be in violation of this section, and the Board of
Supervisors or their agents may enter upon such property and construct such
connection. In such case, the Board of Supervisors shall forthwith, upon
completion of the work, send an itemized bill of the cost of the construction
of such connection to such owner, which bill shall be payable forthwith. In
case of neglect or refusal by such owner to pay said bill within 30 days
thereafter, it shall be the duty of the Board of Supervisors to file municipal
liens. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, no owner of an occupied
building shall be required to connect such building to a sanitary sewer if the
Board of Supervisors determines that connecting such building would result in
an overloading of sewage treatment facilities.
         (c)   Application for permits; connection compliance.
            1.   Each owner of any property to which division (B)(2)(b) above
applies shall forthwith make application in writing to the township, or at the
direction of the township, to the Authority, in such form as may be prescribed,
for a permit to make the required connection to the sanitary sewer.
            2.   Upon submission of the above-mentioned application and payment
of a tapping fee or fees (imposed by the Authority) in accordance with the then
applicable Authority resolution with respect to tapping fees, the applicant
shall be entitled to a permit to make such connection, and the township, at its
own expense, shall construct, or shall cause the Authority, at its expense, to
construct a connecting sewer line from the sanitary sewer in the street to the
curbline or the boundary of the right-of-way where no curb exists.
            3.   No connection shall be made to the sewer system, except in
compliance with the procedures set forth in this subdivision and division (B)
(2)(b) above and compliance with other available ordinances, resolutions and
regulations of the township and the Authority.
         (d)   Comply with rules and regulations. All connections made to any
sanitary sewer shall be constructed in compliance with standard rules and
regulations hereafter adopted by the township governing the making of
connections.
      (3)   Powers and authority of inspectors. The Township Engineer and other
duly authorized employees or agents of the township and of the Authority
bearing proper credentials and bearing proper identification shall be permitted
to enter upon all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
      (4)   Penalties; disconnecting.
         (a)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this section other
than division (B)(3) shall be served by the township or their agent with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof (the notice provided in
division (B)(2)(b) above being deemed to being a notice of violation for this
purpose in respect to violations of such section.) The offender shall, within
the period of time (if any, otherwise forthwith) stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
         (b)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit fixed as provided for in division (B)(4)(a) shall be subject to a fine in
an amount not exceeding $300 for each violation. A new and separate violation
shall be deemed to have been committed for each day any violation continues
beyond such time limit.
         (c)   All fines and penalties imposed for violation of any provision
of this section shall be paid to the Treasurer of the township for deposit in
the sewer revenue account. Default in payment of the fine and costs shall make
the defendant liable to imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30 days.
         (d)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section, in
addition to becoming liable for a fine and penalty, shall become liable to the
township for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the township by reason
of such violation.
(1987 Code, § 35-8)
HOLDING TANKS
§ 54.20  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish procedures for the use and
maintenance of existing and new holding tanks designed to receive and retain
sewage, whether from residential or commercial uses, and it is hereby declared
that the enactment of this subchapter is necessary for the protection, benefit
and preservation of the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of this
municipality.
(1987 Code, § 105-8)  (Ord. 2-99, passed 3-18-1999)
§ 54.21  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY.  The Blair County Sanitary Administrative Committee.
   HOLDING TANK.  A water-tight receptacle, whether permanent or temporary,
which receives and retains sewage conveyed by a water-carrying system and which
is designed and constructed to facilitate the ultimate disposal of the sewage
at another site.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY.  Any property within the township upon which there is
erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy
or use by human beings or animals and from which structure sewage shall or may
be discharged.
   MUNICIPALITY.  Antis Township, Blair County, Pennsylvania.
   OWNER.  Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any property located in the township.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, company, association, corporation or
other group or entity.
   SEWAGE.  Any substance that contains any of the waste products or excrement
or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals and any noxious
or deleterious substance being harmful or inimical to the public health or to
animal or aquatic life or to the use of water for domestic water supply or for
recreation.
(1987 Code, § 105-9)  (Ord. 2-99, passed 3-18-1999)
§ 54.22  GRANT OF RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
   The Agency is hereby authorized and empowered to undertake within the
township the control and methods of holding tank use, sewage disposal and
sewage collection and transportation thereof.
(1987 Code, § 105-10)  (Ord. 2-99, passed 3-18-1999)
§ 54.23  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Agency is hereby authorized and empowered to adopt such rules and
regulations concerning sewage which it may deem necessary, from time to time,
to effect the purposes herein.
   (B)   All such rules and regulations adopted by the Agency shall be in
conformity with the provisions herein, all other ordinances of the township and
all applicable laws and applicable rules and regulations of administrative
agencies of the commonwealth.
(1987 Code, § 105-11)  (Ord. 2-99, passed 3-18-1999)
§ 54.24  RATES AND CHARGES.
   The Agency shall have the right and power to fix, alter, charge and collect
rates, assessments and other charges in the area served by its facilities at
reasonable and uniform rates as authorized by applicable law.
(1987 Code, § 105-12)  (Ord. 2-99, passed 3-18-1999)
§ 54.25  EXCLUSIVENESS OF RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   The collection and transportation of all sewage from any improved
property utilizing a holding tank shall be done solely by a licensed hauler
permitted by the State Department of Environmental Protection, and the disposal
thereof shall be made only at such site or sites as may be approved by the
Department of Environmental Protection for the commonwealth.
   (B)   The Agency will receive, review and retain pumping receipts from
permitted holding tanks and supply copies thereof to the municipality.
   (C)   The Agency will complete and retain annual inspection reports for each
permitted tank and supply copies thereof to the municipality.
(1987 Code, § 105-13)  (Ord. 2-99, passed 3-18-1999)
§ 54.26  DUTIES OF IMPROVED PROPERTY OWNER.
   The owner of an improved property that utilizes a holding tank shall:
   (A)   Maintain the holding tank in conformance with this subchapter or any
ordinance of this township, the provisions of any applicable law and the rules
and regulations of the Agency and any administrative agency of the
commonwealth;
   (B)   Permit only the Agency or its Sewage Enforcement Officer to inspect
any holding tanks on the improved property as deemed necessary by the Agency,
but no less frequently than annually; and
   (C)   Permit only licensed and Pennsylvania DEP permitted haulers to
collect, transport and dispose of the contents thereof.
(1987 Code, § 105-14)  (Ord. 2-99, passed 3-18-1999)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.27  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   In addition to any other remedies provided in this subchapter, any violation
of § 105-14 above shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated by the
municipality or the Authority by either seeking mitigation of the nuisance or
appropriate equitable or legal relief from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(1987 Code, § 105-16)  (Ord. 2-99, passed 3-18-1999)
MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT
§ 54.40  TITLE; INTRODUCTION; PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as “An Ordinance
Providing for a Sewage Management Program for Antis Township”.
   (B)   In accordance with municipal codes, the Clean Streams Law (Act of June
27, 1937, Pub. L. No. 1987, No. 394, as amended, 35 P.S. §§ 691.1 to 691.1001)
and the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act of January 24, 1966, Pub. L.
No. 1535, as amended, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., known as “Act 537”), it is the
power and the duty of the township to provide for adequate sewage treatment
facilities and for the protection of the public health by presenting the
discharge of untreated or inadequately treated sewage. The Official Sewage
Facilities Plan for the township indicates that it is necessary to formulate
and implement a sewage management program to effectively prevent and abate
water pollution and hazards to the public health caused by improper treatment
and disposal of sewage.
   (C)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the regulation,
inspection, maintenance and rehabilitation of on-lot sewage disposal systems;
to further permit intervention in situations which may constitute a public
nuisance or hazard to the public health; and to establish penalties and appeal
procedures necessary for the proper administration of a sewage management
program.
(1987 Code, § 105-17)  (Ord. 3-93, passed 6-8-1993)
§ 54.41  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. For the
purposes of this subchapter, any term which is not defined herein shall have
that meaning attributed to it under the Sewage Facilities Act and the
regulations promulgated thereto.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT.  A sewage enforcement officer, employee of the township,
professional engineer, plumbing inspector or any other qualified or licensed
person who is authorized to function within specified limits as an agent of the
township to administer or enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   BOARD.  The Board of Supervisors, Antis Township, Blair County,
Pennsylvania.
   COMMUNITY SEWAGE SYSTEM.  Any system, whether publicly or privately owned,
for the collection of sewage from two or more lots, and the treatment and/or
disposal of the sewage on one or more lots or at any other site.
   DEPARTMENT.  The Department of Environmental Resources of the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania (DER).
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE SYSTEM.  A system of piping, tanks or other facilities
serving a single lot and collecting and disposing of sewage in whole or in part
into the soil or into any waters of this commonwealth.
   MALFUNCTION.  A condition which occurs when an on-lot sewage disposal system
discharges sewage onto the surface of the ground, into ground waters of this
commonwealth, into surface waters of this commonwealth, backs up into a
building connected to the system or in any manner causes a nuisance or hazard
to the public health or pollution of ground or surface water or contamination
of public or private drinking water wells. Systems shall be considered to be
MALFUNCTIONING if any condition noted above occurs for any length of time
during any period of the year.
   OFFICIAL SEWAGE FACILITIES PLAN.  A comprehensive plan for the provision of
adequate sewage disposal systems, adopted by the Board and approved by the
State Department of Environmental Resources, pursuant to the Pennsylvania
Sewage Facilities Act (35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.).
   ON-LOT SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  Any system for disposal of domestic sewage
involving pretreatment and subsequent disposal of the clarified sewage into a
subsurface soil absorption area or retaining tank; this term includes both
individual sewage systems and community sewage systems.
   PERSON.  Any individual, association, public or private corporation for
profit or not for profit, partnership, firm, trust, estate, department, board,
bureau or agency of the commonwealth, political subdivision, municipality,
district, authority or any other legal entity whatsoever which is recognized by
law as the subject of rights and duties. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty or imposing a fine or imprisonment, the term
PERSON shall include the members of an association, partnership or firm and the
officers of any local agency or municipal, public or private corporation for
profit or not-for-profit.
   REHABILITATION.  Work done to modify, alter, repair, enlarge or replace an
existing on-lot sewage disposal system.
   SEWAGE.  Any substance that contains any of the waste products or excrement
or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals and any noxious
or deleterious substances being harmful or inimical to the public health, or to
animal or aquatic life, or to the use of water for domestic water supply or for
recreation or which constitutes pollution under the Act of June 22, 1937 (Pub.
L. No. 1987, No. 394), known as the “Clean Streams Law” as amended (35 P.S. §§
691.1 et seq.).
   SEWAGE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER (SEO).  A person certified by DER who is employed
by the township. Such person is authorized to conduct investigations and
inspections, review permit applications, issue or deny permits and do all other
activities as may be provided for such person in the Sewage Facilities Act (35
P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.) the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder and
this subchapter or any other ordinance adopted by the township.
   SEWAGE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT.  Any area or areas of the township designated in
the Official Sewage Facilities Plan adopted by the Board as an area for which a
sewage management program is to be implemented.
   SEWAGE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM. A comprehensive set of legal and administrative
requirements encompassing the requirements of this subchapter, the Sewage
Facilities Act (35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.) the Clean Streams Law (35 P.S. §§
691.1 et seq.) the regulations promulgated thereunder and such other
requirements adopted by the Board to effectively enforce and administer this
subchapter.
   SMALL STREAM DISCHARGE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  Any system for disposal of
domestic sewage involving pretreatment and subsequent disposal of the clarified
sewage into a small stream or other waterway; this term includes both
individual sewage systems and community sewage systems.
   SUBDIVISION.  The division or redivision of a lot, tract or other parcel of
land into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land,
including changes in existing lot lines. The enumerating of lots shall include
as a lot that portion of the original tract or tracts remaining after other
lots have been subdivided therefrom.
   TOWNSHIP.  The Township of Antis, Blair County, Pennsylvania.
(1987 Code, § 105-18)  (Ord. 3-93, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. 1-2010, passed 3-4-
2010)
§ 54.42  APPLICABILITY.
   From the effective date of this subchapter, its provisions shall apply in
any portion of the township identified in the Official Sewage Facilities Plan
as a sewage management district. Within such an area or areas, the provisions
of this subchapter shall apply to all persons owning any property serviced by
an on-lot sewage disposal system and to all persons installing or
rehabilitating on-lot sewage disposal systems.
(1987 Code, § 105-19)  (Ord. 3-93, passed 6-8-1993)
§ 54.43  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall install, construct or request bid proposals for
construction or alter an individual sewage system or community sewage system or
construct or request bid proposals for construction or install or occupy any
building or structure for which an individual sewage system or community sewage
system is to be installed without first obtaining a permit from the sewage
enforcement officer, which permit shall indicate that the site and the plans
and specifications of such system are in compliance with the provisions of the
Clean Streams Law (35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq.) and the Pennsylvania Sewage
Facilities Act (35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.) and the regulations adopted pursuant
to those Acts.
   (B)   No system or structure designed to provide individual or community
sewage disposal shall be covered from view until approval to cover the same has
been given by the sewage enforcement officer. If 72 hours have elapsed,
excepting Sundays and holidays, since the sewage enforcement officer issuing
the permit received notification of completion of construction, the applicant
may cover said system or structure unless permission has been specifically
refused by the sewage enforcement officer.
   (C)   Applicants for sewage permits may be required to notify the sewage
enforcement officer of the schedule for construction of the permitted on-lot
sewage disposal system so that inspection(s) in addition to the final
inspection required by the Sewage Facilities Act (35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.) may
be scheduled and performed by a sewage enforcement officer.
   (D)   No building or occupancy permit shall be issued for a new building
which will contain sewage generating facilities until a valid sewage permit has
been obtained from a sewage enforcement officer.
   (E)   No building or occupancy permit shall be issued and no work shall
begin on any alteration or conversion of any existing structure, if said
alteration or conversion will result in the increase or potential increase in
sewage flows from the structure, until either the structure’s owner receives a
permit for alteration or replacement of the existing sewage disposal system or
until the structure’s owner and the appropriate officials of the township
receive written notification from a sewage enforcement officer that such a
permit will not be required. The sewage enforcement officer shall determine
whether the proposed alteration or conversion of the structure will result in
increased sewage flows.
   (F)   Sewage permits may be issued only by a sewage enforcement officer
employed by the township. The Department of Environmental Resources shall be
notified as to the identity of each sewage enforcement officer employed by the
township.
(1987 Code, § 105-20)  (Ord. 3-93, passed 6-8-1993)
§ 54.44  INSPECTIONS; CORRECTION OF MALFUNCTIONING SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Any on-lot sewage disposal system and any small stream discharge
sewage disposal system may be inspected by an authorized agent at any
reasonable time as of the effective date of this subchapter.
   (B)   Such inspection may include a physical tour of the property, the
taking of samples from surface water, wells, other groundwater sources, the
sampling of the contents of the sewage disposal system itself and/or the
introduction of a traceable substance into the interior plumbing of the
structure served to ascertain the path and ultimate destination of wastewater
generated in the structure.
   (C)   An authorized agent shall have the right to enter upon land for the
purposes of inspections described in this section.
   (D)   An initial inspection shall be conducted by an authorized agent within
one year of the effective date of this subchapter for the purpose of
determining the type and functional status of each sewage disposal system in
the sewage management district. A written report shall be furnished to the
owner of each property inspected and a copy of said report shall be maintained
in the township records.
   (E)   A schedule of routine inspections may be established to assure the
proper functioning of the sewage systems in the sewage management district.
   (F)   An authorized agent shall inspect systems known to be, or alleged to
be, malfunctioning. Should said inspections reveal that the system is indeed
malfunctioning, the authorized agent shall order action to be taken to correct
the malfunction. If total correction cannot be done in accordance with the
regulations of DEE, including but not limited to those outlined in 25 Pa. Code
Chapter 73, or is not technically or financially feasible in the opinion of the
authorized agent and a representative of DER, then action by the property owner
to mitigate the malfunction shall be required.
   (G)   There may arise geographic areas where numerous sewage disposal
systems are malfunctioning. A resolution of these area-wide problems may
necessitate detailed planning and a revision to the portion of the Sewage
Facilities Plan pertaining to areas affected by such malfunctions. When a DER-
authorized Official Sewage Facilities Plan Revision has been undertaken,
mandatory repair or replacement of individual malfunctioning sewage disposal
systems within the area affected by the revision may be delayed, pending the
outcome of the plan revision process; immediate corrective action may be
compelled whenever a malfunction, as determined by township officials and/or
the Department, represents a serious public health or environmental threat.
(1987 Code, § 105-21)  (Ord. 3-93, passed 6-8-1993; Ord. 1-2010, passed 3-4-
2010)
§ 54.45  DISCHARGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Only normal domestic wastes shall be discharged into any on-lot sewage
disposal system.
   (B)   The following shall not be discharged into the system:
      (1)   Industrial waste;
      (2)   Automobile oil and other nondomestic oil;
      (3)   Toxic or hazardous substances or chemicals, including, but not
limited to, pesticides, disinfectants (excluding household cleaners), acids,
paints, paint thinners, herbicides, gasoline and other solvents; or
      (4)   Clean surface or ground water, including water from roof or cellar
drains, springs, basement sump pumps and French drains.
(1987 Code, § 105-22)  (Ord. 3-93, passed 6-8-1993)
§ 54.46  MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Each person owning a building served by an on-lot sewage disposal
system which contains a septic tank shall have the septic tank pumped by a
qualified pumper/hauler within six months of the effective date of this
subchapter. Thereafter, that person shall have the tank pumped at least once
every three years or whenever an inspection reveals that the septic tank is
filled with solids or with scum in excess of one-third of the liquid depth of
the tank. Receipts from the pumper/hauler shall be submitted to the township
within the prescribed six-month and three-year pumping periods.
   (B)   The required pumping frequency may be increased at the discretion of
an authorized agent if the septic tank is undersized, if solids buildup in the
tank is above average, if the hydraulic load on the system increases
significantly above average, if a garbage grinder is used in the building, if
the system malfunctions or for other good cause shown. If any person can prove
that such person’s septic tank had been pumped within three years of the six-
month anniversary of the effective date of this subchapter, then that person’s
initial required pumping may be delayed to conform to the general three-year
frequency requirement except where an inspection reveals a need for more
frequent pumping frequencies.
   (C)   Any person owning a property served by a septic tank shall submit,
with each required pumping receipt, a written statement from the pumper/hauler
or from any other qualified individual acceptable to the township that the
baffles in the septic tank have been inspected and found to be in good working
order. Any person whose septic tank baffles are determined to require repair or
replacement shall first contact a sewage enforcement officer for approval of
the necessary repair.
   (D)   Any person owning a building served by an on-lot sewage disposal
system which contains an aerobic treatment tank shall follow the operation and
maintenance recommendations of the equipment manufacturer. A copy of the
manufacturer’s recommendations and a copy of the service agreement shall be
submitted to the township within six months of the effective date of this
subchapter. Thereafter, service receipts shall be submitted to the township at
the intervals specified by the manufacturer’s recommendations. In no case may
the service or pumping intervals for aerobic treatment tanks exceed those
required for septic tanks.
   (E)   Any person owning a building served by a cesspool or dry well in an
area of numerous malfunctions or in an area where a repair is not technically
feasible shall have that system pumped according to the schedule prescribed for
septic tanks to mitigate potential pollution. As an alternative to this
scheduled pumping of the cesspool or dry well, and pending any scheduled
replacement of the substandard system as identified in the Official Sewage
Facilities Plan, the owner may apply for a sewage permit from a sewage
enforcement officer for a septic tank to be installed preceding the cesspool or
dry well. For this interim repair system consisting of a cesspool or dry well
preceded by an approved septic tank, only the septic tank must be pumped at the
prescribed interval.
   (F)   Additional maintenance activity may be required as needed, including,
but not necessarily limited to, cleaning and unclogging of piping, servicing
and the repair of mechanical equipment, leveling of distribution boxes, tanks
and lines, removal of obstructing roots or trees, the diversion of surface
water away from the disposal area and the like.
(1987 Code, § 105-23)  (Ord. 3-93, passed 6-8-1993)
§ 54.47  SYSTEM REHABILITATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate or maintain an on-lot sewage disposal system
in such a manner that it malfunctions. All liquid wastes, including kitchen and
laundry wastes and water softener backwash, shall be discharged to a treatment
tank. No sewage system shall discharge untreated or partially treated sewage to
the surface of the ground or into the waters of the commonwealth unless a
permit for such discharge has been obtained from DER.
   (B)   A written notice of violation shall be issued to any person who is the
owner of any property which is found to be served by a malfunctioning on-lot
sewage disposal system or which is discharging sewage without a permit.
   (C)   Within seven days of notification by the township that a malfunction
has been identified, the property owner shall make application to the sewage
enforcement officer for a permit to repair or replace the malfunctioning
system. Within 30 days of initial notification by the township, construction of
the permitted repair or replacement shall commence. Within 60 days of the
original notification by the township, the construction shall be completed
unless seasonal or unique conditions mandate a longer period, in which case the
township shall set an extended completion date.
   (D)   A sewage enforcement officer shall have the authority to require the
repair of any malfunction by the following methods:
      (1)   Cleaning, repair or replacement of components of the existing
system;
      (2)   Adding capacity or otherwise altering or replacing the system’s
treatment tank;
      (3)   Expanding the existing disposal area;
      (4)   Replacing the existing disposal area;
      (5)   Replacing a gravity distribution system with a pressurized system;
      (6)   Replacing the system with a holding tank; and
      (7)   Any other alternative appropriate for the specific site.
   (E)   In lieu of, or in combination with, the remedies described in division
(D) above, a sewage enforcement officer may require the installation of water
conservation equipment and the institution of water conservation practices in
structures served. Water using devices and appliances in the structure may be
required to be retrofitted with water-saving appurtenances or they may be
required to be replaced by water-conserving devices.
   (F)   In the event that the rehabilitation measures in divisions (A) through
(E) above are not feasible or effective, the owner may be required to apply to
DER for a permit to install an individual spray irrigation treatment system or
a single residence treatment and discharge system. Upon receipt of said permit
the owner shall complete construction of the system within 30 days.
   (G)   Should none of the remedies described in this section be totally
effective in eliminating the malfunction of an existing on-lot sewage disposal
system, the property owner is not absolved of responsibility for that
malfunction. The township may require whatever action is necessary to lessen or
mitigate the malfunction to the extent necessary.
(1987 Code, § 105-24)  (Ord. 3-93, passed 6-8-1993)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.48  FAILURE OF OWNER TO MAINTAIN OR REPAIR SYSTEM; LIENS.
   The township, upon written notice from a sewage enforcement officer that an
imminent health hazard exists due to failure of a property owner to maintain,
repair or replace an on-lot sewage disposal system as provided under the terms
of this subchapter, shall have the authority to perform, or contract to have
performed, the work required by the sewage enforcement officer. The owner shall
be charged for the work performed and, if necessary, a lien shall be entered
therefor in accordance with law.
(1987 Code, § 105-25)  (Ord. 3-93, passed 6-8-1993)
§ 54.49  DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
   (A)   All septage originating within the sewage management district shall be
disposed of in accordance with the requirements of the Solid Waste Management
Act (Act 97 of 1980, 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq.) and all other applicable laws
and at sites or facilities approved by DER; approved sites or facilities shall
include the following:
      (1)   Septage treatment facilities;
      (2)   Wastewater treatment plants;
      (3)   Composting sites; and
      (4)   Approved farmlands.
   (B)   Pumper/haulers of septage operating within the sewage management
district shall operate in a manner consistent with the provisions of the
Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management Act (Act 97 of 1980, 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 to
6018.1003) and all other applicable laws.
(1987 Code, § 105-26)  (Ord. 3-93, passed 6-8-1993)
§ 54.50  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The township shall fully utilize those powers it possesses through
enabling statutes and ordinances to effect the purposes of this subchapter.
   (B)   The township shall employ qualified individuals to carry out the
provisions of this subchapter. Those employees shall include a sewage
enforcement officer, and may include an administrator and such other persons as
may be necessary. The township may also contract with private qualified persons
or firms as necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   All permits, records, reports, files and other written material
relating to the installation, operation and maintenance and malfunction of on-
lot sewage disposal systems in the sewage management district shall become the
property of, and be maintained by, the township. Existing and future records
shall be available for public inspection during regular business hours at the
official office of the township. All records pertaining to sewage permits,
building permits, occupancy permits and all other aspects of the sewage
management program shall be made available, upon request, for inspection by
representatives of the State Department of Environmental Resources.
   (D)   The Township Board shall establish all administrative procedures
necessary to properly carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   The Township Board may establish a fee schedule and authorize the
collection of fees to cover the cost to the township of administering this
program.
(1987 Code, § 105-27)  (Ord. 3-93, passed 6-8-1993)
§ 54.51  APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals from final decisions of the township or any of its authorized
agents under this subchapter shall be made to the Board of Supervisors in
writing within 30 days from the date of written notification of the decision in
question.
   (B)   The appellant shall be entitled to a hearing before the Board of
Supervisors at its next regularly scheduled meeting, if a written appeal is
received at least 14 days prior to that meeting. If the appeal is received
within 14 days of the nest regularly scheduled meeting, the appeal shall be
heard at the next regularly scheduled meeting. The municipality shall
thereafter affirm, modify or reverse the aforesaid decision. The hearing may be
postponed for a good cause shown by the appellant or the township. Additional
evidence may be introduced at the hearing, provided that it is submitted with
the written notice of appeal.
   (C)   A decision shall be rendered in writing within 30 days of the date of
the hearing.
(1987 Code, § 105-28)  (Ord. 3-93, passed 6-8-1993)
§ 54.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Sections
54.01 through
54.07  shall be enforced by action brought before a District Justice in the
same manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses under the State
Rules of Criminal Procedure. Any person who violates or permits the violation
of §§
54.01 through
54.07  shall, upon conviction in a summary proceeding, be punishable by a fine
of not more that $1,000 or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days.
Each day or portion thereof that such violation continues, or is permitted to
continue, shall constitute a separate offense. Each section of §§
54.01 through
54.07  that is violated shall also constitute a separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 105-7)
   (C)   Either the Agency or the municipality shall have the authority to
enforce the provisions of §
54.26 by either a criminal complaint, as set forth in division (C)(1) below, or
by civil penalties, as provided for in division (C)(2) below.
      (1)   Criminal complaint. Any person who violates a provision of §
54.26 shall, upon conviction thereof by summary proceedings, be sentenced to
pay a fine of not less than $100 and not more than $300 and/or a period of
imprisonment in the county prison for a period not in excess of 30 days.
      (2)   Civil penalties. The civil penalties procedure that has been
adopted by the Agency shall, upon notice given to any person, as deemed in §
54.21, who is alleged to be in violation of §
54.26, be invoked and followed. Prior to proceeding under the civil penalties
procedure, notice shall be given to the alleged violator that the civil
penalties procedure will be invoked, and a complete copy of the then current
rules of procedure of the Agency shall be provided to the alleged violator by
certified mail.
(1987 Code, § 105-15)
   (D)   Sections
54.40 through
54.51 shall be enforced by action brought before a District Justice in the same
manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses under the State Rules
of Criminal Procedure. Any person who violates or permits the violation of §§
54.40 through
54.51 shall, upon conviction in a summary proceeding, be punishable by a fine
of not more that $1,000 or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days.
Each day or portion thereof that such violation continues, or is permitted to
continue, shall constitute a separate offense. Each section of this §§
54.40 through
54.51 that is violated shall also constitute a separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 105-29)
(Ord. 3-96, passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 1-97, passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 2-99, passed 3-
18-1999)
CHAPTER 55:  DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATER
Section
   
55.01   Definitions
   
55.02   General sewer use requirements
   
55.03   Wastewater discharge permit system
   
55.04   Monitoring and reporting requirements
   
55.05   Enforcement
   
55.06   Pretreatment fees
   
55.07   Conflict of interest
 
   
55.99   Penalty
§ 55.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions and abbreviations
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT.  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.).
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY.  The Regional Administrator of EPA, Region III.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation, the AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall
be:
         (a)   The president, vice-president, secretary or treasurer of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility, including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions take to gather
complete and accurate information for control mechanism requirements; and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship, an AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a general partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state or local government facility, the
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a ranking elected official or principal
executive official having responsibility for the overall operation and
performance of the activities of the principal geographic unit of the
government agency.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) above may
designate another authorized representative if:
         (a)   The authorization is made in writing by the individual described
above;
         (b)   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the indirect
discharge originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters
for the company; and
         (c)   The written authorization is submitted to the township.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS).  Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in §
55.02(A). BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating procedures and
practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste
disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD).  The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory conditions,
five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration, milligrams per liter
(mg/l).
   BMP.  Best management practices.
   BMR.  Baseline monitoring report.
   BOD.  Biochemical oxygen demand.
   CAA.  Clear Air Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.
   C.F.R.  Code of Federal Regulations.
   COD.  Chemical oxygen demand.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT.  Any room, group of rooms, building or enclosure
connected, directly or indirectly, to the sewer system and used or intended for
use in the operation of a business enterprise for the sale and distribution of
any product, commodity, article or service.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE.  The sample resulting from the combination of individual
wastewater samples taken at selected intervals based on an increment of either
time or flow.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY.  The Township of Antis.
   COOLING WATER.  The water discharged from any use, such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT.  The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where the DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT is expressed in
concentration, the daily maximum is the arithmetic average of all measurements
taken that day. Where the DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT is expressed in mass, the daily
maximum is the total mass discharged over the course of a calendar day.
   DEP.  Department of Environmental Protection.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE.  The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER.  Human excrement and gray water (showers, dishwashers,
washing machines and the like) from residential households, institutions,
commercial and industrial establishments, but excluding industrial wastes.
   EDUCATIONAL ESTABLISHMENT.  Each room, group of rooms, building, house
trailer or mobile home connected, directly or indirectly, to the sewer system
and used or intended for use, in whole or in part, for educational purposes,
including both public and private schools.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA).  The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EPA.  (Pennsylvania) Environmental Protection Agency (United States).
   EXISTING SOURCE.  Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication of proposed federal categorical
pretreatment standards which will be applicable to such source if the federal
categorical pretreatment standard is thereafter promulgated in accordance with
§ 307(c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317).
   FATS, OILS AND GREASES (FOG).  Organic polar compounds derived from animal
and/or plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules,
such as rendered animal fat, vegetable shortening and other such oily material
used for the purposes of and resulting from cooking and/or preparing food, and
is distinct from petroleum or mineral oils.
   FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD.  Any regulation containing
pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and
(c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which applies to a specific category of
industrial users and which appears in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N, §§ 405
through 471.
   FOG.  Fats, oils and greases.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT.  Any food service facility that prepares or
packages food or beverages for sale or consumption, onsite or offsite, with the
exception of private residences. FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS shall include, but
are not limited to: food courts, food manufacturers, food packagers,
restaurants, grocery stores, bakeries, lounges, hospitals, hotels, nursing
homes, churches and schools.
   GPD.  Gallons per day.
   GRAB SAMPLE.  A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time
basis, with no regard to the flow in the wastestream and over a period of time
not to exceed 15 minutes.
   GREASE INTERCEPTOR.  A device located underground and outside of a food
service establishment designed to collect, contain or remove food wastes and
grease from the wastestream while allowing the wastewater to discharge to the
sewer system by gravity.
   GREASE TRAP.  A device located inside a food service establishment or under
a sink designed to collect, contain or remove food wastes and grease from the
wastestream while allowing the wastewater to discharge to the sewer system by
gravity.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE.  Any waste from holding tanks, such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE.  The discharge or the introduction of pollutants from
any nondomestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317) into the POTW, including holding tank waste discharged into the
POTW.
   INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT.  Any room, group of rooms, building or other
enclosure connected, directly or indirectly, to the sewer system and used or
intended for use, in whole or in part, in the operation of a business
enterprise for manufacturing, processing, cleaning, laundering or assembling
any product, commodity or article, or from which any industrial wastewater, as
distinct from domestic wastewater, shall be discharged.
   INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT PROGRAM.  A program administered by the township
pursuant to this chapter controlling the discharge of industrial waste to the
township POTW. This includes, but is not limited to, provisions included in the
local pretreatment program in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403 and which have
been approved by EPA in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.11.
   INDUSTRIAL USER.  A source of indirect discharge.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER.  Any liquid, gaseous or waterborne waste discharged
into the sewer system from commercial or industrial establishments, as distinct
from domestic wastewater.
   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT.  The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
   INSTITUTIONAL ESTABLISHMENT.  Any room, group of rooms, building or other
enclosure connected, directly or indirectly, to the sewer system, including
institutional dormitories and educational establishments, which do not
constitute a commercial establishment, a dwelling unit or an industrial
establishment.
   INTERFERENCE.  A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, causes the inhibition or disruption of the
POTW, its treatment processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use or
disposal, and therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
POTW’s NPDES Permit or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by
the POTW in accordance with any of the following statutory/regulatory
provisions or permits issued thereunder (or more stringent state and local
regulations): § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345); the Solid Waste Disposal Act
(SWDA) including Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); the Clean Air Act (CAA); the Toxic
Substances Control Act (TSCA); the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries
Act; and any state regulations contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Title IV (Subtitle D) of the SWDA applicable to the method
of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
   l.  Liter.
   LEL.  Lower explosive limit.
   LOCAL LIMIT.  Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the
township upon commercial, industrial or institutional facilities to implement
the general and specific discharge prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)
(1) and (b) and §
55.02(A).
   MEDICAL WASTE.  Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
byproducts, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, etiologic agents,
contaminated bedding, surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory
wastes and dialysis wastes.
   mg.  Milligrams.
   mg/l.  Milligrams per liter.
   MGD.  Million gallons per day.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT.  The highest allowable average of daily measurements
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of daily discharges measured
during that month.
   MSDS.  Material safety data sheet.
   NAICS.  North American Industry Classification System.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT.  A permit
issued to control the discharge of pollutants from point sources into the
navigable waters, the contiguous zone and the oceans pursuant to § 402 of the
Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD. 
Any regulation developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act and set
forth in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed federal categorical pretreatment standards
under § 307(c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which apply to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section provided
that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of divisions (1)(b) or (1)(c) above, but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE as defined under this definition has
commenced as if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of NEW SOURCE facilities
or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment, which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time from the date on which the contract was entered.
Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or modified without
substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering and design studies
do not constitute a contractual obligation under this division (3)(b).
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER.  Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   NON-SIGNIFICANT CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER (NSCIU).  An industrial user
subject to federal categorical pretreatment standards that is deemed not a
significant industrial user, as defined herein, based on a finding that the IU
never discharges more than 100 gallons per day (GPD) of total categorical
wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater, unless specifically included in the pretreatment standard) and the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The industrial user, prior to the township’s finding, has
consistently complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards
and requirements;
      (2)   The industrial user annually submits the certification statement
required in §
55.03(E)(3) and under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(q), together with any additional
information necessary to support the certification statement; and
      (3)   The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
wastewater.
   NORTH AMERICAN INDUSTRY CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM (NAICS).  A classification
system pursuant to the North American Industry Classification System, United
States, 2002 Manual, as amended, Office of Management and Budget.
   NOV.  Notice of violation.
   NPDES.  National pollutant discharge elimination system.
   NSCIU.  Non-significant categorical industrial user.
   O&M.  Operation and maintenance.
   PASS THROUGH.  A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local governmental
entities.
   pH.  The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in standard units and indicates the degree of acidity
or alkalinity of a solution.
   POLLUTANT.  Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or
discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, industrial, municipal and
agricultural wastes and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g.,
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand (COD), color, odor, pH,
temperature, total suspended solids (TSS), toxicity or turbidity).
   POLLUTION.  The human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological and radiological integrity of water.
   POTW.  Publicly owned treatment works.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT.  The portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT.  The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants into a POTW. This reduction or alteration can be obtained by
physical, chemical or biological processes; by process changes; or by other
means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d), which prohibits dilution
as a substitute for treatment.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.  Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment imposed on an industrial user, other than a
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.  Prohibited discharge standards, federal categorical
pretreatment standards and local limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.  Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
55.02.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW).  A treatment works as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned by the township. This
definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage,
treatment, recycling and reclamation of domestic or industrial wastewater and
any conveyances which convey wastewater to a POTW. The term also means the
municipality as defined in § 502(4) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1362(4)) which has
jurisdiction over the indirect discharges to and the discharges from such a
treatment works.
   RCRA.  Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
   SEWER DEPARTMENT SUPERINTENDENT.  The person designated by the township to
supervise the operation of the POTW and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter, or his or her duly authorized representative.
   SEWER SYSTEM.  All facilities and property owned and operated by the
township, including, but not limited to, facilities for collecting, pumping and
conveying domestic and industrial wastewater.
   SHALL.  Mandatory; MAY means permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). 
      (1)   Except as provided in the definition of “pass through”, any
nonresidential user of the POTW who:
         (a)   Discharges industrial wastewater subject to federal categorical
pretreatment standards (also known as a categorical SIU);
         (b)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
industrial wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling water
and boiler blowdown wastewater);
         (c)   Discharges industrial wastewater which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (d)   Is designated as significant by the township on the basis that
the user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (2)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in divisions (1)(b)
through (1)(d) above has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the
POTW’s operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the
township may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition
received from a user, and in accordance with procedures established in 40
C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6), determine that such user should not be considered a
significant industrial user, and may, in accordance with regulations at 40
C.F.R. § 403.3(v) instead be considered a non-significant industrial user.
   SIU.  Significant industrial user.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG DISCHARGE.  Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic
nature, or at a flow rate or concentration which could cause a violation of the
prohibited discharge standards in §
55.02(A), including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or non-customary
batch discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass
through, or in any other way violate the township sewer use ordinance, local
limits or wastewater discharge permit conditions.
   SNC.  Significant noncompliance.
   STATE.  The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   STORM WATER.  Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SWDA.  Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS.  The total suspended matter that floats on the
surface or is suspended in water, wastewater or other liquid, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
   TOWNSHIP.  The Township of Antis or the Board of Supervisors of the Township
of Antis, Blair County, Pennsylvania.
   TOWNSHIP MANAGER.  The manager of the Township of Antis.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT.  Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by EPA pursuant to § 307(a) (33 U.S.C. § 1317) of
the Clean Water Act or other acts.
   TRC.  Technical review criteria.
   TSCA.  Toxic Substances Control Act. 15, U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.
   TSS.  Total suspended solids.
   USC.  United States Code.
   USER.  Any person who contributes, causes or allows the discharge of
wastewater into the POTW.
   WATERS OF THE STATE.  All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulation of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 2-2010, passed 11-4-2010)
§ 55.02  GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prohibited discharge standards. No user shall contribute or cause to
be contributed, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will
pass through or interfere with the operation or performance of the POTW.
      (1)   These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW whether
or not the user is subject to federal categorical pretreatment standards or any
other federal, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
      (2)   A user may not contribute the following substances to the POTW:
         (a)   Oils and greases, including petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable
cutting oil, products of mineral oil origin, in amounts greater than 100 mg/l,
and/or fats, oils and greases of animal and vegetable origin, in amounts
greater than 200 mg/l; or contain substances that may solidify or become
viscous at temperatures between 32°F or 0°C and 150°F or 65°C; or in quantities
that would cause operational or other problems to the wastewater collection
system or wastewater treatment plant. In no case shall fats, oils and greases
of animal and vegetable origin, or oils and greases of petroleum and mineral
oil origin, be discharged at a level that, alone or in conjunction with
discharges from other sources, will cause interference or pass through;
         (b)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances, to create a hazard of fire or explosion, or to be injurious in any
other way to the POTW, or to the operation of the POTW, including, but not
limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140°F or
60°C using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21. At no time shall
two successive readings on an explosion hazard meter at the point of discharge
into the sewer system (or at any point in the sewer system) be more than 5%,
nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the
meter. Except as otherwise provided by the township, prohibited materials
include, but are not limited to: gasoline, fuel oil, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides, and any
other substance which is a fire hazard or a hazard to the sewer system;
         (c)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems or any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or
solids which either singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient
to create a public nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent
entry into the sewers for maintenance or repair;
         (d)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the
flow in a sewer or other interferences with the operation of the POTW,
including, but not limited to: grease, garbage with particles greater than one-
half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair,
hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand,
spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass
clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastics, gas,
tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or
lubricating oil, mud, glass grinding or polishing wastes;
         (e)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the
township in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (f)   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and
the like) released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which cause
interference to the POTW;
         (g)   Any wastewater containing pollutants in sufficient quantity
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, injures or
interferes with the POTW treatment plant, constitutes a hazard to humans or
animals, creates a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or exceeds
the limitations set forth in a federal categorical pretreatment standard;
         (h)   Any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, noncontact cooling water,
unpolluted industrial or nonresidential process water. The discharge of cooling
water from air conditioning units with cooling towers or recirculating systems,
or from air conditioning units using flow-through or unrecirculating systems is
prohibited;
         (i)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions;
         (j)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.5 or more than 11.5, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
         (k)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation or reuse, or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under
§ 405 of the Act; or any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge
use or disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean
Air Act, the Toxic Substance Control Act or state criteria applicable to the
sludge management method being used;
         (l)   Any substance which will pass through and as a result cause the
POTW to violate its NPDES Permit or the receiving stream’s water quality
standards;
         (m)   Any wastewater having a temperature which may inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference. Any wastewater
with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which exceeds 40°C or
104°F is prohibited;
         (n)   Hauled wastes are prohibited except by special agreement with
the township;
         (o)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance;
         (p)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
township in a wastewater discharge permit; or
         (q)   Detergents, surface-active agents or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW.
   (B)   Special agreements. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as prohibiting special agreements between the township and a user, or
for the township to otherwise waive requirements hereunder, when conditions and
circumstances making such special agreements or waivers advisable and/or
necessary, in the opinion of the township, are present; provided, however, the
following.
      (1)   Federal categorical pretreatment standards and prohibitive
discharge standards, including the general and specific prohibited discharge
standards set forth in 40 C.F.R. §§ 403.5(a) and (b), and any other
pretreatment requirements established in 40 C.F.R. § 403 shall not be waived,
unless such waiver is granted by mechanisms established under the federal
pretreatment regulations.
      (2)   In no case shall a special agreement or waiver of local limits
allow for an industrial user to discharge any pollutant which, alone or in
combination with other industrial user regulated discharges, would reasonably
be expected to exceed the mass loadings determined by the township as
acceptable to the POTW based upon considerations of, among other things,
interference, pass through and sludge contamination. The township may consider
other factors (e.g., effect of the discharge on the POTW, future expansion and
the like) as it deems appropriate. In no event shall any special agreement or
waiver allow the total loading allocated to all industrial users for any
pollutant to exceed the maximum allowable industrial loading set forth in the
most recent local limits technical evaluation submitted by the township and
approved by EPA as part of the township’s pretreatment program.
      (3)   The township may require an industrial user requesting a special
agreement or waiver adjusting effluent limitations to submit supporting
documentation indicating why the industrial user cannot reasonably expect to
meet effluent limitations contained in its wastewater discharge permit, setting
forth an expeditious schedule for attaining compliance with such limitations,
and including such other information as the township may require. In granting
any special agreement or waiver the township may impose time limitations upon
any reduced requirements and a compliance schedule for achieving full
compliance. In granting any special agreement, the township may impose any
other conditions deemed necessary to implement the purposes of this chapter.
      (4)   If granting a special agreement or waiver would result in increased
costs to the township (e.g., treatment or sludge disposal costs), the township
may condition the special agreement or waiver upon the agreement of the
industrial user to pay those costs, and to provide security adequate in the
judgment of the township to assure payment of said costs.
      (5)   All special agreements or waivers shall be requested and granted in
writing.
   (C)   Federal categorical pretreatment standards. The federal categorical
pretreatment standards found at 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N, §§ 405-471
are hereby incorporated by reference.
      (1)   When regulated wastestreams, subject to a federal categorical
pretreatment standard, are mixed with unregulated wastestreams, the township
may impose alternate limits using the combined wastestream formula found in 40
C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
      (2)   Where a federal categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only
in terms of either mass or concentration for a pollutant, the township may
impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with 40 C.F.R. §
403.6(c).
      (3)   When the limits in a federal categorical pretreatment standard are
expressed only in terms of pollutant concentrations, an industrial user may
request that the township convert the limits to equivalent mass limits. The
determination to convert concentration limits to mass limits is within the
discretion of the township. The township may establish equivalent mass limits
only if the industrial user meets all of the conditions outlined in 40 C.F.R. §
403.6(c)(5) as set forth below:
         (a)   To be eligible for equivalent mass limits, the industrial user
must:
            1.   Employ, or demonstrate that it will employ, water conservation
methods and technologies that substantially reduce water use during the term of
its individual wastewater discharge permit;
            2.   Currently use control and treatment technologies adequate to
achieve compliance with the applicable federal categorical pretreatment
standard, and not have used dilution as a substitute for treatment;
            3.   Provide sufficient information to establish the facility’s
actual average daily flow rate for all wastestreams, based on data from a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device, as well as the facility’s long-term
average production rate. Both the actual average daily flow rate and the long-
term average production rate must be representative of current operating
conditions;
            4.   Not have daily flow rates, production levels or pollutant
levels that vary so significantly that equivalent mass limits are not
appropriate to control the discharge; and
            5.   Have consistently complied with all applicable federal
categorical pretreatment standards during the period prior to the industrial
user’s request for equivalent mass limits.
         (b)   An industrial user subject to equivalent mass limits must:
            1.   Maintain and effectively operate control and treatment
technologies adequate to achieve compliance with the equivalent mass limits;
            2.   Continue to record the facility’s flow rates through the use
of a continuous effluent flow monitoring device;
            3.   Continue to record the facility’s production rates and notify
the township whenever production rates are expected to by more than 20% from
its baseline production rates determined in divisions (C)(3)(a)1. and (C)(3)
(a)2. above. Upon notification of a revised production rate, the township will
reassess the equivalent mass limit and revise the limit as necessary to reflect
changed conditions at the facility; and
            4.   Continue to employ the same or comparable water conservation
methods and technologies as those implemented pursuant to divisions (C)(3)(a)1.
and (C)(3)(a)2. above so long as it discharges under an equivalent mass limit.
         (c)   When developing equivalent mass limits, the township:
            1.   Will calculate the equivalent mass limit by multiplying the
actual average daily flow rate of the regulated process(es) of the industrial
user by the concentration-based daily maximum and monthly average standard for
the applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard and the appropriate
unit conversion factor;
            2.   Upon notification of a revised production rate, will reassess
the equivalent mass limit and recalculate the limit as necessary to reflect
changed conditions at the facility; and
            3.   May retain the same equivalent mass limit in subsequent
individual wastewater discharger permit terms in the industrial user’s actual
average daily flow rate was reduced solely as a result of the implementation of
water conservation methods and technologies, and the actual average daily flow
rates used in the original calculation of the equivalent mass limit were not
based on the use of dilution as a substitute for treatment pursuant to division
(F) below. The industrial user must also be in compliance with §
55.05(C)(2).
         (d)   The township may not express limits in terms of mass for
pollutants such as pH, temperature, radiation or other pollutants which cannot
appropriately be expressed as mass.
      (4)   The township may convert the mass limits of federal categorical
pretreatment standards at 40 C.F.R. §§ 414, 419 and 455 to concentration limits
for purposes of calculating limitations applicable to individual industrial
users. When converting such limits to concentration limits, the township will
use the concentrations listed in the applicable subparts of 40 C.F.R. §§ 414,
419 and 455 and document that dilution is not being substituted for treatment
as stated in division (F) below.
      (5)   A user may obtain a variance from a federal categorical
pretreatment standards if the user proves, pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that
factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally different from the factors
considered by EPA when developing the federal categorical pretreatment
standards.
      (6)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a federal categorical
pretreatment standards in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15. Federal
categorical pretreatment standards may be adjusted to reflect the presence of
pollutants in the user’s intake water.
      (7)   Where there is a conflict between federal, state or local
pretreatment standards, the more stringent pretreatment standard shall apply.
      (8)   Where the POTW achieves consistent removal of pollutants limited by
federal categorical pretreatment standards, the township may apply to the
Approval Authority for modifications of specific limits in the federal
categorical pretreatment standards. Appendices G-I and G-II contained in 40
C.F.R. § 403.7 list those pollutants that are eligible for removal credits.
Removal credits are only available for the various use and disposal practices
regulated under the 40 C.F.R. § 503 sludge regulations. CONSISTENT REMOVAL
shall mean the reduction in the amount of a pollutant or alteration of the
nature of the pollutant by the POTW to a less toxic or harmless state in the
effluent in 95% of the samples taken when measured according to the procedures
set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 403.7(c). The township may then modify pollutant
discharge limits in the federal categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements contained in 40 C.F.R. § 403.7 are fulfilled and prior approval
from the Approval Authority is obtained.
   (D)   Local limits. Local limits for pollutants of concern may be
established by resolution of the Board of Supervisors of the township to
protect against pass through and interference, and to protect the sludge
quality. Local limits may be allocated on an individual basis to the industrial
users and defined through wastewater discharge permits issued pursuant to §
55.03. The township may continue to develop these limits as necessary and
effectively enforce such limits.
   (E)   Township’s right of revision. The township reserves the right to
establish through wastewater discharge permits more stringent limitations or
requirements on discharges to the POTW if deemed necessary and appropriate to
comply with the objectives presented in this chapter.
   (F)   Dilution. No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in
any way attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless
expressly authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
township may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to meet
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements or in other cases when the
imposition of mass limits is appropriate.
   (G)   Pretreatment facilities.
      (1)   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all federal
categorical pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out
in division (A) above. Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a
level acceptable to the township shall be provided, operated and maintained at
the user’s expense. Detailed plans snowing the pretreatment facilities and
operating procedures shall be submitted to the township for review, and shall
be acceptable to the township before construction of the facility. The township
does not by its acceptance of any of the designs or installations of the plans
and equipment, or of any other information or plans submitted by the user,
warrant or aver in any manner that the user’s implementation of such measures
will result in compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements. Notwithstanding any acceptance of such plans by the township, the
user remains solely responsible for compliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements and all other federal, state and local requirements.
The review of such plans and operating procedures in no way relieves the user
from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an
acceptable discharge to the POTW under the provisions of this chapter. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be accepted by the township prior to the user’s initiation
of the changes.
      (2)   The user shall at all times properly operate and maintain all
pretreatment facilities and systems of treatment and control (and related
appurtenances) which are installed or used by the user to achieve compliance
with pretreatment standards and requirements. This includes adequate laboratory
controls and appropriate quality assurance procedures, the operation of back-up
or auxiliary facilities, or similar systems which are installed by the user
only when the operation is necessary to achieve compliance. Except as provided
by §
55.05(C)(2), the intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of the
user’s treatment facility is prohibited.
   (H)   Additional pretreatment requirements. Whenever the township deems it
necessary, the township may require a user to restrict its discharge during
peak flow periods; to discharge at a consistent flow rate; to discharge certain
industrial wastewaters only into specific sewers; to relocate and/or
consolidate points of discharge; to separate domestic wastewater from
industrial wastewater; and to perform and maintain such other conditions as may
be necessary to protect the POTW and to determine the user’s compliance with
the requirements of this chapter.
   (I)   Grease traps and grease interceptor requirements.
      (1)   The township may require any existing food service establishment
and shall require all new food service establishments to install grease traps
or grease interceptors subject to such terms and conditions as deemed necessary
by the township to protect the sewer system and the wastewater treatment
facility from excessive amounts of fats, oils and grease (FOG). Among the
factors to be considered by the township is whether the user’s discharge has
the potential to obstruct the flow in the sewer system or to interfere with the
operation of the wastewater treatment facility.
      (2)   Sizing of grease interceptors is based on wastewater flow and
grease retention capacity. Indoor grease traps shall be designed in accordance
with the Plumbing and Drainage Institute Standard, PDIG101. if feasible, a
grease interceptor shall be placed outside the building instead of an inside
grease trap. The minimum size grease interceptor required is 1,000 gallons.
Interceptors can be installed in series if greater capacity is needed. Grease
interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt or extreme changes of temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, watertight and equipped with easily removable covers
which, when bolted in place shall be gas-tight and water-tight. Other design
considerations shall include, but are not limited to the following: minimum of
two compartments, each with its own manhole, and a center baffle to allow
floating of FOG and settling of solids; inlet and outlet on grease interceptor
shall be properly baffled; flow control devices; manholes finished to grade to
allow easy access for proper maintenance; cieanout on outlet side of
interceptor; inaccessibility to insects and vermin; and installation of sample
vault with hydraulic jump on discharge side of interceptor.
      (3)   Grease traps and grease interceptors shall be located in the
service lateral line between all fixtures that may introduce FOG into the sewer
system and the service connection to the sewer system. Such fixtures include,
but are not limited to, sinks, dishwashers, garbage disposals, automatic hood
wash units, floor drains in food preparation and storage areas, and any other
fixture that may be a potential source of FOG. Indoor grease traps will not be
approved for food service establishments that are equipped with dishwashers or
garbage disposals. The trap/interceptor size, type of construction, and the
location of the installation shall be acceptable to the township prior to
installation.
      (4)   Grease traps and grease interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned
and repaired regularly, as needed, by the owner at his or her expense. To
maintain grease traps and grease interceptors in a continuously efficient
operation at all times, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal
and disposal of the captured material, and shall maintain records, which
include, dates of maintenance, person performing maintenance, estimated volume
of FOG removed, hauler receipts or manifests, disposal locations and facility
manager’s verification. The frequency of cleaning shall be as specified by the
trap/interceptor manufacturer, based on the size of the food service
establishment and the type of food served, whichever is more stringent. Such
records are subject to review by the township. Township personnel may make
periodic inspections of the installed facilities and associated records to
assure proper operation, maintenance and disposal procedures are being
practiced.
   (J)   Oil/water separator requirements.
      (1)   Oil/water separators shall be installed at existing automotive
repair facilities and car washes if the potential exists for petroleum oils to
be discharged to the sewer system via floor drains. New facilities of this type
are prohibited from installing floor drains that are connected to the sewer
system. The type and size of oil/water separator shall be determined by the
owner and shall be acceptable to the township prior to installation.
      (2)   Oil/water separators shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired
regularly, as needed, by the owner at his or her expense. The owner shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal of the captured material from
oil/water separators, and shall maintain records of the dates and means of
disposal. Such records are subject to review by the township. Township
personnel may make periodic inspections of the installed facilities and
associated records to assure proper operation, maintenance and disposal
procedures are being practiced.
   (K)   Accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan.
      (1)   Upon notification from the township, a user shall provide
protection from accidental and slug discharges of prohibited materials or other
substances regulated by this chapter, or by federal or state regulations.
Facilities to prevent accidental or slug discharges of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the user’s own cost and expense. Detailed
plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection
shall be submitted by the user to the township for review, and shall be subject
to township acceptance before construction of the facility. All users shall be
evaluated for the necessity for an accidental discharge/slug discharge control
plan by the township in accordance with requirements found at 40 C.F.R. § 403.8
(f)(2)(vi). The township may require any user to develop, submit for approval,
and implement such plan and take such other action that may be necessary to
control slug discharges. All industrial users are required to notify the POTW
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting potential for a slug
discharge.
      (2)   An accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan shall address,
at a minimum, the following requirements:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
         (b)   Description of stored chemicals and material safety data sheets
(MSDS);
         (c)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any accidental
or slug discharge, as required by §
55.04(F);
         (d)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response; and
         (e)   Such other conditions as deemed appropriate by the township.
   (L)   Hauled waste. Should the township decide to accept hauled waste of
domestic origin, such waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the township, and at such times as are established by the
township; such waste shall not violate this chapter or any other requirements
established by the township.
      (1)   Waste haulers may be required to obtain a waste hauler permit. In
such cases, the application may, at a minimum, contain the following
information:
         (a)   Name, address, location and telephone number;
         (b)   Vehicle information;
         (c)   Description of wastes to be discharged;
         (d)   List of permits held by the applicant for generation, transport
and disposal;
         (e)   Estimate of total volume of waste to be discharged at the POTW;
and
         (f)   Name of the authorized representative of the waste hauler.
      (2)   Waste hauler permits may include, but not be limited to, the
following conditions:
         (a)   Permit effective date and annual renewal;
         (b)   Designated disposal site and discharge hours;
         (c)   Random sampling requirements;
         (d)   Right of refusal to accept hauled waste;
         (e)   Prohibited discharges and local limits;
         (f)   Waste tracking system; and
         (g)   Penalties and other enforcement actions.
      (3)   Tracking of hauled waste through the use of a waste manifest form
may include, but not be limited to, the following information:
         (a)   Generator and hauler name, address and telephone number;
         (b)   Permit number;
         (c)   Type and volume of waste; and
         (d)   Signatory requirements.
(Ord. 2-2010, passed 11-4-2010)  Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.03  WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Waste survey. When requested by the township, all nonresidential users
must submit information on the nature and characteristics of their wastewater
by completing a waste survey within 30 days of the request. The township is
authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require
users to update the survey.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permit requirements.
      (1)   No significant industrial users shall discharge industrial
wastewater into the POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit
from the township, except when an SIU has filed a timely permit application
pursuant to divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) below, then the SIU may continue to
discharge for the time period specified therein.
      (2)   Any significant industrial user which discharges industrial
wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this chapter and who
wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within 90 days after
said date, apply to the township for a wastewater discharge permit in
accordance with division (C) below, if said user does not have a wastewater
discharge permit, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to
continue after 180 days of the effective date of this chapter except in
accordance with a wastewater discharge permit issued by the township.
      (3)   Any significant industrial user proposing to begin or recommence
discharging industrial wastewater into the POTW shall obtain a wastewater
discharge permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An
application for this wastewater discharge permit shall be filed at least 60
days prior to the date upon which any discharge is to begin.
      (4)   The township may require other nonresidential users, with the
potential to discharge wastewater other than domestic wastewater, to obtain
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter. In any case, the owner or his or her agent shall complete a permit
application furnished by the township when requested.
      (5)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the permittee
to the sanctions set out in §
55.05(A) and (B). Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve the
permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal, state and local
pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (C)   Wastewater discharge permit application.
      (1)   Users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall
complete and file with the township, an application in the form prescribed by
the township and accompanied by the applicable fee.
      (2)   In support of the application, the user shall submit, in units and
terms appropriate for evaluation, information including, but not limited to,
the following:
         (a)   Name, address and NAICS number, according to the North American
Industry Classification System, United States, 2002 Manual, Office of
Management and Budget;
         (b)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by a
reliable analytical laboratory; sampling and analyses shall be performed in
accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the
Clean Water Act, and contained in 40 C.F.R. § 136, as amended;
         (c)   Time and duration of discharge;
         (d)   Average daily and 60-minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily,
         (e)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, sewer connections, floor drains and appurtenances
by size, location and elevation;
         (f)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials used or stored at the facility which are, or
could be, discharged to the POTW;
         (g)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
         (h)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation of plant, and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
         (i)   Water usage and disposal;
         (j)   Type and amount of raw materials processed;
         (k)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in
the discharge which are limited by any local, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis, and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user
to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
         (l)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M is required to meet the
pretreatment standards; the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. A compliance schedule shall meet the requirements set out in §
55.04(B);
         (m)   If the industrial user also has an NPDES permit for a direct
discharge, a copy of the NPDES permit;
         (n)   Any other information as may be deemed by the township to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application; and
         (o)   The permit application shall be signed by an authorized
representative of the user.
      (3)   Applications which are deemed by the township to be incomplete or
inaccurate shall not be processed and shall be returned to the user for
revision.
   (D)   General permits.
      (1)   At the discretion of the township, the township may use general
permits to control IU discharges to the POTW if the following conditions are
met.
      (2)   All facilities to be covered by a general permit must:
         (a)   Involve the same or substantially similar types of operations;
         (b)   Discharge the same types of wastes;
         (c)   Require the same effluent limitations;
         (d)   Require the same or similar monitoring; and
         (e)   In the opinion of the township, are more appropriately
controlled under a general permit than under individual wastewater discharge
permits.
      (3)   To be covered by the general permit, the IU must file a written
request for coverage that identifies its contact information, production
processes, the types of wastes generated, the location for monitoring all
wastes covered by the general permit, any request in accordance with §
55.04(D)(4) for a monitoring waiver for a pollutant neither present nor
expected to be present in the discharge, and any other information the POTW
deems appropriate. A monitoring waiver for a pollutant neither present nor
expected to be present in the discharge is not effective in the general permit
until after the township has provided written notice to the IU that such a
waiver request has been granted in accordance with §
55.04(D)(4).
      (4)   The township will retain a copy of the general permit,
documentation to support the township’s determination that a specific IU meets
the criteria in divisions (D)(2)(a) through (D)(2)(e) above and a copy of the
IU’s written request for coverage for at least three years after the expiration
of the general permit.
      (5)   The township may not control an IU through a general permit where
the facility is subject to production-based federal categorical pretreatment
standards or federal categorical pretreatment standards expressed as mass of
pollutant discharged per day or for IUs whose limits are based on the combined
wastestream formula or net/gross calculations.
   (E)   Signatories and certification.
      (1)   Certification of permit applications, user reports and initial
monitoring waiver.
         (a)   All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and
initial monitoring waivers shall be signed by an authorized representative of
the user and shall contain the following certification statement:
      “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
         (b)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this section must be submitted to the township prior to or
together with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
      (2)   Annual certification for non-significant categorical industrial
users. A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial
user pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(v)(2) must annually submit the following
certification statement, signed in accordance with the signatory requirements
in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(1) and §
55.01. This certification must accompany an alternative report required by the
township:
   “Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing  compliance with the  categorical pretreatment standards under 40
C.F.R. _________, I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that
during the period from _____ to______, ____, (months, days, year) the facility
described as _____ (facility name) met the definition of a nonsignificant
categorical industrial user as described in 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(v)(2) and § 55.01
and complied with all applicable pretreatment standards and requirements during
this reporting period. I further certify that the facility never discharged
more than 100 gallons of total categorical wastewater on any given day during
this reporting period. This compliance information is based upon the following
information: _____________________________________________________________”.
      (3)   Certification of pollutants not present. Users that have an
approved monitoring waiver based on §
55.04(D)(4) shall certify on each report using the following statement that
there has been no increase in the pollutant in its wastestream due to
activities of the user.
   “Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the pretreatment standard for 40 C.F.R. _______, I
certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, there has been no
increase in the level of __________ (list pollutant(s)) in the wastewaters due
to the activities at the facility since filing of the last periodic report
under § 55.04(D)(4) of the Antis Township Sewer Use Ordinance.”
   (F)   Wastewater discharge permit decisions. The township will evaluate the
data furnished by the user. The township may request additional information,
issue a wastewater discharge permit, or deny any application for a wastewater
discharge permit.
   (G)   Wastewater discharge permit conditions.  Wastewater discharge permits
are hereby subject to all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable
regulations, user charges and fees established by the township; wastewater
discharge permits may include such conditions as are reasonably deemed
necessary by the township to prevent pass through or interference, protect the
quality of the water body receiving the POTW’s effluent, protect worker health
and safety, facilitate sludge management and disposal, protect ambient air
quality and protect against damage to the POTW. Wastewater discharge permits
may contain the following information:
      (1)   The wastewater discharge permit duration shall not exceed five
years;
      (2)   The wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable without prior
notification to and approval from the township. Permit transfers shall be made
in accordance with division (G)(5) below;
      (3)   Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards. Such BMPs shall be considered local limits
and pretreatment standards for the purposes of 403 C.F.R. § 403 and § 307(d) of
the Act;
      (4)   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements include, but are not limited to, an
identification of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling
frequency and sample type based on federal, state and local law. This also
includes the process for seeking a waiver for a pollutant neither present nor
expected to be present in the discharge, or a specific waived pollutant in the
case of a wastewater discharge permit;
      (5)   Civil, criminal and administrative penalties for violation of
pretreatment standards and requirements, any applicable compliance schedule, or
any other requirements set forth in this chapter. Such compliance schedules may
not extend the time for compliance beyond that required by applicable federal,
state and local law;
      (6)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
treatment of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (7)   Limits on the average and/or maximum wastewater constituent
concentrations, mass or other measure of identified wastewater pollutants or
properties, and limits on the location of discharge points;
      (8)   Limits on average and/or maximum rate and time of discharge and/or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
      (9)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW;
      (10)   Requirements for the installation and proper operation and
maintenance of a user’s treatment facility, inspection and sampling facilities,
and other equipment; and notification to the township regarding the failure of
such facilities and equipment;
      (11)   Requirements for maintaining and affording township
representatives, including contractors, access to a user’s property and plant
records relating to the wastewater discharges;
      (12)   Requirements for notification to the township of any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume
or character of the wastewater constituents;
      (13)   Development and implementation of spill control plans or other
special conditions including management practices necessary to adequately
prevent accidental, unanticipated or routine discharges;
      (14)   Requirements to control slug discharges, if determined by the
township to be necessary;
      (15)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the township, such as for
pollutants not present as described in §
55.04(D)(4), must be included as a condition in the user’s permit;
      (16)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (17)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the Permittee of the responsibility for compliance with all
applicable pretreatment standards, including those that become effective during
the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
      (18)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the township to ensure
compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules and
regulations, or as otherwise deemed necessary to protect the POTW, sludge
quality, human health and the environment.
   (H)   Wastewater discharge permit issuance.
      (1)   Permit duration. Wastewater discharge permits shall be issued for a
specified time period, not to exceed five years from the effective date of the
permit. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period of less than
five years at the discretion of the township.
      (2)   Permit public notice. The township may provide public notice in a
newspaper of general circulation that provides meaningful public notice within
the jurisdiction of the POTW, at least 14 days prior to issuance of a
wastewater discharge permit. The notice will indicate a location where the
draft/final wastewater discharge permit may be reviewed and an address where
written comments may be submitted.
      (3)   Permit appeals. Any person, including the user, may petition the
township to reconsider the terms of a wastewater discharge permit within 30
days of its issuance or modification. Such petition shall be in writing and
shall clearly state all facts on which it relies.
         (a)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed a
waiver of the administrative appeal.
         (b)   In its petition, the appealing party shall indicate the
wastewater discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for the
objection, and the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the
wastewater discharge permit. If the appeal is for a modified wastewater
discharge permit, only the modified permit conditions shall be subject to
appeal.
         (c)   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not
be stayed pending an appeal.
         (d)   If the township fails to initiate action to reconsider the
decision within 30 days, a request for reconsideration shall be deemed to be
denied. Decisions not to reconsider a wastewater discharge permit or not to
modify a wastewater discharge permit shall be considered a final administrative
action for purposes of judicial review.
         (e)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of final
administrative wastewater discharge permit decisions must do so by filing a
complaint with the Court of Common Pleas for the county within 30 days of the
township’s determination, or within 30 days of the expiration of the 30-day
period under division (H)(3)(d) above, as applicable.
      (4)   Permit modifications.
         (a)   The terms and conditions of the wastewater discharge permit may
be subject to modification by the township during the term of the permit for
cause as provided below. Changes or new conditions in the wastewater discharge
permit may include a reasonable time schedule for compliance as authorized by
applicable law and as determined by the township.
         (b)   Causes for modification to a wastewater discharge permit
include, but are not limited to, the following:
            1.   Changes in federal, state or local pretreatment standards or
requirements;
            2.   Alterations or additions to the user’s operation, process or
wastewater discharge volume or character since the time of the wastewater
discharge permit issuance;
            3.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
            4.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge, either
singly or by interaction with other discharges, poses a threat to the POTW,
personnel or the receiving waters, or may place the township in violation of
its NPDES permit;
            5.   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater
discharge permit;
            6.   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant
facts in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required
reporting;
            7.   Revision of a grant of variance from federal categorical
pretreatment standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13;
            8.   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater
permit;
            9.   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership and/or
operation to a new owner/operator; and
            10.   Any cause identified in division (G)(6) above.
      (5)   Permit transfer. Wastewater discharge permits shall be issued to a
specific user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not
be transferred to any person or to different premises, and shall not encompass
a new or changed operation unless township approval is issued.
         (a)   Notice of the transfer shall be provided to the township 30 days
in advance of the transfer and shall include a written certification by the new
owner and/or operator which:
            1.   Provides the name and address of the facility including the
name of the new owner and/or operator;
            2.   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate
intent to change the facility’s operations and processes;
            3.   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to
occur; and
            4.   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the
existing wastewater discharge permit.
         (b)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer shall render the
wastewater discharge permit void on the date of facility transfer. The township
may modify or terminate a transferred permit as set forth in divisions (G)(4)
or (G)(6) above.
      (6)   Permit termination.
         (a)   The township may revoke or terminate a wastewater discharge
permit for cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
            1.   Failure to notify the township of significant changes in the
operation or wastewater volume, characteristics or constituents prior to
discharge;
            2.   Failure to provide prior notification to the township of
changed conditions pursuant to §
55.04(E);
            3.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant
facts in the wastewater discharge permit application or reports;
            4.   Falsifying monitoring reports;
            5.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
            6.   Refusing to allow the township or its representative timely
access to the facility premises and records;
            7.   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
            8.   Failure to timely pay fines;
            9.   Failure to timely pay sewer charges;
            10.   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
            11.   Failure to complete a waste survey or wastewater discharge
permit application;
            12.   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility;
            13.   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
conditions of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter;
            14.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge; or
            15.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge, either
singly or by interaction with other discharges, poses a threat to the POTW,
township personnel or the receiving waters, or may place the township in
violation of its NPDES permit.
         (b)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voided by the township for
non-use, cessation of operations, or transfer of business ownership. All
wastewater discharge permits issued to a particular user are void upon the
issuance of a subsequent wastewater discharge permit to that user. A user shall
be notified of the proposed termination of its wastewater discharge permit and
may be offered an opportunity to show cause as set forth in §
55.05(A)(3).
      (7)   Permit reissuance. Except as otherwise approved by the township,
the user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum of 90 days prior to the
expiration of the user’s existing wastewater discharge permit. Notwithstanding
any other provision of this chapter, if the user has timely filed a complete
permit application, and the township, through no fault of the user, has not
reissued the wastewater discharge permit prior to the expiration date, the
conditions of the existing wastewater discharge permit shall continue until
such time the township has issued another permit.
      (8)   Authorization to issue permits. The Wastewater Treatment Plant
Superintendent has the authorization to issue permits. His or her signature
shall appear on the first page of each industrial user permit with the
issuance, amendment and expiration dates of the discharge permit.
      (9)   Regulation of wastewater received from other municipalities. If
another municipality or user located within another municipality contributes
wastewater to the POTW, the township shall enter into an interjurisdictional
agreement with the contributing municipality. Pertinent information relative to
the quality and volume of wastewater discharged from the contributing
municipality shall be requested prior to entering into an agreement with the
contributing municipality.
(Ord. 2-2010, passed 11-4-2010)
§ 55.04  MONITORING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Baseline monitoring report (BMR).
      (1)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a federal
categorical pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision of a
category determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later,
existing categorical significant industrial users (SIUs) subject to such
federal categorical pretreatment standards, and currently discharging to or
scheduled to discharge to the POTW, shall submit a BMR to the township which
contains the information listed in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and in this division
(A). At least 90 days prior to commencement of their discharge, new sources and
sources that become Categorical SIUs subsequent to the promulgation of an
applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard, shall be required to
submit a BMR to the township which contains the information listed in 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.12(b) and in this division (A). A new source shall report the method of
pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable federal categorical
pretreatment standards, and provide estimates of its anticipated flows and
quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
      (2)   Categorical SIUs shall submit the following information for a BMR:
         (a)   The name and address of the facility, including the name of the
operator and owner;
         (b)   A list of any environmental control permits held by or for the
facility;
         (c)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) number of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description shall include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes;
         (d)   Information showing the measured average daily and maximum daily
flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process wastestreams and
other wastestreams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined wastestream
formula as established in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e);
         (e)   The federal categorical pretreatment standards applicable to
each regulated process and the results of sampling and analysis identifying the
nature and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the federal
categorical pretreatment standard or by the township, of regulated pollutants
in the discharge from each regulated process. Instantaneous, daily maximum and
long-term average concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported.
At least one sample representative of daily operations shall be provided with
the BMR and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures found in division
(H)(2) below. Sampling shall be performed in accordance with procedures found
in division (H)(1) below. The BMR shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling, and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW;
         (f)   A certification statement, reviewed by the user’s authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
         (g)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M are required to meet the
pretreatment standards and requirements, the Categorical SIU shall submit the
shortest schedule by which the user will provide such additional pretreatment
and/or O&M. The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the
compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements. A compliance schedule shall meet the requirements set forth in
division (B) below;
         (h)   All BMRs shall be signed and certified in accordance with
Section 9-3(d) of this chapter; and
         (i)   In cases where the pretreatment standard or requirement requires
compliance with a best management practice or pollution prevention alternative,
the user shall submit documentation required by the township or the
pretreatment standard or requirement necessary to determine compliance status
of the user.
   (B)   Compliance schedule progress report. The following conditions shall
apply to the schedule required by §
55.03(C)(12) and division (A)(7) above.
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements (such events include, but
are not limited to, hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans,
executing contracts for major components, commencing and completing
construction, and initiating operation).
      (2)   No increment referred to in division (B)(1) above shall exceed nine
months.
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the township no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance, including whether or not it complied with the increment of progress
to be met on such date, and if not, the date on which it expects to comply with
this increment of progress, the reason for the delay, and the steps being taken
by the user to return to the established schedule.
      (4)   No more than nine months shall elapse between the dates on which
such progress reports are provided to the township.
   (C)   Reports on compliance with federal categorical pretreatment standard
deadline. Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable federal categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new
source, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW,
any user subject to such federal categorical pretreatment standards shall
submit to the township a report containing the information described in
divisions (A)(2)(d) through (A)(2)(f) above. For users subject to equivalent
mass or concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in
40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the
user’s long-term production rate. For all other users subject to federal
categorical pretreatment standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant
discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation), this report
shall include the user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling
period. All compliance reports shall be signed and certified in accordance with
§
55.03(D). In cases where the pretreatment standard or requirement requires
compliance with a best management practice or pollution alternative, the user
shall submit documentation required by the township or the pretreatment
standard or requirement necessary to determine compliance status of the user.
   (D)   Periodic compliance report.
      (1)   Except as specified in division (D)(5) below, all significant
industrial users subject to a federal categorical pretreatment standard or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement shall submit periodic compliance
reports to the township in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e), (g) and (h),
as applicable, during the months of July and January, unless required more
frequently in the pretreatment standard or requirement or by the township,
indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge which
are limited by such pretreatment standards or requirements. Both daily maximum
and average concentrations shall be reported. In addition, the report shall
include a record of the measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows
for the reporting period. In cases where the pretreatment standard requires
compliance with a best management practice or pollution prevention alternative,
the user shall submit documentation required by the township or the
pretreatment standard necessary to determine compliance status of the user. At
the discretion of the township and in consideration of such factors as local
high and low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles and the like, the township may
agree to alter the months during which the above reports shall be submitted.
All periodic compliance reports shall be signed and certified in accordance
with §
55.03(D). Copies of all chain of custody forms and laboratory analytical
reports from the contract laboratory shall be provided with each periodic
compliance report.
      (2)   The township shall impose mass limitations on users where the
imposition of mass limitations is appropriate. In such cases, the report
required in division (D)(1) above shall indicate the mass of pollutants
regulated by pretreatment standards in the discharge of the user. These reports
shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the discharge, including
the flow and the nature and concentration, or production and mass, where
requested by the township, of pollutants contained therein which are limited by
the applicable pretreatment standards. The frequency of monitoring shall be as
prescribed in the applicable pretreatment standard or by the township.
      (3)   Categorical SIUs subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established by the township in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c) shall
include a reasonable measure of the Categorical SIU’s long-term production rate
in the periodic compliance report. Categorical SIUs subject to federal
categorical pretreatment standards, which are expressed only in terms of
allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure of
operation), shall include the Categorical SIU’s actual average production rate
for the reporting period in the periodic compliance report.
      (4)   The township may authorize an IU subject to a federal categorical
pretreatment standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated by a federal
categorical pretreatment standard if the IU has demonstrated through sampling
and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither present nor expected
to be present in the discharge, or is only present at background levels from
intake water and without any increase in the pollutant due to activities of the
IU, as subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   The waiver may be authorized where a pollutant is determined to
be present solely due to sanitary wastewater discharged from a facility
provided that the sanitary wastewater is not regulated by an applicable federal
categorical pretreatment standard and otherwise includes no process wastewater.
         (b)   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the wastewater discharge permit, but in no case longer than
five years. The user must submit a new request for the waiver before the waiver
can be granted for each subsequent wastewater discharge permit.
         (c)   In making a demonstration that a pollutant is not present, the
IU must provide data from at least one sampling of the facility’s process
wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility that is
representative of all wastewater from all processes.
         (d)   The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed in accordance
with §
55.01, and all requests for the waiver must include the certification statement
in §
55.03(E)(1).
         (e)   Non-detectable sample results may be used only as a
demonstration that a pollutant is not present if the EPA approved method from
40 C.F.R. § 136 with the lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant is
used for the analysis.
         (f)   Any grant or a monitoring waiver by the township must be
included as a condition of the user’s wastewater discharge permit. The reasons
supporting the waiver and any information submitted by the user in its request
for the waiver must be maintained by the township for three years after
expiration of the waiver.
         (g)   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or
is expected to be present because of changes that occur with the user’s
operations, the user must immediately comply with the monitoring requirements
of division (D)(1) above or other more frequent monitoring requirements imposed
by the township. In such cases, the user shall immediately notify the township.
         (h)   This provision does not supersede certification processes and
requirements established in federal categorical pretreatment standards, except
as otherwise specified in the federal categorical pretreatment standard.
      (5)   The township may reduce the requirement for periodic compliance
reports, as outlined in division (D)(1) above, to a requirement to report no
less frequently than once a year, unless required more frequently in a
pretreatment standard or by EPA, where the Categorical SIU’s total categorical
wastewater flow does not exceed any of the following conditions:
         (a)   Greater than 0.01 percent of the POTW’s design dry-weather
hydraulic capacity of the POTW treatment plant, or 5,000 GPD, whichever is
smaller, as measured by a continuous effluent flow monitoring device unless the
industrial user discharges in batches;
         (b)   Greater than 0.01% of the POTW’s design dry-weather organic
capacity of the POTW treatment plant; and
         (c)   Greater than 0.01% of the maximum allowable headworks loading
for any pollutant regulated by the applicable federal categorical pretreatment
standard for which approved local limits are developed, in accordance with §
55.02(D).
      (6)   Reduced reporting is not available to IUs that have been in
significant noncompliance during the last two years, as defined division (I)
below. In addition, reduced reporting is not available to IUs with daily flow
rates, production levels or pollutant levels that vary so significantly that,
in the opinion of the township, decreasing the reporting requirement for this
type of IUs results in data that are not representative of conditions occurring
during the reporting period. The IU must notify the township immediately of any
changes at its facility causing it to no longer meet the conditions outlined in
this section. Upon notification, the IU must immediately begin complying with
the minimum reporting in division (D)(1) above.
      (7)   The township must retain documentation to support the township’s
determination that a specific IU qualifies for reduced reporting requirements
under this section for a period of three years after the expiration of the term
of the control mechanism.
   (E)   Report of changed conditions. Each user shall notify the township in
writing of any planned significant changes to the user’s operations or system
which may alter the nature, quality or volume of its wastewater at least 30
days before the change occurs; this notification requirement includes
anticipated changes in user production which can reasonably be expected to
impact the POTW.
      (1)   The township may require the user to submit such information as
deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the submission of
a wastewater discharge permit application under §
55.03(C).
      (2)   The township may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
55.03(E) or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
55.03(G)(4) in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed
conditions.
      (3)   No user shall implement the planned changed condition(s) until and
unless the township has responded to the user’s notice. The township may
require the user to undertake a compatibility study to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the township that the wastewater to be discharged is compatible
with the POTW, will not affect any requirements imposed upon the township
(including sludge disposal requirements), and will not adversely affect the
POTW.
      (4)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but
are not limited to, flow increases of 10% or greater, and the discharge of any
previously unreported pollutants.
   (F)   Report of potential problems.
      (1)   In the case of any discharge including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, a slug discharge or slug load, which may cause
pass through or interference or affect sludge quality at the POTW, the user
shall immediately notify the township of the incident. This notification shall
include the location of discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if
known, and corrective actions taken by the user. The notification hereunder
does not authorize or otherwise condone a discharge in violation of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or other applicable federal, state or
local requirements.
      (2)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the township, submit a detailed written report describing the cause
(s) of the discharge and the measures taken by the user to prevent similar
future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, damage, loss or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties or other liability which may be imposed by this chapter or other
applicable law. This written report shall be signed by an authorized
representative of the user.
      (3)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (F)(1) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause such a discharge to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedures.
      (4)   All industrial users are required to notify the township
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug
discharge.
   (G)   Notification of hazardous waste discharge.
      (1)   All users shall notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management
Division Director and DEP Waste Management authorities in writing in accordance
with 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(p) of any discharge into the POTW of a substance which,
if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. § 261;
such notification shall include:
         (a)   The name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 261;
         (b)   The EPA hazardous waste identification number; and
         (c)   The type of discharge (continuous, batch or other).
      (2)   If the user discharges more than 100 kilograms (45.5 pounds) of
such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification shall also contain
the following information to the extent that such information is known and
readily available to the user:
         (a)   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
waste;
         (b)   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents
in the industrial wastewater discharged during that calendar month; and
         (c)   An estimation of the mass of constituents in the industrial
wastewater expected to be discharged during the following 12 months.
      (3)   All notifications under this division (G) shall take place
immediately or no later than 180 days after the discharge commences, whichever
is later. Any notification under this division (G) need be submitted only once
for each hazardous waste discharge; however, notifications of changed
discharges shall be submitted per division (E) above. This notification
requirement does not apply to pollutants already reported by users subject to
federal categorical pretreatment standards under the monitoring requirements of
divisions (A), (C) and (D) above.
      (4)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (G)(1)
above during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms
(6.8 pounds) of hazardous waste, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes
as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15
kilograms (6.8 pounds) of non-acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or
any quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d)
and 261.33(e), requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which
the user discharges more than such quantities of hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
      (5)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste, the user shall notify the
township, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director and DEP Waste
Management authorities of the discharge of such substances within 90 days of
the effective date of such regulations.
      (6)   In the case of any notification made under this division (G), the
user shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and
toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
      (7)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance
not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit issued hereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
   (H)   Compliance monitoring.
      (1)   Sample collection:
         (a)   Samples for cyanide, oil and grease, pH, total phenols, sulfide,
temperature, toxicity and volatile organic compounds shall be obtained using
grab collection techniques.
         (b)   Grab samples shall also be used for any pollutant subject to an
instantaneous maximum limitation.
         (c)   All other wastewater compliance monitoring samples shall be
collected using flow-proportioned composite collection techniques. The township
may authorize the use of time proportioned sampling or the collection of one
grab sample every two hours for the duration of the discharge where the user
demonstrates to the township that the grab samples shall be representative of
the effluent being discharged to the POTW. Holding time for sample parameters
begins at the time the last sample is collected in the composite sampling
bottle. The time of final sample collection shall be recorded on the chain of
custody form.
         (d)   The decision to allow the alternative sampling must be
documented in the IU file for the facility or facilities. Using protocols
(including appropriate preservation) specified in 40 C.F.R. § 136 and
appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples collected during a 24-hour
period may be composited prior to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total
phenols and sulfide, the samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the
field; for volatile organic compounds and oil and grease, the samples may be
composited in the laboratory. Composite samples for other parameters unaffected
by the compositing procedures as documented in approved EPA methodologies may
be authorized by the township, as appropriate.
         (e)   If grab samples are used for BMR reporting under §
55.04(A) and 90-day compliance reports under §
55.04(C), a minimum of four grab samples must be collected and analyzed for pH,
cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic compounds
for facilities for which historical sampling data do not exist. For facilities
for which historical sampling data are available, the township may authorize a
lower minimum number of samples. For other IU compliance reports and IU reports
not subject to federal categorical pretreatment standards, the township shall
require the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance by
IUs with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
         (f)   In general, all samples shall be collected in accordance with 40
C.F.R. § 136 protocol, which includes use of proper sampling containers,
maintenance of samples at a temperature of 56°C, use of proper preservatives
and adherence to parameter holding times.
         (g)   The township reserves the right to require that all sampling
shall be conducted by a laboratory accredited under the auspices of the
Environmental Laboratory Accreditation program at 25 Pa. Code § 252.
      (2)   Analytical requirements.
         (a)   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be
submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall
be performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. § 136,
as amended, unless otherwise specified in an applicable federal categorical
pretreatment standard, if 40 C.F.R. § 136 does not contain sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must
be performed in accordance with procedures approved by EPA.
         (b)   Specifically, all parameter holding times shall be adhered to,
such as the 48-hour holding time for the BOD analysis, which begins at the time
the last sample aliquot is collected.
         (c)   All analyses shall be conducted by a laboratory accredited under
the auspices of the Environmental Laboratory Accreditation program at 25 PA
Code § 252, unless the township approves otherwise, such as for the analysis of
pH. Such request for permission by a non-accredited facility to conduct
analyses as required by a wastewater discharge permit issued by the township
shall be made in writing to the township.
         (d)   The township reserves the right to select an accredited
laboratory for industrial users.
      (3)   Representative sampling. All wastewater samples shall be
representative of the user’s normal discharge occurring during the reporting
period. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep the monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim the sample results are not representative
of the discharge.
      (4)   Sampling frequency. The user shall insure that an adequate number
of samples are collected and analyzed to determine that the process discharge
equipment is operating properly and that the wastewater discharge does not
violate pretreatment effluent limitations. Except as otherwise provided,
significant industrial user sampling for determining compliance shall be
conducted at least once every six months and analyzed for applicable
pollutants. The township reserves the right to require sampling more frequently
than set herein.
      (5)   Reporting of increased sampling results. If a user subject to the
reporting requirements of this section monitors any regulated pollutant at the
appropriate sampling location more frequently than required by the township
using the procedures prescribed in division (H)(2) above, results of this
monitoring shall be included in the report.
      (6)   Repeat sampling and reporting. If sampling performed by a user
indicates a violation of a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the user shall
notify the township within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The
user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the township within 30 days after becoming aware of the
violation. The user is not required to resample if the township monitors the
user’s wastewater discharge at least once a month or the township samples
between the user’s initial sampling and when the user receives the initial
sample results.
      (7)   Toxicity monitoring. A user shall undertake effluent toxicity
testing as deemed necessary by the township using DEP and EPA established
protocol. A user shall undertake a toxicity reduction evaluation and take steps
to reduce toxicity, as required by the township using DEP and EPA established
protocol.
      (8)   Record-keeping. Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
chapter shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records and information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this chapter, including documentation associated with best management
practices, and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements.
Records shall include the date, exact place, method, time of sampling and name
of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses are performed; who
performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the
results of the analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of
at least three years. This period shall be automatically extended for the
duration of any litigation concerning the user, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the township.
      (9)   Right of entry-inspection and sampling. The township shall have the
right to enter the premises of any user to ascertain whether the user is
complying with all requirements of this chapter and any wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the township or its
representative ready access during all working hours to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying, or as necessary for the performance of any additional duties.
         (a)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the township or its representatives shall be
permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific
responsibilities.
         (b)   The township shall have the right to set up on the user’s
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user’s operations.
         (c)   Monitoring facilities:
            1.   The township may require the user to install monitoring
facilities, as necessary, to allow inspection, sampling and flow measurement of
the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The monitoring equipment
shall be situated on the user’s premises, but the township may, in its sole
discretion, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship
on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or
sidewalk area and located so that it shall not be obstructed by landscaping or
parked vehicles;
            2.   Monitoring facilities shall be constructed in a manner
acceptable to the township. The township may require that the monitoring
facilities be equipped with permanent flow measurement or sampling equipment.
Plans and specifications for the construction of monitoring facilities and all
required equipment shall be submitted to and be accepted by the township prior
to the initiation of construction of such facilities;
            3.   The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall be
maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user at
his or her own expense. All equipment used to measure wastewater flow or
quality shall be calibrated annually to ensure their accuracy. There shall be
ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility to allow accurate
sampling and preparation of samples for analysis; and
            4.   Whether constructed on public or private property, the
sampling and monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the
township’s requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
written notification by the township.
         (d)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access
to the monitoring facilities to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly
removed by the user at the written or verbal request of the township and shall
not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
         (e)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the township, or its
representative, access to the user’s premises shall be a violation of this
chapter.
      (10)   Search warrants. If the township has been refused access to a
building, structure or property, or any part thereof, and if the township has
probable cause to believe that a user has violated or may violate this chapter
or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the township designed to verify compliance
with this chapter or a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder,
or to protect the overall health, safety and welfare of the community, then the
township may seek issuance of a search warrant from the local County District
Justice. Such warrant shall be served at reasonable hours by the township in
the company of a law enforcement officer. In the event of an emergency
affecting the public health and safety, inspections shall be made without the
issuance of a search warrant.
   (I)   Publication of users in significant noncompliance.
      (1)   The township may publish on an annual basis, or more frequent
basis, as it deems appropriate, in a newspaper of general circulation that
provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions served by the POTW,
a list of the users which were in significant noncompliance (SNC) with
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements during the previous 12
months. The township shall not be liable for any damages of any sort, suffered
by any user or owner as a result of such publication. Nor shall the township
incur any liability through publication of incorrect information where such
information was believed accurate when published or was the result of
administrative or typographical error.
      (2)   A significant industrial user is in SNC (or any other industrial
user that violates divisions (I)(2)(c), (I)(2)(d) or (I)(2)(h) below) if its
violation meets one or more of the following criteria:
         (a)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here
as those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-
month period exceed a numeric pretreatment standard or Requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined in §
55.01, and by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1);
         (b)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as
those in which 33% or more of the wastewater measurements taken for each
pollutant parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of
the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous
limits, as defined in §
55.01, and by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1), multiplied by the applicable TRC criteria
(which is 1.4 for BOD, Oil and Grease and TSS; and 1.2 for all other pollutants
except pH);
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard of requirement as
defined in §
55.01, and by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1) that the township determines has caused,
alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through,
including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
         (d)   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent
endangerment to the public or to the environment in accordance with 40 C.F.R. §
403.8(f)(2)(vii), or has resulted in the township’s exercise of its emergency
authority under 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(1)(vi)(B) to halt or prevent such a
discharge;
         (e)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance;
         (f)   Failure to provide, within 45 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with federal
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic compliance reports,
reports on compliance with compliance schedules and any other reports required
under this chapter or by applicable pretreatment standards or requirements;
         (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
         (h)   Any violations, which may include a violation of best management
practices, which the township determines will adversely affect the operation or
implementation of the township’s pretreatment program.
   (J)   Duty to provide information.
      (1)   A user shall furnish to the township, within a reasonable time, any
information which the township may request to determine whether cause exists
for modifying, reissuing, terminating or revoking a wastewater discharge
permit, or to determine user pretreatment compliance. The user shall also
furnish to the township, upon request, copies of records required to be
maintained pursuant to this chapter or other applicable federal, state or local
laws or regulations. If the user becomes aware that it failed to submit
relevant facts or submitted incorrect information in an application for a
wastewater discharge permit, a report to the township, or in any correspondence
pertaining to its industrial wastewater discharge, the user shall promptly
submit such facts or information to the township.
      (2)   In the event the township notifies and/or receives township
requested reports, other than the normal monthly reports, as those set forth in
divisions (A) through (H) above from a customer of the Northern Blair County
Regional Sewer Authority (NBCRSA), the township shall also, with said notice
and/or within ten days of receipt of any such report, supply copies of the same
to NBCRSA.
   (K)   Confidential information.
      (1)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys,
wastewater discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits and
monitoring programs, and from inspections shall be available to the public or
other governmental agencies without restriction unless the user specifically
requests confidentiality, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
township, that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of
the user. Any such request shall be asserted at the time of submission of the
information or data to the township.
      (2)   When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a report
that such information should be held confidential, the portions of a report
which may disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately
upon written request to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES
program or the pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings involving
the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics
as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 2.302 shall not be recognized as confidential
information and shall be available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 2-2010, passed 11-4-2010)
§ 55.05  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Administrative remedies.
      (1)   Notice of violation (NOV). When the township finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit
or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement,
the township may serve upon said user a written notice of violation. Within ten
days of the receipt of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan
for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific
required actions, shall be submitted to the township by the user. Submission of
this plan shall not relieve the user of liability for any violations occurring
before or after receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section
shall limit the authority of the township to take any action, including
emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a
notice of violation. The township shall provide NBCRSA with copies of any NOV
issued to a customer of NBCRSA at the time of issuance of any such NOV.
      (2)   Consent orders. The township is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with a user responsible for the noncompliance. Such
orders shall include specific actions to be taken by the user to correct the
noncompliance within a time period also specified by the consent order. Consent
orders shall have the same force and effect as the administrative orders issued
pursuant to division (A)(4) below, and shall be enforceable in an appropriate
court. The township shall provide NBCRSA with copies of any consent order
issued to a customer of NBCRSA at the time of issuance of any such consent
order.
      (3)   Show cause orders.
         (a)   When the township finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the user may be
ordered to appear before the township and show cause why a proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the
time and place for the hearing, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons
for such action, and a request that the user snow cause why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing shall be
served personally or by certified or registered mail (return receipt requested)
at least ten days prior to the hearing. Service may be made on any authorized
representative of the user. The hearing may be formal or informal, based on the
severity of the noncompliance. A formal hearing shall be conducted according to
the rules of evidence and open to the public. An informal hearing shall be
closed to the public.
         (b)   After the township has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an
order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a
specified time period, the sewer service shall be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances have been
installed and existing treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders and directives deemed
necessary and appropriate may be issued by the township.
         (c)   A show cause order shall not bar against, or be a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user. Failure to attend a show cause
hearing or otherwise comply with a show cause order is a violation of this
chapter for each day of a violation. A show cause order has the full force of
law and is enforceable in a court of law. The township shall provide NBCRSA
with copies of any show cause order issued to a customer of NBCRSA at the time
of issuance of any such show cause order and NBCRSA shall be entitled to
participate in any informal and/or formal hearing resulting from such show
cause order.
      (4)   Compliance orders. When the township finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit
or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement,
the township may issue a compliance order to the user responsible for the
discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a period of time
set forth in the compliance order. If the user does not come into compliance
within the time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are installed and
properly operated. Compliance orders may also contain other requirements to
address the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management
practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer
system. A compliance order does not extend the deadline for compliance
established for a pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance
order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any continuing
violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not bar against, or be a
prerequisite for, taking any other enforcement action against the user. Failure
of a user to comply with any condition or requirement set forth in a compliance
order is a violation of this chapter and is independently enforceable for each
day of a violation. A compliance order has the full force of law and is
enforceable in a court of law. The township shall provide NBCRSA with copies of
any compliance order issued to a customer of NBCRSA at the time of issuance of
any such compliance order.
      (5)   Cease and desist orders.
         (a)   When the township finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or that the
user’s past violations are likely to recur, the township may issue a cease and
desist order directing the user to cease and desist all such violations and to:
            1.   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
            2.   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatening violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
         (b)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not bar against, or
be a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user. Failure of a
user to comply with any condition or requirement set forth in a cease and
desist order is a violation of this chapter and is independently enforceable
for each day of a violation. A cease and desist order has the full force of law
and is enforceable in a court of law. The township shall provide NBCRSA with
copies of any cease and desist order issued to a customer of NBCRSA at the time
of issuance of any such cease and desist order.
      (5)   Termination of sewer service. The township may immediately suspend
a user’s discharge, after notice to the user, whenever such suspension is
necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to
present or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons. The township may also immediately suspend a user’s
discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere
with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an
endangerment to the environment.
         (a)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate the discharge to the POTW. In the event of a
failure by the user to immediately comply voluntarily with the termination
order, the township shall take steps, as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The township shall
allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the township that the period of endangerment has passed,
unless the termination proceedings set forth in §
55.03(G)(6) are initiated against the user.
         (b)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any
discharge presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written
statement describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures
taken to prevent any future occurrence to the township within five days of the
date of occurrence as stipulated in §
55.04(F), or, prior to the date of any show cause or termination hearing under
division (A)(3) above and §
55.03(G)(6), whichever date is earlier.
         (c)   Nothing in this division (A) shall be interpreted as requiring a
hearing prior to any termination of sewer service under this division (A).
   (B)   Judicial remedies.
      (1)   Injunctive relief. When the township fords that a user has
violated, or continues to violate this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit
or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement;
or determines the discharge from a user presents imminent or substantial harm
to the POTW or the public; or the discharge from the user causes the POTW to
violate any condition of its NPDES permit; or the user has shown a lack of
ability or intention to comply with a pretreatment standard, the township may
petition the Court of Common Pleas for the county through the Township
Solicitor for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as
appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the
wastewater discharge permit, order or other requirement imposed by this
chapter, on the activities of the user. Such other action as is appropriate for
legal and/or equitable relief may also be sought by the township, including the
assessment of a civil penalty. A petition for injunctive relief shall not bar
against, or be a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
      (2)   Falsifying information. Any user, who knowingly makes any false
statements, representations or certifications in any application, record,
report, plan or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to
this chapter or wastewater discharge permit, or who falsifies, tampers with or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter may be subject to criminal liability under federal, state and/or
local law.
   (C)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   Treatment upsets.
         (a)   For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
federal categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the
reasonable control of the user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the
extent caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or
improper operation. An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an
action brought for noncompliance with federal categorical pretreatment
standards if the requirements of this division (C)(1) are met.
         (b)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or
other relevant evidence that:
            1.   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of
the upset;
            2.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
            3.   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW
within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset. If this information is provided
orally, a written submission shall be provided within five days from the date
the user became aware of the upset. The written submission shall include the
following information:
               i.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
               ii.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and
times or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected
to continue; and
               iii.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
         (c)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof. A user shall have the
opportunity for a judicial determination on any claim of upset only in an
enforcement action brought for noncompliance with federal categorical
pretreatment standards. The user shall control production of all discharges to
the extent necessary to maintain compliance with federal categorical
pretreatment standards upon reduction, loss or failure of its treatment
facility until the facility is restored or an alternative method of treatment
is provided. This requirement applies in the situation where, among other
things, the primary source of power of the treatment facility fails, is reduced
or lost.
      (2)   Treatment bypasses.
         (a)   For the purposes of this section, BYPASS means the intentional
diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a user’s treatment facility.
SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE means substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the treatment facilities which causes them to be inoperable, or substantial or
permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to occur
in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not mean economic loss
caused by delays in production. A user may allow a bypass to occur which does
not cause pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it
is for essential maintenance to ensure efficient operation of the treatment
system. These types of bypasses are not subject to the following provisions.
         (b)   Users anticipating a bypass must submit notice to the township
at least ten days in advance, if possible. Users shall provide oral notice to
the township within 24 hours of discovery of an unanticipated bypass that
exceeds applicable pretreatment standards. Users shall submit a written report
to the township within five days of becoming aware of the bypass. The written
report shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause; the duration of
the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has not been
corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps being
taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent recurrence of the bypass. The
township may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis if the oral
report has been received within 24 hours.
         (c)   A bypass of the treatment system without township approval is
prohibited and the township may take an enforcement action against the user for
a bypass unless all of the following conditions are met:
            1.   The bypass is unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury or severe property damage;
            2.   There is no feasible alternative to the bypass, including the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastewater, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            3.   The user properly notifies the township as described in this
section.
         (d)   The township may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the township determines that the user will
meet the conditions set forth in this section.
(Ord. 2-2010, passed 11-4-2010)
§ 55.06  PRETREATMENT FEES.
   (A)   Charges and fees for reimbursement of costs for setting up and
operating the township’s pretreatment program shall be established by
resolution from time to time and shall remain in force at current amounts
unless or until revised by later resolution.
   (B)   The fees may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the
cost of processing such applications;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures,
including the cost for the collection and analysis of a user’s discharge, and
the review of monitoring reports;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharges and
construction;
      (4)   Fees for filing appeals; and
      (5)   Other fees the township may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
         (a)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter
and are separate from all other fees chargeable by the township and may be
imposed regardless of wastewater discharge permit violations.
         (b)   Such fees may be billed on a monthly basis and may include, but
are not limited to, the following:
            1.   Chemical use fee. Reimbursement to the township for the use of
treatment chemicals at the township wastewater treatment plant that are not
typically needed as a result of a specific industrial wastewater discharge to
the sewer system causing interference or harm to the township’s wastewater
treatment processes, which may result in effluent violations of the township’s
NPDES permit. The treatment chemical use fees are extraordinary costs beyond
the typical operation and maintenance costs levied on all users of the township
sewer system;
            2.   Unusual incident fee. Any user introducing a substance
detrimental to the township’s sewer system, pumping facilities or wastewater
treatment processes, which result in abnormal costs for the township, shall be
charged and shall pay the actual total costs incurred as determined by the
township. This fee is in addition to any other penalties and fees imposed under
this chapter; and
            3.   Engineering fees. Reimbursement to the township for township
engineering fees relative to the Township Engineer’s involvement in the
implementation and enforcement of the Township Industrial Pretreatment Program.
(Ord. 2-2010, passed 11-4-2010)
§ 55.07  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Any member of the Township Council which receives, or has received,
during the previous two years, a significant portion of income directly or
indirectly from an industrial user is deemed to have a conflict of interest
regarding pretreatment matters (including discussions regarding enforcement)
pertaining to such industrial user.
   (B)   For any Township Council meeting, discussion or deliberation
pertaining to pretreatment activities of a specific industrial user where a
Township Council member is present, any Council member which has a conflict of
interest as described above shall excuse himself or herself, refrain from
voting and actively participating in the matter pertaining to the industrial
user and shall:
      (1)   Leave the room while the discussions are being held so as not to be
privy to the discussions if the township is in executive session or the
discussion is not otherwise open to the general public; and
      (2)   Not participate in the discussion so as to foster an opinion or
attempt to otherwise persuade the Township Council members as to the
appropriate response if the meeting or discussion is open to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF INCOME means
10% or more of gross personal income for a calendar year, except that it means
50% or more of gross personal income for a calendar year if the recipient is
over 60 years of age and is receiving that portion under retirement pension, or
similar arrangement. INCOME includes employee salary, retirement benefits,
consultant fees and stock dividends, but does not include mutual fund payments,
or payments from other diversified investments for which the recipient does not
know the identity of the primary sources of income. This provision does not
supersede any other legal obligations under federal, state or local law which
may impose more stringent requirements.
(Ord. 2-2010, passed 11-4-2010)
§ 55.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Administrative fines.
      (1)   When the township finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder,
or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, that user shall be fined an
amount not to exceed $25,000 per day for each violation. In the event the
township desires to increase the said fine above $25,000 per day, if authorized
by appropriate law, such increase shall be made by amendment to this chapter.
Each violation for each separate day shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense. In the case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits,
fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of violation. The
township is hereby authorized to adopt, from time to time, a formal, written
civil penalty assessment policy, known as the enforcement response plan and
civil penalty policy, which may set forth such fines not in excess of $25,000
per day, or such other amount as may be permitted by law and adopted by
ordinance amendment, and which said policy is available to users and other
interested parties upon request.
      (2)   The user charged with the fine shall have 30 days to pay the
proposed fine in full, or, if the user wishes to contest the amount of the fine
or the fact of the violation, the user may file an appeal. Failure to appeal
within this 30-day period shall result in a waiver of all legal rights to
contest the violation or the amount of the fine. Appeals of administrative
fines shall be subject to the procedure set forth in 2 Pa.C.S. The township may
add the costs for reestablishing the operation of the POTW and any other
appropriate costs to the administrative fines. Unpaid charges, fines and
penalties shall constitute a lien against an individual user’s property.
Issuance of an administrative fine shall not bar against, abridge, or alter any
right of action or remedy, existing in equity, or under the common law or
statutory law, criminal or civil, available to the township in taking any other
action against the user.
   (B)   Civil penalties. When the township fords that a user has violated, or
continues to violate this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement; or
determines the discharge from a user presents imminent or substantial harm to
the POTW or the public; or the discharge from the user causes the POTW to
violate any condition of its NPDES permit; or the user has shown a lack of
ability or intention to comply with a pretreatment standard, that user may, in
addition to an action for injunctive relief, be assessed a civil penalty in an
amount not to exceed $25,000 per violation, per day, regardless of
jurisdictional boundaries. Each violation for each separate day shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. In the case of a monthly or other
long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day during
the period of violation. The township may recover costs for reestablishing the
operation of the POTW, reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs and other
expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the
township. Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not bar against, or be a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user. The township shall
have the authority to resolve any pending litigation by entering into a consent
decree.
   (C)   Criminal prosecution. When the township fords that a user has
willfully or negligently violated, or continues to violate this chapter, a
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, that user may be subject to criminal
liability under federal, state or local law. In the event the user violates any
federal and/or state law, the penalty for such violation shall be as set forth
in such federal or state law. In the event the user violates any provision of
this chapter and/or the enforcement response plan, the penalty for such
violation shall be a fore of not less than $100 and not more than $1,000 for
each violation or 30-days’ imprisonment in default of payment for such fine.
Each day a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the township
from prosecuting any violation through criminal and/or civil proceedings or
both simultaneously.
(Ord. 2-2010, passed 11-4-2010)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
71.   ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Authority to adopt regulations
   
70.03   Temporary and emergency regulations
   
70.04   Authority of police officers
   
70.05   Motor vehicles not to be driven on sidewalks
   
70.06   Speed limits established
   
70.07   Play highways established
   
70.08   One-way streets
   
70.09   Parking prohibited
   
70.10   Snow emergencies
   
70.11   Authority to close highways
   
70.12   Ratification on existing regulations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Acceptance of roads, see §§
93.40,
93.41
   Street acceptances, vacations and name changes, see
TSO III
   Streets and sidewalks, see §§
93.01 through
93.05 and §§
93.20 through
93.27
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words and phrases, when used in this title, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in the Vehicle Code of Pennsylvania, (75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et
seq.) as now in force or as hereafter amended, enacted or reenacted, except in
those instances where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   (B)   The singular shall include the plural, and the masculine shall include
the feminine.
(1987 Code, § 119-1)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-1998)
§ 70.02  AUTHORITY TO ADOPT REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township shall have the right from time to
time to adopt traffic, parking and weight limitations not contrary to the
provisions of this title, written by ordinance, which shall be filed for public
inspection at the office of the Township Secretary-Treasurer and shall be
enforced as part of this title. Such written ordinance may establish stop
streets and through streets, set speed limits on particular highways, delineate
restricted parking areas, set weight limitations upon township roads and
supplement other provisions of this title.
(1987 Code, § 119-2)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-1998)
§ 70.03  TEMPORARY AND EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Supervisors shall have the following powers to regulate traffic
and parking temporarily and in times of emergency:
   (A)   In the case of fire, flood, storm or other emergency, to establish
temporary traffic and parking regulations; and
   (B)   In the case of emergency or to facilitate public works or in the case
of the conduct of parades and other public events, to restrict or prohibit
parking or traffic in limited areas for periods of not more than 72 hours. Such
temporary and emergency regulations shall be enforced by the Board of
Supervisors of the township in the same manner as permanent regulations. Any
person who shall operate a vehicle in violation of any such regulation shall be
liable to the penalty set forth in the law or elsewhere in this title.
(1987 Code, § 119-3)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-
1998)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04  AUTHORITY OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   The police officers of the township, now or hereafter designated, are hereby
given authority to direct traffic on the highways of the township and at
intersections thereof.
(1987 Code, § 119-4)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-
1998)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05  MOTOR VEHICLES NOT TO BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle longitudinally upon any sidewalk
in the township; nor shall any person operate any motor vehicle upon or across
any sidewalk except in order to gain egress from an authorized driveway. The
word SIDEWALK, as used in this section, shall mean any portion of any street or
abutting upon a street, which is used or reserved as a sidewalk, whether paved
or not.
(1987 Code, § 119-5)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-
1998)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06  SPEED LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   The speed limit on all streets within the township shall be 55 mph, except
upon those streets which are state highways, in which case the speed limit
shall be such speed limit as approved by the Secretary of the State Department
of Highways. The Board of Supervisors of the township shall have the right,
from time to time, to designate, by ordinance, a lower speed limit for any
township highways, except state highways, and, upon the adoption of such
ordinance and the posting of speed limit signs as provided by law, such lower
speed limit shall be the lawful speed.
(1987 Code, § 119-6)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-1998)
§ 70.07  PLAY HIGHWAYS ESTABLISHED.
   The Board of Supervisors is hereby authorized to designate as play highways,
whenever it shall deem such action to be advisable and for whatever period of
time directed by it, any portion of any street or alley in the township,
whereon sledding and coasting shall be permitted. Such highways shall be set
apart and marked off for the purpose under the direction of the Board of
Supervisors. No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon any play highway at
any time when such highway shall be so designated except in cases of emergency
with special permission of the Board of Supervisors, who shall first clear such
highway of all persons using such highway for the purpose for which it was set
apart.
(1987 Code, § 119-7)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-
1998)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08  ONE-WAY STREETS.
   By ordinance of the Board of Supervisors, as hereinbefore provided, streets
or designated lengths thereof in the township may be designated to accommodate
traffic in one direction only.
(1987 Code, § 119-8)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-
1998)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09  PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Parking is hereby prohibited at any and all times in the following
locations:
   (A)   In cul-de-sac or turnarounds;
   (B)   On such streets and on such sides or portions thereof as the Board of
Supervisors may, by ordinance, from time to time, so direct; and
   (C)   In front of a driveway or so close to the front of a driveway as to
impede the ingress or egress to or from said driveway.
(1987 Code, § 119-12)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-
1998)
§ 70.10  SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Within one hour after the commencement of each fall of snow in the
township, it shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or the operator of any
vehicle which has been parked upon any street or highway in the township to
remove said vehicle from the public streets and highways of the township.
   (B)   The township, through its authorized agents and employees, shall have
the right to remove such vehicle by towing or other means, and the cost of such
removal shall be collected from such owner, lessee or operator, in addition to
the fine and costs hereinbefore set forth.
(1987 Code, § 119-13)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-
1998)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11  AUTHORITY TO CLOSE HIGHWAYS.
   The Board of Supervisors shall have the right, by resolution, to temporarily
close any township road when, in its opinion, excessive or unusual conditions
have rendered such road unfit or unsafe for travel. Such road or portion of
road shall be properly marked in accordance with law, and any person using such
road or portion thereof, after the same has been properly closed and marked,
without a permit from the Board of Supervisors shall, upon conviction thereof,
be subject to a fine as provided in §
70.99.
(1987 Code, § 119-14)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-
1998)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12  RATIFICATION ON EXISTING REGULATIONS.
   All posted speed limit areas, stop signs, traffic lights and restricted
parking areas which are to date of the adoption of this title in effect in the
township are hereby declared ratified and validated, and the violation of such
provisions is an offense under this title in the same manner as if such
regulations had been enacted after the effective date of this title.
(1987 Code, § 119-17)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-
1998)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   This title shall be enforced by action brought before a District Justice in
the same manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses under the
State Rules of Criminal Procedure. Any person who violates or permits the
violation of this title shall, upon conviction in a summary proceeding, be
punishable by a fine of not more that $1,000 or by imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 90 days. Each day or portion thereof that such violation continues,
or is permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense. Each section
of this title that is violated shall also constitute a separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 119-18)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 3-96, passed 9-3-
1996; Ord. 1-97, passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-1998)
CHAPTER 71:  ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Applicability and scope
   
71.02   Authority to remove and impound
   
71.03   Tow-away zones designated
   
71.04   Designation of approved storage garages; bonding; towing and storage
   
71.05   Payment of towing and storage charges
   
71.06   Reclamation costs
   
71.07   Records of vehicles removed and impounded
   
71.08   Restrictions upon removal of vehicles
   
71.09   Reports and disposition of unclaimed vehicles
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE.
   This chapter is enacted under authority of § 6109(a-22) of the Vehicle Code
75 Pa C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq., as hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or
reenacted by the General Assembly of Pennsylvania), and gives authority to the
township to remove and impound those vehicles which are parked in a tow-away
zone and in violation of parking regulations of this chapter. Vehicles which
have been abandoned (as defined by the Vehicle Code) or which are parked in
such a manner as to interfere with traffic or pose a hazard to others may be
towed under the provisions of the State Motor Vehicle Code.
(1987 Code, § 119-19)  (Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-6-2000)
§ 71.02  AUTHORITY TO REMOVE AND IMPOUND.
   The township shall have authority to remove and impound, or to order the
removal and impounding, of any vehicle parked overtime or otherwise illegally,
provided that the circumstances of its parking were within the conditions
stated in §
71.01; provided, no such vehicle shall be removed or impounded except in strict
adherence to the provisions of this chapter, or the provisions of the State
Vehicle Code.
(1987 Code, § 119-20)  (Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-6-2000)
§ 71.03  TOW-AWAY ZONES DESIGNATED.
   The township shall have authority to remove and impound any vehicle on
township right-of-way where emergency or weather conditions mandate snow
removal or other action by the township to ensure the safety and welfare of
citizens. The township may designate other areas as tow-away zones as
necessary.
(1987 Code, § 119-21)  (Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-6-2000)
§ 71.04  DESIGNATION OF APPROVED STORAGE GARAGES; BONDING; TOWING AND STORAGE.
   Removal and impounding of vehicles under this chapter shall be done only by
approved storage garages that shall be designated from time to time by Board of
Supervisors. Every such garage shall submit evidence to Board of Supervisors
that it is bonded or has acquired liability insurance in an amount satisfactory
to Board of Supervisors as sufficient to indemnify owners of impounded vehicles
against loss or damage to those vehicles while in the custody of the garage
keeper for the purpose of towing or storage. The approved storage garage shall
submit to Board of Supervisors its schedule of charges for towing and storage
of vehicles under this chapter, and, when the schedule is approved by Board of
Supervisors, those charges shall be adhered to by the approved storage garage;
no different schedule of charges shall be demanded of or collected from any
person whose vehicle is removed or impounded under this chapter by any approved
storage garage. The Board of Supervisors shall delete from its list of approved
storage garages under any garage that makes any unapproved charge in connection
with any vehicle removed or impounded under this chapter. The township shall
not be liable for any damages sustained to the vehicle as a result of towing or
impoundment.
(1987 Code, § 119-22)  (Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-6-2000)
§ 71.05  PAYMENT OF TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
   The payment of towing and storage charges shall not relieve the owner or
driver of any vehicle from liability for any fine or penalty for the violation
of the provision of this chapter for which the vehicle was removed or
impounded.
(1987 Code, § 119-23)  (Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-6-2000)
§ 71.06  RECLAMATION COSTS.
   In order to reclaim his or her vehicle, the owner shall pay towing and
storage costs, plus a $25 fee, of which $10 shall be transferred to the State
Department of Transportation by the garage to which the vehicle was taken.
(1987 Code, § 119-24)  (Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-6-2000)
§ 71.07  RECORDS OF VEHICLES REMOVED AND IMPOUNDED.
   The township shall cause a record to be kept of all vehicles impounded under
this chapter and shall be able at all reasonable times to furnish the owners or
the agents of the owners of those vehicles with information as to the place of
storage of the vehicle.
(1987 Code, § 119-25)  (Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-6-2000)
§ 71.08  RESTRICTIONS UPON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall be removed under the authority of this chapter or the
Vehicle Code if, at the time of the intended removal, the owner or the person
for the time being in charge of the vehicle is present and expresses a
willingness and intention to remove the vehicle immediately.
(1987 Code, § 119-26)  (Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-6-2000)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09  REPORTS AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   If, after a period of 15 days the vehicle in storage remains unclaimed, a
report shall be filed with PennDOT in accordance with § 7311 of the Vehicle
Code by the person having legal custody of the vehicle. If the vehicle has not
been claimed after 30 days, the vehicle may be transferred to a licensed
salvor, who will then be responsible for filing the proper reports and
disposing of the vehicle in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 73 of the
State Motor Vehicle Code (75 Pa C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq., as amended).
(1987 Code, § 119-28)  (Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-6-2000)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of $50, together with all costs
of disposing of the vehicle under provisions of the Vehicle Code, 75 P.S. §§
7301 et seq., as hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or reenacted by the
General Assembly of the state.
(1987 Code, § 119-27)  (Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-6-2000)
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Stop intersections
      
III.   Yield intersections
      
IV.   Streets used by passenger motor vehicles only
      
V.   Weight limits
      
VI.   One-way streets
SCHEDULE I.  SPEED LIMITS.
   The speed limit for traffic along the following highways or parts thereof in
the township is hereby established at the rate of speed indicated below. The
proper township officials hereby are directed to install official signs on
these streets, providing notice of the speed limits established above. Said
signs shall be in accordance with any applicable state or local rules and
regulations and shall be placed in accordance with the recommendations
contained in the traffic engineering study prepared in conjunction with the
establishment of these new speed limits.
Name of Street (mph) Speed Limit Location Ord. No.
Name of Street (mph)        Speed Limit Location                      Ord. No.
Alpine Drive (T-703)        25          Entire length                 5-88
Asbury Road (T-489)         35          Entire length
Becker Road (T-492)         25          Entire length                 1-2009
                                        From the Antis Township/Logan
Bellmeade Drive (T-577)     25          Township line to a point      7-2007
                                        3,000 feet north of the Antis
                                        Township/Logan Township line
Bellmeade Drive (T-577)     35          Entire length
                                        From Grandview Drive to a
Hollen Road (T-493)         30          point 300 feet past Kissel    1-2009
                                        Lane
                                        From northwesterly end of
Hollen Road (T-493)         25          street to a point 300 feet    1-2009
                                        before Kissel Lane
Kerbaugh Road (T-490)       40          Entire length from Becker     8-90
                                        Road (T-492) to S.R. 4018
Kerbaugh Road (T-490)       35          Entire length                 1-2009
Kings Highway (T-579)       25          Entire length                 3-99
Maple Street (T-730)        20          Entire length                 8-99
McFarland Road 35 (T-510)   35          Entire length
North Hawthorne Drive (T-   25          Entire length                 5-88
402)
North Second Street (T-502) 30          Entire length                 1-2009
North Second Street (T-502) 25          From borough line, 2,000 feet
Parkway Drive (T-701)       25          Entire length                 5-88
                                        From the intersection with
                                        Grandview Road (S.R. 4015) to
Riggles Gap Road (T-483)    35          a point 1.61 miles west of    6-2007
                                        the intersection between
                                        Riggles Gap Road (T-483) and
                                        Grandview Road (S.R. 4015)
                                        From the Antis Township/Logan
                                        Township line to a point 1.61
Riggles Gap Road (T-483)    25          miles west of the             6-2007
                                        intersection between Riggles
                                        Gap Road and Grandview Road
                                        (S.R. 4015)
River Road (T-503)          35          Entire length                 1-2009
Rossman Road 25 (T-513)     25          Entire length                 1-98
Sassafras Street (T-717)    20          Entire length                 8-99
South Hawthorne Drive (T-   25          Entire length                 5-88
482)
Spruce Street (T-708)       25          Entire length                 3-99
Stetter Road (T-508)        25          Entire length                 1-2009
Watts Road (T-504)          25          Entire length                 3-99
Watts Road (T-504)          25          Entire length                 1-2009
 
(1987 Code, § 119-6)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 5-88, passed 12-1-
1988; Ord. 8-90, passed 10-2-1990; Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-1998; Ord. 1-98,
passed 1-15-1998; Ord. 3-99, passed 3-18-1999; Ord. 8-99, passed 10-21-1999; 
Ord. 6-2007, passed 11-1-2007; Ord. 7-2007, passed 12-6-2007; Ord. 1-2009,
passed 1-5-2009)
SCHEDULE II.  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   By ordinance of the Board of Supervisors as hereinbefore provided, streets
in the township may be designated and declared to be stop intersections, and
official stop signs shall be erected for traffic on such streets in the
direction or directions and at such intersections as the Board of Supervisors
shall, from time to time by ordinance, direct. The operator of every vehicle
approaching any such intersection facing any stop sign in the direction or
directions designated by any such ordinance of the Board of Supervisors shall
come to a full stop within a reasonable distance before entering any such
intersection.
Stop Sign on Direction of Travel At Intersection of
Stop Sign on                  Direction of Travel At Intersection of
Allen Street (T-715)          Northwest           East Fourth Street (T-567)
Allen Street (T-715)          Southeast           East Fifth Street (T-565)
Alpine Road (T-703)           North               Bellmeade Drive (T-577)
Antis Street(T-571)           Northwest           North Eleventh Street (T-572)
Antis Street (T-571)          Southeast           North Eleventh Street (T-572)
Antis Street (T-571)          Southeast           North Tenth Street (T-570)
Asbury Road (T-489)           North               Riggles Cap Road (T-483)
Bellmeade Drive (T-577)       North               Kings Highway (T-579)
Bellmeade Drive (T-577)       South               Kings Highway (T-579)
Cherry Street (T-707)         North               Bland Street (T-706)
Cherry Street (T-707)         South               Bland Street (T-706)
Chestnut Street (T-602)       Northwest           North Third Street (T-742)
Chestnut Street (T-602)       Southeast           North Second Street (T-502)
Clearfield Street (T-721)     North               Forest Street (T-718)
Clearfield Street (T-721)     North               Sassafras Street (T-717)
Clearfield Street (T-721)     South               Sassafras Street (T-717)
Craig Street (T-739)          Northeast           Frederick Street (T-729)
Deborah Street (T-716)        Northwest           Maple Street (T-730)
East Eighth Street (T-727)    Northeast           Tuckahoe Street (T-401)
East Eighth Street (T-727)    Southwest           Tuckahoe Street (T-401)
East Fourth Street (T-567)    Southwest           Logan Street (T-600)
East Seventh Street (T-704)   Northeast           Tuckahoe Street (T-401)
East Sixth Street (T-725)     Southwest           Tuckahoe Street (T-401)
East Walnut Street (T-566)    Northwest           East Fourth Street (T-567)
East Walnut Street (T-566)    Southeast           East Fifth Street (T-565)
East Walnut Street (T-566)    Southeast           East Fourth Street (T-567)
Eric Street (T-741)           Northeast           Frederick Street (T-729)
Ferndale Drive (T-762)        Southwest           Lynn Drive (T-764)
Forest Street (T-718)         East                Deborah Street (T-716)
Graham Drive North (T-770)    West                Riggles Gap Road (T-483)
Graham Drive (T-770)          South               West Riggles Gap Road (T-483)
Hollen Road (T-493)           East                Moser Road (T-488)
Kerbaugh Road (T-490)         North               Becker Road (T-492)
Kerbaugh Road (T-490)         South               Antis Road (T-485)
Kings Highway (T-579)         Northwest           Bellmeade Drive (T-577)
Laurel Drive (T-705)          North               Blair Street (T-497)
Laurel Drive (T-705)          South               Blair Street (T-497)
Laurel Street (T-702)         West                Tenth Street (T-570)
Lear Road (T-733)             Southwest           Riggles Gap Road (T-483)
Lee Drive (T-772)             West                Lynn Drive (T-764)
Lock Street (T-601)           Northwest           East Fourth Street (T-567)
Lock Street (T-601)           Northwest           North Ninth Street (T-569)
Lock Street (T-601)           Northwest           North Second Street (T-502)
Lock Street (T-601)           Northwest           North Sixth Street (T-568)
Lock Street (T-601)           Northwest           North Third Street (T-742)
Lock Street (T-601)           Southeast           North Ninth Street (T-569)
Lock Street (T-601)           Southeast           North Second Street (T-502)
Logan Street (T-600)          Northwest           East Main Street (T-607)
Logan Street (T-600)          Northwest           North Ninth Street (T-569)
Logan Street (T-600)          Northwest           North Second Street (T-502)
Logan Street (T-600)          Northwest           North Sixth Street (T-568)
Logan Street (T-600)          Southeast           North First Street (T-606)
Logan Street (T-600)          Southeast           North Ninth Street (T-569)
Logan Street (T-600)          Southeast           North Second Street (T-502)
Logan Street (T-600)          Southeast           North Sixth Street (T-568)
Lynn Street (T-764)           Northwest           Kingdom Street (T-760)
Maple Street (T-730)          East                Seventh Street (T-713)
Maple Street (T-730)          Southeast           Frederick Street (T-729)
Moser Road (T-488)            South               Riggles Gap Road (T-483)
North Fifth Street (T-724)    Northeast           Lock Street (T-601)
North Fifth Street (T-724)    Southwest           Logan Street (T-600)
North First Street (T-606)    Southwest           Lock Street (T-601)
North Fourth Street (T-498)   Northeast           Blair Street (T-497)
North Fourth Street (T-498)   Southwest           Blair Street (T-497)
North Hawthorne Drive (T-402) East                Bellmeade Drive (T-577)
North Hawthorne Drive (T-402) East                Parkway Drive (T-701)
North Hawthorne Drive (T-402) West                Bellmeade Drive (T-577)
North Ninth Street (T-569)    Southwest           Logan Street (T-600)
North Second Street (T-502)   Northeast           River Road (T-503)
North Second Street (T-502)   South               Logan Street (T-600)
North Seventh Street (T-713)  Southwest           Logan Street (T-600)
North Tenth Street (T-570)    Northeast           First Avenue (T-560)
North Third Street (T-742)    Southeast           Logan Street (T-600)
Old Route 220 (T-516)         West                River Road (T-503)
Oswald Road (T-501)           East                North Second Street (T-502)
Pamela Street (T-740)         Northeast           Frederick Street (T-729)
Pine Street (T-559)           Northeast           Blair Street (T-497)
Pine Street (T-719)           South               Sassafras Street (T-717)
Pine Street (T-559)           Southwest           Blair Street (T-497)
Reed Street (T-722)           Northwest           Maple Street (T-730)
Reed Street (T-722)           Southeast           Sassafras Street (T-717)
Smith Road (T-505)            East                Stetter Road (T-508)
South Hawthorne Drive (T-482) East                Bellmeade Drive (T-577)
South Hawthorne Drive (T-482) North               North Hawthorne Drive (T-402)
South Hawthorne Drive (T-482) West                Bellmeade Drive (T-577)
South Hawthorne Drive (T-482) West                Parkway Drive (T-701)
Stetter Road (T-508)          Southwest           River Road (T-503)
Walnut Street (T-720)         North               Sassafras Street (T-717)
Watts Road (T-504)            North               River Road (T-503)
 
(1987 Code, § 119-9)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 7-90, passed 8-7-1990;
Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-1998; Ord. 9-2000, passed 12-21-2000; Ord. 2-2001, passed
4-19-2001; Ord. 5-2001, passed 8-6-2001)
SCHEDULE III.  YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   By ordinance of the Board of Supervisors as hereinbefore provided, streets
in the township may be designated and declared to be yield intersections, and
official yield signs shall be erected for traffic on such streets in the
direction or directions and at such intersections as the Board of Supervisors
shall, from time to time by ordinance, direct. The operator of every vehicle
approaching any such intersection facing any yield sign in the direction or
directions designated by any such said ordinance of the Board of Supervisors
shall yield to oncoming traffic before entering any such intersection.
 
Yield Sign on               Direction of Travel At Intersection of
Harris Road (T-731)         West                Howard Road (T-711)
Hollen Road (T-493)         East                Moser Road (T-488)
North Second Street (T-502) North               River Road (T-503)
Stetter Road (T-508)        South               River Road (T-503)
 
(1987 Code, § 119-10)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-
1998)
SCHEDULE IV.  STREETS USED BY PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES ONLY.
   By ordinance of the Board of Supervisors, as hereinbefore provided, streets
in the township, or designated lengths thereof, may be designated and declared
to be set aside for the use of passenger motor vehicles only, but not including
any passenger motor vehicle drawing any trailer or towing any other vehicle. No
person shall at any time operate any commercial motor vehicle or any truck or
tractor upon any portion of street so set aside, except for the purpose of
delivery of goods, wares or merchandise to or collecting the same from premises
located on any such portion of street. Nothing in this schedule shall make it
unlawful to operate any fire apparatus or Fire Department vehicle upon any
street or portion thereof.
 
Name of Highway        Location
Sand Bank Road (T-481) From State Route 482 (L.R. 07027) to the Logan Township
                       line
 
(1987 Code, § 119-11)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-
1998)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V.  WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Weight limitations on certain highways.
      (1)   By ordinance of the Board of Supervisors as hereinbefore provided,
a weight limit may be imposed on streets in the township when the Board of
Supervisors feels that said limitation is necessary to protect and preserve
said roadway. Said street shall be properly posted for the same, and person
violating said weight limitation shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to
a fine as provided in §
70.99. Notwithstanding anything else in this division (A) to the contrary, no
weight limit imposed by the township on any streets in the township shall apply
to local deliveries, which shall be exempt from the weight limits contained
herein.
      (2)   Weight limitations are hereby imposed upon the following township
roads:
Name of Street Weight Limit (tons) Location Ord. No.
Name of Street           Weight Limit (tons) Location                 Ord. No.
Antis Road (T-485)       12                  Entire length            3-2006
Asbury Lane (T-489)      10                  Entire length            5-93
Becker Road (T-492)      19                  Entire length            3-2006
Brush Mountain Road (T-  10                  Northernmost 1.2 +/      3-2006
784)                                         - miles to a cul-de-sac
Danbeck Road (T-509)     10                  Entire length            5-93
Glenby Drive (T-736)     8                   Entire length             
Hollen Road (T-493)      13                  Entire length            5-93
Igou Road (T-521)        30                  Entire length            3-2006
Kerbaugh Road (T-490)    16                  Entire length            3-2006
Kings Highway (T-579)    8                   Entire length             
McFarland Road (T-510)   8                   Entire length             
Moser Road (T-488)       10                  Entire length            5-93
Riggles Gap Road (T-483) 10                  Entire length            3-2006
                                             1,200 feet from U.S.
Ritts Road (T-480)       8                   Route 220 to the cul-de-  
                                             sac
Rossman Road (T-513)     10                  Entire length            5-93
Sandbank Road (T-481)    8                   Entire length             
Smith Road (T-505)       13                  Entire length            5-93
Stetter Road (T-508)     10                  Entire length            5-93
Watts Road (R-504)       10                  Entire length            5-93
 
(1987 Code, § 119-15)
   (B)   Weight limitations on certain bridges.
      (1)   In accordance with 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902(a), vehicles and mechanized
equipment of any kind in excess of the gross weight indicated are hereby
prohibited from traveling on the following bridges:
Name of Street (tons) Weight Limit Location Ord. No.
Name of Street (tons)       Weight Limit Location                      Ord. No.
                                         Approximately 1 mile west of
Asbury Road (T-488)         11           S.R. 4015 (Riggles Gap Road)  1-91
                                         near the Riggles Gap Bible
                                         Church
                                         Approximately 1,500 feet west
Becker Road (T-493)         5            of the intersection of T-493  1-91
                                         and S.R. 4019
                                         Approximately 700 feet east
Becker Road (T-509)         22           of the intersection of S.R.   1-91
                                         4015
                                         Approximately 600 feet
Danbeck Road (T-590)        15           northwest of the intersection 1-91
                                         of T-509 and S.R. 4021
Kelsey Road (T-734)         15           900 feet from L.R. 865 over
                                         Bells Gap Run
                                         Approximately 1,000 feet
McFarland Road (T-510)      5            south of the Snyder Township  1-91
                                         line
                                         Approximately 1,000 feet
North Second Street (T-502) 19           south of the Bellwood Borough 1-91
                                         line near the Antis Township
                                         Municipal Building
Rossman Road (T-513)        5            Approximately 1,500 feet west 1-91
                                         of S.R. 4025
 
      (2)   Any person operating a vehicle or combination upon a highway or
bridge in violation of a prohibition or restriction imposed under this division
(B) is guilty of a summary offense and shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to
pay a fine of $75, except that any person convicted of operating a vehicle with
a gross weight in excess of a posted weight shall, upon conviction, be
sentenced to pay a fine of $150 plus $150 for each 500 pounds, or part thereof,
in excess of 3,000 pounds over the maximum allowable weight.
(1987 Code, § 119-16)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 1-91, passed 3-5-
1991; Ord. 5-93, passed 12-7-1993; Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-1998; Ord. 1-2003,
passed 1-6-2003; Ord. 3-2006, passed 11-2-2006)
SCHEDULE VI.  ONE-WAY STREETS.
   By ordinance of the Board of Supervisors, as hereinbefore provided, streets
or designated lengths thereof in the township may be designated to accommodate
traffic in one direction only. The proper township officials hereby are
directed to install official signs on these streets, providing notice of the
one-way traffic restriction established above. Said signs shall be in
accordance with any applicable state or local rules and regulations.
 
Street                 Location                   Direction
                       Entire length, from its    One-way street, with
                       intersection with Pleasant traffic permitted in a
Old Route 220 Road (T- Valley Boulevard (S.R.     southbound direction only.
516)                   1001), approximately 500   No traffic shall be
                       feet to its intersection   permitted in a northerly
                       with River Road (T-503)    direction
                       Entire length, from its    One-way street, with
                       intersection with Pleasant traffic permitted in a
                       Valley Boulevard (S.R.     southbound direction only.
Forge Road (T-576)     1001), approximately 750   No traffic shall be
                       feet to its intersection   permitted in a northerly
                       with Stadium Drive/        direction
                       Cemetery Road
 
(1987 Code, § 119-8)  (Ord. 03-2007, passed 8-2-2007; Ord. 04-2007, passed 8-2-
2007)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I.  PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Parking is hereby prohibited at any and all times in the following
locations:
      (1)   On Township Road T-503, known as the “River Road”;
      (2)   Along the westerly side of Route 220 from the intersection of Route
865 to a point 150 feet north of said intersection;
      (3)   Along the northwesterly side of Route 220 from the intersection of
Legislative Route 07028 (4023) to a point 300 feet northeast of said
intersection;
      (4)   Along Route 220 on the northwesterly side from the intersection of
Legislative Route 07028 (State Route 4021) to a point 1,100 feet southwest of
said intersection (Ord. 4-88);
      (5)   Along the southeasterly side of Route 220 from a point which is an
extension of the southwesterly side of Legislative Route 07028 onto the
southeasterly side of Route 220; thence in a southwesterly direction 1,200 feet
to a point on line of land of Altoona Enterprises, Inc. (Ord. 4-88);
      (6)   Both sides, entire length of East Ninth Street (Ord. 2-95);
      (7)   Along S.R. 0220 on the southeast side from the intersection of
Rossi Drive, T-789, to a point 400 feet northeast of said intersection (Ord. 2-
98);
      (8)   Along S.R. 4023 on the southwest side from the intersection of S.R.
0220 to a point 400 feet west of said intersection (Ord. 2-98);
      (9)   Along S.R. 4023 on the northwest side from the intersection of S.R.
0220 to a point 450 feet west of said intersection (Ord. 2-98);
      (10)   Along Rossi Drive, T-789, on the southwest side from the
intersection of S.R. 0220 to a point 540 feet southeast of said intersection
(Ord. 4-98);
      (11)   Along Rossi Drive, T-789, on the northeast side from the
intersection of S.R. 0220 to a point 540 feet east of said intersection (Ord.
4-98);
      (12)   Along the Bellwood-Antis School District side (west side) of
Martin Street (Ord. 3-2000);
      (13)   Along S.R. 1001 on the northeast side front the intersection of
S.R. 0764 to a point 200 feet northeast of said intersection (Ord. 9-2001);
      (14)   Along S.R. 4022 (Stadium Drive) on the westbound side, from the
intersection of S.R. 4022 and S.R. 0220 to the intersection of S.R. 4022 and
2nd Street (Ord. 5-2003);
      (15)   Along S.R. 4022 (Stadium Drive) on the westbound side, from the
intersection of S.R. 4022 and S.R. 0220 to the intersection of S.R. 4022 and
2nd Street (Ord. 5-2003); and
      (16)   Along T-492 (Becker Road) on both sides, from the intersection of
T-492 and T-490 (Kerbaugh Road), in the direction of the intersection of T-492
and S.R. 4019 (Main Street), to the township line (Ord. 4-2005).
   (B)   The township staff hereby is authorized and directed to install
official “No Parking” signs consistent with division (A) above. Said signs
shall be in accordance with rules and regulations of the Pennsylvania
Department of Transportation (PennDOT).
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall,
upon conviction thereof before a District Justice, be subject to a fine as
provided in §
70.99.
(1987 Code, § 119-12)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 2-24-1970; Ord. 4-88, passed 12-1-
1988; Ord. 2-95, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 1-88, passed 1-4-1998; Ord. 2-98,
passed 2-19-1998; Ord. 4-98, passed 6-2-1998; Ord. 3-2000, passed 5-18-2000;
Ord. 9-2001, passed 12-3-2001; Ord. 5-2003, passed 4-3-2003; Ord. 4-2005,
passed 7-7-2005)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   AIR POLLUTION
      
91.   FIRE PROVISIONS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90:  AIR POLLUTION
Section
   
90.01   Title
   
90.02   Authority
   
90.03   Policy
   
90.04   Definitions
   
90.05   Regulations
   
90.06   Enforcement orders
   
90.07   Responsibility of the owners and operators
   
90.08   Unlawful conduct
   
90.09   Public nuisances
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Garbage, rubbish and refuse, see
Chapter 51
   Volunteer fire companies, see
Chapter 32
§ 90.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Township of Antis Air
Pollution Control Ordinance of 2001”.
(1987 Code, § 42-1)  (Ord. 7-2001, passed 9-5-2001)
§ 90.02  AUTHORITY.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township under and by virtue of and pursuant
to the authority granted by Second Class Township Code do hereby enact and
ordain this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 42-2)
§ 90.03  POLICY.
   Whereas the Board of Supervisors of the township has determined that air
pollution from open burning may be detrimental to the health, comfort, living
conditions, welfare and safety of the citizens of the township, it is hereby
declared to be the policy of the township to safeguard the citizens of the
township from such air pollution by preventing needless damage to life and
property because of public and private nuisances caused by outdoor fires
deliberately or carelessly set and maintained.
(1987 Code, § 42-3)  (Ord. 7-2001, passed 9-5-2001)
§ 90.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT.  An individual 18 years or older who is not under the influence of
drugs or alcohol or suffering from any other disability which would impair his
or her ability to properly supervise a fire.
   AIR BASIN.  A geographic area of this commonwealth as determined in
Attachment A of the ordinance codified herein, which is on file in the township
offices.
   AIR CURTAIN DESTRUCTOR.  A mechanical device that forcefully projects a
curtain of air across a pit in which open burning is being conducted so that
combustion efficiency is increased and smoke and other particulate matter are
contained.
   BURNING.  The act of consuming by fire; to flame, char, scorch or blaze. As
used in this chapter, SMOLDERING shall have the same meaning as BURNING and any
SMOLDERING shall be deemed a BURNING.
   CLEARINGANDGRUBBING WASTES.  Trees shrubs and other native vegetation which
are cleared from land during or prior to the process of construction. The term
does not include demolition wastes and dirt-laden roots.
   COMPOSTING.  The process by which organic solid waste is biologically
decomposed under controlled anaerobic conditions to yield a humus-like product.
   DOMESTIC REFUSE.  Waste which is generated from the normal occupancy of a
structure occupied solely as a dwelling by two families or less. The term does
not include appliances, carports, demolition waste (insulation, shingles,
siding and the like) furniture, mattresses or box springs, paint, putrescible
waste, solvents, tires or treated wood.
   MUNICIPALITY.  A city, incorporated town, borough, county, municipal
authority or other public body created under state law having jurisdiction over
the disposal of sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes.
   OPEN BURNING.  A fire, the air contaminants from which are emitted directly
into the outdoor atmosphere and not directed through a flue.
   PERSON.  Any individual, public or private corporation for profit or not for
profit, association, partnership, firm, estate, department, board, bureau or
agency of the commonwealth or the federal government, political subdivision,
municipality, district authority or any other legal entity whatsoever which is
recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties.
   TOWNSHIP BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.  The Board of Supervisors of the Township of
Antis.
   YARD WASTE.  Leaves, grass clippings, garden residue, tree trimmings,
chipped shrubbery and other vegetative material.
(1987 Code, § 42-4)  (Ord. 7-2001, passed 9-5-2001)
§ 90.05  REGULATIONS.
   After September 5, 2001, no person may be permitted the open burning of
material, with the exception of the following:
   (A)   On Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday from 7:00 a.m. until 7:00 p.m. of
each week and/or at such other days and times as may be designated by the Board
of Supervisors from time to time when they deem the same necessary for the
purpose of burning only nonrecyclable paper, corrugated paper and nonrecyclable
cardboard (cereal boxes) when the fire is on the premises of any structure
occupied solely as a dwelling by two families or less and only when such refuse
results from normal occupancy of said structure; and
   (B)   All open burning requires adult supervision and no fire will be left
unattended.
      (1)   Any and all open burning of material shall be done in an approved
container such as a metal barrel or concrete enclosure for any material burned
pursuant to divisions (B)(7) and (B)(8) below, which must conform to DEP
standards and to the following.
         (a)   Said container shall be within reach of an operating water
faucet and/or operating garden hose and shall be placed on privately owned
property, but in no event shall said container be placed closer than 15 feet
from the property line of the person so burning.
         (b)   Said container shall be at least 15 feet from any dwelling or
structure, whether inhabited by humans or not.
         (c)   Said container shall not be placed on or near any combustible
material nor on the surface of any public street or road.
      (2)   A fire set to prevent or abate a fire hazard, when approved by the
Department of Environmental Protection’s Regional Air Quality Program office
and set by or under the supervision of a public officer.
      (3)   Any fire set for the purpose of instructing personnel in
firefighting, when approved by the Department of Environmental Protection’s
Regional Air Quality Program Office.
      (4)   A fire set for the prevention and control of disease or pests, when
approved by the Department of Environmental Protection’s Regional Air Quality
Program Office.
      (5)   A fire set for the purpose of burning clearing and grubbing waste.
         (a)   If within an air basin, an air curtain destructor must be used
and must be approved by the Department of Environmental Protection’s Regional
Air Quality Program Office.
         (b)   Clearing and grubbing waste may be burned subject to the
following requirements.
            1.   A permit to burn clearing and grubbing waste must be obtained
from the township.
            2.   Upon receipt of a complaint or determination by the Township
Ordinance Enforcement Officer that an air pollution problem exists, the
Ordinance Enforcement Officer may order that the open burning cease.
            3.   Clearing and grubbing waste cannot be transported for the
purpose of burning from one area of the township to another or be transported
into the township from any other municipality.
      (6)   A fire set in conjunction with the production of agricultural
commodities in their unmanufactured state on the premises of the farm
operation.
      (7)   A fire set solely for cooking food. For the purposes of this
chapter, the cooking of food on or by charcoal or propane gas shall not be
considered open burning so long as the grills meet federal and state safety
standards.
      (8)   A fire set solely for recreational or ceremonial purposes.
      (9)   All other open burning is prohibited.
      (10)   Fire ban emergency.
         (a)   The Board of Supervisors may declare a fire ban emergency in the
township with or without consultation with the Fire Chiefs of the volunteer
companies operating within the township during a period of drought or other
periods of high fire risk to woodlands or property within the township.
         (b)   Upon the Board of Supervisors declaring a fire ban emergency,
all outdoor burning or fire shall be prohibited until the ban is lifted by the
Board of Supervisors.
         (c)   The township shall publish a notice of the fire ban emergency at
least once in a local newspaper of general circulation. In addition, the
township may issue news releases to all communication media, including radio,
television and newspapers.
(1987 Code, § 42-5)  (Ord. 7-2001, passed 9-5-2001)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06  ENFORCEMENT ORDERS.
   (A)   The Township Ordinance Enforcement Officer (OEO) and any other duly
authorized agent shall have the power and duty to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   The township may issue such orders as are necessary to aid in the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. These orders shall include, but
shall not be limited to, orders requiring persons to cease unlawful open
burning which, in the course of its occurrence, is in violation of any
provision of this chapter; orders to take corrective action or to abate a
public nuisance; orders requiring the testing, sampling or monitoring of any
open burning; or orders requiring production of information. Such an order may
be issued if the Township OEO finds that any condition existing in or on the
facility or source involved is causing or contributing to open burning or if
the Township OEO finds that any person is in violation of any provision of this
chapter.
   (C)   The township may, in its order, require compliance with such
conditions as are necessary to prevent or abate open burning or affect the
purposes of this chapter.
   (D)   An order issued under this section shall take effect upon notice
unless the order specifies otherwise. An appeal to the Board of Supervisors of
the township shall not act as a supersede; provided, however, that, upon
application and for cause shown, the Board of Supervisors may issue such a
supersede as under rules established by the Board of Supervisors.
   (E)   The authority of the township to issue an order under this section is
in addition to any remedy or penalty which may be imposed pursuant to this
chapter. Failure to comply with any such order is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance.
(1987 Code, § 42-6)  (Ord. 7-2001, passed 9-5-2001)
§ 90.07  RESPONSIBILITY OF THE OWNERS AND OPERATORS.
   (A)   Whenever the Ordinance Enforcement Officer finds open burning is
occurring in the township, other than those exceptions noted in §
90.05, the Ordinance Enforcement Officer may order the owner or operator to
take corrective action in a manner satisfactory to the township, or the
Ordinance Enforcement Officer may order the owner or operator to allow access
to the land by the Ordinance Enforcement Officer or a third party to take such
action.
   (B)   For the purpose of collecting or recovering the costs involved in
taking corrective action or pursuing a cost recovery action pursuant to an
order or recovering the cost of litigation, oversight, monitoring, sampling,
testing and investigation related to a corrective action, the township may
collect the amount in the same manner as civil penalties are assessed and
collected following the process for assessment and collection of a civil
penalty contained in §
90.99(B).
(1987 Code, § 42-7)  (Ord. 7-2001, passed 9-5-2001)
§ 90.08  UNLAWFUL CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with or to cause or assist in the
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or fail to comply with any
order or other requirement of the township; or to cause a public nuisance; or
to cause air, soil or water pollution resulting from an open burning incident;
or to hinder, obstruct, prevent or interfere with the township or its personnel
in the performance of any duty hereunder, including denying the Ordinance
Enforcement Officer or other authorized personnel access to the source of
facility; or to violate the provisions of 18 Pa.C.S. § 4903 (relating to false
swearing) or 18 Pa.C.S. § 4904 (related to unsworn falsification to
authorities) in regard to papers required to be submitted under this chapter.
The owner or operator of an open burning source shall not allow pollution of
the air, water or other natural resources of the township to result from the
source.
(1987 Code, § 42-10)  (Ord. 7-2001, passed 9-5-2001)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09  PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   A violation of this chapter or any other order issued by the township under
this chapter shall constitute a public nuisance. The township shall have the
authority to order any person causing a public nuisance to abate the public
nuisance. In addition, when abating a public nuisance, the township may recover
the expenses of the abatement following the process for assessment and
collection of a civil penalty contained in §
90.99. Whenever the nuisance is maintained or continued contrary to this
chapter or any order issued pursuant to this chapter, the nuisance may be
abatable in the manner provided by this chapter. Any person who causes a public
nuisance shall be liable for the cost of the abatement.
(1987 Code, § 42-11)  (Ord. 7-2001, passed 9-5-2001)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal penalties. Any person who violates any provision of this
chapter or any order of the township issued pursuant to this chapter commits a
summary offense and shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not
less than $100 nor more than $500 for each separate offense and, in default of
the payment of such fine, may be sentenced to imprisonment for 90 days for each
separate offense. Employees of the township authorized to conduct inspections
or investigations are hereby declared to be law enforcement officers authorized
to issue or file citations for summary violations under this chapter, and the
Township Board of Supervisors are hereby authorized to prosecute these
offenses. For purposes of this section, a summary offense may be prosecuted
before any District Justice in this township. There is no accelerated
rehabilitative disposition authorized for a summary offense.
(1987 Code, § 42-8)
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   When the township proposes to assess a civil penalty, it shall
inform the person of the proposed amount of the penalty. The person charged
with the penalty shall then have 30 days to pay the proposed penalty in full;
or if the person wishes to contest the amount of the penalty or the fact of the
violation to the extent not already established, the person shall forward the
proposed amount of the penalty to the Board of Supervisors within the 30-day
period for placement in an escrow account with the State Treasurer or any other
commonwealth bank or post an appeal bond to the Board of Supervisors within 30
days in the amount of the proposed penalty, provided that such bond is executed
by a surety licensed to do business in the commonwealth and is satisfactory to
the township. If, through administrative or final judicial review of the
proposed penalty, it is determined that no violation occurred or that the
amount of penalty shall be reduced, the Board of Supervisors shall, within 30
days, remit the appropriate amount to the person with any interest accumulated
by the escrow deposit. Failure to forward the money or the appeal bond at the
time of the appeal shall result in a waiver of all legal rights to contest the
violation or the amount of the civil penalty unless the appellant alleges
financial inability to repay the penalty or to post the appeal bond. The Board
of Supervisors shall conduct a hearing to consider the appellant’s alleged
inability to pay within 30 days of the date of the appeal. The Board of
Supervisors may waive the requirement to prepay the civil penalty or to post an
appeal bond if the appellant demonstrates and the Board of Supervisors finds
that the appellant is financially unable to pay. The Board of Supervisors shall
issue an order within 30 days of the hearing to consider the appellant’s
alleged inability to pay.
      (2)   The amount assessed after the administrative hearing or after
waiver of the administrative hearing shall be payable to the township and shall
be collectable in any manner provided by law for the collection of debts,
including the collection of interest on the penalty amount computed in
accordance with § 9921(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (filing of a
notice of lien under this section).
(1987 Code, § 42-9)
(Ord. 7-2001, passed 9-5-2001)
CHAPTER 91:  FIRE PROVISIONS
Section
Fire Insurance Claims
   
91.01   Use of fire insurance proceeds
   
91.02   Limits of liability
   
91.03   Insurance company rights reserved
   
91.04   Construal of provisions; purpose
   
91.05   Notification of Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic
Development
 
   
91.99   Penalty
FIRE INSURANCE CLAIMS
§ 91.01  USE OF FIRE INSURANCE PROCEEDS.
   (A)   No insurance company, association or exchange (hereinafter “insurer”)
doing business in the commonwealth shall pay a claim of a named insured for
fire damage to a structure located within the township, where the amount
recoverable for the fire loss to the structure under all policies exceeds
$7,500, unless the insurer is furnished by the Secretary-Treasurer of the
township with a certificate pursuant to § 508(b) of the Insurance Company Law
of 1921 as amended by Act 98 of 1992 and Act 93 of 1994 (collectively the
“Act”) and unless there is compliance with the procedures set forth in §§ 508
(c) and 508(d) of the Act. See 40 P.S. § 638.
   (B)   Delinquent municipal claims:
      (1)   Where there are delinquent taxes, assessments, penalties or user
charges against the property (municipal claims), or there are expenses which
the township has incurred as costs for removal, repair or securing of a
building or other structure on the property (collectively “municipal
expenses”), the Secretary-Treasurer of the township shall immediately render a
bill for such work, if not already done; upon written request of the named
insured specifying the description of the property, the name and address of the
insurer and the date of receipt by the insurer of a loss report of the claim,
the Secretary-Treasurer of the township shall furnish a certificate within 14
days after the request to the insurer either:
         (a)   Stating that there are no unpaid municipal claims or municipal
expenses against the property; or
         (b)   Specifying the nature and amount of such claims or expenses,
accompanied by a bill for such amounts.
      (2)   Taxes, assessments, penalties and user charges shall be deemed
delinquent for this purpose if a lien could have been filed for such claims
under applicable law. Upon receipt of a certificate and bill pursuant to
division (B)(1)(b) above, the insurer shall transfer to the Secretary-Treasurer
of the township an amount from the insurance proceeds sufficient to pay said
sums prior to making payment to the named insured, subject to the provisions of
division (C) below.
   (C)   When all municipal claims and municipal expenses have been paid
pursuant to division (B) above, or when the Township Secretary-Treasurer has
issued a certificate described in division (B)(1)(a) above, indicating that
there are no municipal claims or municipal expenses against the property, the
insurer shall pay the claim of the named insured; provided, however, that if
the loss agreed upon by the named insured and the insurer equals or exceeds 60%
of the aggregate limits of liability on all fire policies covering the building
or structure, the following procedures must be followed.
      (1)   The insurer shall transfer from the insurance proceeds to the
Township Secretary-Treasurer, in the aggregate, $2,000 for each $15,000 of such
claim or fraction thereof.
      (2)   If at the time a loss report is submitted by the insured, such
insured has submitted to the insurer, with a copy to the township, a
contractor’s signed estimate of the cost of removing, repairing or securing the
building or other structure in an amount less than the amount calculated under
the foregoing transfer formula, the insurer shall transfer to the Secretary-
Treasurer of the township from the insurance proceeds the amount specified in
the estimate. If there is more than one insurer, the transfer of proceeds shall
be on a pro-rate basis by all insurers insuring the building or other
structure.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the above-described portion of the insurance
proceeds, the Secretary-Treasurer of the township, shall do the following:
         (a)   Place the proceeds in a separate fund to be used solely as
security against the total municipal expenses anticipated by the township to be
required in removing, repairing or securing the building or structure as
required by this subchapter. Such costs shall include, without limitation, any
engineering, legal or administrative costs incurred by the township in
connection with such removal, repair or securing or any proceedings related
thereto;
         (b)   Mail to the named insured at the address received from the
insurer a notice that the proceeds have been received by the township and that
the procedures under this division (C) shall be followed;
         (c)   After the transfer, the named insured may submit to the township
a contractor’s signed estimate of the cost of removing, repairing or securing
the building or other structure, in which event the Township Secretary-
Treasurer shall, if such estimates are deemed by the Township Secretary-
Treasurer to be reasonable, return to the insured the amount of the funds
transferred to the township in excess of that amount required to pay the
municipal expenses; provided, however, that the township has not commenced to
remove, repair or secure the building or other structure, in which case the
township will complete the work;
         (d)   Pay to the Secretary-Treasurer of the township for reimbursement
to the Township General Fund, the amount of the municipal expenses paid by the
township; and
         (e)   Pay the remaining balance in the fund without interest to the
named insured upon receipt of a certificate issued by the Township Secretary-
Treasurer that the repair, removal or securing of the building or other
structure has been completed in accordance with all applicable codes and
regulations of the township.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ability of
the township to recover any deficiency in the amount of municipal claims or
municipal expenses recovered pursuant to this subchapter, or to insurance
proceeds, by an action at law or in equity to enforce the township codes or to
enter into an agreement with the named insured with regard to such other
disposition of the proceeds as the township may deem responsible.
(1987 Code, § 74-1)  (Ord. 3-2002, passed 4-4-2002)
§ 91.02  LIMITS OF LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to make an insurance company,
association or exchange liable for any amount in excess of proceeds payable
under its insurance policy or for any other act performed pursuant to this
subchapter or to make the township or any public official of the township an
insured under a policy of insurance or to create an obligation to pay
delinquent property taxes or unpaid removal liens or expenses other than as
provided in this subchapter.
(1987 Code, § 74-2)  (Ord. 3-2002, passed 4-4-2002)
§ 91.03  INSURANCE COMPANY RIGHTS RESERVED.
   An insurance company, association or exchange making payment of policy
proceeds under this article for delinquent taxes or structural removal liens or
removal expenses incurred by the township shall have full benefit of such
payment including all rights of subrogation and of assignment.
(1987 Code, § 74-3)  (Ord. 3-2002, passed 4-4-2002)
§ 91.04  CONSTRUAL OF PROVISIONS; PURPOSE.
   This subchapter shall be liberally construed to accomplish its purpose to
deter the commission of arson and related crimes, to discourage the abandonment
of property and to prevent urban blight and deterioration.
(1987 Code, § 74-4)  (Ord. 3-2002, passed 4-4-2002)
§ 91.05  NOTIFICATION OF PENNSYLVANIA DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
   The Secretary-Treasurer of the township shall transmit a certified copy of
this subchapter promptly to the State Department of Community and Economic
Development.
(1987 Code, § 74-5)  (Ord. 3-2002, passed 4-4-2002)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any owner of property, any named insured or insurer who violates the
provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.05, or who shall fail to comply with any of the requirements hereof shall be
sentenced, upon conviction thereof, to pay a fine not greater than $1,000 plus
costs, and in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day in which an offense shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 74-6)  (Ord. 3-2002, passed 4-4-2002)
CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Nuisances declared illegal
   
92.03   Written notice to violators required
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 53 P.S. § 66529
§ 92.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number include the plural number, and the
word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   (B)   For purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.  The Board of Supervisors of Antis Township, Blair
County.
      JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES.  Any motor vehicle, which is no longer in actual
use that is wholly unfit to be operated or has been discarded or otherwise
abandoned.
      NUISANCE.  The unreasonable, unwarrantable, or unlawful use of public or
private property which causes injury, damage, hurt, inconvenience, annoyance or
discomfort to any person or resident in the legitimate enjoyment of his
reasonable rights of a person or property.
      OWNER.  A person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any
premises within the township.
      PERSON.  Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, club, co-partnership, society, or any organization of any kind.
      TEMPORARY STORAGE FACILITIES.  Includes, but is not limited to trailers
or similar facilities or structures, which are not permanently affixed to the
real estate.
      TOWNSHIP.  The Township of Antis, which is located within the confines of
Blair County, Pennsylvania.
      VEGETATION.  Any grass, weed or vegetation whatsoever, which is not
edible or planted for some useful, legal purpose.
(Ord. 3-2005, passed 6-2-2005)
§ 92.02  NUISANCES DECLARED ILLEGAL.
   Nuisances, including, but not limited to the following, are hereby declared
to be illegal:
   (A)   Storing or accumulating the following.
      (1)   Garbage, ashes, refuse or rubbish.
         (a)   Garbage.  Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation,
cooking and consumption of food; wastes from the handling, storage and sale of
produce. It shall be unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the
township any garbage or other material subject to decay other than leaves or
grass, excepting in a tightly covered container; excepting that a mulch heap is
permitted, which is properly maintained for gardening purposes and does not
materially disturb or annoy persons of ordinary sensibilities in the
neighborhood. It shall be unlawful to any individual, firm or corporation to
store more than seven days of garbage as defined by this ordinance, which may
pose a potential health and safety problems to the community.
         (b)   Refuse/rubbish.  Combustible trash, including paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, wood furniture, bedding; noncombustible trash,
including metals, tin cans, metal furniture, glass, crockery, other mineral
waste; contents of letter receptacles. Provided, refuse shall not include earth
and wastes from building operations, nor shall it include leaves, cornstalks,
stubble or other vegetable material generated in the course of harvesting
agricultural crops. It shall be unlawful to cause or permit to accumulate any
dust, ashes or trash of such a material that it can be blown away by the wind
anywhere in the township excepting in a covered container.
      (2)   Junk material.  Including, but not limited to, unused or abandoned
machinery, equipment or appliances, and all forms of waste and refuse of any
type of materials, including scrap metal, glass, industrial waste and other
salvageable materials, that can be seen from any public highway, road, street,
avenue, lane or alley which is maintained by the township, or by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   (B)   Storing or accumulating abandoned or junked motor vehicles; exterior
storage.  No person in charge of or in control of premises, whether as owner,
lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise, shall allow a motor vehicle which is
abandoned, junked, not registered, uninspected or disabled or any large vehicle
component, including but not limited to engines, transmissions, axle housings,
frames or bodies, to remain on such property for a period in excess of 20 days,
provided that this section shall not apply with regard to any vehicle or
vehicle component completely contained within an enclosed building. For
purposes of this section, the term ENCLOSED BUILDING shall mean a roofed and
walled structure built for permanent use. This chapter shall further not apply
with regard to any vehicle or vehicle component on the premises of a business
enterprise operated in a lawful place, and operated in a lawful manner, when
the keeping or maintaining of such a vehicle or vehicle component is necessary
to the operation of such business enterprise or with regard to a vehicle or
vehicle component in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the township or any other public entity. Any vehicle
or vehicle component in violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby
declared a nuisance.
   (C)   Draining or flowing, or allowing to drain or flow, by pipe or other
channel. Draining or flowing, or allowing to drain or flow, by pipe or other
channel, whether natural or artificial, any foul or offensive water or drainage
from sinks, bathtubs, washstands, lavatories, water closets, swimming pools,
privies, or cesspools of any kind or nature whatsoever, or any foul or
offensive water or foul or offensive drainage of any kind, from property along
any public highway, road, street, avenue, lane or alley: or from any property
into or upon any adjoining property.
   (D)   Draining or flowing, or allowing to drain or flow, any water or
drainage from within dwelling. Draining or flowing, or allowing to drain or
flow, any water or drainage from within dwelling situate upon property along
public highway, road, street, avenue, lane, or alley in the township into or
upon the cart way or traveled portion for said drainage by means of a drainage
ditch or otherwise.
   (E)   Burning, open fires, etc. Burning and open fires are regulated by the
provisions of Chapter 90 of this code, which remains in full force and effect,
unaltered by this chapter.
   (F)   Dangerous structure. Maintaining or causing to be maintained, any
dangerous structure, including but not limited to, abandoned or unoccupied
buildings or parts of buildings in a state of dilapidation or disrepair.
   (G)   Grass, weeds, or noxious weeds. Permitting the growth of any grass,
weeds, noxious weeds, or any vegetation whatsoever, not edible or planted for
some useful, legal or ornamental purpose or to conceal any rubbish, garbage,
trash or any other violation of this chapter, to exceed a height of eight
inches. This shall not include cultivated flowers, gardens and/or cultivated
crops.
   (H)   Uncovered cisterns. Permitting or allowing any well or cistern to be,
or remain, uncovered.
   (I)   Depositing upon cartway. Pushing, shoveling or otherwise depositing
snow upon the cart way or traveled portion of any public highway, road or
street which is maintained by the township or by the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, and allowing same to remain thereon.
   (J)   Obstructing streets, etc. For any person to permit any mud, dirt,
coal, wood, brick, stone, gravel, clay, sand, rubbish or any other matter to
remain upon the streets or in the gutter in front of his premises more than 24
hours after it has been deposited there except by special permission of the
Township Board of Supervisors.
   (K)   Excavations. Allowing or permitting any excavation, material excavated
or obstruction on or adjoining any highway, street, or road, to remain opened
or exposed without the same being secured by a barricade, temporary fence, or
other protective materials.
   (L)   Interference with stream creek or other waterway. Interfering with the
flow of a stream, creek or other waterway, by means of dam construction or
otherwise, or removing the embankment of a stream so as to alter the natural
flow of the stream.
   (M)   Defacing public and private property. It shall be unlawful for any
person, partnership, corporation or agent acting independently or under the
direction of the principal to deface any private or public buildings,
structures, signs, banners, or vehicles within the township. Examples of
defacing shall include but not be limited to the following examples;
application of paint, inks and dyes; affixing of any printed materials such as
signs or posters; destruction or removal; defacing in any manner.
   (N)   Dogs and animals, etc. For any person owning, keeping, or permitting
any dog, bitch or animal on or about his premises to disturb the peace and
quiet of the night by barking, howling, crying or otherwise making a noise for
a continuous period of one-half hour in any one-hour period and which can be
heard a distance of 150 feet from that person's property line.
      (1)   Dogs running at large.  It shall be unlawful for any person owning
or possessing any dog to permit the same to run at large. RUNNING AT LARGE
shall be defined to be the presence of a dog at any place except upon the
premises of the owner, or upon the premises of another with the consent of the
owner of such premises. A dog shall not be considered to be RUNNING AT LARGE if
it is on a leash or under control of a person physically able to control it.
      (2)   Keeping of vicious animals.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept
on his or her premises any vicious animal as a pet or for display or for
exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious
animal within the township. Any animal which is found off the premises of its
owner may be seized by any police officer or humane officer; provided however,
that this section shall not apply to animals under the control of a law
enforcement or military agency, nor to animals which are kept for the
protection of property, provided that such animals are restrained by a leash or
chain, cage, fence or other adequate means, from contact with the general
public or with persons who enter the premises with the actual or implied
permission of the owner or occupant.
         (c)   VICIOUS ANIMAL.  Any animal which has previously attacked or
bitten any person or which has behaved in such a manner that a person who
harbors said animal knows or should reasonably know that the animal is
possessed of tendencies to attack or bite persons.
      (3)   Habitually barking or howling dogs; “seeing eye dog.” Provisions of
this chapter relating to dogs, which habitually bark, howl or yelp shall not
apply to a “seeing eye dog” which is used to assist a person who is identified
as legally blind.
      (4)   Voiding animal excrement.  No person having possession, custody or
control of any animal or the owner of an animal over which no person exercises
possession, custody or control shall allow or permit any dog or other animal to
void urine or excrement on any public or private property other than the
property of the owner of such dog or other animal.
      (5)   Offense defined.  Any person having ownership, possession, custody
or control of any dog or other animal which commits a nuisance as defined in
this division, shall be required to immediately remove said feces from such
surface and either:
         (a)   Carry same away for disposal in a toilet; or
         (b)   Place same in a non-leaking container for deposit in a trash or
litter receptacle.
      (6)   Applicability. The provision of this section shall apply to all
dogs, irrespective of payment for or insurance of a license in respect to the
animal or animals involved.
   (O)   Temporary storage facilities.
      (1)   Trailers or other temporary structures used on a residential
property in conjunction with the construction of buildings or other
improvements shall be permitted during the period of construction.
      (2)   Trailers or other temporary structures will be permitted and shall
not be considered a nuisance on commercial or industrial properties.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (O), a property shall be considered
residential, commercial or industrial based on the designation given to such
parcel for purposes of tax assessment.
      (4)   When a temporary storage facility is otherwise considered a
potential nuisance, the Board of Supervisors may, in its sole and absolute
discretion, grant a temporary permit for the use of temporary storage
facilities in the township provided that:
         (a)   Permit shall not be issued for a period to exceed 90 days in
duration.
         (b)   A permit fee as established from time to time by resolution,
shall be paid in advance of the issuance of the permit. Subject to the sole and
absolute discretion of the Board of Supervisors.
         (c)   The Board of Supervisors shall, in addition to all other
matters, consider the following criteria in determining whether said permit
shall be used: the need for temporary storage facility; the availability of
alternative storage facilities; and whether the refusal to grant the permit
would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant.
         (d)   The permit shall be non-renewable and issued only when setback
and all other requirements of all other township ordinances are met.
      (2)   The Board of Supervisors may, in its sole and absolute discretion,
grant a temporary permit for the use of temporary storage facilities in the
township provided that:
         (a)   Permit shall not be issued for a period to exceed 90 days in
duration.
         (b)   A permit fee as established from time to time by resolution,
shall be paid in advance of the issuance of the permit, subject to the sole and
absolute discretion of the Board of Supervisors.
         (c)   The Board of Supervisors shall, in addition to all other
matters, consider the following criteria in determining whether said permit
shall be used: the need for such temporary storage facility; the availability
of alternative storage facilities; and whether the refusal to grant the permit
would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant.
         (d)   The permit shall be non-renewable and issued only when setback
and all other requirements of all other township ordinances are met.
   (P)   Noise.  It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to make or cause to be
made, a noise disturbance within the limits of the township that endangers or
injures the safety or health of humans or animals; or is unusual for the time
of day or location where it is produced or heard or jeopardizes the value of
property or erodes the integrity of the environment; or materially disturbs or
annoys persons in the neighborhood who are of normal sensibilities.
(Ord. 3-2005, passed 6-2-2005; Ord. 1-2012, passed 2-2-2012; Ord. 3-2013,
passed 9-5-2013)
§ 92.03  WRITTEN NOTICE TO VIOLATORS REQUIRED.
   Whenever a condition constituting a nuisance is permitted or maintained
Board of Supervisors shall cause written notice to be served upon the owner in
one of the following manners:
   (A)   By making personal delivery of the notice to the owners;
   (B)   By handing a copy of the notice at the residence of the owner to an
adult member of the family with which he resides, but if no adult member of the
family is found, then to an adult person in charge of such residence;
   (C)   By fixing a copy of the notice to the door at the entrance of the
premises in violation;
   (D)   By mailing a copy of the notice to the last known address of the owner
by certified mail; or
   (E)   (1)   By publishing a copy of the notice in a local newspaper of
general circulation within Blair County, Pennsylvania, once a week for three
successive weeks. Such notice shall set forth in what respect such condition
constitutes a nuisance, whether removal is necessary and required by the
township, or whether the situation can be corrected by repairs, alterations or
by fencing or boarding, or in some way confining and limiting the nuisance.
      (2)   Such notice shall require the owner to-commence action in
accordance with the terms thereof within 20 days and thereafter, to comply
fully with its terms with reasonable dispatch, with all material to be supplied
and work to be done at the owner's expense; provided, however, if any of the
provisions of §
92.02(B), (F), (I), (J), or (K) is violated, and if the circumstances require
immediate corrective measures, such notice shall require the owner to
immediately comply with the terms thereof.
(Ord. 3-2005, passed 6-2-2005)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   This chapter regulates building, housing, property, maintenance, health,
fire, public safety, air or noise pollution, and shall be enforced pursuant to
53 P.S. § 66601(d)(2).
   (A)   Enforcement thereof shall be by an action before a District Justice in
the same manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses under the
Pennsylvania Rules of Civil Procedure. The Township Solicitor may assume charge
of the prosecution without the consent of the District Attorney as required
under Pa. R.Crim.P. No. 83(c) (relating to trial and summary cases). The Board
of Supervisors hereby set a criminal fine in the amount of up to $1,000 per
violation, and the costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such
fine and costs of prosecution, to undergo imprisonment of not more than ten
days, provided, further, that each day's continuance of a violation shall
constitute a separate event.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors may direct the removal, repair, or
alterations, as the case may be, to be done by the township and to certify the
costs thereof to the Township Solicitor, the cost of such removal, repairs or
alterations shall be a lien upon such premises from the time of such removal,
cutting, repairs and alterations which date shall be determined by the
certificate of the person doing such work, and filed with the Township
Secretary-Treasurer.
   (C)   The township, by means of a complaint in equity, may compel the owner
of the premises to comply with the terms of any notice of violation, or seek
any such other relief as any such court of competent jurisdiction is empowered
to afford.
(Ord. 3-2005, passed 6-2-2005)
CHAPTER 93:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Railroads, Excavations and Other Obstructions
   
93.01   Work done in conformance with permit conditions
   
93.02   Application for permit
   
93.03   Issuance of permit
   
93.04   Written notice of completion of work
   
93.05   Inspection by township
Road Occupancy
   
93.20   Title
   
93.21   Definitions
   
93.22   Permit required
   
93.23   Application for permit; plans
   
93.24   Fees
   
93.25   Review of application; issuance of permit
   
93.26   Conformance with plans required
   
93.27   Each driveway to require permit
Roads, Acceptance of
   
93.40   Conditions of acceptance
   
93.41   Amendment of provisions
 
   
93.99   Penalty
RAILROADS, EXCAVATIONS AND OTHER OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.01  WORK DONE IN CONFORMANCE WITH PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   No railroad or street railway shall hereafter be constructed upon any
township road, nor shall any railroad or street railway crossings, nor any gas
pipe, water pipe, electric conduits or other piping, be laid upon or in, nor
shall any telephone, telegraph or electric light or power poles, or any coal
tipples or any other obstructions be erected upon or in any portion of a
township road, except under such conditions, restrictions and regulations
relating to the installation and maintenance thereof, as may be prescribed in
permits granted by the township for such purpose.
(1987 Code, § 108-1)  (Ord. 3-74, passed 6-24-1974)
§ 93.02  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   The application for a permit shall be on a form prescribed by the
township and submitted to the township in triplicate. The application shall be
accompanied by a fee in accordance with the schedule of fees set forth by the
Department of Transportation for highway occupancy permits and restoration
charges.
   (B)   In addition, the applicant shall submit three copies of a sketch
showing such dimensions as the location of the intended facility, width of the
traveled roadway, right-of-way lines and a dimension to the nearest
intersecting street.
(1987 Code, § 108-2)  (Ord. 3-74, passed 6-24-1974)
§ 93.03  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   A permit shall be issued to the applicant after all the aforementioned
requirements have been filed.
(1987 Code, § 108-3)  (Ord. 3-74, passed 6-24-1974)
§ 93.04  WRITTEN NOTICE OF COMPLETION OF WORK.
   Upon completion of the work, the applicant shall give written notice thereof
to the township.
(1987 Code, § 108-4)  (Ord. 3-74, passed 6-24-1974)
§ 93.05  INSPECTION BY TOWNSHIP.
   (A)   Upon completion of the work authorized by the permit, the township
shall inspect the work and, when necessary, enforce compliance with the
conditions, restrictions and regulations prescribed by the permit.
   (B)   Where any settlement or defect in the work occurs, if the applicant
shall fail to rectify any such settlement or other defect, within 60 days after
written notice from the township to do so, the township may do the work and
shall impose upon the applicant the cost thereof, together with an additional
20% of such cost.
(1987 Code, § 108-5)  (Ord. 3-74, passed 6-24-1974)
ROAD OCCUPANCY
§ 93.20  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Antis Township Road Occupancy
Ordinance”.
(1987 Code, § 108-7)  (Ord. 6-94, passed 9-6-1994)
§ 93.21  DEFINITIONS.
   For purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS.  Any driveway, street or other means of passage of vehicles between
the highway and abutting property, including acceleration and deceleration
lanes and such drainage structures as may be necessary for the proper
construction and maintenance thereof.
   BOARD.  The Board of Supervisors of Antis Township, Blair County,
Pennsylvania.
   CONTRACTOR.  The person, firm, corporation or other business entity which
installs a driveway, including all agents, officers or employees of that person
or business entity.
   CURBLINE.  A line formed by the face of the existing curb, or in its
absence, the outer edge of the shoulder, along which curbing is or may be
located.
   DRIVEWAY.  Any area of land designated or to be used as a means of ingress
or egress for vehicles traveling from a township road to any parcel of land.
DRIVEWAY shall also include such drainage structures and erosion control
materials as may be necessary for the proper function thereof.
   DRIVEWAY WIDTH.  The narrowest width of a driveway measured perpendicular to
the center line of the driveway.
   EGRESS  The exit of vehicular traffic from abutting properties to a roadway.
   ENGINEER.  A person employed by the township who is licensed to practice in
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as a registered professional engineer.
   FORM 408.  The latest revision of highway construction specifications issued
by PennDOT.
   FRONTAGE WIDTH.  The distance along the right-of-way line in front of an
abutting property.
   IMPROVED AREA.  The area within the right-of-way which has been constructed
for roadway purposes, including roadbed, pavement, shoulders, slope, sidewalks,
drainage facilities and any other appurtenances.
   INGRESS.  The entrance of vehicular traffic to abutting properties from a
roadway.
   LOW-VOLUME DRIVEWAY.  A driveway used or expected to be used by more than 25
but fewer than 750 vehicles per day.
   MEDIUM-VOLUME DRIVEWAY.  A driveway used or expected to be used by more than
750 but fewer than 1,500 vehicles per day.
   MINIMUM-USE DRIVEWAY.  A residential or other driveway which is used or
expected to be used by not more than 25 vehicles per day.
   OFFICE.  Antis Township Municipal Building, located at 909 North Second
Street, Bellwood, PA 16617.
   OWNER.  The owner of the land upon which the driveway is located or is
proposed to be located.
   PENNDOT.  Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
   PERMIT.  The permit issued by the Board to signify approval of the design of
the driveway connection or the proposed methodology for a utility facility
installation.
   ROADWAY.  Any road, street, alley or public thoroughfare, including the
entire width between right-of-way lines, whether actually maintained by the
township, and any road, street, alley or public thoroughfare, including the
entire width between right-of-way lines shown on a subdivision or land
development plan intended to be dedicated to the township in the future.
   TOWNSHIP SUPERINTENDENT.  The township’s authorized representative assigned
to inspect permit operations.
   UTILITY FACILITY or UTILITY.  All privately, publicly or cooperatively owned
lines, facilities and systems for producing, transmitting or distributing
communications, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil, crude products,
coal, water, steam, wastewater, waste, stormwater not connected to township
drainage facilities and other similar commodities, including fire and police
signal systems and street lighting systems, which directly or indirectly serve
the public or any part thereof.
(1987 Code, § 108-8)  (Ord. 6-94, passed 9-6-1994)
§ 93.22  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No owner or contractor shall hereafter initiate, install or allow any work
to be performed toward the installation of any utility facility or driveway
within or abutting a township road without first obtaining a permit from the
Board.
(1987 Code, § 108-9)  (Ord. 6-94, passed 9-6-1994)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; PLANS.
   (A)   Any owner shall, prior to obtaining a road occupancy permit, file an
application with the Board on a form furnished by the Board, and three sets of
plans showing the location of the utility facility or driveway and designating
the width, radii, percent grade, sizes and materials to be used and drainage
facilities involved in the construction as applicable. The plans shall be
prepared and sealed by a registered professional engineer if so designated by
the Township Superintendent.
   (B)   The plans shall take into account the following.
      (1)   Unless otherwise approved in writing by the engineer or Township
Superintendent, all driveway drainage pipes shall have a minimum diameter of 15
inches and be constructed in accordance with PennDOT standards.
      (2)   Concrete driveways within the township road right-of-way shall be
prohibited.
      (3)   When construction access is required, a rock construction entrance
shall be provided in accordance with Exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein
(on file in the office of the Township Secretary-Treasurer and may be examined
there during regular office hours). This entrance shall be located at the
approved driveway location. Permanent drainage (i.e., cross culvert) and
erosion control measures shall be installed as part of the rock construction
entrance.
      (4)   Horizontal alignment geometries for minimum-use driveways shall be
in accordance with the minimum-use driveway detail attached as Exhibit B to the
ordinance codified herein (on file in the office of the Township Secretary-
Treasurer and may be examined there during regular office hours).
      (5)   Driveway vertical alignment geometries shall be in accordance with
the grade requirements detail attached as Exhibit C to the ordinance codified
herein (on file in the office of the Township Secretary-Treasurer and may be
examined there during regular office hours).
      (6)   Access driveways shall be located at a point within the property
frontage limits which provides at least the minimum sight distance listed in
the appropriate following table:
         (a)   Table 1, Safe sight distance for passenger cars and single unit
trucks exiting from driveways onto two-lane roads.
Table 1
Posted Speed (mph) Safe Sight Distance*
                   Left (feet) Right (feet)
Table 1
Posted Speed (mph) Safe Sight Distance*
                   Left (feet) Right (feet)
25                 250         195
35                 440         350
45                 635         570
55                 845         875
*Measured from a vehicle ten feet back of the pavement edge
 
         (b)   Table 2, Safe sight distance for buses and combination trucks
exiting from driveways onto two-lane roads.
Table 2
Posted Speed (mph) Safe Sight Distance*
                   Left Right
Table 2
Posted Speed (mph) Safe Sight Distance*
                   Left  Right
25                 400   300
35                 675   625
45                 1,225 1,225
55                 2,050 2,050
*Measured from a vehicle ten feet back of the pavement edge
 
(1987 Code, § 108-10)  (Ord. 6-94, passed 9-6-1994)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.24  FEES.
   The application shall be accompanied by fees in accordance with the
prevailing schedule of fees for highway occupancy permits. This fee schedule
may be amended from time to time and is available at the township office. If
the Township Superintendent determines that the application package is to be
reviewed by the engineer, all engineering and associated additional
administrative costs shall be reimbursed to the township by the owner.
(1987 Code, § 108-11)  (Ord. 6-94, passed 9-6-1994)
§ 93.25  REVIEW OF APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The application shall be reviewed by the engineer or Township
Superintendent, who shall determine if the proposed construction will:
      (1)   Eliminate the hazardous effects of stormwater runoff;
      (2)   Protect the township road from damage by the construction; and
      (3)   Comply, in general, with the township design requirements
promulgated by PennDOT Publication Number 70, Chapters 441 and 459 of Title 67
and the design criteria of the other publications incorporated therein by
reference which are in effect as of the date the application is filed.
Requested deviations from PennDOT requirements and design criteria must be
approved in writing by the engineer or Township Superintendent.
   (B)   If the plans meet the criteria set forth in divisions (A)(1) through
(A)(3) above, the engineer or Township Superintendent shall so advise the
Board, whereupon the Board shall issue the permit within 30 days.
   (C)   If the plan is found to be deficient, or if in the opinion of the
engineer or Township Superintendent the plan should be improved or amended to
meet the criteria set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3) above, the
engineer or Township Superintendent shall notify the owner in writing of the
changes to be made, whereupon the applicant shall make such changes and return
the revised plans to the township. When the plan is acceptable to the engineer
or Township Superintendent, the Board shall issue the permit within 30 days.
(1987 Code, § 108-12)  (Ord. 6-94, passed 9-6-1994)
§ 93.26  CONFORMANCE WITH PLANS REQUIRED.
   All construction shall conform to the plans approved by the Board. Any
construction that does not comply with the approved plans may be ordered by the
engineer or Township Superintendent to be remedied in accordance with the
general provisions and specifications at no cost to the township.
(1987 Code, § 108-13)  (Ord. 6-94, passed 9-6-1994)
§ 93.27  EACH DRIVEWAY TO REQUIRE PERMIT.
   Each driveway, whether or not serving the same parcel of land, shall require
an individual permit.
(1987 Code, § 108-14)  (Ord. 6-94, passed 9-6-1994)
ROADS, ACCEPTANCE OF
§ 93.40  CONDITIONS OF ACCEPTANCE.
   No road, street or alley will be accepted by dedication for public use or
travel as a township road by action of Township Supervisors until the following
conditions have been met.
   (A)   Submission of a plan. A plan must be submitted and filed with the
Township Secretary-Treasurer at least ten days prior to the regular meeting of
the Township Supervisors which shows profiles of the road, street, lane or
alley, the course, structure and capacity of any drainage facilities, the
method of drainage of the adjacent or contiguous territory and drainage profile
of the street or road and related properties. All roads and streets shall have
a cartway of not less than 33 feet and a right of way of 50 feet. All roads and
streets connecting with existing streets so as to form a continuation or
extension thereof shall not be less in width than such existing roads and
streets. All roads and streets where possible shall connect with existing roads
and streets so as to form, as near as possible, through road and streets and a
harmonious and systematic development of the township. The names of the roads
and streets shall not conflict with the names of existing roads and streets,
and all roads and streets shall be designated by the names of existing roads
and streets with which they connect as extensions thereof. When applicable, all
sewers, sewer laterals, sewer connections, water, gas and electrical
connections shall be laid on all streets or roads prior to acceptance by the
Township Supervisors. The Township Supervisors reserve the right to alter the
plan and to specify any change or modification deemed necessary and to make
approval of the plan subject to any such change or modification.
   (B)   Minimum paving requirements.
      (1)   Street improvements.
         (a)   Minimum paving requirements. Streets shall be graded, surfaced
and improved to the grades and dimensions shown on plans, profiles and cross-
sections submitted by the subdivider and approved by the Planning Commission.
At a minimum, street pavement shall be in accordance with the State Department
of Transportation’s pavement specifications.
 
Required Pavement Construction
Type of Street Surface Type Type Required Pavement Construction Base Course
                                 Thickness (inches)
Collector      B            C    10
 
         (b)   Minor marginal access requirements. Minor marginal access
requirements shall be as follows:
            1.   Three-inch ID-2 surface course, in accordance with § 5.9 of
the State Department of Highways 1960 specifications;
            2.   Double-application surface treatment, according to the State
Department of Transportation’s specifications; and
            3.   Stone base course, in accordance with § 4.2 of the State
Department of Highways 1960 specifications.
      (2)   Other improvements.
         (a)   The Planning Commission may require a higher type of pavement
than specified in Table 1, or improvements in addition to those set forth in
the table, where it deems such to be necessary because of prospective traffic
safety of pedestrians in connection with sidewalks, or in order to conform to
conditions prevailing in the neighborhood, in which latter case the
neighborhood standard shall generally apply; crosswalks may be required when
deemed necessary by the Planning Commission.
            1.   Subsurface drainage. Prior to placing the street surface,
adequate subsurface drainage for the streets and all subsurface utilities as
acceptable to the Commission shall be provided or installed by the subdivider.
            2.   Slopes. Slopes of banks measured perpendicular to the center
line of the street shall not exceed three to one for fills and two to one for
cuts.
         (b)   In all respects in which standards for required improvements are
not set forth herein or specified by the Planning Commission, the applicable
standard requirements of the State Department of Transportation shall govern,
and all work shall be performed in the manner prescribed in the standard
specifications for road construction of said Department for the type of
construction under consideration.
      (3)   Approval, maintenance and security.
         (a)   The work of constructing streets or roads, including the
construction methods and materials incident thereto, shall be subject to the
approval of the Township Engineer. Final acceptance of the completed streets or
roads shall rest with the Board of Township Supervisors. The subdivider shall
enter into a contract with the Board of Township Supervisors, which provides
that in consideration of the acceptance of the roads or streets for inclusion
in the township highway system, the subdivider agrees to construct the roads or
streets in the subdivision to the standards prescribed herein at his or her own
expense with no cost to the township.
         (b)   In the event that the owner or subdivider desires to complete
the construction of the streets after the plat is placed on record, he or she
shall be required to submit a cost estimate prepared by a registered
professional engineer, setting forth all items of work to be performed and the
estimated cost. Said estimate shall be subject to the approval of the Township
Engineer. A certified check or contract performance bond issued by a surety
company, subject to the approval of the Board of Township Supervisors, in an
amount equal to the approved estimate, to ensure the completion of the work
shall be filed with the Board of Township Supervisors. All construction items
shall be completed within one year after the plat is placed on record, except
where bituminous paving construction is required. When bituminous construction
is required, it shall be completed within two years after the plat is placed on
record.
         (c)   The certified check shall be made payable to the township. In
the event that the work is satisfactorily completed within the time specified,
the certified check or surety bond shall be returned.
         (d)   The owner or subdivider shall be required to maintain all
culverts, ditches, backslopes and shoulders on all streets for a period of two
years after their completion. All exposed surfaces on which a turf or sod has
not been developed shall be reseeded or sodded. An estimate of cost shall be
prepared by a registered professional engineer, setting forth all items of work
to be performed and the estimated cost. Said estimate shall be subject to the
approval of the Township Engineer. The owner or subdivider shall deposit with
the Board of Township Supervisors a certified check or performance bond issued
by a surety company in an amount of not less than the cost of maintaining said
streets for a period of two years.
   (C)   Petition to dedicate. A petition and deed of dedication to take over
the street or road and a release of damages must be executed and submitted to
the Township Supervisors at or prior to a regularly scheduled meeting. The
petition must be in a form prescribed or approved by the Township Solicitor,
contain all the signatures of all abutting landowners on the road or street,
contain a survey of the road or street described by metes and bounds and
indicating all abutting land owners, contain a provision releasing damages and
agreeing to save harmless the township and its Supervisors from all
liabilities, suit or claims for damages from such taking over of the road and
street and contain a provision nominating an agent for all the parties to whom
all necessary notices may be sent. The costs of preparation of the petition and
advertising the same pursuant to statutory mandates thereon are the
responsibility of the petitioning parties.
(1987 Code, § 98-1)  (Ord. 2-73A, passed 11-5-1973; Ord. 1-80, passed 9-8-1980)
Cross-reference:
   Excavations, see Ch. §§
93.01 through
93.05
   Subdivision of land, see
Ch. 155
§ 93.41  AMENDMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   The Township Supervisors shall have the right to amend, change or alter any
of the aforesaid provisions at any time as they in their sole discretion deem
advisable.
(1987 Code, § 98-2)  (Ord. 2-73A, passed 11-5-1973)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Sections
93.01 through
93.05 shall be enforced by action brought before a District Justice in the same
manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses under the State Rules
of Criminal Procedure. Any person who violates or permits the violation of §§
93.01 through
93.05 shall, upon conviction in a summary proceeding, be punishable by a fine
of not more that $1,000 or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days.
Each day or portion thereof that such violation continues, or is permitted to
continue, shall constitute a separate offense. Each section of §§
93.01 through
93.05 that is violated shall also constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Sections
93.20 through
93.27 shall be enforced by action brought before a District Justice in the same
manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses under the State Rules
of Criminal Procedure. Any person who violates or permits the violation of §§
93.20 through
93.27 shall, upon conviction in a summary proceeding, be punishable by a fine
of not more that $1,000 or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days.
Each day or portion thereof that such violation continues, or is permitted to
continue, shall constitute a separate offense. Each section of §§
93.20 through
93.27 that is violated shall also constitute a separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 108-15)
(Ord. 4-87, passed 10-6-1987; Ord. 3-96, passed 9-3-1996; Ord. 1-97, passed 6-
2-1997)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PORNOGRAPHY
      
113.   SALVAGE YARDS
      
114.   LANDFILLS
      
115.   JUNK DEALERS AND JUNKYARDS
CHAPTER 110:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Bottle Clubs
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Prohibitions
 
   
110.99   Penalty
BOTTLE CLUBS
§ 110.01  PURPOSE.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township hereby declares that purpose of the
within chapter is to prohibit the establishment and operation of a bring your
own bottle “BYOB” club in order to preserve the residential character of
neighborhoods and protect the right of its citizens to the quiet enjoyment of
the same.
(1987 Code, § 44-1)  (Ord. 4-2001, passed 7-19-2001)
§ 110.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.  Any and all beverages, including malt beverages, which
contain alcohol, liquor, distilled spirits, beer, wine or such other
intoxicating substances as are further deemed in the State Liquor Code, 47 P.S.
§§ 1-101 et seq.
   BYOB CLUB.  Any business or facility, such as a dance hall, club or
association, not licensed by the Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board, wherein
patrons 21 years of age and older may, after payment of any entry fee, cover
charge or membership fee, consume alcoholic beverages which said patrons have
carried onto the premises; also commonly referred to as BRING-YOUR-OWN-BOTTLE
CLUBS.
(1987 Code, § 44-2)  (Ord. 4-2001, passed 7-19-2001)
§ 110.03  PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to establish or
maintain any BYOB club in the township.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, operate, lease,
manage or control a BYOB club in the township.
(1987 Code, § 44-3)  (Ord. 4-2001, passed 7-19-2001)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   In the event the prohibited activity as specified in this §§
110.01 through
110.03 is conducted by or in the name of a corporation, partnership, joint
venture, trust, firm or association, in addition to entity liability, the
officers, agents or principals of said corporation, partnership, joint venture,
trust, firm or association shall be deemed in violation of this chapter, as
well as the person or persons engaged in the unlawful activity.
      (2)   The prohibited activities specified herein shall constitute
separate and distinct offenses for each and every day in which said activities
are conducted.
      (3)   Any person, persons or entity violating the provisions of §§
110.01 through
110.03  shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000, nor less than $50 and costs of prosecution and, upon refusal to
pay such fine and costs, to undergo imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(1987 Code, § 44-4)
CHAPTER 111:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Licensing procedure
   
111.04   Exceptions
   
111.05   License fees
   
111.06   Operating restrictions
   
111.07   Enforcement
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION.  A partnership, limited partnership or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise, owned by two or more persons.
   CANVASSER or SOLICITOR.  Includes the practice of going from house to house
or place to place in the township selling, causing to be sold, offering for
sale or taking orders for present or future delivery of merchandise or
services. It shall also be deemed to include surveys for research purposes,
analyses, opinion polls, rating data, contributions, donations or alms for any
person or organization and any person or organization and any such similar work
which of its nature involves a house to house or place to place activity.
   CORPORATION.  Any corporation or joint-stock association organized under
laws of the United States, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or any other state,
territory, foreign country or dependency.
   FIRM.  The members of a business organization that owns or operates one or
more establishments.
   PERSON.  Every natural person, firm, corporation or association. Whenever
used in any clause prescribing and imposing a fine or imprisonment or both, the
word PERSON as applied to firms or associations shall mean the partners or
members thereof and, as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT.  Any person who occupies a room, apartment, store, shop,
building, trailer, tent or other temporary structure for the exhibition or sale
of goods, wares or merchandise with the intention of remaining less than 90
days. Said term shall include a participant as a vendor in a flea market.
Temporary sales of Christmas trees, Easter flowers, Mother’s Day flowers and
the like shall be considered as TRANSIENT in nature and therefore under the
regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2013, passed - -2013)
§ 111.02  LICENSE REQUIRED
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or association
whether by principal or agent, to sell or offer for sale or otherwise solicit
orders, either on the public streets, public places, private property or from
house to house within the township, any goods or merchandise or services of any
kind whatsoever, or to solicit orders for any of the same, without first having
completed an application, paid the required fee and obtained, from the
Secretary-Treasurer of the township, a license for such purpose. The license
required under this section shall be required of each and every separate
canvasser, solicitor or transient merchant, including, but not limited to,
instances in which multiple canvassers, solicitors or transient merchants shall
operate in or on the same location, route, room, apartment, store, shop,
building, trailer tent or other structure.
(Ord. 1-2013, passed - -2013)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  LICENSING PROCEDURE.
   The license application referred to §
111.02 shall require only information sufficient to allow the person, firm,
corporation or association engaging in activity described in §
111.02, to be contacted by a township citizen or by the township.
   (A)   Information required for the issuance of a license:
      (1)   The name, age and physical description of applicant and each such
agent and/or employee;
      (2)   Complete permanent home and local address of applicant and his or
her agents or employees;
      (3)   The applicant must submit proof of registration for commonwealth
sales/use tax or sufficient demonstration that such registration is not
required;
      (4)   Name and address of organization or person for whom the canvass or
solicitation is being made, or, if a corporation a copy of articles of
incorporation and certification of Federal Income Tax I.D. number;
      (5)   Description of the nature of the canvass or solicitation, or a
description of the purpose or causes for which the canvass or solicitation is
being made; and
      (6)   The make, model, year, color and license plate number of
automobiles used by the applicant, agents and/or employees during the period of
canvassing or solicitation within the township and the numbers of their
drivers, licenses and state of issuance.
   (B)   Display of license required:
      (1)   Every transient merchant, shall, at all times while engaged in the
sales of merchandise in the township, display the license at their location of
sales. The license shall be located in a conspicuous location and visible to
the public, or other enforcement officers of the township; and
      (2)   Every canvasser or solicitor shall, at all times while engaged in
canvassing or soliciting in the township, carry such license upon his or her
person, and shall present said license upon request of any resident, or other
enforcement officers of the township.
(Ord. 1-2013, passed - -2013)
§ 111.04  EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the sale of milk and
milk products, meat or meat products, bread or bread products or any regularly
scheduled delivery route; nor to the sale of farm products grown on the
property of the seller thereof, the proceeds of which are to be applied to any
charitable or philanthropic purpose, nor to any bona fide resident of the
township.
   (B)   Boys or girls under age 18 years of age who take orders for and
deliver newspapers, greeting cards, candy, submarines sandwiches and the like
for Boy Scouts, Girls Scouts, schools, churches or other charitable
organizations.
   (C)   Other national and international service organizations and
associations existing for the benefit of youth, aged, handicapped or stricken
and soliciting or selling for the purpose of self-perpetuation and who may be
registered as charitable organizations with the state of federal government.
   (D)   Insurance and real estate agents and brokers licenses by the
commonwealth.
   (E)   Individuals distributing sales literature “door hangings” as long as
there is no attempt to contact the home or business occupant.
(Ord. 1-2013, passed - -2013)
§ 111.05  LICENSE FEES.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township shall establish, by resolution, a
schedule of fees for the issuance of permits required under the provisions of
this chapter. Such resolutions shall by duly recorded in the resolution book of
the township and such fee schedule shall be reproduced and made available upon
request at the township office. The resolution providing for the various fees
shall be periodically reviewed and amended, when necessary, by resolution of
the Board of Supervisors. The issuance of a permit shall be contingent upon
payment of the proper fee as established by the resolution and the fee
schedule.
(Ord. 1-2013, passed - -2013)
§ 111.06  OPERATING RESTRICTIONS.
   In order to preserve the right of township residents to enjoy the peace and
tranquility of their homes without unreasonable interruption or annoyance
during the times when door to door solicitations are most unwelcome, it shall
be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or association to sell, offer for
sale any goods, commodity or services, or to solicit funds or donations of any
kind in, upon or along any of the public streets, public places or private
property of the township, or by going house to house for such purposes between
the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. or all day on Sundays or other business
holidays recognized as such holidays by the commonwealth. Also, no activity as
described in §
111.02 shall be done on any private property posted with no-solicitation signs.
(Ord. 1-2013, passed - -2013)
§ 111.07  ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by action brought before a District Justice
in the same manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses under the
State Rules of Criminal Procedure.
(Ord. 1-2013, passed - -2013)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or permits the violation of this chapter shall, upon
conviction in a summary proceeding, be punishable by a fine of not more than
$1,000 or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days. Each day or portion
thereof that such violation continues, or is permitted to continue, shall
constitute a separate offense. Each section of this chapter that is violated
shall also constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1-2013, passed - -2013)
CHAPTER 112:  PORNOGRAPHY
Section
   
112.01   Purpose; intent
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Classification of sexually oriented businesses
   
112.04   Prohibited locations
   
112.05   Promotion of pornography prohibited
   
112.06   Pornography for minors prohibited
   
112.07   Affirmative defense
   
112.08   Maintenance of business premises
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  PURPOSE; INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the citizens of the township, and to establish reasonable
and uniform regulations regarding the location and concentration of sexually
oriented businesses and the promotion of pornography within the township. The
provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a
limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor
effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the first amendment or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone
or legitimize the distribution of obscene materials.
(1987 Code, § 94-1)  (Ord. 4-90, passed 7-3-1990)
§ 112.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE.  Any place to which the public is permitted or invited or in
which coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled still or motion-picture machines, projectors or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images to an audience; and where
the image is so displayed, distinguished or characterized by the depicting or
describing of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE.  A commercial establishment having a substantial or
significant portion of its stock in trade, including, but not limited to,
books, magazines, periodicals, visual representations or writings,
distinguished or characterized by emphasis on matter depicting, describing or
related to specified anatomical areas or to specified sexual activities, or an
establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale or display of such
materials. A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of materials
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas and still be characterized as ADULT BOOKSTORE. Such other business
purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial establishment from being
characterized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE so long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials which depict to describe specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET.  A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Files, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTEL.  A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed circuit television transmission, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible for the public right-of-way
which advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
productions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of the sleeping room to sublet the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION-PICTURE THEATER.  A commercial establishment where, for any
form of consideration, firms, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or
similar graphic reproductions are displayed which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT THEATER.  A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of specified
anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   AUDIENCE.  One or more persons who are permitted to view a performance for
valuable consideration or in or from a public place.
   DISPLAY PUBLICLY.  The exposing, placing, posting, exhibiting or in any
other fashion displaying, in any location, whether public or private, material
or a performance in such a manner that it may be readily seen and its contents
or character distinguished by normal unaided vision viewing it from a public
place or vehicle.
   DISSEMINATE.  To manufacture, issue, publish, sell, lend, distribute,
transmit, broadcast, exhibit or present materials; or to offer or agree to do
the same; or to have in one’s possession with intent to do the same.
   ESCORT.  A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for any person, or who agrees or offers to privately
model lingerie or to privately perform a strip tease for another person.
   ESCORT AGENCY.  A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes, for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any socially oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; and
      (4)   The relocation or expansion of any sexually oriented business.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO.  Any place where a person who appears in a state of
nudity or displays specified anatomical areas is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by
other persons who pay money or any form of consideration.
   NUDITY.  Uncovered or less than opaquely covered post pubital human genitals
or pubic area; the post pubital human female breast below the point immediately
above the top of the areola; or the covered human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state. For the purpose of this definition, a female breast
is considered uncovered if the nipple only or the nipple and the areola only
are covered.
   PANDER.  Advertising or propagandizing in connection with the sale of
material, the offering of a service or the presentation or exhibition of a
performance by appealing to the prurient interest of potential customers.
   PERFORMANCE.  Any live or reproduced exhibition, including, but not limited
to, any play, motion-picture film, dance or appearance presented to or
performed before an audience.
   PORNOGRAPHIC.  Relating to pornography.
   PORNOGRAPHY.  Any material or performance is “pornography” if all of the
following elements are present:
      (1)   Considered as a whole by the average person applying the
contemporary community standards of the township, it appeals to the prurient
interest;
      (2)   It depicts, describes or represents, in a patently offensive way,
sexual conduct, as hereinafter defined; and
      (3)   It lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
   PORNOGRAPHY FOR MINORS.  Any material performance is “pornography for
minors” if all of the following elements are present:
      (1)   Considered as a whole by the average person applying the
contemporary community standards of the township with respect to what is
suitable for minors, it is presented in such a way as to appeal to a minor’s
prurient interest;
      (2)   It depicts, describes or represents, in a patently offensive way,
nudity or sexual conduct as hereinafter defined; and
      (3)   It lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value
for minors.
   PRURIENT INTEREST.  Desire or craving for sexual stimulation or
gratification. In determining PRURIENT INTEREST, the material or performance
shall be judged with reference to average persons, unless it appears from the
character of the material or performance that it is designed to appeal to
prurient interests of a particular group of persons, including, but not limited
to, homosexuals or sadomasochists. In that case, it shall be judged with
reference to the particular group for which is was designed.
   PUBLIC PLACE OR VEHICLE.  Any of the streets, alleys, parks, boulevards,
schools or other public property in the township, or any dance hall, rental
hall, theater, amusement park, liquor establishment or depot, place of public
accommodation or other private property generally frequented by the public for
the purpose of education, recreation, amusement, entertainment, sport, shopping
or travel; or any vehicle for public transportation, owned or operated by
government, either directed or through a public corporation or authority, or
owned or operated by any nongovernmental agency for the use, enjoyment or
transportation of the general public.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE.  Flagellation or torture by or upon a person who is
nude or clad in undergarments or in a sexually revealing or bizarre costume; or
the condition of such person being fettered, bound or otherwise physically
restrained in an apparent act of sexual stimulation or gratification.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT.
      (1)   Masturbation;
      (2)   Sexual intercourse, whether genital-genital, oral-genital, oral-
anal or anal-genital;
      (3)   Any erotic fondling or touching of any parts of the covered or
uncovered genitals, buttocks, pubic area or breasts of the female;
      (4)   Actual or simulated display or exhibition of human pubic area or
genitals or any part thereof;
      (5)   Sexual excitement as hereinafter defined;
      (6)   Sadomasochistic abuse as hereinbefore defined; and
      (7)   The conduct described in divisions (1) through (3) above, is SEXUAL
CONDUCT, whether or not it is engaged in alone or between members of the same
sex or between members of the opposite sex or between humans and animals or
between humans and inanimate objects.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER.  A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT.  The facial expression, movements, utterances or other
responses of a human male or female, whether alone or with others, whether
clothed or not, who is in an apparent state of sexual stimulation or arousal,
or experiences the physical or sensual reactions of humans engaging in or
witnessing sexual conduct.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult
cabaret, adult motel, adult motion-picture theater, adult theater, escort
agency, nude model studio or sexual encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.  Human genitals, pubic region; buttocks; or
female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the areola.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state of sexual stimulation or arousal; acts of human masturbation, sexual
intercourse or sodomy; or fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals,
pubic regions, buttocks or female breasts.
(1987 Code, § 94-2)  (Ord. 4-90, passed 7-3-1990)
§ 112.03  CLASSIFICATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion-picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(1987 Code, § 94-3)  (Ord. 4-90, passed 7-3-1990)
§ 112.04  PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to establish or maintain any sexually oriented business
in or within 1,500 feet of another sexually oriented business; a church; a
public or private elementary or secondary school; a boundary of any residential
district; a public park adjacent to any residential district; or the property
line of a lot devoted to residential use.
(1987 Code, § 94-4)  (Ord. 4-90, passed 7-3-1990)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05  PROMOTION OF PORNOGRAPHY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to promote pornography; a person
commits the offense of promoting pornography if, knowing its content and
character, he or she:
      (1)   Disseminates or causes to be disseminated any pornographic material
in or from a public place or vehicle, or for valuable consideration; or has in
his or her possession any pornographic material with intent to do disseminate;
or knowingly allows the use of any business, building, vehicle or place owned,
leased, conducted or managed by him or her for such dissemination of
pornographic material;
      (2)   Sells an admission ticket or pass to premises where there is being
exhibited or is about to be exhibited material or a performance which is
pornographic;
      (3)   Admits, by accepting a ticket or pass, a person to premises where
there is being exhibited or is about to exhibited material or a performance
which is pornographic;
      (4)   Produces, presents, directs or knowingly allows the use of any
business, building, vehicle or place, owned, leased, conducted or managed by
him or her to be used for a pornographic performance before an audience;
      (5)   Participates in that portion of a live performance before an
audience which makes it pornographic; and
      (6)   Panders, displays publicly or disseminates door to door any
pornographic material or performance, or causes such pandering, public display
or door to door dissemination.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, possession of two or more identical
copies of any pornographic material by any person engaged in the business of
disseminating material, as defined above, shall be prima facie evidence of
possession with intent to disseminate for valuable consideration.
(1987 Code, § 94-5)  (Ord. 4-90, passed 7-3-1990)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06  PORNOGRAPHY FOR MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to promote pornography for minors;
a person commits the offense of promoting pornography for minors if, knowingly
its content and character, he or she:
      (1)   Disseminates or causes to be disseminated to a minor material which
is pornography for minors, or knowingly allows the use of any business,
building, vehicle or place owned, leased, conducted or managed by him or her
for the dissemination to a minor of material which is pornography for minors;
      (2)   Exhibits to a minor a motion-picture film or other performance
which is pornography for minors;
      (3)   Sells to a minor an admission ticket or pass to any building,
vehicle or place where there is being exhibited or is about to be exhibited a
motion-picture film or other performance which is pornography for minors;
      (4)   Admits a minor to any building, vehicle or place where there is
being exhibited or is about to be exhibited a motion-picture film or other
performance which is pornography for minors;
      (5)   Knowingly produces, presents, directs or allows the use of any
business building, vehicle or place owned, leased, conducted or managed by him
or her for the presentation or performance which is pornography for minors,
before an audience which includes a minor; or
      (6)   Displays publicly or disseminates door to door any material or
performance which is pornography for minors, or causes such public display or
door to door dissemination.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5) above does not apply to a parent,
guardian or other persons in loco parentis to the minor.
(1987 Code, § 94-6)  (Ord. 4-90, passed 7-3-1990)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07  AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   It shall be an affirmative defense to a prosecution under §§
112.02 or
112.03 if the pornographic material disseminated by a person who was acting in
his or her capacity as:
   (A)   A teacher of an accredited course of study related to pornography at a
state approved educational institution;
   (B)   A licensed medical practitioner or psychologist in the treatment of a
patient;
   (C)   A participant in the criminal justice system, such as a legislator,
judge, prosecutor, law enforcement official or other similar or related
position; or
   (D)   A supplier to any person described in divisions (A) through (C) above.
(1987 Code, § 94-7)  (Ord. 4-90, passed 7-3-1990)
§ 112.08  MAINTENANCE OF BUSINESS PREMISES.
   (A)   Every owner of a sexually oriented business as defined under this
chapter shall constantly maintain the business premises in the manner
prescribed by this section.
   (B)   No owner of a sexually oriented business shall:
      (1)   Remain open and/or transact business between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00
a.m.;
      (2)   Use or permit to be used inside or outside the business premises a
loudspeaker or similar device whereby music or other entertainment or the
advertisement thereof can be heard on the outside of the premises between 11:00
p.m. and 8:00 a.m.;
      (3)   Advertise or permit to be advertised, by descriptive poster,
picture, plaque or sign, flag or otherwise, on the outside of the premises,
anything pertaining to the type of entertainment conducted therein. The sign
cannot contain descriptive matter, paintings or photographs; however, this
shall not prevent the name of the establishment from being displayed;
      (4)   Permit a person engaged, directly or indirectly, as an entertainer
in the facility to contact or associate with the patrons;
      (5)   Permit an employee of the facility to contact or associate with the
patrons in the establishment, room or place, except as is necessary in the
actual service of food or beverages;
      (6)   Permit a minor person, under age 18, to be employed as an
entertainer;
      (7)   Permit any dancing by the entertainers except if the same occurs on
a raised platform at least two feet from floor level and ten feet from any
patron;
      (8)   Permit any entertainer or employee to fondle or caress any patron,
or permit any patron to fondle or caress the entertainer or employees; or
      (9)   Permit any entertainer to directly accept gratuities from any
person.
(1987 Code, § 94-9)  (Ord. 4-90, passed 7-3-1990)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates or permits a violation of this chapter, upon
being found liable thereof in a civil enforcement proceeding, shall pay a fine
of not more than $600 plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney’s
fees, incurred by the township in the enforcement of this chapter.
      (1)   Such fines shall be determined by the officer of the township
authorized to do so by the Board of Supervisors.
      (2)   No judgment shall be imposed until the date of the determination of
the violation by the District Justice and/or court. If the defendant neither
pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the township may enforce the judgment
pursuant to the applicable rules of civil procedure.
      (3)   Each day a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
Further, the appropriate officers or agents of the township are hereby
authorized to seek equitable relief, including injunction, to enforce
compliance herewith.
   (B)   The Board may institute proceedings in equity in the Court of Common
Pleas of the county for the purpose of enjoining the sale, resale, lending,
distribution, exhibit, gift or show of such pornographic literature, book,
magazine, pamphlet, newspaper, storypaper, paper, comic book, writing, drawing,
photograph, figure or image, or any written or printed matter of an obscene
nature or any article or instrument of a pornographic nature, contrary to the
provisions of this section, and for such purposes jurisdiction is hereby
conferred upon said Court. A preliminary injunction may issue and a hearing
thereafter be held thereon in conformity with the Rules of Civil Procedure upon
the advertent of the Board that the sale, resale, lending, distribution,
exhibit, gift or show of such publication constitutes a danger to the welfare
or peace of the community.
(1987 Code, § 94-8)  (Ord. 4-90, passed 7-3-1990; Ord. 3-96, passed 9-3-1996)
CHAPTER 113:  SALVAGE YARDS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Application for license
   
113.04   Transferability
   
113.05   License fee
   
113.06   Procedures for the issuance of licenses; conspicuous posting
   
113.07   Conformance to specifications
   
113.08   Enforcement
   
113.09   Inspection of licensed premises
   
113.10   Adoption of rules and regulations
 
   
113.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Junk dealers and junkyards, see
Chapter 115
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY or STATE HIGHWAY.  A road or highway of the state highway system.
   PERSON.  Any natural person, association, partnership, firm or corporation.
   ROAD or PUBLIC ROAD.  A road of a township of the second class and shall
include a street, lane, alley, court or public square of such township.
   SALVAGE DEALER.  Any person who buys, sells, salvages, stores, accumulates
and/or disposes of salvage material for reclamation, recycling and/or
reprocessing.
   SALVAGE MATERIAL.  Any and all discarded metals, articles or things,
including, but not limited to, scrapped motor vehicles, parts of motor
vehicles, bodies of motor vehicles, vehicles which are inoperable and do not
have a current and valid inspection sticker as required by the motor vehicle
laws of the commonwealth (see 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq.), scrapped or
inoperable machinery and scrapped or inoperable farm equipment
   SALVAGE YARD.  Any place in the township where salvage materials are stored
or accumulated.
(1987 Code, § 102-1)  (Ord. 4-86, passed 5-19-1986)
§ 113.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   On or after the effective date of this chapter, no person shall be a salvage
dealer or establish a salvage yard in the township, except as authorized by
this chapter and only after having obtained a license for the operation of a
salvage yard in accordance with this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 102-2)  (Ord. 4-86, passed 5-19-1986)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for such a license to operate a salvage yard shall be made in
writing by any salvage dealer under oath and in the form prescribed by the
Board of Supervisors of the township, and shall contain the name and address of
the applicant. The application shall also contain the address and description
of the premises upon which the salvage yard is to be operated; the names and
addresses of any owner or owners of said property if other than the applicant;
any structures erected on the premises; and a description of the operation plan
for said salvage yard. If the applicant is a partnership or association, the
application shall furnish the names and addresses of all partners. If the
applicant is a corporation, the application shall furnish the names and
addresses of each officer and director thereof. The application shall be signed
by the applicant if the applicant is an individual; by all members of the
association or partnership, if the applicant is an association or partnership;
and by the president and attested by the secretary, if the applicant is a
corporation.
(1987 Code, § 102-3)  (Ord. 4-86, passed 5-19-1986)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04  TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned or
used by any person other than the one to whom it was issued, and no salvage
dealer’s license shall be issued at any location other than the one prescribed
in the application upon which it is issued.
(1987 Code, § 102-4)  (Ord. 4-86, passed 5-19-1986)
§ 113.05  LICENSE FEE.
   Any salvage dealer shall pay an annual license fee of $200 for every salvage
yard license or renewal thereof issued under this chapter. All salvage dealers
shall apply for said license by January 1. All licenses shall be issued for a
term of one year beginning July 1 and ending June 30 of the next year.
(1987 Code, § 102-5)  (Ord. 4-86, passed 5-19-1986; Ord. 5-2000, passed 5-18-
2000)
§ 113.06  PROCEDURES FOR THE ISSUANCE OF LICENSES; CONSPICUOUS POSTING.
   Upon receipt of an application, the Board of Supervisors of the township
shall review the license application and operational plans contained therein.
The township shall consider in the granting of the license, the suitability of
the premises proposed to be used for the purposes of a salvage yard, the
character of the property in the general area of the proposed salvage yard, the
character of the property immediately adjacent to the proposed salvage yard and
the effect of the proposed salvage yard upon the township. If the application
for license to operate a salvage yard is granted, the Secretary-Treasurer of
the Board of Supervisors shall issue a license to the applicant designating the
name of the salvage dealer, the address of the salvage yard and the applicable
dates of the license. The salvage yard license shall be conspicuously posted
upon the premises operated as a salvage yard.
(1987 Code, § 102-6)  (Ord. 4-86, passed 5-19-1986)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07  CONFORMANCE TO SPECIFICATIONS.
   All salvage yards shall conform to the following specifications.
   (A)   All structures and junk shall be set back from any adjoining public
roadways a minimum of 50 feet. A fence shall be constructed or planted along
parts of the junkyard which are adjacent to public highways or roads or
residential areas.
      (1)   Said fence shall be of solid construction, natural materials or
paving materials.
      (2)   The applicant for a license under this chapter shall submit a plan
of the proposed construction materials, natural materials or living materials
to the Board of Supervisors of the township for approval prior to construction;
said approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   (B)   The salvage yard shall at all times be maintained so as not to
constitute a nuisance or impair the health, safety and welfare of the
community.
   (C)   All junk shall be stored and arranged so as to permit access by
firefighting and other emergency equipment and to prevent the accumulation of
stagnant water. Junked automobiles shall be spaced in rows with at least 15
feet between each double row.
   (D)   All gasoline shall be drained from any junked automobile into
containers and removed from the vehicle within 24 hours upon arrival on the
premises and shall be stored at only one location on the licensed premises.
This location shall be marked and identified by signs for firefighting and
emergency purposes.
   (E)   Every licensee hereunder shall maintain records in the English
language at the time of acquisition of salvage materials, a full and complete
description thereof, including, but not limited to, the trade name, serial and/
or manufacturer’s numbers, if any, the date and time of purchase or acquisition
and the name and address of the person from whom such salvage material was
purchased, acquired or received. Such records shall be retained for a period of
five years and shall be subject to inspection by the township.
(1987 Code, § 102-7)  (Ord. 4-86, passed 5-19-1986; Ord. 5-1986, passed 5-19-
1986)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Board of Supervisors is hereby empowered to take any action at law or
equity to enforce the provisions of this chapter, and this chapter shall in no
way impair or restrict remedies otherwise provided by any other law or
ordinance.
(1987 Code, § 102-9)  (Ord. 4-86, passed 5-19-1986)
§ 113.09  INSPECTION OF LICENSED PREMISES.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township, or the duly authorized agent
thereof, may, at any time, enter upon and inspect the licensed premises or the
premises for which an application under this chapter is pending.
(1987 Code, § 102-10)  (Ord. 4-86, passed 5-19-1986)
§ 113.10  ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township may, from time to time, adopt
regulations to carry out the provisions of this chapter upon giving notice to
each person licensed under this chapter and each applicant for license under
this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 102-11)  (Ord. 4-86, passed 5-19-1986)
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates or permits a violation of this chapter, upon
being found liable thereof in a civil enforcement proceeding, shall pay a fine
of not more than $600 plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney’s
fees, incurred by the township in the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Such fines shall be determined by the officer of the township
authorized to do so by the Board of Supervisors.
   (C)   No judgment shall be imposed until the date of the determination of
the violation by the District Justice and/or court.
   (D)   If the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the
township may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable rules of civil
procedure. Each day a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
Further, the appropriate officers or agents of the township are hereby
authorized to seek equitable relief, including injunction, to enforce
compliance herewith.
(1987 Code, § 102-8)  (Ord. 4-86, passed 5-19-1986; Ord. 3-96, passed 9-3-1996)
CHAPTER 114:  LANDFILLS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Compliance with rules and regulations
   
114.03   Inspection; fees
   
114.04   Rules and regulations
   
114.05   Enforcement
   
114.06   Performance bond
 
   
114.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Solid waste and recycling, see
Chapter 51
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICATION FOR PERMIT FOR SANITARY LANDFILL.  The application which shall
be addressed to the Supervisors of the township, setting forth the details
required under §
114.02(A), (B) and (C), and requesting permission to operate a sanitary
landfill.
   INSPECTORS.  Employees of the Township of Antis, authorized by the
Supervisors of the township to make daily or weekly inspections of the areas
approved for sanitary landfill, during such operation.
   SANITARY LANDFILL.  A method of permanent disposal of nonsalvageable waste,
including dry trash, incombustible rubbish, edible and nonedible garbage, by
either digging a trench to contain refuse, or covering a small area with
refuse, then spreading and compacting this refuse for minimum bulk and minimum
settlement and daily covering completely the compacted refuse with a minimum
layer of six inches of soil which, after covering, should again be compacted.
   SPECIFIC AREA.  The area described in the application and that area only.
(1987 Code, § 82-1)  (Ord. 39, passed 2-8-1965)
§ 114.02  COMPLIANCE WITH RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Sanitary landfill shall be authorized and permitted in the township by any
person, persons, partnership, company or corporation, upon compliance with the
following rules and regulations.
   (A)   Any person, persons, partnership, company or corporation shall make
written application to the Supervisors of the township, requesting permission
to operate a sanitary landfill in and upon the specific area described in such
application.
   (B)   The application shall designate the date of application; name of the
person, persons, partnership, company or corporation applying: for the permit;
the address of such person, persons, partnership, company or corporation
applying for said permit; an exact description of the area, and the location of
said area, to be used for such purpose; a promise by the person, persons,
partnership, company or corporation so applying for permission to be bound by
the rules and regulations; the signature or other proper execution of the
person, persons, partnership, company or corporation applying for permission
and any other information which the Supervisors may determine necessary or
desirable in determining if a permit should be granted.
   (C)   The application for permission to engage in sanitary landfill shall be
accompanied by a $10 deposit in cash or certified check, which shall be
credited on the permit fee if a permit to operate is granted. In the event that
a permit is refused, the said $10 fee shall be forfeited to the township as a
charge for inspecting the area set forth in the application.
   (D)   If the area requested to be used for sanitary landfill is so located
and situated that it will not be a nuisance to surrounding property owners and/
or residents of the area, and the area is adaptable to use for sanitary
landfill, the Supervisors of the township, shall grant a permit to proceed with
a sanitary landfill in only the specific area described in the application,
upon payment of the amount of $25, which together with the $10 deposit
accompanying the application shall entitle the applicant to use only the
specific area described for sanitary landfill for a period of one year,
provided that the said licensee abides by all the rules and regulations
applicable to said operation. A like fee of $35 shall be due and payable one
year from the date the permit is first granted and on the corresponding date of
each year thereafter that the operation is continued.
   (E)   The Supervisors shall have the power to revoke any permit so issued
for violation of the rules and regulations and/or change in the development of
the area in which the said sanitary landfill is located or the area immediately
surrounding it.
(1987 Code, § 82-2)  (Ord. 39, passed 2-8-1965)
§ 114.03  INSPECTION; FEES.
   The person, persons, partnership, company or corporation shall pay the sum
of $75 to cover the cost of weekly inspection, for a period of three months, of
the said area for which a permit is granted and, if in the judgment of the
Supervisors the operation requires daily inspection, the sum of $225 to cover
the cost of daily inspection, for a period of three months, of the area for
which a permit is granted. Said fee shall be paid in advance by cash or
certified check to the Supervisors of the township upon approval of the
application by the Supervisors of the township. Any unearned portion of the
said inspection fee shall be forfeited to the Supervisors of the township in
the event that the applicant discontinues or abandons the use of the specific
area before the period for which the inspection fee is paid expires. The
inspection fee for each subsequent period of use shall be paid in advance and
shall not extend beyond a period of one year from the date the permit is
granted unless the permit is renewed for subsequent additional periods of one
year.
(1987 Code, § 82-3)  (Ord. 39, passed 2-8-1965)
§ 114.04  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The area for which permits are granted for sanitary landfill shall be
open for operation daily, except Sundays and holidays, from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00
p.m., during the months of April to and including September, and from 7:00 a.m.
to 5:00 p.m., during the months of October through and including March.
   (B)   The area of the sanitary landfill operation shall be completely
covered with a layer of soil at least six inches in depth, properly compacted
each and every night of operation, so as to eliminate any exposure of refuse,
garbage or debris.
   (C)   The said refuse, garbage or debris shall be solidly compacted before
the layer of soil is placed upon it and the soil shall be compacted after it is
placed upon the said compacted refuse, garbage or debris.
   (D)   Any area infested with vermin shall not be used for sanitary landfill
until the said vermin are eliminated or rid by proper hygienic means from the
specific area.
   (E)   The Supervisors reserve the right to change the above rules and
regulations and to make additional rules and regulations, which upon the
delivery of a true copy thereof, in writing, to any operator of a sanitary
landfill, shall be as binding upon him or her as if contained in this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 82-4)  (Ord. 39, passed 2-8-1965)
§ 114.05  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Supervisors of the township shall designate one or more inspectors
as necessary to carry on a daily inspection of each area authorized for
sanitary landfill operation, and it shall be the duty of said inspector or
inspectors to enforce the rules and regulations of sanitary landfill
operations.
   (B)   In the event that any person, persons, partnership, company or
corporation fails to abide by the rules and regulations as set forth in the
chapter or in the event that any person, persons, partnership, company or
corporation operates a sanitary landfill without a permit, then it shall be the
duty of the inspector or inspectors to report to the Supervisors of the
township any violation of the rules and regulations and/or any operation
without a permit.
(1987 Code, § 82-5)  (Ord. 39, passed 2-8-1965)
§ 114.06  PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The Supervisors of the township may, in the exercise of their discretion,
require that any person, persons, partnership, company or corporation applying
for a permit or operating a sanitary landfill under the provisions of this
chapter post a performance bond in an amount not to exceed $5,000, conditioned
for the performance and compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the
rules and regulations contained herein, and as the same may hereafter be
altered, changed or added to the law of the commonwealth, and the rules and
regulations of the State Department of Health or any other commonwealth agency
having jurisdiction and authority over the operation of a sanitary landfill,
such performance bond to be and remain in full force and effect for a period of
five years after discontinuance of operation of the sanitary landfill for which
the bond has been posted.
(1987 Code, § 82-6)  (Ord. 39, passed 2-8-1965)
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by action brought before a District
Justice in the same manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses
under the State Rules of Criminal Procedure. Any person who violates or permits
the violation of this chapter shall, upon conviction in a summary proceeding,
be punishable by a fine of not more that $1,000 or by imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 90 days. Each day or portion thereof that such violation
continues, or is permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense.
Each section of this chapter that is violated shall also constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   The Supervisors of the township shall also have the power to institute
proceedings in courts of equity to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 82-7)  (Ord. 39, passed 2-8-1965; Ord. 4-87, passed 10-6-1987;
Ord. 3-96, passed 9-3-1996; Ord. 1-97, passed 6-2-1997)
CHAPTER 115:  JUNK DEALERS AND JUNKYARDS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   License required
   
115.03   Application for license
   
115.04   Transferability
   
115.05   License fee
   
115.06   Review of license application; issuance; posting
   
115.07   General specifications
   
115.08   Enforcement
   
115.09   Inspections
   
115.10   Adoption of additional regulations
   
115.11   Minimum size of junkyards
 
   
115.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Salvage yards, see
Chapter 113
§ 115.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY or STATE HIGHWAY.  A road or highway of the state highway system.
   JUNK.  Any and all discarded materials, articles or things, including, but
not limited to, scrapped motor vehicles, parts of motor vehicles, bodies of
motor vehicles, vehicles which are inoperable and do not have a current and
valid inspection sticker as required by the motor vehicle laws of the
commonwealth, scrapped or inoperable machinery and scrapped or inoperable farm
equipment.
   JUNK DEALER.  Any person who buys, sells, salvages, stores, accumulates and/
or disposes of junk.
   JUNKYARD.  Any place in the township where junk is stored or accumulated.
Any premises having two or more unlicensed automobiles thereon shall be deemed
to be a JUNKYARD.
   PERSON.  Any natural person, association, partnership, firm or corporation.
   ROAD or PUBLIC ROAD.  A road of a township of the second class and shall
include a street, lane, alley, court or public square of such township.
(1987 Code, § 77-1)  (Ord. 77-8, passed 4-28-1986)
§ 115.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   On or after the effective date of this chapter, no person shall be a junk
dealer or establish a junkyard in the township, except as authorized by this
chapter and only after having obtained a license for the operation of a
junkyard in accordance with this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 77-2)  (Ord. 77-8, passed 4-28-1986)
§ 115.03  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for such a license to operate a junkyard shall be made in
writing by any junk dealer under oath and in the form prescribed by the Board
of Supervisors of the township, and shall contain the name and address of the
applicant. The application shall also contain the address and description of
the premises upon which the junkyard is to be operated; the names and addresses
of any owner or owners of said property if other than the applicant; any
structures erected on the premises and a description of the operation plan for
said junkyard. If the applicant is a partnership or association, the
application shall furnish the names and addresses of all partners. If the
applicant is a corporation, the application shall furnish the names and
addresses of each officer and director thereof. The application shall be signed
by the applicant, if the applicant is an individual, by all members of the
association or partnership, if the applicant is an association or partnership,
and by the president and attested by the secretary, if the applicant is a
corporation.
(1987 Code, § 77-3)  (Ord. 77-8, passed 4-28-1986)
§ 115.04  TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned or
used by any person other than the one to whom it was issued, and no junk
dealer’s license shall be issued at any location other than the one prescribed
in the application upon which it is issued.
(1987 Code, § 77-4)  (Ord. 77-8, passed 4-28-1986)
§ 115.05  LICENSE FEE.
   Any junk dealer shall pay an annual license fee of $200 for every junkyard
license or renewal thereof issued under this chapter. All junk dealers shall
apply for said license by January 1. All licenses shall be issued for a term of
one year beginning July 1 and ending June 30 of the next year.
(1987 Code, § 77-5)  (Ord. 77-8, passed 4-28-1986; Ord. 4-2000, passed 5-1-
2000)
§ 115.06  REVIEW OF LICENSE APPLICATION; ISSUANCE; POSTING.
   Upon receipt of an application, the Board of Supervisors of the township
shall review the license application and operational plans contained therein.
The township shall consider, in the granting of the license, the suitability of
the premises proposed to be used for the purposes of a junkyard, the character
of the property in the general area of the proposed junkyard and the effect of
the proposed junkyard upon the township. If the application for a license to
operate a junkyard otherwise meets the requirements of this chapter, the
Secretary-Treasurer of the Board of Supervisors of the township shall indicate
to the applicant, in writing, that his or her application has been
preliminarily approved. The applicant will then be requested to construct a
fence in accordance with §
115.07. Upon the fence being erected in accordance with this chapter and
following inspection by the Ordinance Enforcement Officer of the township, the
Secretary-Treasurer of the Board of Supervisors of the township shall issue a
permit to the applicant designating the name of the junk dealer, the address of
the junkyard and the applicable dates of the license. The junkyard license
shall be conspicuously posted upon the premises operated as a junkyard.
(1987 Code, § 77-6)  (Ord. 77-8, passed 4-28-1986; Ord. 6-90, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 115.07  GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS.
   All junkyards shall conform to the following specifications.
   (A)   All structures and junk shall be set back from any adjoining public
roadways a minimum of 50 feet. A fence shall be constructed or planted along
parts of the junkyard which are adjacent to public highways or roads or
residential areas. Said fence shall be of solid construction, natural materials
or living materials and shall be designed not to permit sight of the junk from
outside of the junkyard. The applicant for a license under this chapter shall
submit a plan of the proposed construction materials, natural materials or
living materials to the Board of Supervisors of the township for approval prior
to construction; said approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   (B)   The junkyard shall at all times be maintained so as not to constitute
a nuisance or impair the health, safety and welfare of the community.
   (C)   All junk shall be stored and arranged so as to permit access by
firefighting and other emergency equipment and to prevent the accumulation of
stagnant water. Junked automobiles shall be spaced in rows with at least 15
feet between each double row. Junk shall not be piled to a height of more than
seven feet from the ground.
   (D)   All gasoline shall be drained from any junked automobile into
containers and removed from the vehicle within 24 hours from arrival on the
premises and shall be stored at only one location on the licensed premises.
This location shall be marked and identified by signs for firefighting and
emergency purposes.
   (E)   Every licensee hereunder shall maintain records, in the English
language, at the time of acquisition of junk, of a full and complete
description thereof, including, but not limited to, the trade name, serial and/
or manufacturer’s numbers, if any, the date and time of purchase or acquisition
and the name and address of the person from whom such junk was purchased,
acquired or received. Such records shall be retained for a period of five years
and shall be subject to inspection by the township.
   (F)   Every licensee hereunder shall keep and retain on the licensed
premises for a period of 24 hours after purchase, acquisition or receipt
thereof, every item of junk acquired, and the original form, shape or condition
of said junk shall not be destroyed, disturbed or reduced for a period of 24
hours.
(1987 Code, § 77-7)  (Ord. 77-8, passed 4-28-1986)
§ 115.08  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Board of Supervisors is hereby empowered to take any action at law or
equity to enforce the provisions of this chapter, and this chapter shall in no
way impair or restrict remedies otherwise provided by any other law or chapter.
(1987 Code, § 77-9)  (Ord. 77-8, passed 4-28-1986)
§ 115.09  INSPECTIONS.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township or the duly authorized agent
thereof may, at any time, enter upon and inspect the licensed premises or the
premises for which an application under this chapter is pending.
(1987 Code, § 77-10)  (Ord. 77-8, passed 4-28-1986)
§ 115.10  ADOPTION OF ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township may, from time to time, adopt
regulations to carry out the provisions of this chapter, upon giving notice to
each person licensed under this chapter and each applicant for license under
this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 77-11)  (Ord. 77-8, passed 4-28-1986)
§ 115.11  MINIMUM SIZE OF JUNKYARDS.
   No junkyard shall be licensed within the township, unless it contains a
minimum of ten acres of land, exclusive of all streets, alleys, rivers and
streams.
(1987 Code, § 77-12)  (Ord. 77-8, passed 4-28-1986; Ord. 5-90, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 115.99  PENALTY.
   This chapter shall be enforced by action brought before a District Justice
in the same manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses under the
State Rules of Criminal Procedure. Any person who violates or permits the
violation of this chapter shall, upon conviction in a summary proceeding, be
punishable by a fine of not more that $1,000 or by imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 90 days. Each day or portion thereof that such violation continues,
or is permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense. Each section
of this chapter that is violated shall also constitute a separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 77-8)  (Ord. 77-8, passed 4-28-1986; Ord. 4-87, passed 9-3-1996;
Ord. 3-96, passed 9-3-1996; Ord. 1-97, passed 6-2-1997)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
      
152.   WIND TURBINE GENERATORS
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
      
155.   SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Construction Code Act
Building Permit Required
   
150.15   Definitions
   
150.16   Permit required
   
150.17   Application for proof of waste disposal
Buildings, Dangerous or Red-Tagged
   
150.30   Title
   
150.31   Definitions
   
150.32   Red-tagged structures declared nuisances
   
150.33   Investigation procedures
   
150.34   Hearing procedures
   
150.35   Standards for repair, vacation or demolition
   
150.36   Enforcement procedures
   
150.37   Emergency cases
   
150.38   Responsibility for compliance
Lots and Setback Lines
   
150.55   Applicability
   
150.56   Setback lines
   
150.57   Setbacks adjacent to roads
   
150.58   Side yards
   
150.59   Garages, carports, sheds and decks
   
150.60   In-ground swimming pools
   
150.61   Additions
   
150.62   Small wind turbines
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  CONSTRUCTION CODE ACT.
   (A)   The township hereby elects to administer and enforce the provisions of
the State Construction Code Act, Act 45 of 1999, being 35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 et
seq., as amended from time to time, and its regulations.
   (B)   The Uniform Construction Code, contained in 34 Pa. Code Chapter 401 et
seq., as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated herein
by reference as the Municipal Building Code of the township.
   (C)   Administration and enforcement of the code within the township shall
be undertaken in any of the following ways as determined by the Board of
Supervisors of the township from time to time by resolution:
      (1)   By the designation of an employee of the township to serve as the
municipal code official to act on behalf of the township;
      (2)   By the retention of one or more construction code officials or
third party agencies to act on behalf of the township;
      (3)   By agreement with one or more other municipalities for the joint
administration and enforcement of this Act through an inter-municipal
agreement;
      (4)   By entering into a contract with another municipality for the
administration and enforcement of this Act on behalf of the township; or
      (5)   By entering into an agreement with the State Department of Labor
and Industry for plan review, inspections and enforcement of structures other
than one-family or two-family dwelling units and utility and miscellaneous use
structures.
   (D)   A Board of Appeals shall be established by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors of the township in conformity with the requirements of the relevant
provisions of the Code, as amended from time to time, and for the purposes set
forth therein.
      (1)   If at any time enforcement and administration is undertaken jointly
with one or more other municipalities, said Board of Appeals shall be
established by joint action of the participating municipalities.
      (2)   At this time, and without limiting the authority of the Supervisors
to establish by resolution a Board of Appeals or to enter into a joint Board of
Appeals with other municipalities, the Board hereby names the County Region
Uniform Construction Code Board of Appeals as the Board of Appeals to handle
appeals pursuant to this section.
   (E)   (1)   All building code ordinances or portions of ordinances which
were adopted by the township on or before July 1, 1999, and which equal or
exceed the requirements of the code shall continue in full force and effect
until such time as such provisions fail to equal or exceed the minimum
requirements of the code, as amended from time to time.
      (2)   All building code ordinances or portions of ordinances which are in
effect as of the effective date of this chapter and whose requirements are less
than the minimum requirements of the code are hereby amended to conform with
the comparable provisions of the code.
      (3)   All relevant ordinances, regulations and policies of the township
not governed by the code shall remain in full force and effect.
   (F)   Fees assessable by the township for the administration and enforcement
undertaken pursuant to this chapter and the code shall be established by the
governing body by resolution from time to time.
   (G)   This section shall be effective five days after the date of passage of
this section.
(Ord. 3-2004, passed 7-1-2004)
BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED
§ 150.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION WASTE.  Any refuse or other material, including but not limited
to solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material, resulting from the
construction, razing, and/or demolition of a building or structure. The term
does not include recyclable materials.
   STRUCTURE.  Any man-made object having an ascertainable stationary location
on or in land or water, whether or not affixed to the land.
(Ord. 4-1992, passed 10-6-1992)
§ 150.16  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No building or structure, or any part thereof, shall be erected, enlarged,
converted, repaired, altered, razed and/or demolished, until a building permit
shall have been procured from the township by the owner or owner's agent prior
to commencement of any such work.  This section will be satisfied if the Owner
or owner's agent secures a permit pursuant to any other applicable portion of
this code, but in such case the other provisions of this subsection still shall
apply in addition to any other requirements applicable to the permit or the
activity to which it applies.
(Ord. 4-1992, passed 10-6-1992)
§ 150.17  APPLICATION FOR PROOF OF WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Application for a permit shall be made in writing on a form prescribed
by the township by the owner or owner's agent and shall contain the names and
addresses of the owner(s); a description sufficient to identify the property
for which the permit is sought; the nature of the construction, improvement,
razing, or demolition, in detail; the amount of estimated cost thereof, and in
the case of construction and improvement shall be accompanied by one set of
dimensioned plans showing all habitable floors, basement, or cellar and
foundation and with said plans being prepared, signed, and approved by all
County and Commonwealth authorities as required by law.  Provided, however,
that the Township Secretary may waive the requirement for filing plans where
the work involved is of a minor nature and the building operation is adequately
described in the application.
   (B)   Any person who obtains a building permit pursuant to this section
shall certify to the township that any construction waste of any nature caused
by or due to the construction, improvement, razing and/or demolition of any
building will be properly disposed of in a landfill approved by the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection for the disposal of such
construction waste.  In furtherance of this subpart, any person issued a
building permit shall, within one year of the date of the issuance of the
permit, file with the Township Secretary the original of all disposal payment
slips or records clearly indicating the type and amount of said construction
waste and cost of disposal thereof and that said waste was disposed of in a
landfill approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection
for disposal of such construction waste.  Said disposal payment slips may be
signed by the appropriate landfill official or a solid waste hauler duly
licensed by the township.
   (C)   Any person who obtains a permit for the purpose of constructing a
building or structure and not for razing or demolition purposes shall be exempt
from certifying that the construction waste caused by said construction (except
any roofing material) has been disposed of in an approved landfill if said
permit was issued for a building project the cost of construction of which is
less than $1,000, and if said person states in writing the method employed by
such person to dispose of the construction waste associated with the issuance
of said permit.
(Ord. 4-1992, passed 10-6-1992)
BUILDINGS, DANGEROUS OR RED-TAGGED
§ 150.30  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known, as the “Antis Township Red Tag Ordinance”.
(1987 Code, § 47-1)  (Ord. 7-1999, passed 8-3-1999)
§ 150.31  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS OR RED-TAGGED PROPERTY.  All buildings or structures which have
been determined by the Board of Supervisors, in accordance with the provisions
of this subchapter, to have any or all of the following defects:
      (1)   Those buildings or structures which have been damaged by fire, wind
or other causes so as to have become dangerous to the life, safety, morals or
the general health and welfare of the occupants or the people of the township;
      (2)   Those buildings or structures which have become or are so
dilapidated, decayed, unsafe, unsanitary, vermin-infested, rat-infested or
which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to decent living that
they are unfit for human habitation or are likely to cause accidents, sickness
or disease so as to work injury to the health, morals, safety or general
welfare of those living therein as well as other citizens of the township;
      (3)   Those buildings or structures which have parts thereof which are so
attached that they might fall and injure members of the public or adjoining
property; or
      (4)   Those buildings or structures which, because of their general
condition, are unsafe, unsanitary or dangerous to the health, morals, safety or
general welfare of the people of the township.
   PERSON.  Any natural person or persons, corporation, partnership,
association or any lawful entity.
(1987 Code, § 47-2)  (Ord. 7-1999, passed 8-3-1999)
§ 150.32  RED-TAGGED STRUCTURES DECLARED NUISANCES.
   All dangerous or red-tagged buildings or structures within the terms of §
150.31 are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be vacated,
removed, repaired or demolished as hereinbefore and hereinafter provided.
(1987 Code, § 47-3)  (Ord. 7-1999, passed 8-3-1999)
§ 150.33  INVESTIGATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Whenever it shall be reported or come to the attention of any township
official that any building or structure is or may be in a dangerous or unsafe
condition, such person having knowledge thereof shall report the same to the
Township Code Officer.
      (1)   Should the Township Code Officer receive such a report, or whenever
the Township Code Officer in the normal discharge of his or her patrol duties
shall determine that a building or structure is or may be in a dangerous or
unsafe condition, the Code Officer shall cause an investigation and examination
to be made of such building or structure. The investigation and examination
shall include, at a minimum, the taking of photographic evidence. The Township
Code Officer shall review his or her findings with the Township Manager.
      (2)   If the Township Code Officer and Manager determine that the
building or structure does appear to be in a dangerous or unsafe condition, the
Code Officer shall provide written notice to the owner of said building or
structure, communicating the Code Officer’s finding that the building or
structure is in a dangerous or unsafe condition. The written notice shall
request a response within 30 days of delivery, in order to determine the
owner’s intention with respect to repairing or demolishing the building or
structure. The Code Officer’s letter also shall reference this subchapter, in
communicating to the property owner that the building or structure appears to
be in violation of the same. If the owner fails to respond or responds with
notification that the owner does not plan to repair or demolish the building or
structure, then a written report of the investigation and examination,
including the photographic evidence described above, as well as copies of any
correspondence by and between the Code Officer and the owner, shall be
submitted to the Board of Supervisors. The report shall specify the condition
of the building or structure and setting forth the basis upon which the Code
Officer concluded that the building or structure may be dangerous. The report
also should contain the Code Officer’s finding regarding whether or not the
building or structure appears to be capable of being repaired or whether it
should be demolished.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse entrance to or to impede
any township official or any other authorized individual in the investigation
of any such building or structure under this subchapter. The owner, occupant or
operator of every building or structure within the township, or the person in
charge thereof, shall give such official or authorized individual free access
thereto and to all parts thereof and to the premises on which it is located at
all reasonable times for the purpose of such investigation, upon display by
such individual of proper identification.
(1987 Code, § 47-4)  (Ord. 7-1999, passed 8-3-1999; Ord. 2-2013, passed 6-6-
2013)  Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.34  HEARING PROCEDURES.
   Upon receipt of a report in accordance with §
150.33, the Board of Supervisors of the township shall:
   (A)   Give written notice to the owner of said building or structure and to
all other persons having an interest in said building or structure as shown by
the land records of the Recorder of Deeds of the county to appear before the
Board of Supervisors on the date specified in the notice to show cause why the
building or structure reported to be a dangerous or red-tagged building should
not be repaired, vacated, removed or demolished in accordance with the
enforcement provisions set forth in this subchapter;
   (B)   Hold a hearing and hear such testimony as the owner or any other
person having an interest in said building or structure shall offer relative to
the condition of said building or structure;
   (C)   Make written findings of fact from the testimony presented at said
hearing as to whether the building in question is a dangerous or red-tagged
building within the terms of §
150.31; and
   (D)   Issue an order based upon said findings of fact demanding that the
owner or other persons having an interest in said building repair, vacate or
remove or demolish said building in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(1987 Code, § 47-5)  (Ord. 7-1999, passed 8-3-1999)
§ 150.35  STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION OR DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be the basic guidelines to be followed by the
Board of Supervisors in ordering the repair, vacation or demolition of any
building or structure pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   If the dangerous or red-tagged building or structure can be reasonably
repaired so that it will no longer be in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter, the Board of Supervisors shall order that said building or
structure be repaired;
   (B)   If the dangerous or red-tagged building or structure cannot be
reasonably repaired so that it will no longer be in violation of the provisions
of this subchapter, the Board of Supervisors shall order that said building or
structure be demolished; and
   (C)   If the dangerous or red-tagged building or structure is in such
condition so as to make it dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general
welfare of its occupants, the Board of Supervisors shall have the authority to
order said building or structure to be vacated.
(1987 Code, § 47-6)  (Ord. 7-1999, passed 8-3-1999)
§ 150.36  ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   If any building or structure is deemed to be a dangerous or red-tagged
building pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, written notice shall be
served upon the owner, occupants and all other persons having an interest in
said building or structure as shown by the land records of the Recorder of
Deeds of the county.
   (A)   The notice required by this section shall be served upon the owner,
occupants and all other persons interested in said building or structure by
sending said notice by certified or registered mail to such individual at his
or her last known address.
   (B)   The notice shall identify the building or structure deemed to be
dangerous or red-tagged and contain a statement of the particulars which made
this building or structure dangerous and shall contain an order from the Board
of Supervisors requiring said building or structure to be repaired and/or
vacated and/or demolished; provided, that in any case where the notice includes
an order to repair said building or structure, the owner thereof shall have the
option to remove or demolish such building or structure in lieu of making the
repairs thereto.
   (C)   Said notice shall require any person notified and ordered to repair,
vacate or demolish any such building or structure to commence the work or act
required by the notice within ten days of such notice and to complete the
required work or act within 30 days thereof. The Board of Supervisors may, at
its discretion and upon presentation to said Board of evidence of good cause,
grant extensions of time for the commencement and completion of such work or
act required by the notice.
   (D)   In addition to the written notice to be served as aforesaid, the Board
of Supervisors shall cause a notice to be placed upon any building or structure
determined to be in a dangerous red-tagged condition, which notice shall read
substantially as follows:
      “This building has been found to be a dangerous or red-tagged building by
the Board of Supervisors of the Township of Antis. This notice is to remain on
this building until it is repaired, vacated or demolished in accordance with
the notice which has been given to the owner and other persons interested in
this building. It is unlawful to remove this notice until compliance is made
under the provisions contained in the notice given to the above-named party.
This notice is posted upon this building in accordance with the Antis Township
Red Tag Ordinance.”
   (E)   Any person who has been notified pursuant to the terms of this
subchapter to repair or demolish any building or structure which has been
determined to be in a dangerous or red-tagged condition, shall immediately
apply for and obtain from the township the necessary permit to repair or
demolish said building or structure. A fee as established from time to time by
the Board of Supervisors shall be charged by the township for such permit.
(1987 Code, § 47-7)  (Ord. 7-1999, passed 8-3-1999)
§ 150.37  EMERGENCY CASES.
   In cases wherein it reasonably appears that there exists an immediate danger
to the life or safety of any person caused or created by a dangerous or red-
tagged building, as defined herein, the Board may cause the immediate repair,
vacation or demolition of such dangerous building. The costs of such emergency
repair, vacation or demolition of such dangerous or red-tagged building shall
be collected in the same manner as provided for in § 150.99(C).
(1987 Code, § 47-9)  (Ord. 7-1999, passed 8-3-1999)
§ 150.38  RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPLIANCE.
   In the event that the owner of a building or structure, which has been
determined to be a dangerous or red-tagged building within the provisions of
this subchapter, conveys said building or structure in any manner or method,
whether by sale, lease or otherwise, said owner shall still be responsible for
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter; and it is the intent of this
subchapter that the person acquiring said building or structure, shall be
jointly and severally liable with the owner for compliance with this
subchapter.
(1987 Code, § 47-10)  (Ord. 7-1999, passed 8-3-1999)
LOTS AND SETBACK LINES
§ 150.55  APPLICABILITY.
   The following regulations shall apply to any building permit application and
any construction activity otherwise governed by this code.  These regulations
shall be met in addition to and not instead of any other setback requirements,
including but not limited to those in the subdivision and land development
regulations.
(Ord. 6-1986, passed 8-5-1986; Ord. 3-1998, passed 5-21-1988; Ord. 8-2000,
passed 10-19-2000; Ord. 6-2001, passed 8-6-2001; Ord. 1-2007, passed 3-1-2007)
§ 150.56  SETBACK LINES.
   Building setback lines shall be established for all lots and for all
construction on lots.
(Ord. 6-1986, passed 8-5-1986; Ord. 3-1998, passed 5-21-1988; Ord. 8-2000,
passed 10-19-2000; Ord. 6-2001, passed 8-6-2001; Ord. 1-2007, passed 3-1-2007)
§ 150.57  SETBACKS ADJACENT TO ROADS.
   In no case shall a building setback line be less than 25 feet from edge of
any local, state, or federal right-of-way.
(Ord. 6-1986, passed 8-5-1986; Ord. 3-1998, passed 5-21-1988; Ord. 8-2000,
passed 10-19-2000; Ord. 6-2001, passed 8-6-2001; Ord. 1-2007, passed 3-1-2007)
§ 150.58  SIDE YARDS.
    In no case shall any building be closer than seven feet to a side lot line.
(Ord. 6-1986, passed 8-5-1986; Ord. 3-1998, passed 5-21-1988; Ord. 8-2000,
passed 10-19-2000; Ord. 6-2001, passed 8-6-2001; Ord. 1-2007, passed 3-1-2007)
§ 150.59  GARAGES, CARPORTS, SHEDS AND DECKS.
   In all cases involving the proposed construction of a garage, carport, shed
and/or deck, a minimum building line setback shall conform to the following:
   (A)   Front. A setback of 25 feet from the edge of the property lines shall
be provided.
   (B)   Side.  A setback of seven feet from the edge of the property line
shall be provided, except where the property is a corner lot abutting a roadway
or highway, then a 25-foot setback from the roadway is required.
   (C)   Rear.  A setback of seven feet from the edge of the property line
shall be provided.
(Ord. 6-1986, passed 8-5-1986; Ord. 3-1998, passed 5-21-1988; Ord. 8-2000,
passed 10-19-2000; Ord. 6-2001, passed 8-6-2001; Ord. 1-2007, passed 3-1-2007)
§ 150.60  IN-GROUND SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Front. A setback of 25 feet from the edge of the property lines shall
be provided.
   (B)   Side.  A setback of six feet from the edge of the property line shall
be provided, except where the property is a corner lot abutting a roadway or
highway, then a 25-foot setback from the roadway is required.
   (C)   Rear.  A setback of six feet from the edge of the property line shall
be provided.
(Ord. 6-1986, passed 8-5-1986; Ord. 3-1998, passed 5-21-1988; Ord. 8-2000,
passed 10-19-2000; Ord. 6-2001, passed 8-6-2001; Ord. 1-2007, passed 3-1-2007)
§ 150.61  ADDITIONS.
   Additions shall conform to the existing setback of the buildings already
erected thereon.
(Ord. 6-1986, passed 8-5-1986; Ord. 3-1998, passed 5-21-1988; Ord. 8-2000,
passed 10-19-2000; Ord. 6-2001, passed 8-6-2001; Ord. 1-2007, passed 3-1-2007)
§ 150.62  SMALL WIND TURBINES.
   (A)   Definitions.   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM.  A wind energy conversion system
consisting of a wind turbine, a tower, and associated control or conversion
electronics, which has a rated capacity of not more than 100kW and which is
intended for non- commercial use and to primarily reduce on-site consumption of
utility power.
      (2)   TOWER HEIGHT.  The height above grade measured to the highest point
of the blade tip.
   (B)   Setbacks.  No part of the small wind energy system shall extend closer
to any property line a distance of less than twice the tower height.
   (C)   Noise.  Noise levels attributable to the small wind energy system may
not exceed 45dbC (within a reasonable margin of error) as measured from the
property line.
(Ord. 6-1986, passed 8-5-1986; Ord. 3-1998, passed 5-21-1988; Ord. 8-2000,
passed 10-19-2000; Ord. 6-2001, passed 8-6-2001; Ord. 1-2007, passed 3-1-2007)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall fail to comply with any notice or order to
repair, vacate or demolish any dangerous or red-tagged building issued pursuant
to the provisions of §§
150.30 through
150.38 or any regulation or order issued thereunder shall, upon conviction
before a District Justice, be subject to a fine not exceeding $1,000 and costs
and, in default of payment of the fine and costs, shall be subject to
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not exceeding 90 days; provided,
that each day’s continuance of a violation shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalties contained in §§
150.30 through
150.38 are in addition to any other remedies provided by §§
150.30 through
150.38.
      (2)   Any person removing the notice provided for in §
150.36(D) shall, upon conviction before the District Justice, be subject to a
fine not exceeding $1,000 and costs for each offense and, in default of payment
of the fine and costs, shall be subject to imprisonment in the county jail for
a period not exceeding 90 days.
      (3)   If the owner, occupant or any other person having an interest in
any dangerous or red-tagged building or structure, as shown by the land records
of the Recorder of Deeds of the county, fails to comply with any notice or
order to repair, vacate or demolish any such building or structure within 30
days from the date of said notice or order, the Board of Supervisors is
empowered to cause such building or structure to be repaired, vacated or
demolished by the township and to cause the costs of such repair, vacation or
demolition, together with a penalty of 10%, to be charged against the land on
which the building existed as a municipal lien or to recover such costs in a
suit at law against the owner or other such person having an interest in the
building, provided that the recovery of such cost and expense, together with
the aforesaid penalty, may be in addition to the penalty imposed in divisions
(B)(1) and (B)(2) above.
(1987 Code, § 47-8)  (Ord. 7-1999, passed 8-3-1999)
CHAPTER 151:  EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
Section
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Scope
   
151.05   Plan
   
151.06   Plan contents
   
151.07   Applications
   
151.08   Fees
   
151.09   Inspections
   
151.10   Compliance
   
151.11   Waivers
   
151.12   Remedies
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Antis Township Erosion and Sedimentation
Control Ordinance”.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 151.02  PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate the modification of the natural
terrain, the alteration of drainage, and to provide for certain erosion and
sediment control measures within the township to assure and safeguard health,
safety and the general welfare in the township.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 151.03  DEFINITIONS.
   Definitions of terms commonly used in the field of erosion and sediment
pollution control are contained in DEP regulations in 25 Pa. Code Chapter 102.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WATERCOURSE.  A channel of conveyance of surface water having defined bed
and banks, either natural or artificial, with perennial or intermittent flow.
   WATERS OF THE COMMONWEALTH.  Rivers, streams, creeks, rivulets,
impoundments, ditches, watercourses, storm sewers, lakes, dammed water,
wetlands, ponds, springs and other bodies or channels of conveyance of surface
water, or parts thereof, whether natural or artificial, within or on the
boundaries of this commonwealth.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 151.04  SCOPE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, landowner, business or
corporation to undertake any earthmoving activities in excess of 5,000 square
feet without developing, implementing and maintaining erosion and sedimentation
control measures and facilities that effectively minimize accelerated erosion
and prevent sediment pollution to waters of the commonwealth within the
township. These controls shall be contained in an erosion and sedimentation
control plan that meets the requirements of the State Department of
Environmental Protection Erosion Control Regulations at Chapter 102. A copy of
the erosion and sedimentation control plan must be available at the earthmoving
site at all times.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
   (B)      Activities requiring grading permit. The following activities
require a grading permit:
      (1)   Modifying, disturbing, blocking, diverting or otherwise adversely
affecting the natural overland or subsurface flow of stormwater;
      (2)   Construction, erection or installation of any drainage dam, ditch,
culvert, drain pipe, bridge or any other structure or obstruction affecting the
drainage of any premises;
      (3)   Paving, filling, stripping, excavating, grading or regrading of any
land; and
      (4)   Disturbing the landscape, vegetation or any ground cover by any
proposal involving an area in excess of 5,000 square feet.
   (C)   Activities requiring no grading permit. The following activities do
not require a grading permit:
      (1)   Improvements, such as erection of retaining walls, driveway paving,
minor regrading or activities on a property which do not adversely affect the
natural overland or subsurface flow of stormwater, drainage of any premises, or
adversely disturb the landscape;
      (2)   Farming, gardening, lawn installation or lawn restoration, but not
including sod farming; and
      (3)   Work within the ultimate right-of-way of a public street or
alleyway to be offered for dedication or previously ordained by the township,
county or commonwealth, or any park, playground, recreation area or open space
dedicated to and accepted by the township, county or commonwealth.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 10-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05  PLAN.
   Prior to the approval by township of any grading permit, an erosion and
sedimentation control plan must be submitted to and reviewed by the Township
Planning Commission and submitted to and approved by the County Conservation
District (hereafter, “District”). Any applicable State Department of
Environmental Protection (hereafter, “DEP”) permit authorizing earthmoving
activities for land disturbance must also be obtained from the District or DEP.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 151.06  PLAN CONTENTS.
   Erosion and sedimentation control plans shall be developed in accordance
with the DEP Chapter 102 Erosion Control Regulations. A complete explanation of
the regulations and recommendations for preparing plans is available in DEP’s
publication “Erosion and Sediment Pollution Control Program Manual”. This
manual is available from the District.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 151.07  APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for approval of an erosion and sedimentation control plan
under the requirements of this chapter, shall be made by completing all
required spaces on the standard erosion and sediment control plan review
application as maintained in the township office and as modified by the
Township Manager from time to time, and forwarding the form to the District at
the address shown. No grading permits will be issued by the township unless and
until an approved erosion and sedimentation control plan is received.
   (B)   Erosion and sedimentation control plans will be reviewed within the
following time limits:
      (1)   First district review:            45 days.
      (2)   Second and third district review:       30 days.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 151.08  FEES.
   Fees for the review of the erosion and sedimentation control plan may be
charged by the Blair County Conservation District. The current fees as of the
adoption of this chapter are listed on attachment A to the ordinance codified
herein, which is on file in the township offices. These fees are subject to
change. The applicant must determine the amount of the fee that will apply to
his or her application. Anyone requiring an explanation of district charges for
plan review should contact the district for such information.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 151.09  INSPECTIONS.
   The township and the district are hereby authorized and directed to conduct
both routine and emergency site inspections of ongoing earthmoving operations
within the township boundaries to establish compliance with the approved
erosion and sedimentations control plan.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 151.10  COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   All violations of the chapter requirements determined during a site
inspection shall be listed on an inspection report which itemizes the following
items for each violation:
      (1)   Specific type of violation, including location and scope; and
      (2)   Provides a period of time during which the person(s) responsible
for the earthmoving activity may correct the violations without the assessment
of any penalties.
   (B)   The inspection moving report shall be signed by the inspector and
person responsible for the earthmoving activity (or a designated
representative), and a copy provided to the latter party.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 151.11 WAIVERS.
   If a majority of the Township Board of Supervisors feels that this chapter
causes undue hardship they may grant a waiver, provide that it does not nullify
the intent and purpose of this chapter. In granting waivers, the Township Board
of Supervisors may impose such conditions as will in its judgment advance the
achievement of the intent of this chapter.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
§ 151.12  REMEDIES.
   In case any building, structure or land is, or is proposed to be, erected,
constructed, re-constructed, altered, converted, maintained or used in
violation of this chapter, the township or, with the approval of the township,
an officer of the township, in addition to other remedies, may institute in the
name of the township any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, restrain,
correct or abate such building, structure or land, or to prevent, in or about
such premises, any act, conduct, business or use constituting a violation.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 10-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Should the person(s) responsible for undertaking the earthmoving operations
fail to meet the deadline for correcting violations of this chapter, as
specified in the official inspection report, the District will issue a formal
notice of violation to the responsible party. For each violation that has
occurred, a penalty of not less than $100, and not more than $300 for each day
of each violation may result. The township shall be responsible for the notice
of such penalties. Such fines, penalties and associated costs will be collected
as allowed by law, and in default thereof, the violator shall be imprisoned in
the county jail for not more than 60 days.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 10-8-2011)
CHAPTER 152:  WIND TURBINE GENERATORS
Section
   
152.01   Findings
   
152.02   Establishment
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Special conditions
   
152.05   Permits required
   
152.06   Permit fee
   
152.07   Duration of permit
   
152.08   Notice of application
   
152.09   Review of applications
   
152.10   Issuance of permits
   
152.11   Criteria and regulations for granting of permit
   
152.12   Waiver
   
152.13   Continued compliance
   
152.14   Noise and shadow flicker
   
152.15   Private access roads and forestry management
   
152.16   Use of public roads
   
152.17   Safety
   
152.18   Insurance
   
152.19   Field representative and site manager
   
152.20   Inspections
   
152.21   Performance standards
   
152.22   No further land development
   
152.23   Revocation of permit
   
152.24   No further subdivision
   
152.25   Wind turbine generator removal
   
152.26   Appeals
   
152.27   Regulations considered nuisance regulations
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01  FINDINGS.
   The Township Supervisors make the following findings with respect to the
construction, operation and maintenance of wind turbine generators.
   (A)   The construction, maintenance and operation of wind turbine
generators, which fail to comply with all criteria and regulations set forth in
this chapter, present tangible and immediate dangers to the public and
neighboring landowners in the nature of ejection of projectiles (ice or injured
birds), continuous generation of noise during night time hours and glare from
sunlight continually flashing off of rotating blades.
   (B)   The construction, maintenance and operation of wind turbine generators
presents a danger following the useful life of the wind turbine generators from
deteriorating structures if provisions for decommissioning are not made as
required by this chapter.
   (C)   The construction, maintenance and operation of wind turbine
generators, which fail to comply with all criteria and regulations set forth in
this chapter, unreasonably interferes with the reasonable use, comfort and
enjoyment of property in the vicinity and/or endangers the health, safety and/
or welfare of the occupants of the property in the vicinity, and prohibits or
denies the property owners and taxpayers the legitimate enjoyment of their
reasonable rights and use of their property and rights.
   (D)   The construction, maintenance and operation of wind turbine
generators, which fail to comply with all criteria and regulations set forth in
this chapter, including, but not limited to, the repetitive noise and glare,
visual impacts, flickering reflections and/or shadows, constitute an
unreasonable use of property which causes injury, damage, harm, inconvenience,
annoyance, and discomfort to the property owners and taxpayers in the
legitimate enjoyment of their reasonable rights and use of their property and
rights, and constitute a danger to migratory birds and the watershed.
   (E)   The wind turbine generators shall meet current standards and
regulations, if any, of any other agency of the state, federal and local
government with the authority to regulate wind turbine generators.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.02  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Township Supervisors hereby declare the construction and maintenance of
wind turbine generators to constitute a nuisance and offensive business, if not
constructed and maintained in accordance with the criteria and regulations set
forth in this chapter, a copy of which is attached hereto and incorporated
herein by reference, subject to prohibition under § 1529 of the State Second
Class Township Code (53 P.S. § 66529) and provide for then-regulation and
permitting under the conditions set forth below in order to avoid the
maintenance of nuisance or offensive businesses within the geographic limits of
the township.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PROPERTY LINE.  As referred to in the boundary of the property or lot upon
which the wind turbine generators is to be located.
   WIND TURBINE GENERATORS.  As prohibited or regulated by this chapter, shall
mean real and personal property which are composed of generators, blades,
tower, base, components of the aforementioned and appurtenances of the
aforementioned (WIND TURBINE GENERATOR with the term referring to both the
singular and the plural of such structure).
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.04  SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Design.
      (1)   Each wind turbine generator shall consist of a tubular support,
generator, nacelle and three blades. Each wind turbine generator site will have
access roads, underground transmission cabling to connect the generators to an
electric substation, and underground fiber optic lines. On-site transmission
and power lines between wind turbines shall, to the maximum extent practicable,
be placed underground. All wind turbine generator sites shall be designed and
constructed in such a fashion as to avoid any disruption and/or interference
with private wells, springs and/or other water sources. In the event any
problems occur with any private water source, which problems are proximately
caused by the developer/permittee, the developer/permittee shall immediately
supply potable water in such quality and quantity as supplied by the original
private water source. The applicant must provide written notice to all property
owners and tenants occupying property within 2,500 feet of the boundary of the
property upon which the wind turbine generator will be located and advise them
that applicant, at applicant’s sole cost, will test their well prior to
construction as to the land owners potable water, the quality of the water and
the quantity of the water and supply and the report thereof shall be furnished
to the township and to the property owners and tenants.
      (2)   All wind energy facilities shall be equipped with a redundant
braking system. This includes both aerodynamic overspeed controls (including
variable pitch, tip and other similar systems) and mechanical brakes.
Mechanical brakes shall be operated in a fail-safe mode. Stall regulation shall
not be considered a sufficient braking system for overspeed protection.
      (3)   The design of the wind energy facility shall conform to applicable
industry standards, including those of the American National Standards
Institute. The applicant shall submit certificates of design compliance
obtained by the equipment manufacturers from Underwriters Laboratories, Det
Norske Veritas, Germanishcer Llloyd Wind Energies or other similar certifying
organizations.
      (4)   The developer/permittee shall install wind turbine generators of
two megawatts nameplate capacity each unless otherwise agreed to by the
parties, which comply with all terms and provisions of this agreement.
   (B)   Maintenance, repair and replacement. The developer/permittee shall
repair, maintain and replace the wind turbine generators and associated
equipment during the term of this agreement in a manner consistent with good
utility practice as needed to keep the project in good repair and operating
condition.
   (C)   Signs. No advertising material or signage other than warning,
equipment information or indicia of ownership shall be allowed on the wind
turbine generators. This prohibition shall include the attachment of any flag,
decorative sign, streamers, pennants, ribbons, spinners or waiving, fluttering
or revolving devices, but not including weather devices.
   (D)   Lightning. The wind turbine generators shall not be artificially
illuminated except as required by the FAA or any other applicable authority. If
lighting is required, the lighting alternatives and design chosen will seek to
minimize the disturbance to the surrounding views.
   (E)   Aesthetics. The towers and generators of the wind turbine generators
shall have a non-reflective, painted steel finish in a neutral color, subject
to any applicable standards of the FAA or other regulatory requirements. The
blades of the wind turbine generators are not covered by this section.
   (F)   Stray voltage/electromagnetic fields (EMF). The developer/permittee
will utilize good utility practice to minimize, to the extent practicable, the
impact, if any, of stray voltage and/or EMF on non-participating property. The
developer/permittee expects there will be no stray voltage impacts from the
project because such impacts occur only on distribution facilities which are
not included in the project.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.05  PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No wind turbine generators shall be constructed, operated or
maintained within the township without a permit for the same. Application for
permit shall be made on forms provided by the township. The application form
shall include a statement requiring that the applicant indemnify the township
with respect to all activities related to the operation of the wind turbine
generator(s). A separate application shall be filed for each structure.
   (B)   In addition, the issuance of a permit pursuant to this wind turbine
ordinance will not relieve the facility owner of any applicable requirements
contained in any other township ordinance including the township subdivision
and land development ordinance.
      (1)   The permit application shall demonstrate that the proposed wind
energy facility will comply with this chapter.
      (2)   Among other things, the application shall contain the following:
         (a)   A narrative describing the proposed wind energy facility,
including an overview of the project; the project location; the approximate
generating capacity of the wind energy facility; the approximate number,
representative types and height or range of heights of wind turbines to be
constructed, including their generating capacity, dimensions and respective
manufacturers, and a description of ancillary facilities;
         (b)   An affidavit or similar evidence of agreement between the
property owner and the facility owner or operator demonstrating that the
facility owner or operator has the permission of the property owner to apply
for necessary permits for construction and operation of the wind energy
facility;
         (c)   Identification of the properties on which the proposed wind
energy facility will be located, and the properties adjacent to where the wind
energy facility will be located;
         (d)   A site plan showing the planned location of each wind turbine,
property lines, setback lines, access road and turnout locations, substation
(s), electrical cabling from the wind energy facility to the substation(s),
ancillary equipment, buildings and structures, including permanent
meteorological towers, associated transmission lines, and layout of all
structures within the geographical boundaries of any applicable setback; and
         (e)   The wind turbine generators shall comply with the following
setbacks.
            1.   Civil structures. Each wind turbine generator shall be set
back from the nearest existing (at the time of the building permit issuance)
school, hospital, church or public library, a distance of no less than 2,500
feet.
            2.   Participating residences. For existing (at the time of the
building permit issuance or notice from the building code enforcement officer
that no building permit is required) participating primary occupied residences,
the setback distance from a wind turbine generator shall be at least 1,000
feet. In the event that a lesser distance is desired, the developer/permittee
shall request a waiver to this provision pursuant to the requirements of this
chapter. In no event shall the setback distance be less than 1.1 times the
total height of the wind turbine generator (measured at the highest point of
the blade tip).
            3.   Non-participating residences. For existing (at the time of the
building permit issuance or notice from the Building Code Enforcement Officer
that no building permit is required) non-participating primary occupied
residences, the setback distance from a wind turbine generator shall be at
least 2,500 feet. For purposes of this chapter, PARTICIPATING shall mean a
property owner or property (including a residence) that is subject to an
agreement or lease with the developer/permittee. NON-PARTICIPATING shall mean
all property owners or properties (including a residence) which are not
participating property owners or property.
            4.   Property lines. Each wind turbine generator shall be set back
from the nearest property line a distance of no less than 1,000 feet.
            5.   Public roads. Each wind turbine generator shall be set back
from the nearest public road a distance of no less than 1,000 feet, determined
at the nearest boundary of the right-of-way for such public road. Unless
conclusive evidence exists to the contrary, the public road right-of-way is
presumed to be 66 feet.
            6.   Communication and electric lines. Each wind turbine generator
shall be set back from the nearest above-ground public electric power line or
public telephone line a distance of no less than 1,000 feet.
            7.   Natural resources and historic sites and structures.
               a.   Each wind turbine generator shall be set back a distance of
no less than 2,500 feet from the nearest existing critical and irreplaceable
natural and cultural resource areas of the township (at the time of the
building permit issuance):
                  i.   Important bird areas (IBA);
                  ii.   National wetland inventory (NWI) wetlands;
                  iii.   Historic structure listed or eligible to be listed on
the Pennsylvania Heritage Inventory and National Landmarks;
                  iv.   County natural heritage areas; and
                  v.   Lakes, dams, ponds and public water source wells and
springs
               b.   The applicant is required to contact and present their
proposals by certified return receipt mail to each of the following agencies.
The applicant will copy the township on any correspondence sent to or received
from the agencies. The applicant is required to follow all the recommendations
and all directives of the agencies and provide the township with a letter of
consistency from each agency.
               c.   Should any agency fail to respond within 90 days of the
date of return receipt to an applicant’s request for review of the proposal,
this section will be satisfied as to the need to obtain a finding of
consistency from that specific agency. Setback requirements or recommendations
of the following agencies as they relate to Natural Resources and Historic
Sites and Structures supersede the setbacks in this section. Where specific
standards, recommendations or requirements as to any of the Historic or Natural
resources listed in this section are not obtained, this chapter and permit
requirements will be adhered to.
               d.   Where the different agencies differ in their standards,
recommendations or requirements, the more strict standards, recommendations and
requirements will be followed by the applicant.
   U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
   PA Field Office
   315 South Allen Street, Suite 322
   State College, PA 16801-4850
 
   Pennsylvania Historical & Museum Commission
   Bureau for Historic Preservation
   Commonwealth Keystone Building
   400 North Street, 2nd Floor
   Harrisburg, PA 17120-0093
 
   Department of Conservation and Natural Resources
   Bureau of Forestry
   Central Office
   6th Floor, Rachel Carson State Office Building
   P.O. Box 8552
   Harrisburg, PA 17105-8552
 
   Pennsylvania Game Commission
   2001 Elmerton Avenue
   Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17110-9797
 
   Pennsylvania Fish and Boat Commission
   1601 Elmerton Avenue
   P.O. Box 67000
   Harrisburg, PA 17106-7000
 
      (3)   Documents related to decommissioning.
      (4)   Other relevant studies, reports, certifications and approvals as
may be reasonably requested by the township to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
      (5)   Within 30 days after receipt of a permit application, the township
will determine whether the application is complete and advise the applicant
accordingly.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.06  PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   The developer/permittee will pay to the township a permit fee of
$1,500 per proposed megawatt for each wind turbine generator. The permit fee
shall be paid at the time the application is submitted. Fees shall not be
returned where an application has been denied. The Township Supervisors may
modify this fee by resolution from time to time in keeping with the township’s
experience with the cost of administering the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Thereafter, the developer/permittee will pay the township $1,500 per
megawatt for each wind turbine generator actually installed in the township
(the “per megawatt payment”). Pursuant to the above terms, the developer/
permittee specifically agrees that the commonwealth may not impair the right to
this payment by the passage of legislation, executive order or otherwise.
   (C)   Such payments shall be on an annual basis payable on the anniversary
of the issuance or notice date. Under no circumstances shall the township
receive less than $1,500 per megawatt from the developer/permittee; however,
the developer/permittee may receive a credit, which shall be set off against
the per megawatt payment. CREDIT is defined as the amount of any payments
related to the wind farm or wind turbine generators located in the township
paid by the developer/permittee to any other governmental entity, for which
such funds are actually (or are traceable to an amount) received by the
township. If the credit is less than the per megawatt payment, then the per
megawatt payment will be reduced by the credit; however, if the credit is equal
to or greater than the per megawatt payment, no per megawatt payment is payable
to the township.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.07  DURATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permit issued shall be valid for a period of 30 years. Permits are
non-renewable and any wind turbine generator facility operator wishing to
continue operation must reapply for a new permit under this chapter.
   (B)   Any permit granted under this chapter is not assignable or
transferable to any other person, firm or corporation, whether by operation of
law or otherwise, without the express prior written consent of the township.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.08  NOTICE OF APPLICATION.
   The applicant must provide written notice of application to all property
owners and tenants occupying property within 2,500 feet of the boundaries of
the property upon which the wind turbine generators will be located. Proof of
service of such notice by certified mail or notarized affidavit of hand
delivery must be provided with the application.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.09  REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
   The township will review the application submitted, and reject the same if
it is incomplete in any respect. In such case, the application fee shall be
retained as compensation for the time spent in review. If the application is
determined to be complete, the Township Secretary-Treasurer shall place the
matter on the agenda for action by the Supervisors at a public meeting.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.10  ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   The Supervisors of the township, with the assistance of such consultants as
they deem appropriate, shall make a determination at a public meeting as to
whether the application submitted meets the criteria and regulations set forth
in this chapter, and approve or reject the application based upon that
determination in a public vote.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.11  CRITERIA AND REGULATIONS FOR GRANTING OF PERMIT.
   No permit for the construction, operation or maintenance of a wind turbine
generator(s) shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates compliance in
its application with all criteria and regulations set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.12  WAIVER.
   (A)   No waiver by the township of the obligations of the permittee shall be
deemed to be made unless the same shall be in writing and be signed by a duly
authorized township or the developer/permittee official. Each waiver, if any,
shall be a waiver only with respect to the specific instance involved and shall
in no way impair the rights of the township or the developer/permittee in any
other respect at any other time. The decision of the Township Board of
Supervisors on a waiver request shall be considered final.
   (B)   All waivers shall be in the form of an executed written waiver or non-
disturbance easement, covenant or consent. All of the aforementioned must be
recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county. Such easement or
covenant shall run with the land and, at a minimum, provided that the said
property owner waives and releases any and all claims, damages and/or losses
resulting from higher noise levels, visual impacts or flickering reflections
and/or shadows which may arise as a result of the location of a wind turbine
generator within the established setback distance of an existing residential or
commercial structure on the property of the owner executing the same. Such
easement, covenant or consent shall meet such requirements as to form and
content consistent with this agreement as may be required by the township.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.13  CONTINUED COMPLIANCE.
   An applicant granted a permit under this chapter shall be under a continuing
obligation to meet the performance criteria and regulations set forth above.
The Township Supervisors hereby declare that a wind turbine generator(s) which
ceases to meet the criteria and regulations listed above, after construction
pursuant to a permit, shall constitute a nuisance, and following a 30-day
notice to the applicant at the address listed on the application for permit of
the need for abatement which remains unremedied or unappealed, the township may
act to remove the structure. Such notice shall be designated as a notice of
violation, and shall be appealable as set forth below.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.14  NOISE AND SHADOW FLICKER.
   (A)   The developer/permittee shall comply with the following noise
standards.
      (1)   The developer/permittee shall make a good faith effort to maintain
a noise level attributable to the wind turbine generators of not more than
45dbC within a reasonable margin of error as measured from the property line of
existing non-participating residences.
      (2)   The parties acknowledge that the project’s construction will be the
source of intermittent noise. The developer/permittee shall require all
contractors to incorporate reasonable noise reduction measures in order to
mitigate the amount of noise generated during the construction phase.
   (B)   The facility owner and operator shall make every reasonable effort to
minimize shadow flicker to any occupied building on a non-participating
landowner’s property.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.15  PRIVATE ACCESS ROADS AND FORESTRY MANAGEMENT.
   Every effort should be made to use existing roads and logging roads. New
deforestation and forest fragmentation should be kept to a minimum. Private
entrance roads to wind turbine generators and associated meteorological towers,
communication towers, and auxiliary buildings will not be paved but kept mud
free. The cartway will be kept to the minimum possible.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.16  USE OF PUBLIC ROADS.
   The applicant shall identify all state and local public roads to be used
within the municipality to transport equipment and parts for construction,
operation or maintenance of the wind energy facility.
   (A)   The Township Engineer or a qualified third party engineer hired by the
township and paid for by the applicant, shall document road conditions prior to
construction. The engineer shall document road conditions again 30 days after
construction is complete or as weather permits.
   (B)   The township will require that the road be bonded in compliance with
state regulations to ensure the prompt repair of damaged roads. The developer/
permittee shall comply with all other township ordinances with respect to
public roads.
   (C)   Any road damage caused by the applicant or its contractors shall be
promptly repaired at the applicant’s expense.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.17  SAFETY.
   The developer/permittee shall comply with the following safety standards.
   (A)   All wiring between the wind turbine generators and the substation
shall be underground to the extent practicable.
   (B)   The outside of the wind turbine generator towers shall not be
climbable.
   (C)   All access doors to the towers and electrical equipment shall be
locked.
   (D)   Visible, reflective, colored objects, such as flags, reflectors or
tape shall be placed on the anchor points of guy wires and along the guy wires
up to a height of ten feet from the ground.
   (E)   Appropriate and clearly visible warning signage shall be placed on
each tower, all electrical equipment, and all entrances.
   (F)   The developer/permittee shall abide by all applicable local, state and
federal fire code and emergency services guidelines.
   (G)   All wind turbine generators shall be equipped with portable fire
extinguishers, unless the local Fire Department or Municipal Engineer provides
written documentation establishing that the same is not necessary.
   (H)   Inspection and O&M provider: the developer/permittee shall cause its
operations and maintenance provider (“O&M personnel”) to comply with the
following schedule.
      (1)   At least once every 36 months the individual wind turbine
generators shall be inspected by O&M personnel, or its agent, who is regularly
involved in the maintenance, inspection and/or erection of wind turbine
generators, towers and antennas. At a minimum, this inspection shall be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and in accordance
with the wind turbine generator inspection check list provided by the parties’
respective engineers, as applicable. This is considered a major inspection.
      (2)   At least once every 12 months a visual inspection from the ground
shall be conducted by O&M personnel. This inspection shall include, but not be
limited to, visual inspection of wind turbine generator foundations,
structures, guy, and connections for evidence of settlement or lateral
movement, soil erosion, condition of paint or galvanizing, rust or corrosion,
loose or missing bolts, loose or corroded lightening protection connectors,
wind turbine generator tower plumbness, significant variation in guy sags
(i.e., guy tensions), and other material areas or matters relating to the
structural integrity of the wind turbine generator. This is considered a minor
inspection.
      (3)   In addition to the regularly scheduled major and minor inspections
set forth in divisions (H)(1) and (H)(2) above, a minor inspection, at a
minimum will be conducted if a wind turbine generator or its appurtenances are
noted at any time to be visibly damaged. Additionally, a major inspection
should be conducted if the visible damage to a wind turbine generator is
significant or when, after conducting a minor inspection, significant questions
remain about the structural integrity of a wind turbine generator.
      (4)   The developer/permittee shall provide an annual letter to the
township certifying compliance with the inspection requirements of this
section.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.18  INSURANCE.
   The developer/permittee shall maintain the following insurance coverage:
   (A)   A commercial general liability insurance policy with a financially
responsible insurance company providing for: a limit of not less than
$1,000,000 for personal or bodily injury or death to any one person; and for a
limit of not less than $3,000,000 for personal or bodily injury or death to any
number of persons arising from any one occurrence; and for a limit of not less
than $1,000,000 for any instance of property damage;
   (B)   Worker’s compensation coverage in an amount required by state law. The
developer/permittee shall require subcontractors and others not protected under
its insurance to obtain and maintain worker’s compensation and employers’
liability insurance;
   (C)   Umbrella liability insurance with coverage to be in excess of the
insurance required above. Limits of liability shall not be less than $3,000,000
for each occurrence and $3,000,000 in aggregate;
   (D)   The township shall be identified as an additional insured on all
insurance policies referenced herein. No policy of insurance shall be cancelled
without first providing the township with at least 30 days prior written notice
of intent to cancel;
   (E)   Certificates of insurance evidencing compliance with these
requirements shall be provided to the township. All policies other than
workers’ compensation shall be written on an occurrence and not on a claims
made basis; and
   (F)   Coverage limits contained in this section may be revisited by the
Board of Supervisors from time to time. The developer/permittee will be
required to provide updated insurance certificates to document the amended
adequate coverage limits.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.19  FIELD REPRESENTATIVE AND SITE MANAGER.
   The developer/permittee will be responsible for overseeing compliance with
the conditions of this a permit issued under this chapter during the
construction phase of the project. Upon completion of construction, the
developer/permittee shall designate a contact person for the township who will
be responsible for overseeing compliance with the conditions of a permit issued
under this chapter for the duration of the term of the permit. The developer/
permittee shall provide the names, addresses, daytime telephone numbers and
emergency telephone numbers of any other designated field representative and
site manager to the township. The township may make the telephone numbers
available to local residents and officials. the developer/permittee shall be
entitled, upon prior written notice to the township, to change the field
representative or site manager, or make other changes in the contact
information. In addition, the developer/permittee will make contact information
available for the entity providing operation (monitoring) and maintenance
services.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.20  INSPECTIONS.
   Designated representatives of the township shall be allowed to inspect the
wind turbine generator sites after providing notice to the developer/permittee.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.21  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   The developer/permittee agrees that the project shall be operated and
maintained consistent with good utility practice for comparable facilities. For
purposes of this agreement, GOOD UTILITY PRACTICE shall mean any of the
practices, methods or acts engaged in or approved by a significant portion of
the electric utility industry during the relevant time period, or any of the
practices, methods and acts which in the exercise of reasonable judgment in
light of the facts known at the time the decision was made, could have been
expected to accomplish the desired result at a reasonable cost consistent with
good business practices, reliability, safety and expedition. Good utility
practice is not intended to be limited to the optimum practice, method or act
to the exclusion of all others, but rather to be acceptable practices, methods
or acts generally accepted in the region. Under no circumstances shall the
definition of “good utility practices” include any violation, regardless of
degree, of any local, state and/or federal law, ordinance, rule and/or
regulation.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.22  NO FURTHER LAND DEVELOPMENT.
   Building permits shall not be issued for construction on the same parcel as
a permitted wind turbine generator(s) when the proposed construction is within
2,500 feet of the wind turbine generator(s), unless the party requesting the
building permit shall have executed a written waiver or non-disturbance
easement, covenant, consent or any of the aforementioned which has been
recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.23  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The following reasons shall constitute cause to revoke a permit issued
under this chapter.
   (B)   Below is a partial list and the township reserves the right to revoke
a permit for violation of any other provision contained in this chapter.
      (1)   If the developer/permittee ceases to operate the project; provided,
however, that the developer/permittee shall not be deemed to have ceased
operating the project if the developer/permittee ceases operations for all or
substantially all of the project for a period not exceeding six months.
      (2)   If a petition is filed by the developer/permittee under any
bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency, dissolution or liquidation
law of any jurisdiction, whether now or hereafter in effect, and is not
dismissed within 90 days after such filing.
      (3)   If the developer/permittee fails to observe or perform any material
condition or provision hereof for a period of 60 days after receiving written
notice of such failure from the township, the developer/permittee shall
commence corrective action within 30 days of notice from any source, of any
failure, and shall complete corrective action within 60 days of receipt of
notice. Any period of time for which the developer/permittee is unable to
commence or complete corrective action as the result of any material third
party withholding approval of such action shall not be counted against the
developer/permittee. If the developer/permittee is unable to commence
corrective action within 30 days of notice or is unable to complete corrective
action within 60 days of receipt of notice for reasons other than delays caused
by any material third party, the developer/permittee shall request an extension
from the township, which shall not be unreasonably withheld and which may
include reasonable conditions, in order for the developer/permittee to receive
and maintain such extension.
      (4)   If the developer/permittee continues to be in material breech of
any statute, regulation, rule or permit administered by any federal, state,
county or local department, agency or commission within 60 days after receiving
written notice of a violation by such federal, state or county department,
agency or commission, the developer/permittee shall notify the township, in
writing, of any alleged violation, order or enforcement proceeding within seven
days of receipt. The developer/permittee shall commence corrective action
within 30 days of notice, from any source, of any breach and/or violation, and
shall complete corrective action within 60 days of receipt of notice. Any
period of time for which the developer/permittee is unable to commence or
complete corrective action as the result of any material third party
withholding approval of such action shall not be counted against the developer/
permittee. If the developer/permittee is unable to commence corrective action
within 30 days of notice or is unable to complete corrective action within 60
days of receipt of notice for reasons other than delays caused by any material
third party, the developer/permittee shall request an extension from the
township which shall not be unreasonably withheld and which may include
reasonable conditions in order for the developer/permittee to receive and
maintain such extension.
      (5)   In addition, the township may revoke a permit issued under this
chapter if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The event of default remains uncured;
         (b)   There is no force majeure event causing the event of default to
continue;
         (c)   The township has provided the developer/permittee an opportunity
to present and explain its position before the Township Board to respond to the
event of default, and any and all decisions and/or determinations by the
Township Board may be appealed to the Court of Common Pleas of the county, and
all appeals are de novo; and
         (d)   All de novo appeals from the decision rendered by the Township
Board under division (B)(5)(c) above have been exhausted.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.24  NO FURTHER SUBDIVISION.
   No property or lot upon which a wind turbine generator has been located
shall be further subdivided where to do so would result in the setbacks
required by this chapter and/or as set forth in the permit not to be met.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.25  WIND TURBINE GENERATOR REMOVAL.
   (A)   Bonding; decommissioning.
      (1)   Before final permit approval, the applicant must submit to the
Township Board of Supervisors a bond which shall be deposited with the
municipality of financial security in an amount sufficient to cover the costs
of decommissioning all improvements or common amenities, including, but not
limited to, the windmill and appurtenances including the base and footing,
storm water detention and/or retention basins and other related drainage
facilities, and electrical apparatus and restoration of the land to its
original condition including forestry plantings of the type and density as the
original.
      (2)   When requested by the developer, in order to facilitate financing,
the governing body may furnish the developer with a signed copy of a resolution
indicating approval of the permit contingent upon the developer obtaining a
satisfactory financial security and meeting all requirements of this chapter
and permit. The resolution or letter of contingent approval shall expire and be
deemed to be revoked if the financial security agreement is not executed within
90 days unless a written extension is granted by the township; such extension
shall not be unreasonably withheld and shall be placed in writing at the
request of the developer.
      (3)   Without limitations as to other types of financial security which
the municipality may approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld, federal or commonwealth chartered lending institution irrevocable
letters of credit and restrictive or escrow accounts in such lending
institutions shall be deemed acceptable financial security for the purposes of
this section.
      (4)   Such financial security shall be posted with a bonding company or
federal or commonwealth chartered lending institution chosen by the party
posting the financial security, provided said bonding company or lending
institution is authorized to conduct such business with the commonwealth.
      (5)   Such bond or other security shall provide for and secure to the
public the decommissioning of any improvements.
      (6)   The amount of financial security to be posted for the
decommissioning of any improvements shall be equal to 110% of the cost.
Annually, the municipality may adjust the required amount of the financial
security. Subsequent to said adjustment, the municipality may require the
developer to post additional security in order to assure that the financial
security equals said 110%. Any additional security shall be posted by the
developer in accordance with this section.
      (7)   The amount of financial security required shall be based upon an
estimate of the cost of decommissioning of any improvements, submitted by an
applicant or developer and prepared by a professional engineer licensed as such
in this commonwealth and certified by such engineer to be a fair and reasonable
estimate of such cost. The municipality, upon the recommendation of the
Municipal Engineer, may refuse to accept such estimate for good cause shown. If
the applicant or developer and the municipality are unable to agree upon an
estimate, then the estimate shall be recalculated and recertified by another
professional engineer licensed as such in this commonwealth and chosen mutually
by the municipality and the applicant or developer. The estimate certified by
the third engineer shall be presumed fair and reasonable and shall be the final
estimate. In the event that a third engineer is so chosen, fees for the
services of said engineer shall be paid equally by the municipality and the
applicant or developer.
      (8)   As the work of decommissioning of any improvements proceeds, the
party posting the financial security may request the governing body to release,
or authorize the release, from time to time, such portions of the financial
security necessary for payment to the contractor or contractors performing the
work. Any such requests shall be in writing addressed to the governing body,
and the governing body shall have 45 days from receipt of such request within
which to allow the Municipal Engineer to certify, in writing, to the governing
body that such portion of the decommissioning of any improvements has been
completed. Upon such certification, the governing body shall authorize release
by the bonding company or lending institution of an amount as estimated by the
Municipal Engineer fairly representing the value of the decommissioning of any
improvements or, if the governing body fails to act within said 45-day period,
the governing body shall be deemed to have approved the release of funds as
requested.
   (B)   Release from decommissioning bond.
      (1)   When the developer has completed the decommissioning of all
improvements, the developer shall notify the municipal governing body, in
writing, by certified or registered mail, of the completion of the aforesaid
decommissioning of all improvements, and shall send a copy thereof to the
Municipal Engineer. The municipal governing body shall, within ten days after
receipt of such notice, direct and authorize the Municipal Engineer to inspect
the site. The Municipal Engineer shall, thereupon, file a report in writing
with the municipal governing body, and shall promptly mail a copy of the same
to the developer by certified or registered mail. The report shall be made and
mailed within 30 days after receipt by the Municipal Engineer of the aforesaid
authorization from the governing body. Said report shall be detailed and shall
indicate approval or rejection of said decommissioning of all improvements,
either in whole or in part, and if said improvements, or any portion thereof,
shall not be approved or shall be rejected by the Municipal Engineer, said
report shall contain a statement of reasons for such non-approval or rejection.
      (2)   The municipal governing body shall notify the developer, within 15
days of receipt of the engineer’s report, in writing by certified or registered
mail of the action of said municipal governing body with relation thereto.
      (3)   If the municipal governing body or the Municipal Engineer fails to
comply with the time limitation provisions contained herein, all
decommissioning of all improvements will be deemed to have been approved and
the developer shall be released from all liability, pursuant to its performance
guarantee bond or other security agreement.
      (4)   If any portion of the work shall not be approved or shall be
rejected by the municipal governing body, the developer shall proceed to
complete the same and, upon completion, the same procedure of notification, as
outlined herein, shall be followed.
      (5)   Nothing herein, however, shall be construed in limitation of the
developer’s right to contest or question by legal proceedings or otherwise, any
determination of the municipal governing body or the Municipal Engineer.
      (6)   Where herein reference is made to the Municipal Engineer, he or she
shall be a duly registered professional engineer employed by the municipality
or engaged as a consultant thereto.
      (7)   The municipality may prescribe that the applicant shall reimburse
the municipality for the reasonable and necessary expense incurred for the
inspection of decommissioning of improvements. Such reimbursement shall be
based upon a schedule established by resolution. Such expense shall be
reasonable and in accordance with the ordinary and customary fees charged by
the Municipal Engineer or consultant for work performed for similar services in
the community, but in no event shall the fees exceed the rate or cost charged
by the engineer or consultant to the municipalities when fees are not
reimbursed or otherwise imposed.
         (a)   In the event the applicant disputes the amount of any such
expense in connection with the inspection of decommissioning of improvements,
the applicant shall, within ten working days of the date of billing, notify the
municipality that such expenses are disputed as unreasonable or unnecessary, in
which case the municipality shall not delay or disapprove a permit related to
the development due to the applicant’s request over disputed engineer expense.
         (b)   If, within 20 days from the date of billing, the municipality
and the applicant cannot agree on the amount of expenses which are reasonable
and necessary, then the applicant and municipality shall jointly, by mutual
agreement, appoint another professional engineer licensed as such in the
commonwealth to review the said expenses and make a determination as to the
amount thereof which is reasonable and necessary.
         (c)   The professional engineer so appointed shall hear such evidence
and review such documentation as the professional engineer in his or her sole
opinion deems necessary and render a decision within 50 days of the billing
date. The applicant shall be required to pay the entire amount determined in
the decision immediately.
         (d)   In the event that the municipality and applicant cannot agree
upon the professional engineer to be appointed within 20 days of the billing
date, then, upon application of either part, the President Judge of the Court
of Common Pleas of the judicial district in which the municipality is located
(or if at the time there be no President Judge, then the senior active judge
then sitting) shall appoint such engineer, who, in that case, shall be neither
the Municipal Engineer nor any professional engineer who has been retained by,
or performed services for, the municipality or the applicant within the
preceding five years.
         (e)   The fee of the appointed professional engineer for determining
the reasonable and necessary expenses shall be paid by the applicant if the
amount of payment required in the decision is equal to or greater than the
original bill. If the amount of payment required in the decision is less than
the original bill by $1,000 or more, the municipality shall pay the fee of the
professional engineer, but otherwise the municipality and the applicant shall
each pay one-half of the fee of the appointed professional engineer.
   (C)   Remedies to effect completion of decommissioning of improvements. In
the event that any decommissioning of improvements which are required have not
been completed as provided in this chapter and permit, the governing body of
the municipality is hereby granted the power to enforce any corporate bond, or
other security by appropriate legal and equitable remedies. If proceeds of such
bond or other security are insufficient to pay the cost of decommissioning of
improvements covered by said security, the governing body of the municipality
may, at its option, proceed with of decommissioning of all improvements and may
institute appropriate legal or equitable action to recover the moneys necessary
to complete the remainder of the improvements. All of the proceeds, whether
resulting from the security or from any legal or equitable action brought
against the developer, or both, shall be used solely for the decommissioning of
all improvements covered by such security and not for any other municipal
purpose.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.26  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any determination or action by the township
shall have an opportunity to present and explain its position before the
Township Board of Supervisors. Any and all decisions and/or determinations by
the Township Board of Supervisors may be appealed to the Court of Common Pleas
of the county, and all appeals are de novo. Any such request to be heard by the
Township Board of Supervisors shall be on forms provided by the township and
shall include a complete statement of the reasons the person is aggrieved
together with a written statement of all evidence to be provided to the
Township Board of Supervisors. The factual basis or summary of any expert
testimony that will be presented at such meeting of the Township Board of
Supervisors must also be attached to the form provided by the township. Failure
to request the opportunity to present evidence to the Township Board of
Supervisors under this division (A) within 30 days from the date of the
determination or action by the Township will result in the waiver of any right
to request an opportunity to present evidence to the Board of Supervisors and
appeal to the Court of Common Pleas. The person requesting an opportunity to be
heard under this division (A) must provide written notice of the same to all
property owners and tenants occupying property within 2,500 feet of the
boundaries of the property upon which the wind turbine generators will be
located. Proof of service of such notice by certified mail or notarized
affidavit of hand delivery must be included with the form provided by the
township.
   (B)   The appeal shall be accompanied by a fee of $300. Appellant shall be
responsible for all costs of the appeal in excess of $300. Failure to file a
complete appeal, together with all statements, may result in dismissal of the
appeal.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.27  REGULATIONS CONSIDERED NUISANCE REGULATIONS.
   It is hereby declared to be the intent of the township that these
regulations be considered nuisance regulations and not building regulations
under the Uniform Construction Code, authorized by Act 45 of 1999, implemented
by regulations of the Commonwealth Department of Labor and Industry.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any portion of this chapter shall, in a civil
enforcement proceeding, pay a fine as set by the Township Supervisors as
provided for in the Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. § 66601. This chapter
is deemed to be an ordinance related to public health and safety, enacted under
authority of the statutes referred to in the preamble hereto and the townships
general authority to protect public health, safety and welfare. As such, a
penalty of $1,000 shall be assessed as a civil penalty for any violation
hereof. Each day a violation continues shall be considered a separate and
distinct violation and subject to a separate assessment, until proof of
compliance is provided. Not withstanding any provision of this chapter
respecting enforcement, the township reserves the right to enforce this chapter
through an action for injunction in the Court of Common Pleas of the county
pursuant to 53 P.S. § 66601(c.1)(4). In addition to any civil penalty imposed,
any person who violates this chapter will be required to pay all court costs
and attorney fees accrued by the township.
(Ord. 5-2006, passed 12-7-2006)
CHAPTER 153:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Statutory authorization
   
153.002   Intent
   
153.003   Applicability
   
153.004   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.005   Warning and disclaimer
   
153.006   Definitions
   
153.007   Effective date
Administration
   
153.020   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.021   Permits required
   
153.022   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.023   Application procedures and requirements
   
153.024   Review by County Conservation District
   
153.025   Review of application by others
   
153.026   Changes
   
153.027   Placards
   
153.028   Start of construction
   
153.029   Enforcement; notice
   
153.030   Appeals
Identification of Floodplain Areas
   
153.045   Identification
   
153.046   Description and special requirements of identified floodplain areas
   
153.047   Changes in identification of area
   
153.048   Boundary disputes
   
153.049   Jurisdictional boundary changes
Technical Provisions
   
153.060   Generally
   
153.061   Elevation and floodproofing requirements
   
153.062   Design and construction standards
   
153.063   Development which may endanger human life
   
153.064   Special requirements for subdivisions and development
   
153.065   Special requirements for manufactured homes
   
153.066   Special requirements for recreational vehicles
Activities Requiring Special Permits
   
153.080   General
   
153.081   Application requirements for special permits
   
153.082   Application review procedures
   
153.083   Special technical requirements
Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas
   
153.095   Existing structures
   
153.096   Improvements
Variances
   
153.110   General
   
153.111   Variance procedures and conditions
 
   
153.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Lots and setback lines, see §§
150.55 to
150.62
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has, by the passage of
the Pennsylvania Flood Plain Management Act of 1978, delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt floodplain management
regulations to promote public health, safety, and the general welfare of its
citizenry. Therefore, the Board of Supervisors of the Township of Antis does
hereby order as follows.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.002  INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote the general health, welfare, and safety of the community.
   (B)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future.
   (C)   Minimize danger to public health by protecting water supply and
natural drainage.
   (D)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units, and its residents, by preventing excessive development in areas subject
to flooding.
   (E)   Comply with federal and state floodplain management requirements.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.003  APPLICABILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or corporation to
undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any construction or development anywhere
within the township unless a permit has been obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.004  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any other conflicting provisions which may be in
effect in identified floodplain areas. However, any other ordinance provisions
shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that those provisions are
more restrictive. If there is any conflict between any of the provisions of
this chapter, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.005  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this
chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
accepted engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood heights
may be increased by man-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside
any identified floodplain areas, or that land uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   (B)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the township or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.006  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General. Unless specifically defined below, words and phrases used in
this chapter shall be interpreted so as to give this chapter its most
reasonable application.
   (B)   Specific definitions.   For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESSORY USE or STRUCTURE.  A use or structure on the same lot with, and
of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
      BASE FLOOD.  A flood which has a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also called the “100-year flood” or 1% annual
chance flood).
      BASE FLOOD DISCHARGE.  The volume of water resulting from a base flood as
it passes a given location within a given time, usually expressed in cubic feet
per second (cfs).
      BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).  The elevation shown on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, Al-30 that indicates the water surface
elevation resulting from a flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year.
      BASEMENT.  Any area of the building having its floor below ground level
on all sides.
      BUILDING.  A combination of materials to form a permanent structure
having walls and a roof. Included shall be all manufactured homes and trailers
to be used for human habitation.
      DECLARATION OF LAND RESTRICTION (NON-CONVERSION AGREEMENT).  A form
signed by the property owner to agree not to convert or modify in any manner
that is inconsistent with the terms of the permit and these regulations,
certain enclosures below the lowest floor of elevated buildings and certain
accessory structures. The form requires the owner to record it on the property
deed to inform future owners of the restrictions.
      DEVELOPMENT.  Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion, or alteration of buildings or other structures; the
placement of manufactured homes; streets, and other paving; utilities; filling,
grading and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of
equipment or materials; and the subdivision of land.
      EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
      EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION.  The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
      FLOOD.  A temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
      FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).  The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency that includes flood profiles, the flood insurance
rate map, the flood boundary and floodway map, and the water surface elevation
of the base flood.
      FLOODPLAIN AREA.  A relatively flat or low land area which is subject to
partial or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river or
watercourse; and/or any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of
surface waters from any source.
      FLOODPROOFING.  Any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures and their contents.
      FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
      HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.  The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
      HISTORIC STRUCTURES.  Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
         (d)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation that have been certified either:
            1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
            2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
      IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREA.  This term is an umbrella term that includes
all of the areas within which the community has selected to enforce floodplain
regulations. It will always include the area identified as the special flood
hazard area on the flood insurance rate maps and flood insurance study, but may
include additional areas identified by the community. See §§
153.045 and
153.046 for the specifics on what areas the community has included in the
IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREA.
      LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest floor of the lowest fully enclosed area
(including basement). An unfinished, flood resistant partially enclosed area,
used solely for parking of vehicles, building access, and incidental storage,
in an area other than a basement area is not considered the lowest floor of a
building, provided that such space is not designed and built so that the
structure is in violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements
of this chapter.
      MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis, and is designed for use with or without
a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
includes park trailers, travel trailers, recreational and other similar
vehicles which are placed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels)
of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION.  Structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective start date of this floodplain management
chapter and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. Any
construction started after February 4, 1981 and before the effective start date
of this floodplain management chapter is subject to the ordinance in effect at
the time the permit was issued, provided the start of construction was within
180 days of permit issuance.
      NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
      PERSON.  An individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility or any other legal entity whatsoever, which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
      POST-FIRM STRUCTURE.  A structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred after December 31, 1974 or on or after the community's
initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM) dated February 4, 1981, whichever is
later, and, as such, would be required to be compliant with the regulations of
the National Flood Insurance Program.
      PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE.  A structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred on or before December 31, 1974 or before the community's
initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM) dated February 4, 1981, whichever is
later, and, as such, would not be required to be compliant with the regulations
of the National Flood Insurance Program.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicle which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Not more than 400 square feet, measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck,
         (d)   Not designed for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
      REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION.  The base flood elevation (BFE) or estimated
flood height as determined using simplified methods plus a freeboard safety
factor of one and one-half feet. The freeboard safety factor also applies to
utilities and ductwork.
      SPECIAL PERMIT.  A special approval which is required for hospitals,
nursing homes, jails, and new manufactured home parks/ subdivisions and
substantial improvements to such existing parks, when such development is
located in all, or a designated portion of a floodplain.
      SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).  An area in the floodplain subject to a
1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on the FIRM as
Zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99, or, AH.
      START OF CONSTRUCTION.  Includes substantial improvement and other
proposed new development and means the date the permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days after the date of the
permit and shall be completed within 12 months after the date of issuance of
the permit unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain
Administrator. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
      STRUCTURE.  A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
      SUBDIVISION.  The division or re-division of a lot, tract, or parcel of
land by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of
land including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate
or future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs, or
devisees, transfer of ownership or building or lot development: Provided,
however, that the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into
parcels of more than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of
access or any residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage from any cause sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition
would equal or exceed 50% or more of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred.
      SUBSTANTIAL  IMPROVEMENT.  Any reconstruction,  rehabilitation, addition,
or other improvement of a structure, of which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE (UCC).  The statewide building code adopted by
The Pennsylvania General Assembly in 1999 applicable to new construction in all
municipalities whether administered by the municipality, a third party or the
Department of Labor and Industry. Applicable to residential and commercial
buildings, The Code adopted The International Residential Code (IRC) and the
International Building Code (IBC), by reference, as the construction standard
applicable with the state floodplain construction. For coordination purposes,
references to the above are made specifically to various sections of the IRC
and the IBC.
      VARIANCE.  A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a
floodplain management regulation.
      VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.007  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective on February 1, 2018 and shall remain in
force until modified, amended or rescinded by the township.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.020  DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   (1)   The Township Manager is hereby appointed to administer and
enforce this chapter and is referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
The Floodplain Administrator may:
         (a)   Fulfill the duties and responsibilities set forth in these
regulations;
         (b)   Delegate duties and responsibilities set forth in these
regulations to qualified technical personnel, plan examiners, inspectors, and
other employees; or
         (c)   Enter into a written agreement or written contract with another
agency or private sector entity to administer specific provisions of these
regulations.
      (2)   Administration of any part of these regulations by another entity
shall not relieve the community of its responsibilities pursuant to the
participation requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program as set forth
in the Code of Federal Regulations at 44 C.F.R. § 59.22.
   (B)   In the absence of a designated Floodplain Administrator, the
Floodplain Administrator duties are to be fulfilled by the Chairman of the
Board.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.021  PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be required before any construction or development is
undertaken within any area of the township.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.022  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit only after it has
been determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance
with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of any permit, the Floodplain Administrator
shall review the application for the permit to determine if all other necessary
government permits required by state and federal laws have been obtained, such
as those required by the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 1966-537, as
amended); the Pennsylvania Dam Safety and Encroachments Act (Act 1978-325, as
amended); the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Act (Act 1937-394, as amended); and
the U.S. Clean Water Act, Section 404, 33 U.S.C. § 1344. No permit shall be
issued until this determination has been made.
   (C)   In the case of existing structures, prior to the issuance of any
development/permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall review the proposed cost
of improvements or repairs and the pre-improvement market value of the
structure, so that a substantial improvement/substantial damage determination
can be made, in accordance with FEMA's Substantial Improvement/Substantial
Damage Desk Reference.
   (D)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or other
authorized official shall inspect the premises to determine that the work is
progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable municipal laws and ordinances. He or she
shall make as many inspections during and upon completion of the work as are
necessary.
   (E)   In the discharge of his or her duties, the Floodplain Administrator
shall have the authority to enter any building, structure, premises or
development in the identified floodplain area, upon presentation of proper
credentials, at any reasonable hour to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does
not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances,
or that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant,
the Floodplain Administrator shall revoke the permit and report such fact to
the Board of Supervisors for whatever action it considers necessary.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain in perpetuity, or for the
lifetime of the structure, all records associated with the requirements of this
chapter including, but not limited to, finished construction elevation data,
permitting, inspection and enforcement.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator is the official responsible for
submitting a biennial report to FEMA concerning community participation in the
National Flood Insurance Program as requested.
   (I)   The responsibility, authority and means to implement the commitments
of the Floodplain Administrator can be delegated from the person identified.
However, the ultimate responsibility lies with the person identified in the
floodplain ordinance as the Floodplain Administrator/Manager.
   (J)   The Floodplain Administrator shall consider the requirements of the 34
Pa.  Code and the 2009 IBC and the 2009 IRC, or the latest revision thereof as
adopted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.023  APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for such a permit shall be made, in writing, to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms supplied by the township. Such application
shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant.
      (2)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is
to occur.
      (3)   Name and address of contractor.
      (4)   Site location including address.
      (5)   Listing of other permits required.
      (6)   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost, including a
breakout of flood-related cost and the market value of the building before the
flood damage occurred where appropriate.
      (7)   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
   (B)   If any proposed construction or development is located entirely or
partially within any identified floodplain area, applicants for permits shall
provide all the necessary information in sufficient detail and clarity to
enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and conform with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes
and ordinances;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards;
      (4)   Structures will be anchored to prevent floatation, collapse, or
lateral movement;
      (5)   Building materials are flood-resistant;
      (6)   Appropriate practices that minimize flood damage have been used;
and
      (7)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities have been designed and located to
prevent water entry or accumulation.
   (C)   Applicants shall file the following minimum information plus any other
pertinent information as may be required by the Floodplain Administrator to
make the above determination:
      (1)   A completed permit application form.
      (2)   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of
one inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
         (a)   North arrow, scale, and date;
         (b)   Topographic contour lines, if available;
         (c)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures,
and other improvements, including the location of any existing or proposed
subdivision and development;
         (d)   The location of all existing streets, drives, and other access
ways; and
         (e)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
identified floodplain areas, and, if available, information pertaining to the
floodway, and the flow of water including direction and velocities.
      (3)   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
         (a)   The proposed lowest floor elevation of any proposed building
based upon North American Vertical Datum of 1988;
         (b)   The elevation of the base flood;
         (c)   Supplemental information as may be necessary under 34 Pa. Code,
the 2009 IBC or the 2009 IRC, or the latest revision thereof as adopted by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      (4)   The following data and documentation:
         (a)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing
measures and corresponding elevations.
         (b)   If available, information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with a base
flood.
         (c)   Documentation,  certified  by a registered professional engineer
or architect, to show that the effect of any proposed development within a
Floodway Area (see §
153.046(A)) will not increase the base flood elevation at any point.
         (d)   Documentation, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, to show that the cumulative effect of any proposed development
within an AE Area/District without floodway (see §
153.046(B)) when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the base flood elevation more than one foot at any point
within the community.
         (e)   1.   A document, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, which states that the proposed construction or development has
been adequately designed to withstand the pressures, velocities, impact and
uplift forces associated with the base flood.
            2.   Such statement shall include a description of the type and
extent of flood proofing measures which have been incorporated into the design
of the structure and/or the development.
         (f)   Detailed information needed to determine compliance with §
153.062(F), storage, and §
153.063, development which may endanger human life, including:
            1.   The amount, location and purpose of any materials or
substances referred to in §
153.062(F) and §
153.063 which are intended to be used, produced, stored or otherwise maintained
on site.
            2.   A description of the safeguards incorporated into the design
of the proposed structure to prevent leaks or spills of the dangerous materials
or substances listed in §
153.063 during a base flood.
         (g)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection's Planning Module for Land Development.
         (h)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection, to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control.
   (D)   Applications for permits shall be accompanied by a fee, payable to the
municipality based upon the estimated cost of the proposed construction as
determined by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.024  REVIEW BY COUNTY CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   Applicants that propose earthmoving activities in excess of 5,000 square
feet shall first be required to prepare and submit an erosion and sedimentation
control plan to the Blair County Conservation District for review and approval.
The applicant shall also comply with all provisions of the township's erosion
and sedimentation control ordinance.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.025  REVIEW OF APPLICATION BY OTHERS.
   A copy of all plans and applications for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval may
be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to any other appropriate agencies
and/or individuals (e.g. planning commission, municipal engineer, etc.) for
review and comment.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.026  CHANGES.
   After the issuance of a Permit by the Floodplain Administrator, no changes
of any kind shall be made to the application, permit or any of the plans,
specifications or other documents submitted with the application without the
written consent or approval of the Floodplain Administrator. Requests for any
such change shall be in writing, and shall be submitted by the applicant to
Floodplain Administrator for consideration.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.027  PLACARDS.
   In addition to the permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a
placard, or similar document, which shall be displayed on the premises during
the time construction is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the
permit, the date of its issuance, and be signed by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.028  START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Work on the proposed construction or development shall begin within
180 days after the date of issuance of the development permit. Work shall also
be completed within 12 months after the date of issuance of the permit or the
permit shall expire unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the
Floodplain Administrator. The issuance of development permit does not refer to
the zoning approval.
   (B)   The actual start of construction means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first,
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   (C)   Time extensions shall be granted only if a written request is
submitted by the applicant, who sets forth sufficient and reasonable cause for
the Floodplain Administrator to approve such a request and the original permit
is compliant with the ordinance and FIRM/FIS in effect at the time the
extension is granted.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.029  ENFORCEMENT; NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized municipal
representative determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that
there has been a violation of any provisions of this chapter, or of any
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, the Floodplain Administrator shall give
notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time not to exceed a period of 30 days for the
performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or his agent as the case may
require; provided, however, that such notice or order shall be deemed to have
been properly served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been
served with such notice by any other method authorized or required by the laws
of this state;
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial actions which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.030  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any action or decision of the Floodplain
Administrator concerning the administration of the provisions of this chapter,
may appeal to the Court of Common Pleas. Such appeal must be filed, in writing,
within 30 days after the decision, determination or action of the Floodplain
Administrator.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such appeal the Court of Common Pleas shall consider
the appeal in accordance with the Municipalities Planning Code and any other
local ordinance.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Court of Common Pleas may
seek relief therefrom by appeal to court, as provided by the laws of this State
including the Pennsylvania Flood Plain Management Act.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
IDENTIFICATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 153.045  IDENTIFICATION.
   The identified floodplain area shall be:
   (A)   Any areas of township, classified as special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) in the flood insurance study (FIS) and the accompanying flood insurance
rate maps (FIRMs) dated May 2, 2018 and issued by the federal emergency
management agency (FEMA) or the most recent revision thereof, including all
digital data developed as part of the flood insurance study.
   (B)   The above referenced FIS and FIRMs, and any subsequent revisions and
amendments are hereby adopted by township and declared to be a part of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.046  DESCRIPTION AND SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS OF IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   The identified floodplain area shall consist of the following specific
areas:
   (A)   The Floodway Area shall be those areas identified in the FIS and the
FIRM as floodway and which represent the channel of a watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without increasing the water surface elevation by more than one foot at any
point. This term shall also include floodway areas which have been identified
in other available studies or sources of information for those special flood
hazard areas where no floodway has been identified in the FIS and FIRM.
      (1)   Within any floodway area, no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development shall be permitted
unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed
encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within the
community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   Within any floodway area, no new construction or development shall
be allowed, unless the appropriate permit is obtained from the Department of
Environmental Protection Regional Office.
   (B)   The AE Area/District shall be those areas identified as an AE Zone on
the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which base flood elevations
have been provided.
      (1)   The AE Area adjacent to the floodway shall be those areas
identified as an AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for
which base flood elevations have been provided and a floodway has been
delineated.
      (2)   AE Area without floodway shall be those areas identified as an AE
zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which base flood
elevations have been provided but no floodway has been determined.
         (a)   No permit shall be granted within any AE Zone without floodway,
no encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development shall be permitted unless it has been demonstrated through
hydrologic and hydraulic analysis performed in accordance with standard
engineering practice that the proposed development together with all other
existing and anticipated development, would not result in an increase in flood
levels of more than one foot within the entire community during the occurrence
of the base flood discharge.
         (b)   No new construction or development shall be located within the
area measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless
the appropriate permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental
Protection Regional Office.
   (C)   (1)   The A Area/District shall be those areas identified as an A Zone
on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no base flood
elevations have been provided. For these areas, elevation and floodway
information from other federal, state, or other acceptable sources shall be
used when available. Where other acceptable information is not available, the
base flood elevation shall be determined by using the elevation of a point on
the boundary of the identified floodplain area which is nearest the
construction site.
      (2)   In lieu of the above, the municipality may require the applicant to
determine the elevation with hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques.
Hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by professional
engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the
technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
Studies, analyses, computations, etc., shall be submitted in sufficient detail
to allow a thorough technical review by the municipality. In the absence of any
of the above data or documentation, the community may require elevation of the
lowest floor to be at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (D)   The AO and AH Area/District shall be those areas identified as Zones
AO and AH on the FIRM and in the FIS. These areas are subject to inundation by
1% annual chance shallow flooding where average depths are between one and
three feet. In Zones AO and AH, drainage paths shall be established to guide
floodwaters around and away from structures on slopes.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.047  CHANGES IN IDENTIFICATION OF AREA.
   The Identified Floodplain Area may be revised or modified by the Board of
Supervisors where studies or information provided by a qualified agency or
person documents the need for such revision. However, prior to any such change
to the special flood hazard area, approval must be obtained from FEMA.
Additionally, as soon as practicable, but not later than six months after the
date such information becomes available, a community shall notify FEMA of the
changes to the Special Flood Hazard Area by submitting technical or scientific
data. See §
153.060(B) for situations where FEMA notification is required.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.048  BOUNDARY DISPUTES.
   Should a dispute concerning any identified floodplain boundary arise, an
initial determination shall be made by the townships and any party aggrieved by
this decision or determination may appeal to the Board of Supervisors. The
burden of proof shall be on the appellant.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.049  JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARY CHANGES.
   Prior to development occurring in areas where annexation or other corporate
boundary changes are proposed or have occurred, the community shall review
flood hazard data affecting the lands subject to boundary changes. The
community shall adopt and enforce floodplain regulations in areas subject to
annexation or corporate boundary changes which meet or exceed those in 44
C.F.R. § 60.3.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
TECHNICAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.060  GENERALLY.
   (A)   Alteration or relocation of watercourse.
      (1)   No encroachment, alteration, or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected
by such action have been notified by the municipality, and until all required
permits or approvals have first been obtained from the Department of
Environmental Protection Regional Office.
      (2)   No encroachment, alteration, or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse unless it can be shown that the activity will not
reduce or impede the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse in any way.
      (3)   In addition, FEMA and the Pennsylvania Department of Community and
Economic Development, shall be notified prior to any alteration or relocation
of any watercourse.
   (B)   Encroachments, when permitted.
      (1)   The township proposes to permit the following encroachments when:
         (a)   Any development that causes a rise in the base flood elevations
within the floodway; or
         (b)   Any development occurring in Zones A1-30 and Zone AE without a
designated floodway, which will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base
flood elevation; or
         (c)   Alteration or relocation of a stream (including but not limited
to installing culverts and bridges)
      (2)   The applicant shall (as per 44 C.F.R. Part 65.12):
         (a)   Apply to FEMA for conditional approval of such action prior to
permitting the encroachments to occur.
         (b)   Upon receipt of the FEMA Administrator's conditional approval of
map change and prior to approving the proposed encroachments, a community shall
provide evidence to FEMA of the adoption of floodplain management ordinances
incorporating the increased base flood elevations and/or revised floodway
reflecting the post-project condition.
         (c)   Upon completion of the proposed encroachments, a (township or
applicant) shall provide as-built certifications. FEMA will initiate a final
map revision upon receipt of such certifications in accordance with 44 C.F.R.
Part 67.
   (C)   Compliance with chapter. Any new construction, development, uses or
activities allowed within any identified floodplain area shall be undertaken in
strict compliance with the provisions contained in this chapter and any other
applicable codes, ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.061  ELEVATION AND FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures.
      (1)   In AE, A1-30, and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated up to, or
above, the regulatory flood elevation.
      (2)   In A Zones, where there are no Base Flood Elevations specified on
the FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood
elevation determined in accordance with §
153.046(C).
      (3)   In AO Zones, any new construction or substantial improvement shall
have the lowest floor (including basement) at or above the highest adjacent
grade at least as high as the depth number specified on the FIRM.
      (4)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the latest edition thereof adopted by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and ASCE 24 and 34 Pa.  Code Chapters 401 to 405,
as amended, shall be utilized, where they are more restrictive.
   (B)   Non-residential structures.
      (1)   In AE, A1—30 and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement of a non-residential structure shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood elevation,
or be designed and constructed so that the space enclosed below the regulatory
flood elevation:
         (a)   Is floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water; and
         (b)   Has structural components with the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   In A Zones, where no Base Flood Elevations are specified on the
FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated or completely floodproofed up to, or above,
the Regulatory Flood Elevation determined in accordance with §
153.046(C).
      (3)   In AO Zones, any new construction or substantial improvement shall
have their lowest floor elevated or completely floodproofed above the highest
adjacent grade to at least as high as the depth number specified on the FIRM.
      (4)   Any non-residential structure, or part thereof, made watertight
below the Regulatory Flood Elevation shall be floodproofed in accordance with
the W1 or W2 space classification standards contained in the publication
entitled Flood-Proofing Regulations published by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers (June 1972, as amended March 1992) or with some other equivalent
standard. All plans and specifications for such floodproofing shall be
accompanied by a statement certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect which states that the proposed design and methods of construction are
in conformance with the above referenced standards. There should be a statement
submitted with the permit application and a statement submitted with the as-
built floodproofing certificate prior to the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy.
      (5)   Any non-residential structure that will be floodproofed must submit
the following to the Floodplain Administrator along with the non-residential
floodproofing certificate and prior to the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy:
         (a)   An inspection and maintenance plan detailing the annual
maintenance of floodproofed components ensuring that all components will
operate properly under flood conditions. Components that must be inspected
include at a minimum:
            1.   Mechanical equipment such as sump pumps and generators;
            2.   Flood shields and closures;
            3.   Walls and wall penetrations; and
            4.   Levees and berms (as applicable).
         (b)   Flood emergency operation plan detailing the procedures to be
followed during a flooding event, and must include information pertaining to
how all components will operate properly under all conditions, including power
failures. The design professional must produce the plan. An adequate plan must
include the following:
            1.   An established chain of command and responsibility with
leadership responsibilities clearly defined for all aspects of the plan.
            2.   A procedure for notification of necessary parties when
flooding threatens and flood warnings are issued. Personnel required to be at
the building should have a planned and safe means of ingress and should have no
other emergency response duties during a flood event. Alternates should be
assigned in the event that the primary persons responsible are unable to
complete their assigned duties under the plan.
            3.   A list of specific duties assigned to ensure that all
responsibilities are addressed expeditiously. The locations of materials
necessary to properly install all floodproofing components must be included in
the list.
            4.   An evacuation plan for all personnel or occupants; those
without duties for the flood emergency as well as those with duties for
implementing the plan. All possible ingress and egress routes must be
identified.
            5.   A periodic training and exercise program to keep personnel and
occupants aware of their duties and responsibilities. Training drills should be
held at least once a year and should be coordinated with community officials.
            6.   The design and construction standards and specifications
contained in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009
International Residential Code (IRC) or the latest revision thereof as adopted
by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and ASCE 24 and 34 Pa. Code Chapters
401—405, as amended, shall be utilized, where they are more restrictive.
   (C)   Space below the lowest floor.
      (1)   Fully enclosed space below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
which will be used solely for the parking of a vehicle, building access, or
incidental storage in an area other than a basement, shall be designed and
constructed to allow for the automatic entry and exit of flood waters for the
purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on exterior walls.  The term “fully
enclosed space” also includes crawl spaces.
      (2)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space installed on two
separate walls.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Historic structures. Historic structures undergoing repair or
rehabilitation that would constitute a substantial improvement as defined in
this chapter, must comply with all ordinance requirements that do not preclude
the structure's continued designation as a historic structure. Documentation
that a specific ordinance requirement will cause removal of the structure from
the National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic
places must be obtained from the Secretary of the Interior or the State
Historic Preservation Officer. Any exemption from ordinance requirements will
be the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
   (E)   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to a principal building
need not be elevated or floodproofed to remain dry, but shall comply, at a
minimum, with the following requirements:
      (1)   The structure shall not be designed or used for human habitation,
but shall be limited to the parking of vehicles, or to the storage of tools,
material, and equipment related to the principal use or activity.
      (2)   Floor area shall not exceed 100 square feet.
      (3)   The structure will have a low damage potential.
      (4)   The structure will be located on the site so as to cause the least
obstruction to the flow of flood waters.
      (5)   Power lines, wiring, and outlets will be elevated to the regulatory
flood elevation.
      (6)   Permanently affixed utility equipment and appliances such as
furnaces, heaters, washers, dryers, etc. are prohibited.
      (7)   Sanitary facilities are prohibited.
      (8)   The structure shall be adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement and shall be designed to automatically provide
for the entry and exit of floodwater for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic
forces on the walls. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed
the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, etc. or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
      (9)   For accessory structures that are 100 square feet or larger in area
(footprint) and that are below the base flood elevation, a variance is required
as set forth in §§
153.110 and
153.111. If a variance is granted, a signed declaration of land restriction
(nonconversion agreement) shall be recorded on the property deed prior to
issuance of the certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.062  DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The following minimum standards shall apply for all construction and
development proposed within any identified floodplain area:
   (A)   Fill.  If fill is used, it shall:
      (1)   Extend laterally at least 15 feet beyond the building line from all
points;
      (2)   Consist of soil or small rock materials only; sanitary landfills
shall not be permitted;
      (3)   Be compacted to provide the necessary permeability and resistance
to erosion, scouring, or settling;
      (4)   Be no steeper than one vertical to two horizontal feet unless
substantiated data justifying steeper slopes are submitted to, and approved by
the Floodplain Administrator; and
      (5)   Be used to the extent to which it does not adversely affect
adjacent properties.
   (B)   Drainage facilities. Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to
convey the flow of storm water runoff in a safe and efficient manner. The
system shall ensure proper drainage along streets, and provide positive
drainage away from buildings. The system shall also be designed to prevent the
discharge of excess runoff onto adjacent properties.
   (C)   Water and sanitary sewer facilities and systems.
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer facilities
and systems shall be located, designed and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damages and the infiltration of flood waters.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer facilities and systems shall be designed to prevent
the discharge of untreated sewage into flood waters.
      (3)   No part of any on-site waste disposal system shall be located
within any identified floodplain area except in strict compliance with all
State and local regulations for such systems. If any such system is permitted,
it shall be located so as to avoid impairment to it, or contamination from it,
during a flood.
      (4)   The design and construction provisions of the UCC and FEMA #348,
Protecting Building Utilities From Flood Damages and The International Private
Sewage Disposal Code shall be utilized.
   (D)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical and
telephone systems shall be located, elevated (where possible) and constructed
to minimize the chance of impairment during a flood.
   (E)   Streets. The finished elevation of all new streets shall be no more
than one foot below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (F)   Storage. All materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or in
times of flooding, could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life, and not
listed in §
153.063, development which may endanger human life, shall be stored at or above
the regulatory flood elevation or floodproofed to the maximum extent possible.
   (G)   Placement of buildings and structures. All buildings and structures
shall be designed, located, and constructed so as to offer the minimum
obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to have a minimum effect
upon the flow and height of flood water.
   (H)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, storage tanks, and other similar
objects or components located below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
securely anchored or affixed to prevent flotation.
   (I)   Floors, walls and ceilings.
      (1)   Wood flooring used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be installed to accommodate a lateral expansion of the flooring, perpendicular
to the flooring grain without causing structural damage to the building.
      (2)   Plywood used at or below the Regulatory Flood Elevation shall be of
a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
      (3)   Walls and ceilings at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be designed and constructed of materials that are “water-resistant” and will
withstand inundation.
      (4)   Windows, doors, and other components at or below the regulatory
flood elevation shall be made of metal or other “water-resistant” material.
   (J)   Paints and adhesives.
      (1)   Paints and other finishes used at or below the regulatory flood
elevation shall be of “marine” or “water-resistant” quality.
      (2)   Adhesives used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
of a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
      (3)   All wooden components (doors, trim, cabinets, etc.) used at or
below the regulatory flood elevation shall be finished with a “marine” or
“water-resistant” paint or other finishing material.
   (K)   Electrical components.
      (1)   Electrical distribution panels shall be at least three feet above
the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Separate electrical circuits shall serve lower levels and shall be
dropped from above.
   (L)   Equipment.
      (1)   Water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and ventilating units,
and other electrical, mechanical or utility equipment or apparatus shall not be
located below the regulatory flood elevation and shall be anchored to resist
floatation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (2)   Ductwork shall be elevated to or above the regulatory flood
elevation or floodproofed to remain water resistant.
   (M)      Fuel supply systems. All gas and oil supply systems shall be
designed to prevent the infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharges from the system into flood waters. Additional provisions shall be
made for the drainage of these systems in the event that flood water
infiltration occurs.
   (N)   Uniform Construction Code coordination.
      (1)   The Standards and Specifications contained in 34 Pa. Code Chapters
401—405, as amended, and not limited to the following provisions shall apply to
the above and other sections and divisions of this chapter, to the extent that
they are more restrictive and supplement the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   International Building Code (IBC) 2009 or the latest revision
thereof as adopted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania: §§  801, 1202, 1403,
1603, 1605, 1612, 3402, and Appendix G.
      (3)   International Residential Building Code (IRC) 2009 or the latest
revision thereof as adopted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania: §§ R104, R105,
R109, R322, Appendix E, and Appendix J.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.063  DEVELOPMENT WHICH MAY ENDANGER HUMAN LIFE.
   (A)   (1)   In accordance with the Pennsylvania Flood Plain Management Act,
and the regulations adopted by the Department of Community and Economic
Development as required by the Act, any new or substantially improved structure
which:
         (a)   Will be used for the production or storage of any of the
following dangerous materials or substances; or
         (b)   Will be used for any activity requiring the maintenance of a
supply of more than 550 gallons, or other comparable volume, of any of the
following dangerous materials or substances on the premises; or
         (c)   Will involve the production, storage, or use of any amount of
radioactive substances;
      (2)   Shall be subject to the provisions of this section, in addition to
all other applicable provisions. The following list of materials and substances
are considered dangerous to human life:
         (a)   Acetone.
         (b)   Ammonia.
         (c)   Benzene.
         (d)   Calcium carbide.
         (e)   Carbon disulfide.
         (f)   Celluloid.
         (g)   Chlorine.
         (h)   Hydrochloric acid.
         (i)   Hydrocyanic acid.
         (j)   Magnesium.
         (k)   Nitric acid and oxides of nitrogen.
         (l)   Petroleum products (gasoline, fuel oil, etc.).
         (m)   Phosphorus.
         (n)   Potassium.
         (o)   Sodium.
         (p)   Sulphur and sulphur products.
         (q)   Pesticides (including insecticides, fungicides, and
rodenticides).
         (r)   Radioactive substances, insofar as such substances are not
otherwise regulated.
   (B)   Within any floodway area, any structure of the kind described in
division (A), above, shall be prohibited. Where permitted within any identified
floodplain area, any new or substantially improved residential structure of the
kind described in §
153.063(A), above, shall be elevated to remain completely dry up to at least
one and one-half feet above base flood elevation and built in accordance with
§§
153.060 to
153.062.
   (C)   (1)   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, any new
or substantially improved non-residential structure of the kind described in §
153.063(A) above, shall be built in accordance with §§
153.060 to
153.062 including:
         (a)   Elevated, or designed and constructed to remain completely dry
up to at least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation; and
         (b)   Designed to prevent pollution from the structure or activity
during the course of a base flood.
      (2)   Any such structure, or part thereof, that will be built below the
regulatory flood elevation shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the standards for completely dry floodproofing contained in the publication
Flood-Proofing Regulations (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, June 1972 as amended
March 1992), or with some other equivalent watertight standard.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.064  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISIONS AND DEVELOPMENT.
   All subdivision proposals and development proposals containing at least 50
lots or at least five acres, whichever is the lesser, in identified floodplain
areas where base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by
hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analyses that determine base flood
elevations and floodway information. The analyses shall be prepared by a
licensed professional engineer in a format required by FEMA for a conditional
letter of map revision (CLOMR) and letter of map revision (LOMR). Submittal
requirements and processing fees shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.065  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Within any floodway area, manufactured homes consisting of only one
transportable section shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Within any identified floodplain area (outside the floodway),
manufactured homes consisting of only one transportable section shall be
prohibited within the area measured 50) feet landward from the top-of-bank of
any watercourse.
   (C)   Where permitted within any Identified Floodplain Area, all
manufactured homes, and any improvements thereto, shall be:
      (1)   Placed on a permanent foundation;
      (2)   Elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation; and
      (3)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement.
   (D)   Equipment requirement:
      (1)   Water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and ventilating units,
and other electrical, mechanical or utility equipment or apparatus shall not be
located below the regulatory flood elevation and shall be anchored to resist
floatation, collapse, and lateral improvement.
      (2)   Ductwork shall be elevated to or above the regulatory flood
elevation or floodproofed to remain water resistant.
   (E)   Installation of manufactured homes shall be done in accordance with
the manufacturers' installation instructions as provided by the manufacturer.
Where the applicant cannot provide the above information, the requirements of
Appendix E of the 2009 “International Residential Building Code” or the “U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development's Permanent Foundations for
Manufactured Housing,” 1984 Edition, draft or latest revision thereto and 34
Pa. Code Chapter 401—405 shall apply.
   (F)   Consideration shall be given to the installation requirements of the
2009 IBC, and the 2009 IRC or the latest revision thereto as adopted by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and 34 Pa. Code, as amended where appropriate
and/or applicable to units where the manufacturers' standards for anchoring
cannot be provided or were not established for the proposed unit(s)
installation.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.066  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles in Zones A, A1-30, AH and AE must either:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; and
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
   (C)   Meet the permit requirements for manufactured homes in §
153.065.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
ACTIVITIES REQUIRING SPECIAL PERMITS
§ 153.080  GENERAL.
   In accordance with the administrative regulations promulgated by the
Department of Community and Economic Development to implement the Pennsylvania
Flood Plain Management Act, the following activities shall be prohibited within
any identified floodplain area unless a special permit has been issued by the
township:
   (A)   The commencement of any of the following activities; or the
construction, enlargement, or expansion of any structure used, or intended to
be used, for any of the following activities:
      (1)   Hospitals.
      (2)   Nursing homes.
      (3)   Jails or prisons.
   (B)   The commencement of, or any construction of, a new manufactured home
park or manufactured home subdivision, or substantial improvement to an
existing manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.081  APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL PERMITS.
   Applicants for special permits shall provide five copies of the following
items:
   (A)   A written request including a completed permit application form.
   (B)   A small scale map showing the vicinity in which the proposed site is
located.
   (C)   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of one
inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
      (1)   North arrow, scale and date;
      (2)   Topography based upon the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of
1988, showing existing and proposed contours at intervals of two feet;
      (3)   All property and lot lines including dimensions, and the size of
the site expressed in acres or square feet;
      (4)   The location of all existing streets, drives, other access ways,
and parking areas, with information concerning widths, pavement types and
construction, and elevations;
      (5)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
buildings, structures and other public or private facilities, including
railroad tracks and facilities, and any other natural and man-made features
affecting, or affected by, the proposed activity or development;
      (6)   The location of the floodplain boundary line, information and spot
elevations concerning the base flood elevation, and information concerning the
flow of water including direction and velocities;
      (7)   The location of all proposed buildings, structures, utilities, and
any other improvements; and
      (8)   Any other information which the municipality considers necessary
for adequate review of the application.
   (D)   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
clearly and legibly drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
      (1)   Sufficiently detailed architectural or engineering drawings,
including floor plans, sections, and exterior building elevations, as
appropriate;
      (2)   For any proposed building, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and, as required, the elevation of any other floor;
      (3)   Complete information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces, and other factors associated with the
base flood;
      (4)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing
measures, including the flood emergency operation plan and the inspection and
maintenance plan;
      (5)   Cross section drawings for all proposed streets, drives, other
accessways, and parking areas, showing all rights-of-way and pavement widths;
      (6)   Profile drawings for all proposed streets, drives, and vehicular
accessways including existing and proposed grades; and
      (7)   Plans and profdes of all proposed sanitary and storm sewer systems,
water supply systems, and any other utilities and facilities.
   (E)   The following data and documentation:
      (1)   Certification from the applicant that the site upon which the
activity or development is proposed is an existing separate and single parcel,
owned by the applicant or the client he represents;
      (2)   Certification from a registered professional engineer, architect,
or landscape architect that the proposed construction has been adequately
designed to protect against damage from the base flood;
      (3)   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, landscape architect, or other qualified person which contains a
complete and accurate description of the nature and extent of pollution that
might possibly occur from the development during the course of a base flood,
including a statement concerning the effects such pollution may have on human
life;
      (4)   A statement certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
description of the effects the proposed development will have on base flood
elevation and flows;
      (5)   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
description of the kinds and amounts of any loose buoyant materials or debris
that may possibly exist or be located on the site below the base flood
elevation and the effects such materials and debris may have on base flood
elevation and flows;
      (6)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection's Planning Module for Land Development;
      (7)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control;
      (8)   Any other applicable permits such as, but not limited to, a permit
for any activity regulated by the Department of Environmental Protection under
§ 302 of Act 1978-166; and
      (9)   An evacuation plan which fully explains the manner in which the
site will be safely evacuated before or during the course of a base flood.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.082  APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   Upon receipt of an application for a special permit by the township the
following procedures shall apply in addition to those of §§
153.020 to
153.030:
   (A)   Within three working days following receipt of the application, a
complete copy of the application and all accompanying documentation shall be
forwarded to the County Planning Commission by registered or certified mail for
its review and recommendations. Copies of the application shall also be
forwarded to the Township Planning Commission and Township Engineer for review
and comment.
   (B)   If an application is received that is incomplete, the township shall
notify the applicant in writing, stating in what respect the application is
deficient.
   (C)   If the township decides to disapprove an application, it shall notify
the applicant, in writing, of the reasons for the disapproval.
   (D)   If the township approves an application, it shall file written
notification, together with the application and all pertinent information, with
the Department of Community and Economic Development, by registered or
certified mail, within five working days after the date of approval.
   (E)   Before issuing the special permit, the township shall allow the
Department of Community and Economic Development 30 days, after receipt of the
notification by the Department, to review the application and decision made by
the township.
   (F)   If the township does not receive any communication from the Department
of Community and Economic Development during the 30-day review period, it may
issue a special permit to the applicant.
   (G)   If the Department of Community and Economic Development should decide
to disapprove an application, it shall notify the township and the applicant,
in writing, of the reasons for the disapproval, and the township shall not
issue the special permit.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.083  SPECIAL TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §§
153.060 to
153.066, the following minimum requirements shall also apply to any proposed
development requiring a special permit. If there is any conflict between any of
the following requirements and those in §§
153.060 to
153.066 or in any other code, ordinance, or regulation, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
   (B)   No application for a special permit shall be approved unless it can be
determined that the structure or activity will be located, constructed and
maintained in a manner which will:
      (1)   Fully protect the health and safety of the general public and any
occupants of the structure. At a minimum, all new structures shall be designed,
located, and constructed so that:
         (a)   The structure will survive inundation by waters of the base
flood without any lateral movement or damage to either the structure itself, or
to any of its equipment or contents below the BFE.
         (b)   The lowest floor (including basement) will be elevated to at
least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation.
         (c)   The occupants of the structure can remain inside for an
indefinite period of time and be safely evacuated at any time during the base
flood.
      (2)   Prevent any significant possibility of pollution, increased flood
levels or flows, or debris endangering life and property.
   (C)   All hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by
professional engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall
certify that the technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted
technical concepts. Studies, analyses, computations, etc. shall be submitted in
sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the township and the
Department of Community and Economic Development.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
EXISTING STRUCTURES IN IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 153.095  EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of this chapter do not require any changes or improvements to
be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an improvement is made
to any existing structure, the provisions of §
153.096 shall apply.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.096  IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following provisions shall apply whenever any improvement is made to an
existing structure located within any identified floodplain area:
   (A)   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within any Floodway Area/District that would cause any increase in BFE.
   (B)   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within AE Area/District without floodway that would, together with all other
existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE more than one foot at
any point.
   (C)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure to an extent or amount of 50% or more of its
market value, shall constitute a substantial improvement and shall be
undertaken only in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The above activity shall also address the requirements of the 34 Pa.
Code, as amended and the 2009 IBC and the 2009 IRC or most recent revision
thereof as adopted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   (E)   Within any Floodway Area/District (see §
153.046(A)), no new construction or development shall be allowed, unless the
appropriate permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection
Regional Office
   (F)   Within any AE Area/District without Floodway (See §
153.046(B)), no new construction or development shall be located within the
area measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless
the appropriate permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental
Protection Regional Office.
   (G)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure, to an extent or amount of less than 50% of its
market value, shall be elevated and/or floodproofed to the greatest extent
possible.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
VARIANCES
§ 153.110  GENERAL.
   If compliance with any of the requirements of this chapter would result in
an exceptional hardship to a prospective builder, developer or landowner, the
township may, upon request, grant relief from the strict application of the
requirements.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.111  VARIANCE PROCEDURES AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Requests for variances shall be considered by the township in
accordance with the procedures contained in §
153.030 and the following:
      (1)   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development,
use, or activity within any Floodway Area/District that would cause any
increase in the BFE.
      (2)   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development,
use, or activity within any AE Area/District without floodway that would,
together with all other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE
more than one foot at any point.
      (3)   No variances shall be granted for a proposed accessory structure
that exceeds 600 square feet in size. A signed non-conversion agreement is
required as a condition of receiving the variance.
      (4)   Except for a possible modification of the regulatory flood
elevation requirement involved, no variance shall be granted for any of the
other requirements pertaining specifically to development regulated by special
permit (§§
153.080 to
153.083) or to development which may endanger human life (§
153.063).
      (5)   If granted, a variance shall involve only the least modification
necessary to provide relief.
   
      (6)   In granting any variance, the Township of Antis shall attach
whatever reasonable conditions and safeguards it considers necessary in order
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, and to achieve the
objectives of this chapter.
      (7)   Whenever a variance is granted, the township shall notify the
applicant in writing that:
         (a)   The granting of the variance may result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance.
         (b)   Such variances may increase the risks to life and property.
      (8)   In reviewing any request for a variance, the township shall
consider, at a minimum, the following:
         (a)   That there is good and sufficient cause.
         (b)   That failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship to the applicant.
         (c)   That the granting of the variance will:
            1.   Neither result in an unacceptable or prohibited increase in
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary public
expense,
            2.   Nor create nuisances, cause fraud on, or victimize the public,
or conflict with any other applicable state or local ordinances and
regulations.
      (9)   A complete record of all variance requests and related actions
shall be maintained by the township. In addition, a report of all variances
granted during the year shall be included in the annual report to the FEMA.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any of the above, however, all structures shall be
designed and constructed so as to have the capability of resisting the 1%
annual chance flood.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
§ 153.999  PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or who fails or refuses to comply with any notice,
order of direction of the Floodplain Administrator or any other authorized
employee of the municipality shall be guilty of a summary offense and upon
conviction shall pay a fine to township, of not less than $25 nor more than
$1,000 plus costs of prosecution. In addition to the above penalties all other
actions are hereby reserved including an action in equity for the proper
enforcement of this chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any
violation of, or noncompliance with this chapter shall not excuse the violation
or noncompliance or permit it to continue. All such persons shall be required
to correct or remedy such violations and noncompliance within a reasonable
time. Any development initiated or any structure or building constructed,
reconstructed, enlarged, altered, or relocated, in noncompliance with this
chapter may be declared by the Board of Supervisors to be a public nuisance and
abatable as such.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-1-2018)
CHAPTER 154:  SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
Section
Billboards
   
154.01   Applicability
   
154.02   Definition
   
154.03   Size, height and location regulations
   
154.04   Prohibited billboards
   
154.05   Safety and maintenance
   
154.06   Enforcement Officer; removal of unsafe structures
   
154.07   Building permit required
   
154.08   Enforcement
 
   
154.99   Penalty
BILLBOARDS
§ 154.01  APPLICABILITY.
   The following regulations are applicable to all divided highways and
limited-access highways within the township.
(1987 Code, § 107-1)  (Ord. 5-94, passed 9-6-1994)
§ 154.02  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLBOARD.  Any structure, device, light or natural object, including the
ground itself, or any part thereof, or any device attached thereto or painted
or represented thereon, which shall be used to identify, advertise or attract
attention to any object, product, place, activity, person, institution,
organization, firm, group, commodity, profession, enterprise, industry or
business or which shall display or include any letter, work, model, number,
banner, flag, pennant, insignia, device or representation used as an
announcement, direction or advertisement and which is intended to be seen from
off the premises or from a parking lot.
(1987 Code, § 107-2)
§ 154.03  SIZE, HEIGHT AND LOCATION REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply to billboards.
   (A)   A billboard panel shall not exceed 1,200 square feet.
   (B)   Only two billboard panels per side shall be permitted on a support
structure or support system.
   (C)   The overall height of the structure shall not exceed 35 feet from
highway grade level.
   (D)   A billboard structure may only be erected within 800 feet of any
property with a business or industrial use that is open on a year-round basis
and which is visible from and adjoins the highway.
   (E)   A billboard structure shall not be erected within 660 feet of the
nearest edge of the right-of-way.
   (F)   A billboard structure shall not be erected within 500 feet of another
billboard structure.
   (G)   A billboard structure shall conform to all federal and state statutes
and regulations.
(1987 Code, § 107-3)  (Ord. 5-94, passed 9-6-1994)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.04  PROHIBITED BILLBOARDS.
   The following billboards shall not be permitted, erected or maintained,
notwithstanding anything else contained in this subchapter or elsewhere:
   (A)   Billboards which incorporate in any manner any flashing or moving
illumination or with illumination which varies in intensity or which varies in
color and billboards which have any visible moving part, visible revolving
parts or visible mechanical movement of any description or other apparent
visible movement achieved by electrical pulsations or by actions of normal wind
currents, except when not visible from motor vehicles traveling on public
roadways; or
   (B)   Light sources which cast light on billboards shall be shielded by
opaque material so that the bulbs, floodlights or tubes are not visible off the
property on which the billboards are located.
(1987 Code, § 107-4)  (Ord. 5-94, passed 9-6-1994)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.05  SAFETY AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Every billboard and all parts thereof, including framework, supports,
background anchors and wiring systems, shall be constructed and maintained in
compliance with the Building, Electrical and Fire Prevention Codes as they now
exist or as they may hereafter exist. In the absence of an electrical
ordinance, the National Electrical Code shall be used as the standard for all
wiring systems.
   (B)   All billboards and all parts thereof shall be kept in a good state of
repair and maintenance.
(1987 Code, § 107-5)  (Ord. 5-94, passed 9-6-1994)
§ 154.06  ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; REMOVAL OF UNSAFE STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Appointment. The Township Supervisors shall have the Code Enforcement
Officer enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Duties of the inspector.
      (1)   If the Code Enforcement Officer shall find that any billboard has
been constructed or erected or is being maintained in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter, he or she shall promptly notify the owner or
lessor thereof in writing. If the owner or lessor fails to remove or alter the
billboard so as to comply with provisions of this subchapter within 30 days,
the Code Enforcement Officer shall cause such billboard to be removed or
altered in such way as to conform with the provisions of this subchapter. The
cost of such removal or alteration shall be borne by the owner or lessor of
such billboard and shall be a lien upon the premises.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall cause any billboard which is in
immediate peril to persons or property to be removed immediately. The cost of
such removal shall be borne by the owner or lessor of such billboard and shall
be a lien upon the premises.
(1987 Code, § 107-6)  (Ord. 5-94, passed 9-6-1994)
§ 154.07  BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Issuance of permit.
      (1)   The Building Permit Officer shall issue a building permit only
after it has been determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in
conformance with the requirements of this subchapter and all other applicable
codes and ordinances.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building Permit
Officer shall review the application for permit to determine if all other
necessary governmental permits such as those required by state and federal laws
have been obtained. No permit shall be issued until this determination has been
made.
   (B)   Application procedures and requirements. Application for such a
building permit shall be made, in writing, to the Building Permit Officer on
forms supplied by the township; such application shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and address of the owner of the land on which the proposed
construction is to occur;
      (3)   The name and address of the contractor;
      (4)   The site location;
      (5)   A listing of other permits required;
      (6)   A brief description of the proposed work and estimated cost; and
      (7)   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
   (C)   Fees.
      (1)   Applications for a building permit shall be accompanied by a fee,
payable to the municipality, based upon the estimated cost of the proposed
construction as determined by the Building Permit Officer at the rate set by
the Board of Supervisors.
      (2)   In the event that the building is in a flood-prone area, there will
be an additional fee for reviewing the plans and inspection by the township’s
Engineer, to be determined in accordance with the schedule of fees given to the
township by the township’s Engineer.
   (D)   Start of construction.
      (1)   Work on the proposed construction and/or development shall begin
within six months after the date of issuance of the building permit or the
permit shall expire unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the
Building Permit Officer. Construction and/or development shall be considered to
have started with the preparation of land, land clearing, grading, filling,
excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations, erection of temporary
forms, the installation of piling under proposed subsurface footings or the
installation of sewer, gas and water pipes or electrical or other service lines
from the street.
      (2)   Time extensions shall be granted only if a written request is
submitted by the applicant, which sets forth sufficient and reasonable cause
for the Building Permit Officer to approve such a request.
   (E)   Inspection and revocation.
      (1)   During the construction period, the Building Permit Officer or
other authorized official shall inspect the premises to determine that the work
is progressing in compliance with all applicable township laws and ordinances.
He or she shall make as many inspections during and upon completion of the work
as are necessary.
      (2)   In the discharge of his or her duties, the Building Permit Officer
shall have the authority to enter any building, structure, premises or
development in the identified floodplain area, upon presentation of proper
credentials, at any reasonable hour to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
      (3)   In the event that the Building Permit Officer discovers that the
work does not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and
ordinances or that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation by any
applicant, the Building Permit Officer shall revoke the building permit and
report such fact to the Township Board of Supervisors for whatsoever action it
considers necessary.
   (F)   Changes. After the issuance of a building permit by the Building
Permit Officer, no changes of any kind shall be made to the application.
   (G)   Placards. In addition to the building permit, the Building Permit
Officer shall issue a placard which shall be displayed on the premises during
the time construction is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the
building permit, the date of its issuance and shall be signed by the Building
Permit Officer.
(1987 Code, § 107-7)  (Ord. 5-94, passed 9-6-1994)
§ 154.08  ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter shall be enforced by action brought before a District
Justice in the same manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses
under the State Rules of Criminal Procedure.
(1987 Code, § 107-8)  (Ord. 5-94, passed 9-6-1994)
§ 154.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates or permits the violation of §§
154.01 through
154.08 shall, upon conviction in a summary proceeding, be punishable by a fine
of not more that $1,000 or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days.
      (2)   Each day or portion thereof that such violation continues, or is
permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   Each section of §§
154.01 through
154.08 that is violated shall also constitute a separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 107-8)  (Ord. 5-94, passed 9-6-1994; Ord. 3-96, passed 9-3-1996;
Ord. 1-97, passed 6-2-1997)
CHAPTER 155:  SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Jurisdiction and authority; compliance required; enforcement
   
155.004   Word usage
   
155.005   Definitions
   
155.006   Terms not defined
Submission and Review Procedures
   
155.020   Applicability
   
155.021   Approval required
   
155.022   Pre-application consultation
   
155.023   Official filing date
   
155.024   Review by County Planning Commission
   
155.025   Review by Township Planning Commission
   
155.026   Sketch plan
   
155.027   Minor subdivision procedure
   
155.028   Preliminary plan
   
155.029   Submission requirements for final plan
   
155.030   Financial security
   
155.031   Review and approval of final plan
   
155.032   General provisions regarding approval of plats
   
155.033   Recording of final plan
Plan Requirements
   
155.045   Approval required
   
155.046   Discussion of requirements
   
155.047   Conformity with Master Plan
   
155.048   Site considerations
   
155.049   Sketch plan
   
155.050   Preliminary plan
   
155.051   Final plan
Design Standards
   
155.065   Most stringent requirements to apply
   
155.066   General standards
   
155.067   Streets
   
155.068   Blocks
   
155.069   Lots
   
155.070   Easements
   
155.071   Community facilities
   
155.072   Public utilities
   
155.073   Stormwater drainage
   
155.074   Lot grading
   
155.075   Erosion and sediment control
   
155.076   Flood hazard area regulations
Improvements and Construction Requirements
   
155.090   Purpose; compliance required
   
155.091   Required improvements
Mobile Home Park Design Standards
   
155.105   General requirements
   
155.106   Site location
   
155.107   Placement of mobile homes
   
155.108   Size of park
   
155.109   Mobile home lot requirements
   
155.110   Buffer areas
   
155.111   Recreation areas
   
155.112   Utilities
   
155.113   Drainage
   
155.114   Refuse storage
   
155.115   Sewerage systems
   
155.116   Water systems
   
155.117   Sidewalks
   
155.118   Parking areas
   
155.119   Ingress and egress
   
155.120   Street signs
Supplementary Land Development Requirements
   
155.135   Intent
   
155.136   Submission review procedures and plan requirements
   
155.137   Parking requirements; loading areas
   
155.138   Specific supplementary requirements
Recreational and Seasonal Land Development Standards
   
155.150   General requirements
   
155.151   Submission and review of sketch plan
   
155.152   Official submission and review of preliminary plan
   
155.153   Official submission and review of final plan
   
155.154   Recording of final plan
   
155.155   Performance guaranties
   
155.156   Plan requirements
   
155.157   Design standards
   
155.158   Improvements
   
155.159   Minimum facilities
Fees
   
155.170   Payment; establishment
Relief from Requirements
   
155.185   Modification may be granted
   
155.186   Modification to be minimum required
   
155.187   Request for modification
Administration, Amendment and Enforcement
   
155.200   Revision and amendment
   
155.201   Modification of requirements
   
155.202   Reconsideration and appeal
   
155.203   Keeping of records
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance of the Township of Antis”.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.002  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the orderly, logical and
harmonious development of the township and to protect, promote and create
conditions favorable to the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
township’s citizenry by:
      (1)   Ensuring that all future development is consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan for the county, the Township Comprehensive Development Plan
and other plans developed through local level planning programs;
      (2)   Providing for the orderly development of open lands and acreage in
concert with environmental and natural capacities and limitations;
      (3)   Assuring uniform and equitable processing of all subdivision plans
by providing uniform standards and procedures;
      (4)   Establishing requirements, standards and specifications to aid in
guiding elected public officials, planners, planning commissions, subdivides,
developers, land surveyors, landscape architects, architects, engineers and
others in the design and development of subdivisions and land developments
throughout the township;
      (5)   Assuring a coordination of proposed streets, parks and other
features in and bordering a proposed subdivision or land development, as to
such widths and grades and in such locations as deemed necessary to accommodate
prospective traffic, with the existing street and highway system of the
township thereby facilitating the rational movement of traffic;
      (6)   Providing for adequate oversight of subdivision and land
development to assure that public concerns with accessibility, stormwater
management, on-lot sewage disposal, water supply and other factors are taken
into account;
      (7)   Providing for adequate open spaces for traffic, recreation, light
and air and for proper distribution of the population;
      (8)   Encouraging and providing for innovations in new residential
developments, such as planned mixed use development, cluster development and
other evolving methods which provide for:
         (a)   A greater variety in type, design and layout of dwellings;
         (b)   The conservation and more efficient use of usable space in
relation to new dwellings;
         (c)   Savings on energy, water use, infrastructure and paving; and
         (d)   Integration of slope and other undevelopable areas into the
total development plan for use as open space.
      (9)   Protecting the character and the social and economic stability of
the township, by promoting a harmony between existing development, future
development and the natural environment;
      (10)   Protecting and conserving the value of land throughout the
township, and the value of buildings and improvements upon the land, and
minimizing the conflicts among the uses of land and buildings;
      (11)   Guiding public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water supply, sewerage, stormwater
management, schools, parks, playgrounds, recreation and other public
requirements and facilities;
      (12)   Ensuring that public facilities are available and will have a
sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision;
      (13)   Preventing the pollution of air, streams and ponds to assure the
adequacy of drainage of facilities; to safeguard the groundwater resources; and
to encourage the wise use and management of the natural resources in order to
preserve the community and value of the land;
      (14)   Preserving the natural beauty and topography of the township and
ensuring appropriate development with regard to these natural features;
      (15)   Providing the most beneficial relationship between the uses of
land and buildings and the circulation of traffic within the township, having
particular regard for the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways
and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land
and building lines;
      (16)   Providing for the logical and orderly addition and extension of
the community facilities and public utilities systems to developing areas;
      (17)   Upgrading the quality of land records through creation and filing
of accurate and legible subdivision plans with the County Recorder of Deeds for
future information and use by municipal officials and the general public;
      (18)   Ensuring, generally, that the future orderly growth and
development of the township is accompanied by adequate public facilities,
without negatively affecting the environment, and making the township a better
place in which to live and work;
      (19)   Ensuring that minimum setback lines and minimum lot sizes are
applied throughout the township based on the availability of water and sewage;
and
      (20)   Permitting the township to minimize developmental and related
problems as may exist or which may be foreseen, by encouraging development on
land exhibiting the appropriate soils, slope and other physiographic and
environmental characteristics.
   (B)   When development throughout the township is guided by the foregoing
and incorporated into the general context of area-wide comprehensive planning,
a mutual benefit will be derived by the developer, the buyer, the local
municipalities, the township, the county and the general public.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.003  JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Subdivision control. The Township Board of Supervisors has the
jurisdiction, powers and authorities as particularly and specifically set forth
in the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247 of 1968, 53 P.S. §§
10101 et seq., as amended, and specifically said Township Board of Supervisors
shall have the jurisdiction and control of all subdivision of land located
within the limits of the township. All plans shall be submitted to the Township
Board of Supervisors for review and approval. This includes all plans, plots or
re-plots of land. No subdivision or land development of any lot, tract or
parcel of land within the township shall be made and no street, sanitary sewer,
storm sewer, water main or other improvements in connection therewith shall be
laid out, constructed, opened or dedicated for public use or travel or for the
common use of occupants of buildings abutting thereon except in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. No plat shall be accepted for recording by the
County Recorder of Deeds unless such plat officially notes the approval of the
Township Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   Land development control. Land development must comply with the
regulations contained in this chapter. Such compliance shall include, but not
be limited to, the filing of preliminary and final plans, the dedication and
improvement of rights-of-way, streets and roads and the payment of fees and
charges as established by the Board of Supervisors. Land development plans
shall indicate the location of each structure and clearly define each unit and
shall indicate public easements, common areas and improvements, all easements
appurtenant to each unit and improvements to public rights-of-way.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   For any person or persons violating this chapter, the following
enforcement actions should be applied:
         (a)   A letter sent to the violator stating the violation to the
chapter and that a reply is required within 20 days of the mailing date;
         (b)   If within the 20-day reply period no reply is given, then a
letter written by the Township Solicitor will be sent to the violator and a new
20-day reply period will be given; and
         (c)   If a reply is not received within the reply period, a final
letter stating that legal action may be enforced shall be sent to said violator
and given a final 20-day time period to reply before legal action may be
enforced.
      (2)   Penalties may be enforced under §
155.999, or similar-type action may be enforced.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.004  WORD USAGE.
   For the purpose of this chapter, words in the singular include the plural
and those in the plural include the singular. Words in the present tense
include the future tense. Words in the masculine gender include the feminine
and neuter. The words “person,” “subdivider” and “owner” include a corporation,
unincorporated association and a partnership or other legal entity, as well as
an individual. The word “street” includes street, avenue, boulevard, road,
highway, freeway, parkway, lane, alley, viaduct and any other ways used or
intended to be used by vehicular traffic or pedestrians whether public or
private. The word “building” includes structures and shall be construed as if
followed by the phrase “or part thereof”. The word “watercourse” includes
channel, creek, ditch, drain, dry run, spring and stream. The words “should”
and “may” are permissive; the words “shall” and “will” are mandatory.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.005  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR.  The officer as appointed by the Antis Township Board of
Supervisors to administer these regulations and to assist administratively the
other Boards and officers of the township.
   ALLEY or SERVICE DRIVE.  A minor right-of-way, privately or publicly owned,
primarily for service access to the back or sides of properties.
   APPEAL.  A means for obtaining review of a decision, determination, order or
failure to act pursuant to the terms of this chapter as authorized by the
provisions of §§
155.200 through
155.203 and
155.999.
   APPLICANT.  A landowner or developer, as hereinafter defined, who has filed
an application for subdivision and/or development, including his or her heirs,
successors and assigns.
   APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT.  Every application, whether preliminary,
tentative or final, required to be filed and approved prior to the start of
construction or development, including, but not limited to, an application for
a building permit, for the approval of a subdivision plat or plan or for the
approval of a development plan.
   APPOINTING AUTHORITY.  The Antis Township Board of Supervisors.
   AUTHORITY.  A body politic and corporate created pursuant to the act of May
2, 1945 (Pub. L. No. 382, No. 164), known as the “Municipality Authorities Act
of 1945,” 53 P.S. §§ 5601 et seq..
   BLOCK.  A tract of land, a tot or a group of lots bounded by streets, public
parks, railroad rights-of-way, watercourses and boundary lines of the township,
non-subdivided land, other definite barriers or by a combination of the above.
   BMPS or BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.  Activities, facilities, measures or
procedures used to minimize accelerated erosion and sedimentation to protect,
maintain, reclaim and restore the quality of waters and the existing and
designated uses of waters within the commonwealth.
   BOARD.  Any body granted jurisdiction under a land use ordinance or under
this chapter to render final adjudications.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.  The Board of Supervisors of Antis Township, Blair
County, Pennsylvania.
   BUILDING.  A combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof, including, but not limited to, all mobile homes.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE.  The line within a property parallel to and defining
the required minimum distance between the foremost part of any building and the
adjacent right-of-way or property boundary line.
   CAMPGROUND.  Any portion of land used for the purpose of providing a space
or spaces for trailers or tents for camping purposes, regardless of whether a
fee has been charged for the leasing, renting or occupancy of such space.
   CAMPSITE.  Any site intended to be used for temporary and/or seasonal use
for camping, inclusive of the area required to sustain a tent, camper, motor
home or other temporary camping facility.
   CARTWAY (ROADWAY).  The portion of a street right-of-way, paved or unpaved,
intended for vehicular traffic.
   CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE.  An area of unobstructed vision at street
intersections defined by lines of sight between points at a given distance from
the intersection of the street centerlines.
   COMMERCE PARK.  A tract of land that has been planned, developed and
operated as an integrated facility intended for a number of non-retail
professional, business, personal and other service uses, with special measures
for traffic circulation, parking, utilities and compatibility.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE.  A parcel or parcels of land, an area of land, an area of
water or a combination of land and water within a development site designed and
intended for the use or enjoyment of residents of a (the planned residential)
development, not including streets, off-street parking areas and areas set
aside for public facilities.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.  The complete plan plus any amendments or any of its
component parts for the development of the county and the township providing
for the continuing orderly development of the municipality and being recognized
by the governing bodies of the county as the official plan, including such
elements as community development objectives, plans and policies for use of the
land for housing, for community facilities, for transportation and for plan
implementation.
   CONDOMINIUM.  Ownership in common with others of a parcel of land and
certain parts of a building thereon which would normally be used by all the
occupants, together with individual ownership in fee of a particular unit or
apartment in such building or on such parcel of land, and may include
dwellings, offices and other types of space in commercial and industrial
buildings or on real property.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN.  The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision or
development plan and showing the specific location and design of improvements
to be installed in the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of the
Board of Supervisors as a condition of the approval of the plan.
   COUNTY.  Blair County, Pennsylvania.
   COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION.  The Blair County Planning Commission.
   CROSSWALK.  A right-of-way, municipally or privately owned, intended to
provide access for pedestrians.
   CUL-DE-SAC.  A short street having one end open to traffic and being
permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
   CULVERT.  A pipe, conduit or similar enclosed structure, including
appurtenant works, which carries surface water.
   CUT.  An excavation; the difference between a point on the original ground
and designated point of lower elevation on the final grade; also, the material
removed in excavation.
   DECISION.  Final adjudication of any board or other body granted
jurisdiction under any land use ordinance or this chapter to do so, either by
reason of the grant of exclusive jurisdiction or by reason of appeals from
determinations. All decisions shall be appealable to the Court of Common Pleas
of the county.
   DEDICATION.  The deliberate appropriation of land by its owner for any
general and public use, reserving to himself or herself no other rights than
those that are compatible with the full exercise and enjoyment of the public
uses to which the property has been devoted.
   DENSITY.
      HIGH-DENSITY.  Those residential subdivisions and land developments in
which the density is equal to or greater than four dwelling units per acre.
      LOW-DENSITY.  Those residential districts in which the density is between
one and three dwelling units per acre.
   DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION (DEP).  The Pennsylvania Department
of Environmental Protection, its bureaus, departments or divisions.
   DESIGN STORM.  The magnitude of precipitation from a storm event measured in
probability of occurrence (e.g., 50-year storm) and duration (e.g., 24-four
hour) and used in computing stormwater management control systems.
   DETENTION BASIN.  A basin designed to retard stormwater runoff by
temporarily storing the runoff and releasing it at a predetermined rate. A
DETENTION BASIN can be designed to drain completely after a storm event or it
can be designed to contain a permanent pool of water.
   DETERMINATION.  Final action by an officer, body or agency charged with the
administration of any land use ordinance or applications thereunder, except the
governing body and the Local Planning Commission, only to the extent the
planning agency is charged with final decision on preliminary or final plans
under the subdivision and land development ordinance or planned residential
development provisions. DETERMINATION shall be applicable only to the boards
designated as having jurisdiction for such appeal.
   DEVELOPER.  A person, firm, partnership, corporation, trust or authorized
agent thereof proposing to divide land so as to constitute a subdivision or
engage in land development. (See also SUBDIVIDER.)
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures; the placement of
mobile homes; the construction, extension and/or installation of streets and
other paving, utilities, mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or
drilling operations; and the subdivision of land.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN.  The provision for development, including: a planned
residential development; a plat of subdivision; all covenants relating to use,
location and bulk of buildings and other structures; intensity of use or
density of development; streets, ways and parking facilities; common open space
and public facilities. The phrase PROVISIONS OF THE DEVELOPMENT PLAN, when used
in this chapter, shall mean the written and graphic materials referred to in
this definition.
   DRAINAGE.  The removal of surface water or groundwater from land by drains,
grading or other means, and includes control of runoff to minimize erosion and
sedimentation during and after construction or development.
   DRAINAGE FACILITY.  Any ditch, gutter, culvert, storm sewer or other
structure designed, intended or constructed for the purpose of carrying,
diverting or controlling surface water or groundwater.
   DRAINAGE RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The lands required for the installation of
stormwater sewers or drainage ditches or required along a natural stream or
watercourse for preserving the channel and providing for the flow of water
therein to safeguard the public against flood damage.
   DRIVEWAY.  A private vehicular passageway providing access between a street
and a private parking area or private garage.
   DWELLING.  Any building which is designed for human living quarters.
   DWELLING or DWELLING UNIT.  Any structure, or part thereof, designed to be
occupied as living quarters as a single housekeeping unit.
      (1)   APARTMENT.  A dwelling unit separated horizontally and/or
vertically from one or more other units in a structure.
      (2)   DETACHED HOUSE.  A dwelling unit occupying the whole of a
freestanding residential structure.
      (3)   DUPLEX.  A residential structure divided horizontally into two
dwelling units.
      (4)   ROW HOUSE or TOWNHOUSE.  A structure with two or more party walls
of three or more units not having any horizontal division between units.
      (5)   TWIN OR SEMIDETACHED HOUSE.  A residential structure occupied by
two dwelling units with a common wall.
         (a)   APARTMENT HOUSE OR MULTIPLE DWELLING UNIT.  A residential
structure containing three or more apartments.
         (b)   GARDEN APARTMENT.  An apartment house not exceeding three
stories in height.
         (c)   HIGH-RISE APARTMENT.  An apartment house exceeding three stories
in height.
   EARTH DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY.  A construction or other human activity which
disturbs the surface of the land, including, but not limited to, clearing and
grubbing, grading, excavations, embankments, land development, mineral
extraction, and the moving, depositing, stockpiling, or storing of soil, rock
or earth materials.
   EASEMENT.  A right-of-way granted, but not dedicated, for specific use of
private land for a public or quasi-public purpose and within which the owner of
the property shall not erect any permanent structure, but shall have the right
to make any other use of the land which is not inconsistent with the rights of
the grantee.
   ENGINEER.  A person licensed to practice in the commonwealth as a registered
professional engineer.
   ENGINEERING SPECIFICATIONS.  The engineering criteria of the township
regulating the installation of any improvement or facility.
   EROSION.  The removal of surface materials by the action of natural
elements.
   EROSION, ACCELERATED.  Erosion of the soil or rock over and above normal
erosion brought about by changes in the natural cover or ground conditions,
including changes caused by human activity.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN.  A site-specific plan identifying BMPs to
minimize accelerated erosion and sedimentation.
   EXCAVATION.  Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other
material is dug into, cut, quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated
or bulldozed. It shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
   FILL.  Sand, gravel, earth or other material placed or deposited so as to
form an embankment or raise the elevation of the land surface. The term
includes material used to replace an area with aquatic life with dry land or to
change the bottom elevation of a surface water area.
   FINANCIAL SECURITY.  Any form of security, including a cash deposit, surety
bond, collateral, property or instrument of credit and restrictive of escrow
accounts from federal or commonwealth chartered lending institutions in an
amount and form satisfactory to the Board of Supervisors and to be used
wherever required by these regulations. (See §§
155.020 through
155.033.)
   FLOODPLAIN.  The lands adjoining a river or stream that have been or may be
expected to be inundated by floodgates in a 100-year-frequency flood.
   GOVERNING BODY.  The Council in cities, boroughs and incorporated towns; the
Board of Commissioners in townships of the first class; the Board of
Supervisors in townships of the second class; the Board of Commissioners in
counties of the second class through eighth classes; or as may be designated in
the law providing for the form of government.
   GRADE.  The slope of a road, street or other public way specified in
percentage terms.
   HEARING.  An administrative proceeding conducted by a board pursuant to §
909.1 of Act 170 of 1988 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, 53
P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
   INDUSTRIAL.  Those fields of economic activity, including construction
contractors, mining, manufacturing, transportation, communication, electric,
gas, sanitary services and wholesale trade.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK.  A tract of land that has been planned, developed and
operated as an integrated facility intended for a number of individual
industrial uses, with special measures for traffic circulation, parking,
utilities and compatibility.
   INFILTRATION STRUCTURES.  A structure designed to direct runoff into the
ground (e.g., French drains, seepage pits, dry wells and seepage trenches).
   LAND DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any of the following activities which involves the improvement of
one lot or two or more contiguous lots, tracts or parcels of land for any
purpose involving:
         (a)   A group of two or more residential or nonresidential buildings,
whether proposed initially or cumulatively, or a single nonresidential building
on a lot or lots, regardless of the number of occupants or tenure; or
         (b)   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially
or cumulatively, between or among two or more existing or prospective occupants
by means of or for the purpose of streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups or other features.
      (2)   A subdivision of land.
      (3)   For the purposes of this chapter, LAND DEVELOPMENT specifically
excludes the addition of an accessory building, including farm buildings, on a
lot or lots subordinate to an existing principal building if the cumulative
area of the accessory building(s) is less than 5,000 square feet. A building
shall be considered to be of an accessory nature if its use relates to a
primary building and is either on the same parcel as the primary building or is
on a separate parcel but within 50 feet of the boundary of the parcel on which
the primary building sits. Tilling activities related to farming or gardening
is also specifically excluded from the definition of LAND DEVELOPMENT.
      (4)   A valuable addition made to a property or an amelioration in its
condition, amounting to more than repairs or replacement of waste, intending to
enhance the value, beauty or utility of the property or adapting it for a newer
or further purpose.
   LANDOWNER.  The legal or beneficial owner or owners of land, including the
holder of an option or contract to purchase (whether or not such option or
contract is subject to any condition), a lessee if he or she is authorized
under the lease to exercise the rights of the landowner or other person having
a proprietary interest in land.
   LAND USE ORDINANCE.  Any ordinance or map adopted pursuant to the authority
granted in Articles IV, V, VI and VII of the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, Act 247, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., as amended.
   LOT.  A tract or parcel of land, regardless of size, intended for transfer
of ownership, use, lease, improvements or development, regardless of how it is
conveyed. LOT shall mean parcel, plot, site or any similar term which shall not
be further subdivided.
   LOT AREA.  The horizontal area contained within the property lines of a
parcel of land as shown on a subdivision plan, excluding space within any
street, but including the area of any easement.
   LOT, CORNER.  A lot situated at the intersection of two streets, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding 135 degrees.
   LOT, FLAG.  A lot which fronts a minimum of 15 feet upon a street and
extending back therefrom at a minimum width of 15 feet, so as to provide each
such lot with access, which is used solely and exclusively for ingress, egress
and regress from such lot to such street.
   LOT, FRONTAGE.  That side of a lot abutting on a street or way, and
ordinarily regarded as the front of the lot, but it shall not be considered as
the ordinary side of a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR.  A lot having side lot lines which do not abut on a street.
   LOT OF RECORD.  Any lot which, individually or as part of a subdivision, has
been recorded in the office of the Blair County Recorder of Deeds.
   LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE.  A lot extending between and having frontage on an
arterial and a minor street with vehicular access solely from the latter.
   LOT, THROUGH OR DOUBLE FRONTAGE.  A lot with both front and rear street
frontage.
   MAINTENANCE GUARANTY.  Any security, other than cash, which may be accepted
by the township for the maintenance of any improvements required by this
chapter.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS.  Minor collector streets parallel and adjacent to
arterial streets providing access to abutting properties and control of
intersections with an arterial street.
   MARKER.  A wood or metal stake placed to designate the boundary and corners
of lots in the subdivision of land for the purpose of reference in land and
property survey and to facilitate the sale of lots.
   MEDIATION.  A voluntary negotiating process in which parties in a dispute
mutually select a neutral mediator to assist them in jointly exploring and
settling their differences, culminating in a written agreement which the
parties themselves create and consider acceptable.
   MOBILE HOME.  A transportable, single-family dwelling intended for permanent
occupancy, contained in one unit or in two or more units designed to be joined
into one integral unit capable of again being separated for repeated towing,
which arrives at a site complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations and constructed so that it shall
be used without a permanent foundation.
   MOBILE HOME LOT.  A parcel of land in a mobile home park, improved with the
necessary utility connections and other appurtenances necessary for the
erection thereon of a single mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  A parcel or contiguous parcels of land which have been so
designated and improved that they contain two or more mobile home lots for the
placement thereon of mobile homes.
   MODIFICATIONS.  Waivers of the requirements of one or more provisions of
this chapter, as the literal enforcement will exact undo hardship because of
particular conditions pertaining to the land in question.
   MONUMENT.  Stone or concrete monument of known coordinates, established by
professional land surveyors and utilized to locate property lines.
   MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY.  A body politic and corporate created pursuant to the
Act of May 2, 1945 (Pub. L. No. 382, No. 164), known as the Municipality
Authorities Act of 1945, 53 P.S. §§ 5601 et seq..
   MUNICIPAL ENGINEER.  A professional engineer licensed as such in the
commonwealth, duly appointed as the engineer for a municipality, planning
agency or joint planning commission.
   MUNICIPALITY.  The Township of Antis.
   NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION.  A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or industrial. Such subdivision shall comply
with the applicable provisions of these regulations.
   OFFICIAL MAP.  The municipal map adopted by ordinance showing the exact
location of the lines of existing and proposed public streets, watercourses and
public grounds, including widening, narrowing, extensions, diminutions,
openings or closing of the same, for the entire municipality or part thereof.
   ORGANIZED CAMP.  A combination of program and facilities established for the
primary purpose of providing an outdoor group living experience for children,
youth and adults, with social, recreational and educational objectives and
operated and used for five or more consecutive days during one or more seasons
of the year.
   PEAK DISCHARGE.  The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point and time
resulting from a storm event.
   PLANNING COMMISSION, LOCAL.  The Township Planning Commission as established
and appointed by the Board of Supervisors.
   PLAN, FINAL.  A complete and exact subdivision plan prepared for official
recording as required by statute; a final plat.
   PLAN, PRELIMINARY.  A subdivision plan or land development plan in lesser
detail than the final plan.
   PLAN, SKETCH.  An informal optional submission preparatory to the
preliminary plan showing the general intent of the subdivider.
   PLAT.  The map or plan of a subdivision or land development whether
preliminary or final indicating the location and boundaries of individual
properties.
   PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANTS.  Persons who provide expert or professional
advice, including, but not limited to, architects, attorneys, certified public
accountants, engineers, geologists, land surveyors, landscape architects or
planners.
   PUBLIC GROUNDS.
      (1)   Parks, playgrounds, trails, paths and other recreational areas and
other public areas.
      (2)   Sites for schools, sewage treatment, refuse disposal and other
publicly owned or operated facilities.
      (3)   Publicly owned or operated scenic and historic sites.
   PUBLIC HEARING.  Conducted to obtain, add and provide information,
stenographic records of which are retained as transcripts for future use in an
appeal or related matter.
   PUBLIC MEETING.  A forum held pursuant to notice under the act of July 3,
1986 (Pub. L. No. 388, No. 84), known as the “Sunshine Act,” 65 Pa.C.S.A. §§
701 et seq..
   PUBLIC NOTICE.  Notice published once each week for two successive weeks in
a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality. Such notice shall state
the time and place of the hearing and the particular nature of the matter to be
considered at the hearing. The first publication shall not be more than 30 days
and the second publication shall not be less than seven days from the date of
the hearing.
   RECREATIONAL AND SEASONAL LAND DEVELOPMENT.  The improvement and development
of land for camping and/or related activities via the provision of campsites
and any supportive facilities on a rental basis.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicular-type unit primarily designed as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, which has its own
motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle. The basic entities
are travel trailer, camping trailer, truck camper and motor home.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK.  A lot of land upon which two or more
recreational vehicle sites are located, established or maintained for occupancy
by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living quarters for
vacation or recreation purposes.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SITE.  A plot of ground within a recreation vehicle
park intended for the accommodation of either a recreation vehicle or other
similar individual camping unit on a temporary basis.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION.  The elevation which includes the 100-year
floodplain, plus a freeboard safety factor of one and one-half feet.
   REPORT.  Any letter, review, memorandum, compilation or similar writing made
by any body, board, officer or consultant other than a solicitor to any other
body, board, officer or consultant for the purpose of assisting the recipient
of such report in the rendering of any decision or determination. All REPORTS
shall be deemed recommendatory and advisory only and shall not be binding upon
the recipient, board, officer, body or agency, nor shall any appeal lie
therefrom. Any REPORT used, received or considered by the body, board, officer
or agency rendering a determination or decision shall be made available for
inspection to the applicant and all other parties to any proceeding upon
request, and copies thereof shall be provided at cost of reproduction.
   RESERVE STRIP.  A parcel of ground separating a street from other adjacent
properties or from another street, which shall prevent a street from being
connected or extended across property lines.
   RE-SUBDIVISION.  Any re-platting or re-subdivision of land involving changes
of street layout or any land reserved for public use or any lot line on an
approved or recorded plan. Any other more major changes shall be considered as
constituting a new subdivision of land. (See also SUBDIVISION.)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  A public thoroughfare for vehicular or pedestrian traffic,
whether designated as a street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue,
boulevard, lane or alley, and including both cartway and shoulders.
   RUNOFF.  The surface water discharge or rate of discharge of a given
watershed after a fall of rain or snow that does not enter the soil but runs
off the surface of the land.
   SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL, COMMUNITY.  A sanitary sewage collection system,
either publicly or privately owned, in which sewage is carried from individual
lots by a system of pipes to a temporary central treatment and disposal plant,
generally serving a neighborhood area.
   SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL, ON-LOT.  Any structure designed to biochemically
treat sanitary sewage within the boundaries of an individual lot.
   SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL, PUBLIC.  A sanitary sewage collection system in
which sewage is carried from individual lots by a system of pipes to a central
treatment and disposal plant.
   SEDIMENTATION.  The process by which mineral or organic matter is
accumulated or deposited by moving, wind, water or gravity. Once this matter is
deposited (or remains suspended in water), it is usually referred to as
“sediment”.
   SEPTIC TANK.  A water-tight receptacle which receives sewage or industrial
wastes and is designed and constructed to provide for sludge storage, sludge
decomposition and separation of solids from liquids through a period of
detention before allowing the liquid to be discharged.
   SERVICE STREET.  A minor public right-of-way providing secondary vehicular
access to the side or rear of two or more properties.
   SETBACK LINE.  The line within a property defining the required minimum
distance between any building to be erected and the adjacent property line. The
front yard setback shall be measured at right angles from the front street
right-of-way line which abuts the property on which said building is located
and shall be parallel to said right-of-way line.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM, ON-LOT.  A system of piping tanks or other
facilities serving a lot and collecting and disposing of sewage in whole or in
part into the soil.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM, PUBLIC.  A sanitary sewage collection method in
which sewage is carried from the site by a system of pipes to a central
treatment and disposal plant.
   SHADE TREE.  A tree in a public place, street, special easement or right-of-
way adjoining a street as provided in these regulations.
   SHOPPING CENTER.  A group of retail establishments planned, constructed and
managed as a total entity with customer and employee parking provided onsite,
provision of goods delivery separated from customer access and protection from
the elements via a canopy or other enclosure.
   SIGHT DISTANCE.  The required length of roadway visible to the driver of a
passenger vehicle at any given point on the roadway when the view is
unobstructed by traffic. SIGHT DISTANCE measurements shall be made from a point
ten feet from the edge of the cartway.
   SLOPE.  The rise or fall of the land usually measured in percent slope. The
percent SLOPE is equal to the rise or fall in feet for a horizontal distance of
100 feet.
   SOIL PERCOLATION TEST.  A field test conducted to determine the suitability
of the soil for on-site sanitary sewage disposal facilities by measuring the
absorptive capacity of the soil at a given location and depth.
   SOLICITOR.  The licensed attorney designated by the Township Board of
Supervisors to furnish legal assistance for the administration of this chapter.
   STABILIZATION.  Natural or mechanical treatment of a mass of soil or ground
area to increase or maintain its stability and ensure its resistance to
erosion, sliding or other movement.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.  The plan for managing stormwater runoff as
required by the Township Engineer and/or a plan for managing stormwater as
required by any township stormwater management ordinance (Chapter 53).
   STREET LINE.  The limit of a right-of-way.
   STREET, PRIVATE.  Those streets not officially dedicated and/or accepted by
the municipality.
   STREETS.  A strip of land, including the entire right-of-way, intended for
use as a means of vehicular and pedestrian circulation, and further defined by
the following functional classification in accordance with the rural area
system characteristics in the Design Manual Part 2 Highway Design, Publication
13, PennDOT Bureau of Design, January 1990.
      (1)   ARTERIAL STREETS, MINOR. Those streets linking cities, larger towns
and other traffic generators; providing integrated interstate and inter-county
service; spaced at proper intervals consistent with population density; and/or
those corridor movements with greater trip lengths and travel densities than
those served by rural collector or local systems.
      (2)   ARTERIAL STREETS, PRINCIPAL.  Those streets serving statewide or
interstate travel, serving all urbanized areas and/or providing integrated
movements without stub connections.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREETS, MAJOR.  Those streets which provide service to
county seats, larger towns and other traffic generators; connect routes of
higher functional classification; and/or serve inter-county travel corridors.
      (4)   COLLECTOR STREETS, MINOR. Those streets which are spaced at
intervals to collect traffic from local roads, provide service to remaining
smaller communities and/or link local traffic generators with rural hinterland.
      (5)   EXPRESSWAYS, INTERSTATES and LIMITED ACCESS FREEWAYS.  Those
roadways providing limited access facilities.
      (6)   LOCAL STREETS.  Those streets which provide access to land adjacent
to the collector network, serve travel over relatively short distances and/or
constitute all rural mileage not classified in one of the higher systems.
   STRUCTURE.  Any human-made object having an ascertainable stationary
location on or in land or water, whether or not affixed to the land.
   SUBDIVIDER.  Same as DEVELOPER.
   SUBDIVISION.  The division or re-division of a lot, tract or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other division of land,
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided, however, that
the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into parcels of more
than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of access or any
residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR.  All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions,
including but not limited to subdivisions of six or more lots or any size
subdivision requiring any new street or extension of township facilities or the
creation of any public improvements. The number of lots shall be counted as of
the effective date of the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance, Ordinance
Number 1-94 (April 26, 1994).
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR.  Any subdivision containing not more than five lots
fronting on an existing street, not involving any new street or road, or the
extension of municipal facilities, or the creation of any public improvements,
and not adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property
and not in conflict with any provision or portion of the Comprehensive Plan,
official map or these regulations. The number of lots shall be counted as of
the effective date of the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance, Ord. 1-94
(April 26, 1994).
   SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETED.  Where, in the judgment of the Township Engineer,
at least 90%, based on the cost of the required improvements for which
financial security was posted pursuant to §§
155.020 through
155.033, of those improvements required as a condition for final approval have
been completed in accordance with the approved plan, so that the project will
be able to be used, occupied or operated for its intended use.
   SURFACE DRAINAGE PLAN.  A plan showing all present and proposed grades and
facilities for stormwater drainage.
   SURVEYOR.  A licensed land surveyor registered by the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
   SWALE.  A low-lying stretch of land which gathers or carries surface water
runoff.
   TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY.  Occupancy of a campground or organized camp for no
more than six months in any consecutive 12-month period.
   TENT.  A portable lodging unit usually made of skins, canvas, plastic or
strong cloth stretched and usually sustained by poles and dependent upon
separate toilet and lavatory facilities.
   TOPOGRAPHIC MAP.  A map showing the elevations of the ground by contours or
elevations, including all existing topographic features such as streams, roads,
streets, existing facilities and improvements, as specified herein.
   TOPSOIL.  Surface soil and subsurface soil which presumably is fertile soil
and ordinarily rich in organic matter or humus debris.
   TOWNSHIP.  The Township of Antis, Blair County, Pennsylvania.
   TRAILER.  A vehicular portable structure built on or designed to be mounted
on a chassis or wheels or constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled
vehicle for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation and
commonly known as “travel trailers,” “pick-up coaches,” “motor homes” or
“camping trailers”.
   WAIVER.  When the subdivider can show that a provision of this chapter would
cause unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to because of conditions
peculiar to the site, and where, in the opinion of the township, a departure
from this chapter may be made without destroying the intent of such provisions,
the township may authorize a waiver; a modification to the minimum standards of
this chapter. (Refer to MODIFICATIONS.)
   WATERCOURSE.  A permanent or intermittent stream, river, brook, creek,
channel or ditch for collection and conveyance of water, whether natural or
human-made.
   WATER SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM, COMMUNITY.  A system for supplying and
distributing water from a common source to two or more dwellings and other
buildings within a subdivision, neighborhood or whole community, the total
system being publicly or privately owned.
   WATER SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM, ON-LOT.  A system for supplying and
distributing water to a single dwelling or other building from a source located
on the same lot.
   WATER SURVEY.  An inventory of the source, quantity, yield and use of
groundwater and of surface water resources within a municipality.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.006  TERMS NOT DEFINED.
   Where terms or words are not defined in the foregoing definitions, they
shall have their ordinarily accepted meanings or such as the context may imply;
provided, however, that as to those terms which are not defined herein, but are
defined in § 107 of the Act of July 31, 1968 Pub. L.  No. 247 (53 P.S. §
10107), as amended, the State Municipalities Planning Code, said words shall
have the meanings as set forth in said section.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
SUBMISSION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 155.020  APPLICABILITY.
   The procedures established in this subchapter shall apply to all
subdivisions and land developments that require review and approval by the
township. It shall be the subdivided responsibility to observe and follow the
procedures established in this subchapter and to submit all plans and documents
as may be required herein.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.021  APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   Whenever any subdivision of land or land development is proposed, before any
contract is made for the sale of any part thereof and before any permit for the
erection of a structure in such proposed subdivision or land development shall
be granted, the owner or his or her agent shall apply for and secure approval
of such proposed subdivision or land development in accordance with the
following procedures for subdivision and land development, which includes a
maximum of two steps for a minor subdivision and three steps for a major
subdivision as follows:
   (A)   Minor subdivision:
      (1)   Sketch plan (optional); and
      (2)   Final plan.
   (B)   Major subdivision:
      (1)   Sketch plan (optional);
      (2)   Preliminary plan; and
      (3)   Final plan.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.022  PRE-APPLICATION CONSULTATION.
   (A)   Prior to filing an application for approval of a subdivision or land
development within the township, the owner or his or her authorized agent may
meet with the township for an official classification of his proposed
subdivision or land development.
   (B)   The township shall determine whether the proposal shall be classified
as a minor subdivision, a major subdivision or a land development.
   (C)   At this time, the township may advise the owner or his or her
authorized agent as to which of the procedures contained herein must be
followed.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.023  OFFICIAL FILING DATE.
   (A)   For the purpose of these regulations, the official filing date for
required plans shall be the date of the regular meeting of the Township Board
of Supervisors next following the date the application and plans are received
at the township building; provided, that said regular meeting shall occur more
than 30 days following the submission of the application, the official filing
date shall be the thirtieth day following the day the application has been
submitted.
   (B)   On receipt of an application for subdivision or land development
approval, the Township Board of Supervisors shall affix to the application both
the date of submittal and the official filing date.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.024  REVIEW BY COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Final plans shall be submitted to and reviewed by the County Planning
Commission in accordance with its then existing rules and regulations.
Additionally, in situations where the County Planning Commission already has
reviewed final plans, and there is a subsequent proposal to modify said final
plans by a change in location of the proposed development change in the size of
the proposed development, change in type (use) of the proposed development and/
or change in the frame of development (years) determined by the State
Department of Environmental Protection, all such final plans for which
subsequent modifications have been proposed shall be submitted to and reviewed
by the County Planning Commission in accordance with its then prevailing rules
and regulations, unless the County Planning Commission specifically instructs
the township not to submit such plans. The township shall not grant final
approval on an application until the County Planning Commission report is
received or until the expiration of 30 days from the date the application was
forwarded to the County Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.025  REVIEW BY TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION.
   All plans shall be submitted to and reviewed by the Township Planning
Commission for advisory comments at its regular monthly meeting. The Local
Planning Commission may review the plans with engineering, planning and/or
other technical consultants to assist in the preparation of an advisory report
for the Board of Supervisors. The township shall forward to the applicant a
copy of any report of the Local Planning Commission. The township shall not
take action on an application until the Local Planning Commission report is
received or until the expiration of 30 days from the date the application was
forwarded to the Local Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.026  SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   Submission. It is encouraged that prior to the preparation of a
preliminary plan that the applicant confer with the Township Planning
Commission for the purpose of an informal discussion concerning the proposed
subdivision or land development. The subdividers may submit a sketch plan
following the guidelines set forth in §
155.049. The submission of a sketch plan is optional. When this option is
chosen by the applicant, the sketch plan shall be submitted for review not less
than ten days prior to the date of the regular meeting of the Township Planning
Commission at which it is to be considered.
   (B)   Sketch plan review. The Township Planning Commission will review the
sketch plan with the applicant as it relates to:
      (1)   The Comprehensive Plan for the county;
      (2)   The Township Comprehensive Development Plan or any other local
level comprehensive plan which may exist;
      (3)   Other relevant ordinances which may exist;
      (4)   The general suitability of the site for proposed development;
      (5)   The availability of necessary services and facilities;
      (6)   The improvements and design required by these regulations; and
      (7)   Any known proposals of either local, state or federal governments
for such improvements as highways, dams, recreation areas, historic sites, plus
any other facility that may have an impact on the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.027  MINOR SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Minor subdivision plans shall be initiated and submitted for review in
the form of a final plan as specified in §
155.051, and shall be otherwise reviewed in accordance with the procedures and
standards of §§
155.029 through
155.033.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of the ordinance to the contrary,
any additional subdivision shall be considered to be a major subdivision if
such additional subdivision would result in six or more lots being or having
been created from what was a single lot on or after April 26, 1994, the
effective date of Ord. 1-94, providing for the regulation of subdivision of
land.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.028  PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   Submission. Upon reaching conclusions in the informal discussion(s) as
a result of reviewing the optional sketch plan, and after reviewing the plan
requirements of this chapter, the applicant is then in a position to proceed
with the preparation and official submission of the preliminary plan. The
preliminary plan shall conform with the requirements set forth in §
155.050. When filing applications for review and approval of subdivision and
land development plans, the applicant shall submit to the Township Board of
Supervisors plans and data at two stages of preparation which shall be
designated as “preliminary plan” and “final plan”. Application forms for the
submission of both preliminary and final plans are available in the township
office.
      (1)   Application fee. The fees for the submission and review of
subdivisions and land developments within the township shall be established by
resolution by the Board of Supervisors.
      (2)   Number of copies. When submitting an application for review and
approval of a preliminary plan, the applicant shall submit five copies of
prints of the proposed subdivision or development plan and supporting
information along with three copies of any proposed covenants to the Township
Board of Supervisors, which will then forward copies of the preliminary plan to
the Township Planning Commission, the County Planning Commission, affected
water and sewer agencies and the Township Engineer. Copies of the letter of
transmittal from the applicant will be sent to other relevant agencies and
companies such as other affected utility companies, post offices, the Bellwood-
Antis School District, Assessors and Fire Departments, along with a notation
that the plans are available for review in the township office. In addition to
filing with the township, preliminary plans shall be concurrently submitted to
appropriate officials of the township for action or information of such
officials as appropriate.
      (3)   Sewage facilities planning module/exemption. When applicable, the
application form shall be accompanied by four copies of a completed sewage
facilities planning module, completed sewage facilities planning exemption
request, or a completed request for planning waiver and non-building
declaration as required by and to be submitted to the State Department of
Environmental Protection (DEP).
   (B)   Review of the preliminary plan. On receipt of the recommendations from
the prints and information distributed to the Local Planning Commission, the
County Planning Commission and the Township Engineer, if the same have been
received within a period of 30 days of such transmittal, and on receipt of the
recommendations of the other agencies noted in division (A)(2) above, if the
same have been received within a period of ten days of such transmittal or such
reasonable further time as may be requested by these agencies, the Township
Board of Supervisors shall review the application. Based on a thorough review
of the comments of the abovementioned agencies and of the details of the
preliminary plan in light of this chapter, the Township Board of Supervisors
shall approve, approve with modification or disapprove the preliminary plan.
The Township Board of Supervisors shall render its decision and communicate its
decision to the applicant not later than 90 days following the date of the
regular meeting of the governing body next following the date the application
is filed, provided that should said next regular meeting occur more than 30
days following the filing of the application, said 90-day period shall be
measured from the thirtieth day following the day the application has been
filed.
      (1)   Changes and modifications. The Township Board of Supervisors may
require or recommend changes or modifications of the preliminary plan as a
prerequisite for approval of the final plan.
      (2)   Approval. Approval or approval with conditions, revisions or
modifications as stipulated or suggested by the Township Board of Supervisors
of the preliminary plan shall constitute approval of the subdivision or land
development as to the character and intensity of development, the arrangement
and approximate dimensions of streets, lots and other planned features;
however, approval of the preliminary plan shall not constitute acceptance of
approval for final approval and recording on fulfillment of all requirements of
these regulations. The action of the Township Board of Supervisors shall be
communicated to the applicant in writing no later than 15 days following the
decision.
      (3)   Decision. When the application is not approved in terms as filed,
the written decision shall specify the defects found in the application,
describe the requirements which have not been met, shall cite the provisions of
the statute or ordinance relied upon and shall be communicated or mailed to the
applicant not later than 15 days following the date of the decision.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.029  SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   After the applicant has received official notification that his or her
preliminary plan has been approved and recommended changes, if any, have been
made, he or she has five years in which to submit a final plan. If the
applicant does not do so within a five-year period, his or her preliminary plan
shall be nullified unless a written time extension is approved by the Township
Board of Supervisors. The final plan must conform to the general scheme of the
preliminary plan as approved and must contain the information specified in §
155.051.
   (B)   The final plan may be a portion of the entire subdivision shown on the
preliminary plan.
   (C)   (1)   Before requesting final plan approval, the applicant must submit
to the Township Board of Supervisors either a certification by a licensed
engineer that all improvements and installations to the subdivision required by
this chapter have been made as required by this chapter and have been made in
accordance with the specifications and approved plans or a bond which shall
deposit with the municipality of financial security in an amount sufficient to
cover the costs of such improvements or common amenities, including but not
limited to roads, stormwater detention and/or retention basins and other
related drainage facilities, recreational facilities, open space improvements
or buffer or screen plantings which may be required.
      (2)   No plat shall be finally approved unless the streets shown on such
plat have been improved to a mud free or otherwise permanently passable
condition, or improved as may be required by this chapter, and any walkways,
curbs, gutters, streetlights, fire hydrants, shade trees, water mains, sanitary
sewers, storm sewers and other improvements as may be required have been
installed in accordance with this chapter. In lieu of the completion of any
improvements required as a condition for the final approval of a plat, this
chapter provides for the deposit with the municipality of financial security in
an amount sufficient to cover the costs of such improvements or common
amenities, including, but not limited to, roads, stormwater detention and/or
retention basins and other related drainage facilities, recreational
facilities, open space improvements or buffer or screen plantings which may be
required.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.030  FINANCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   When requested by the developer, in order to facilitate financing,
the governing body or the planning agency, if designated, shall furnish the
developer with a signed copy of a resolution indicating approval of the final
plat contingent upon the developer obtaining a satisfactory financial security.
The final plat or record plan shall not be signed nor recorded until the
financial improvements agreement is executed. The resolution or letter of
contingent approval shall expire and be deemed to be revoked if the financial
security agreement is not executed within 90 days unless a written extension is
granted by the governing body; such extension shall not be unreasonably
withheld and shall be placed in writing at the request of the developer.
      (2)   Without limitation as to other types of financial security which
the municipality may approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld, federal or commonwealth chartered lending institution irrevocable
letters of credit and restrictive or escrow accounts in such lending
institutions shall be deemed acceptable financial security for the purposes of
this section.
      (3)   Such financial security shall be posted with a bonding company or
federal or commonwealth chartered lending institution chosen by the part
posting the financial security, provided that said bonding company or lending
institution is authorized to conduct such business within the commonwealth.
      (4)   Such bond or other security shall provide for and secure to the
public the completion of any improvements which may be required on or before
the date fixed in the formal action or approval or accompanying agreement for
completion of the improvements.
      (5)   The amount of financial security to be posted for the completion of
the required improvements shall be equal to 110% of the cost of completion
estimated as of 90 days following the date scheduled for completion by the
developer. Annually, the municipality may adjust the amount of the financial
security by comparing the actual cost of the improvements which have been
completed and the estimated cost for the completion of the remaining
improvements as of the expiration of the ninetieth day after either the
original date scheduled for completion or a rescheduled date of completion.
Subsequent to said adjustment, the municipality may require the developer to
post additional security in order to assure that the financial security equals
said 110%. Any additional security shall be posted by the developer in
accordance with this division (A)(5).
      (6)   The amount of financial security required shall be based upon an
estimate of the cost of completion of the required improvements, in accordance
with applicable prevailing wage rates for the state, submitted by an applicant
or developer and prepared by a professional engineer licensed as such in this
commonwealth and certified by such engineer to be a fair and reasonable
estimate of such cost. The cost estimate shall separate the costs of all
improvements to be dedicated to the township (for GASB 34 compliance) from
those improvements not to be dedicated. The municipality, upon the
recommendation of the Municipal Engineer, may refuse to accept such estimate
for good cause shown. If the applicant or developer and the municipality are
unable to agree upon an estimate, then the estimate shall be recalculated and
recertified by another professional engineer licensed as such in this
commonwealth and chosen mutually by the municipality and the applicant or
developer. The estimate certified by the third engineer shall be presumed fair
and reasonable and shall be the final estimate. In the event that a third
engineer is so chosen, fees for the services of said engineer shall be paid
equally by the municipality and the applicant or developer.
      (7)   If the party posting the financial security requires more than one
year from the date of posting of the financial security to complete the
required improvements, the amount of financial security may be increased by an
additional 10% for each one-year period beyond the first anniversary date from
posting of financial security or to an amount not exceeding 110% of the cost of
completing the required improvements as reestablished on or about the
expiration of the preceding one-year period by using the above bidding
procedure.
      (8)   In the case where development is projected over a period of years,
the governing body or the planning agency may authorize submission of final
plats by section or stages of development subject to such requirements or
guaranties as to improvements in future sections or stages of development as it
finds essential for the protection of any finally approved section of the
development.
      (9)   As the work of installing the required improvements proceeds, the
party posting the financial security may request the governing body to release,
or authorize the release of, from time to time, such portions of the financial
security necessary for payment to the contractor or contractors performing the
work. Any such requests shall be in writing addressed to the governing body,
and the governing body shall have 45 days from receipt of such request within
which to allow the Municipal Engineer to certify, in writing, to the governing
body that such portion of the work upon the improvements has been completed in
accordance with the approved plat. Upon such certification, the governing body
shall authorize release by the bonding company or lending institution of an
amount as estimated by the Municipal Engineer fairly representing the value of
the improvements completed or, if the governing body fails to act within said
45-day period, the governing body shall be deemed to have approved the release
of funds as requested. The governing body may, prior to final release at the
time of completion and certification by its Engineer, require retention of 10%
of the estimated cost of the aforesaid improvements.
      (10)   Where the governing body accepts dedication of all or some of the
required improvements following completion, the governing body may require the
posting of financial security to secure structural integrity of said
improvements as well as the functioning of said improvements in accordance with
the design and specifications as depicted on the final plat for a term not to
exceed 18 months from the date of acceptance of dedication. Said financial
security shall be of the same type as otherwise required in this section with
regard to installation of such improvements, and the amount of the financial
security shall not exceed 15% of the actual cost of installation of said
improvements.
      (11)   If water mains or sanitary sewer lines, or both, along with
apparatus or facilities related thereto, are to be installed under the
jurisdiction and pursuant to the rules and regulations of a public utility or
municipal authority separate and distinct from the municipality, financial
security to assure proper completion and maintenance thereof shall be posted in
accordance with the regulations of the controlling public utility or municipal
authority and shall not be included within the financial security as otherwise
required by this section.
      (12)   If financial security has been provided in lieu of the completion
of improvements required as a condition for the final approval of a plat as set
forth in this chapter, the municipality shall not condition the issuance of
building, grading or other permits relating to the erection or placement of
improvements, including buildings, upon the lots or land as depicted upon the
final plat upon actual completion of the improvements depicted upon the
approved final plat. Moreover, if said financial security has been provided,
occupancy permits for any building or buildings to be erected shall not be
withheld following the improvement of the streets providing access to and from
existing public roads to such building or buildings to a mud-free or otherwise
permanently passable condition, as well as the completion of all other
improvements as depicted upon the approved plat, either upon the lot or lots or
beyond the lot or lots in question if such improvements are necessary for the
reasonable use of or occupancy of the building or buildings. Any ordinance or
statute inconsistent herewith is hereby expressly repealed.
   (B)   Release from improvement bond.
      (1)   When the developer has completed all of the necessary and
appropriate improvements, the developer shall notify the municipal governing
body, in writing, by certified or registered mail, of the completion of the
aforesaid improvements and shall send a copy thereof to the Municipal Engineer.
The applicant’s engineer shall certify that all completed work complies with
the approved plans. The municipal governing body shall, within ten days after
receipt of such notice, direct and authorize the Municipal Engineer to inspect
all of the aforesaid improvements. The Municipal Engineer shall, thereupon,
file a report, in writing, with the municipal governing body and shall promptly
mail a copy of the same to the developer by certified or registered mail. The
report shall be made and mailed within 30 days after receipt by the Municipal
Engineer of the aforesaid authorization from the governing body; said report
shall be detailed and shall indicate acceptance or rejection of said
improvements, either in whole or in part, and if said improvements, or any
portion thereof, shall not be accepted or shall be rejected by the Municipal
Engineer, said report shall contain a statement of reasons for such non-
approval or rejection.
      (2)   The municipal governing body shall notify the developer within 15
days of receipt of the Engineer’s report, in writing, by certified or
registered mail, of the action of said municipal governing body with relation
thereto.
      (3)   If the municipal governing body or the Municipal Engineer fails to
comply with the time limitation provisions contained herein, all improvements
will be deemed to have been accepted and the developer shall be released from
all liability except that required under division (A)(10) above, pursuant to
its performance guaranty bond or other security agreement.
      (4)   If any portion of said improvements shall not be accepted or shall
be rejected by the municipal governing body, the developer shall proceed to
complete the same and, upon completion, the same procedure of notification, as
outlined herein, shall be followed.
      (5)   Nothing herein, however, shall be construed in limitation of the
developer’s right to contest or question, by legal proceedings or otherwise,
any determination of the municipal governing body or the Municipal Engineer.
      (6)   Where herein reference is made to the Municipal Engineer, he or she
shall be a duly registered professional engineer employed by the municipality
or engaged as a consultant thereto.
      (7)   The applicant shall reimburse the municipality for the reasonable
and necessary expense incurred for the inspection of improvements, including
resident inspection for those improvements as determined by the township. Such
reimbursement shall be based upon a schedule established by ordinance or
resolution. Such expense shall be reasonable and in accordance with the
ordinary and customary fees charged by the Municipal Engineer or consultant for
work performed for similar services in the community, but in no event shall the
fees exceed the rate or cost charged by the Engineer or consultant to the
municipalities when fees are not reimbursed or otherwise imposed on
applications.
         (a)   In the event that the applicant disputes the amount of any such
expense in connection with the inspection of improvements, the applicant shall,
within 30 working days of the date of billing, give written notice to the
municipality that such expenses are disputed as unreasonable or unnecessary and
shall explain the basis of their objection to the fees charged, in which case
the municipality shall not delay or disapprove a subdivision or land
development application or any approval or permit related to development due to
the applicant’s request over disputed engineer expense. Failure of the
applicant to dispute a bill in writing within 30 days shall be a waiver of the
applicant’s right to arbitration of that bill under this section.
         (b)   If, within 20 days from the date of billing, the municipality
and the applicant cannot agree on the amount of expenses which are reasonable
and necessary, then the applicant and municipality shall jointly, by mutual
agreement, appoint another professional engineer licensed as such in the
commonwealth to review said expenses and make a determination as to the amount
thereof which is reasonable and necessary.
         (c)   The professional engineer so appointed shall hear such evidence
and review such documentation as the professional engineer in his or her sole
opinion deems necessary and render a decision within 50 days of the billing
date. The applicant shall be required to pay the entire amount determined in
the decision immediately.
         (d)   In the event that the municipality and applicant cannot agree
upon the professional engineer to be appointed within 20 days of the billing
date, then, upon application of either party, the President Judge of the Court
of Common Pleas of the judicial district in which the municipality is located
(or if at the time there is no President Judge, then the senior active Judge
then sitting) shall appoint such engineer, who, in that case, shall be neither
the Municipal Engineer nor any professional engineer who has been retained by,
or performed services for, the municipality or the applicant within the
preceding five years.
         (e)   The fee of the appointed professional engineer, for determining
the reasonable and necessary expenses, shall be paid by the applicant if the
amount of payment required in the decision is equal to or greater than the
original bill. If the amount of payment required in the decision is less than
the original bill by $1,000 or more, the municipality shall pay the fee of the
professional engineer, but otherwise the municipality and the applicant shall
each pay one-half of the fee of the appointed professional engineer.
   (C)   Remedies to effect completion improvements. In the event that any
improvements which may be required have not been installed as provided in this
chapter or in accord with the approved final plat, the governing body of the
municipality is hereby granted the power to enforce any corporate bond or other
security by appropriate legal and equitable remedies. If proceeds of such bond
or other security are insufficient to pay the cost of installing or making
repairs or corrections to all the improvements covered by said security, the
governing body of the municipality may, at its option, install part of such
improvements in all or part of the subdivision or land development and may
institute appropriate legal or equitable action to recover the moneys necessary
to complete the remainder of the improvements. All of the proceeds, whether
resulting from the security or from any legal or equitable action brought
against the developer, or both, shall be used solely for the installation of
the improvements covered by such security and not for any other municipal
purpose.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.031  REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   Within 90 days from the submission of the final plan, the Township
Board of Supervisors shall review and act on the plan and notify the applicant
in writing of its action. On finding the final plan application to be in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter and for compliance with the
approved preliminary plan, the Township Board of Supervisors shall affix its
seal on the plan together with the certifying signature of the Chairperson.
Where modifications of the final plan are requested or the plan is disapproved,
the grounds for these actions must be stated in the notification and noted in
the Township Board of Supervisors’ records.
   (B)   Based on a thorough review of the details of the final plan, the
township shall approve; approve with conditions, revisions or modifications; or
disapprove the application; render its decision; and communicate its decision
to the applicant within 90 days after the date the final plan application was
filed. The Township Board of Supervisors shall notify the applicant in writing
of its decision no later than 15 days following the decision. The approval of
the final plan by the Township Board of Supervisors shall not be deemed an
acceptance of the proposed dedication and shall not impose any duty on any of
the municipalities of the county concerning the maintenance or improvements of
any such street, highway, alley or other portions of the same, until the
municipality in which the subdivision is located shall have accepted or made
actual appropriation of the same by entry, use or improvement. When the
application is not approved in terms as filed, the decision shall specify the
defects found in the application and describe the requirements which have not
been met and shall, in each case, cite the provisions of the statute or
ordinance relied upon.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.032  GENERAL PROVISIONS REGARDING APPROVAL OF PLATS.
   All applications for approval of a plat, whether preliminary or final, shall
be acted upon by the governing body within such time limits as may be fixed in
this chapter, but the governing body shall render its decision and communicate
it to the applicant not later than 90 days following the date of the regular
meeting of the governing body next following the date the application is filed,
provided that should said next regular meeting occur more than 30 days
following the filing of the application, said 90-day period shall be measured
from the thirtieth day following the day the application has been filed.
   (A)   The decision of the governing body or the planning agency shall be in
writing and shall be communicated to the applicant personally or mailed to him
or her at his or her last known address not later than 15 days following the
decision.
   (B)   When the application is not approved in terms as filed, the decision
shall specify the defects found in the application and describe the
requirements which have not been met and shall, in each case, cite the
provisions of the statute or ordinance relied upon.
   (C)   Failure of the governing body to render a decision and communicate it
to the applicant within the time and in the manner required herein shall be
deemed an approval of the application in terms as presented unless the
applicant has agreed in writing to an extension of time or change in the
prescribed manner of presentation of communication of the decision, in which
case, failure to meet the extended time or change in manner of presentation of
communication shall have like effect.
   (D)   Changes in the chapter shall affect plats as follows.
      (1)   From the time an application for approval of a plat, whether
preliminary or final, is duly filed as provided in this chapter, and while such
application is pending approval or disapproval, no change or amendment of the
zoning, subdivision or other governing ordinance or plan shall affect the
decision on such application adversely to the applicant and the applicant shall
be entitled to a decision in accordance with the provision of the governing
ordinances or plans as they stood at the time the application was duly filed.
In addition, when a preliminary application has been duly approved, the
applicant shall be entitled to final approval in accordance with the terms of
the approved preliminary application as hereinafter; provided, however, if an
application is properly and finally denied, any subsequent application shall be
subject to the intervening change in governing regulations.
      (2)   When an application for approval of a plat, whether preliminary or
final, has been approved without conditions or approved by the applicant’s
acceptance of conditions, no subsequent change or amendment in the zoning,
subdivision or other governing ordinance or plan shall be applied to affect
adversely the right of the applicant to commence and to complete any aspect of
the approved development in accordance with the terms of such approval within
five years from such approval.
      (3)   Where final approval is preceded by preliminary approval, the
aforesaid five-year period shall be counted from the date of the preliminary
approval. In the case of any doubt as to the terms of a preliminary approval,
the terms shall be construed in the light of the provisions of the governing
ordinances or plans as they stood at the time when the application for such
approval was duly filed.
      (4)   Where the landowner has substantially completed the required
improvements as depicted upon the final plat within the aforesaid five-year
limit, or any extension thereof as may be granted by the governing body, no
change of municipal ordinance or plan enacted subsequent to the date of filing
of the preliminary plat shall modify or revoke any aspect of the approved final
plat pertaining to zoning classification or density, lot, building, street or
utility location.
      (5)   In the case of a preliminary plat calling for the installation of
improvements beyond the five-year period, a schedule shall be filed by the
landowner with the preliminary plat delineating all proposed sections as well
as deadlines within which applications for final plat approval of each section
are intended to be filed. Such a schedule shall be updated annually by the
applicant on or before the anniversary of the preliminary plat approval, until
final plat approval of the final section has been granted, and any modification
in the aforesaid schedule shall be subject to approval of the governing body in
its discretion.
      (6)   Each section in any residential subdivision or land development,
except for the last section, shall contain a minimum of 25% of the total number
of dwelling units as depicted on the preliminary plan, unless a lesser
percentage is approved by the governing body in its discretion; provided, that
the landowner has not defaulted with regard to or violated any of the
conditions of the preliminary plat approval, including compliance with
landowner’s aforesaid schedule of submission of final plats for the various
sections, the aforesaid protections afforded by substantially completing the
improvements depicted upon the final plat within five years shall apply and for
any section or sections, beyond the initial section, in which the required
improvements have not been substantially completed within said five-year
period, the aforesaid protections shall apply for an additional term or terms
of three years from the date of final plat approval for each section.
      (7)   Failure of the landowner to adhere to the aforesaid schedule of
final plats for the various sections shall subject any such section to any and
all changes in the zoning, subdivision and other governing ordinance enacted by
the municipality subsequent to the date of the initial preliminary plan
submission.
   (E)   Before action on any subdivision plat by the Board of Supervisors, the
applicant shall state that all rights-of-way, streets, sewer and water
facilities and other public improvements shall be certified by a licensed
engineer to have been completed in accordance with the approved plans.
   (F)   Before acting on any subdivision plat, the governing body or the
planning agency, as the case may be, may hold a public hearing thereon after
public notice.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.033  RECORDING OF FINAL PLAN.
   Upon the approval of a final plat, the subdivider/developer shall within 90
days of such final approval or 90 days after the date of delivery of an
approved plat signed by the governing body, following completion of conditions
imposed for such approval, whichever is later, record such plat in the office
of the County Recorder of Deeds and file with the township a recorder’s
certificate that the approved plan has been recorded with the instrument number
indicated. If the applicant fails to have the plan recorded, the decision of
the Township Board of Supervisors is voided unless the applicant has obtained a
written extension of time approved in writing by the township. The applicant
shall proceed with the sale of lots and structures only after the final plan
has been recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds. Recording the final plan
shall be an irrevocable offer to dedicate all streets and other public ways to
public use and to dedicate or reserve all park, open space and other public
areas to public use unless reserved by the applicant. The approval of the final
plan shall not impose any duty on the Board of Supervisors or the township
concerning maintenance or improvements by ordinance or resolution.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
PLAN REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.045  APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   After the effective date of this chapter, no person, firm or corporation
proposing to make or having made a subdivision or land development, within the
area of jurisdiction of this chapter, shall proceed with any development, such
as grading of roads or alleys or any other action, before obtaining approval of
the proposed subdivision or land development by the Township Board of
Supervisors. The provisions and requirements of this chapter shall apply to and
control all land subdivision and development which has not been recorded in the
office of the Recorder of Deeds in and for the county, prior to the effective
date of this chapter.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.046  DISCUSSION OF REQUIREMENTS.
   Before preparing a sketch plan or preliminary plan for a subdivision or land
development, the applicant should discuss with the township the procedure for
adoption of a subdivision or land development plan and the requirements as to
the general layout of streets and for the reservation of land, street
improvements, drainage, sewerage, fire protection and similar matters, as well
as the availability of existing services. The township shall also advise the
applicant, where appropriate, to discuss the proposed subdivision or land
development with those officials (such as the Soil Conservationist, Township
Engineer and Sewage Enforcement Officer) who must eventually approve these
aspects of the subdivision or land development plan coming within their
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.047  CONFORMITY WITH MASTER PLAN.
   The layout of the proposed subdivision or land development shall be in
conformity with the Comprehensive Plan for the county, the Township
Comprehensive Development Plan as periodically updated and any local level plan
which may exist within the area of the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.048  SITE CONSIDERATIONS.
   No land shall be subdivided or developed:
   (A)   Unless access to the land over adequate streets or roads exists or
will be provided by the applicant; or
   (B)   If such land is considered by the township as unsuitable for
residential use by reason of floodplain and floodway location or improper
drainage, unacceptable underlying geologic structure, insufficient depth of the
seasonal water table, unsuitable soil conditions, wetlands, unfavorable
topographic features or the presence of any other features harmful to the
health and safety of possible residents and the community as a whole.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.049  SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   Prior to the official submission of the preliminary plan, a
subdivision or land development sketch plan may be submitted by the applicant
or property owner to facilitate an informal discussion with the township
officials concerning the proposed subdivision or land development. This
informal discussion may be extremely valuable in guiding the applicant on the
proper course in the development of a subdivision or land development, thereby
reducing the possibility for any costly mistakes. Submission of the sketch plan
will not constitute formal filing of the plan with the township. The sketch
plan need not be drawn to scale or contain precise dimensions.
   (B)   The following items are suggested for inclusion in the sketch plan
presentation:
      (1)   The name of the owner;
      (2)   The general location within the township;
      (3)   The proposed name of subdivision or land development;
      (4)   Tract boundary, including all land which the applicant intends to
subdivide;
      (5)   General topographical and physical features along with
watercourses, streams, ponds, floodplains and wetlands;
      (6)   The names of surrounding property owners;
      (7)   The north point; approximate scale and date of original drawing;
      (8)   Streets on and adjacent to the tract;
      (9)   The proposed general street layout;
      (10)   The proposed general lot layout or development;
      (11)   The proposed use of the lots or development;
      (12)   Any other information which would be helpful in the preliminary
discussion of what the applicant intends to do; and
      (13)   A statement of general availability of utilities of water and
sewer and the like.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.050  PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   The preliminary plan shall be accurately drawn to a scale of one inch
equals 60 feet or larger (i.e., one inch equals 20 feet, 50 feet and the like)
unless otherwise approved by the Township Engineer. The preliminary plan shall
be submitted on the following sheet sizes: 18 by 24 inches; 24 by 36 inches; or
36 by 42 inches. The sheets comprising a submission shall be on one common size
and shall contain the information noted in division (B) below. Reduced size
eight and one-half inches by 14 inches or 11 inches by 17 inches) plans shall
also be submitted.
   (B)   The preliminary plan shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Notes and data:
         (a)   The name of the proposed subdivision or land development with
identification as a preliminary plan and the name of the municipality in which
it is located;
         (b)   The date of application for subdivision or land development
approval;
         (c)   The name and address of record owner of the tract along with
deed book and page (instrument) number of the deeds conveying the property to
the owner;
         (d)   The name(s) and address of developer, applicant or authorized
agent if different from owner;
         (e)   The name, address and seal of registered professional engineer,
architect, surveyor or landscape architect responsible for the plan;
         (f)   The tax parcel number(s) of subject tracts;
         (g)   The type of sewage disposal and water supply to be utilized. If
on-lot groundwater is proposed to be used, a hydrogeological analysis must be
submitted for all major subdivisions and for other subdivisions and land
developments at the discretion of the township. The hydrogeologic report shall
include the following:
            1.   Recharge rates for the area of development that are based on
published or open files information (available from the State Bureau of
Topographic and Geologic Survey or the U.S. Geological Survey) or provided by a
developer’s consulting engineer or geologist;
            2.   Proposed withdrawal rates as contained in the development
plan;
            3.   Information about local and regional geology that will help
local officials determine whether conditions exist that would affect
groundwater recharge;
            4.   Information about existing groundwater use in the vicinity to
determine potential impacts on existing wells or on the proposed development;
            5.   Potential impacts to surface waters;
            6.   Determination of a housing density consistent with recharge
capacity; and
            7.   Well construction specifications that will provide for
adequate and safe water storage.
         (h)   The total acreage of the subject tracts, and total number of
proposed lots or units (if applicable) and total gross square footage of
proposed buildings (if applicable);
         (i)   The north point, graphic scale, date of original plan along with
date and description of revisions to the plan;
         (j)   The base of benchmark for elevations on the plan;
         (k)   The proposed use of property;
         (l)   The number of required parking spaces (if applicable);
         (m)   A list of utility companies in accordance with Act 172, if
project involves excavation;
         (n)   A legend describing symbols used on plan;
         (o)   A location map showing the proposed subdivision or land
development in relation to municipal boundaries, public roads, streams and
adjoining areas;
         (p)   A signed, notarized statement by the owner certifying ownership
of the property, acknowledging their intention to develop the property as
depicted on the plans and authorizing recording of said plan;
         (q)   A signed statement by the owner listing land or facilities to be
offered for dedication to the municipality and acknowledging that the owner
will be responsible for maintenance of lands or facilities until they are
completed and accepted by the municipality;
         (r)   A place for the signatures of the Chairperson and Secretary-
Treasurer of the Township Board of Supervisors and space to fill in date of
approval;
         (s)   This following checklist box for the County 9-1-1 approval:
911-E CENTER
ADDRESSING APPROVED BY BLAIR COUNTY 911-E
CENTER ON THE _____ DAY OF ____________, ______.
BY__________________________________________
911-E DIRECTOR
         (t)   A sewage facility planning module, sewage facilities planning
exemption request, or request for planning waiver and non-building declaration,
as applicable; and
         (u)   A project narrative shall be submitted; the narrative shall
include at least the following:
            1.   Statement of the ownership of all the land included within the
development;
            2.   Explanation of the purpose/use of the subdivision or land
development;
            3.   Describe sewer and water methods to be used;
            4.   Description of covenants, grants of easements or other
restrictions to be placed on the use of the land;
            5.   Waivers to be requested and proposed alternatives;
            6.   Statement describing stormwater management methods; and
            7.   Statement describing any facilities to be dedicated to or
maintained by the township.
      (2)   Topographic mapping of the subject tract showing the following
information:
         (a)   The exterior boundary line of tract;
         (b)   Ground elevations indicated by contours at intervals of two feet
for land with an average natural slope of 8% or less and at five-foot intervals
for land with an average natural slope greater than 8% and the location of
benchmark and datum used;
         (c)   The name and deed references of all owners of immediately
adjacent land;
         (d)   Existing streets on and adjacent to the tract; name; location of
right-of-way; right-of-way widths; cartway widths; type of surfacing; elevation
of surfacing; driveway cuts; and approximate grades;
         (e)   Existing easements, including location, width and purpose;
         (f)   Existing utilities on and adjacent to the tract, including
location, type, size and invert elevation of sanitary and storm sewers,
location and size of water mains and valves, fire hydrants, streetlights, gas
lines, oil and similar transmission lines and power lines with utility poles,
transformers and related appurtenances. If any of the foregoing are not
available at the site, indicate the distance to the nearest available utility
and furnish a statement of availability;
         (g)   Watercourses, floodplains, wetlands, geologic features, tree
masses and other significant natural features;
         (h)   Existing human-made features, including structures, railroads,
bridges and driveways; and
         (i)   Buffer areas required by this chapter or other relevant
ordinance.
      (3)   If the preliminary plan is proposed to proceed to a final plan with
the posting of financial security, the following shall be shown on plans:
         (a)   A statement that approval of the preliminary plans does not
authorize construction of facilities or the sales of lots depicted on plans;
         (b)   The location of proposed streets, including rights-of-way,
right-of-way widths, cartway widths, approximate grades and the type and
elevation of surfaces, sidewalks, gutters and the like;
         (c)   A schematic design of proposed sanitary sewage system (if
applicable), showing approximate location of manholes, pump stations, treatment
facilities, force mains and sizes of mains. If the subdivision or land
development is to be served by a sewer authority or agency, verification of the
capacity to serve the proposed subdivision or land development must accompany
the submission;
         (d)   If on-site sewage disposal is to be utilized, the soil types,
location of soil probes and percolation test sites and a listing of the test
areas, with a summary of the general suitability of each test area;
         (e)   A schematic design of proposed water distribution system (if
applicable) showing approximate location of fire hydrants, pumping facilities,
treatment facilities, storage tanks and sizes of mains. If the subdivision or
land development is to be served by a water authority or agency, verification
of the capacity to serve the proposed subdivision or land development must
accompany the submission. In cases when an on-lot water supply is to be
utilized, the location of areas for proposed well sites shall be identified;
         (f)   A schematic design of proposed stormwater management system,
including inlets, culverts, swales, channels and detention/retention
facilities;
         (g)   Proposed lot lines, lot numbers, approximate area of each lot
and proposed minimum front, side and rear building setback lines;
         (h)   Areas to be reserved for parks, playgrounds or other public uses
with a statement of who will eventually assume ownership of such areas;
         (i)   Proposed buildings with ground floor area, gross square footage
and height of each building, vehicular and pedestrian circulation systems and
outdoor storage facilities, including bulk trash containers and material
storage;
         (j)   Proposed parking areas with handicap stalls, loading areas,
driveways and driveway location at the street line accessing a proposed street
for each lot, buffer and other landscape areas and fire lanes;
         (k)   Phasing of project and tentative timetable with proposed
sequence of the project (if applicable);
         (l)   Proposed easements, including location, width, purpose and
information related to maintenance arrangements;
         (m)   If a preliminary plan is proposed to proceed to construction,
with a final plan submitted for approval after completion of required
improvements, the following shall be shown on plans:
            1.   A statement that approval of the preliminary plan authorizes
construction of facilities depicted on plans, but does not authorize sales of
lots or use of facilities; and
            2.   That information required by §
155.051(B)(7) and (C).
         (o)   Additional information when required by the township in the case
of special conditions may include the following:
            1.   Profiles showing existing ground surface and proposed street
grades and typical cross-sections of the roadways and sidewalks;
            2.   Areas to be reserved for schools, shopping, churches,
industries, multi-family dwellings or any other known public use exclusive of
single-family dwellings;
            3.   A draft of protective covenants in cases where the applicant
wishes to regulate land use within the subdivision or land development and
otherwise regulate and protect the proposed development; and
            4.   A water and sewerage feasibility report prepared by a
registered professional engineer.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.051  FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   The final plan shall be accurately drawn to a scale of one inch equals
60 feet or larger (i.e., one inch equals 20 feet, 50 feet and the like) unless
otherwise approved by the Township Engineer. The final plan shall be submitted
on the following sheet sizes: 18 by 24 inches; 24 by 36 inches; or 36 by 42
inches.
      (1)   The sheets comprising a submission shall be on one common size and
shall contain the information noted in division (B) below. Reduced size (eight
and one-half inches by 14 inches or 11 inches by 17 inches) plans shall also be
submitted.
      (2)   Subsequent to final plan approval after the plans have been signed,
subdivision and land development plans shall also be submitted in digital
format, utilizing the Adobe Acrobat PDF file system. Digital files will be
accepted in single page or multi-page format. All documents submitted in
digital formal will be accepted on CD-rom using the following file-naming
format. Single-page files shall contain the plan order number followed by a
description of the plan type. Example: “01-Cover.pdf,” “02-Site Plan.pdf” and
so forth. Multipage files are to be created in the order of the plan set. Each
page within the Multipage file shall contain a bookmark that describes the plan
type. Example: cover sheet, site plan and so forth. Financial security shall be
posted for the submission of the signed digital plans.
   (B)   The final plan shall contain the following information:
      (1)   That information required by §
155.050(B)(1), except that plan shall be identified as a final plan, and §
155.050(B)(2);
      (2)   Boundary lines of each lot or area to be dedicated or reserved for
public or community use completely dimensioned in feet and hundredth of feet
and bearing with degrees, minutes and seconds, with an error of closure of not
more than one foot in 2,000. All curves shall show radii, lengths of arcs,
tangents and chord bearings with distances;
      (3)   The location and material of all permanent monuments and lot
markers;
      (4)   Lot numbers, area and setback lines on each lot;
      (5)   All proposed easements with dimensional information and purpose;
      (6)   Space on lower edge of final plan for acknowledgment of receipt and
recording of plan by the County Recorder of Deeds’ office;
      (7)   The following information regarding proposed improvements:
         (a)   Design of proposed streets, including a plan showing geometry
and proposed contours, typical cross-section and profiles; details of curbing,
inlets or other facilities involved in street construction;
         (b)   Design of stormwater management controls in accordance with the
approval of the Township Engineer and the township stormwater management
ordinance (
Chapter 53);
         (c)   Design of sewage collection and treatment facilities (if
applicable), including plan showing location of facilities, profiles and
details and other information required by the municipal authority or utility
company that will assume responsibility for the system upon completion;
         (d)   If on-lot sewage is to be utilized, show soil types, location of
soil probes and percolation tests, suitable primary and replacement absorption
bed areas on each lot with provisions for their protection and reservation and
a summary of the general suitability of each test area. The following statement
shall be placed on plan: “This is not a guaranty that a sewage permit will or
will not be issued for any lot or parcel. The Municipal Sewage Enforcement
Officer (SEO) must be contacted to conduct any further tests, as necessary, to
determine permit issuance”;
         (e)   Design of water supply facilities (if applicable), including
plans and details showing location sizing and installation of mains, valves,
fittings, fire hydrants and other appurtenances;
         (f)   Proposed buildings with finished ground floor elevations, ground
floor area, gross floor area and height listed;
         (g)   Proposed pedestrian circulation systems, including details of
construction;
         (h)   Outdoor storage facilities, including bulk trash containers and
material storage;
         (i)   Proposed parking areas showing parking stalls, handicap stalls,
signage, loading areas, fire lanes and driveways, with dimensional information
and details of pavement construction;
         (j)   Outdoor lighting showing type of fixtures and mountings;
         (k)   Landscaping plan when required by §
155.136, or when buffer plantings are required;
         (l)   Grading plans with proposed contours and spot elevations to
depict accurately all changes to the topography within the site;
         (m)   Location and details of soil erosion and sedimentation controls;
and
         (n)   Profile and detail of typical driveway showing materials, cross
pipes, profile, elevation and connection with public street. Driveway crosspipe
sizes must be provided for each lot.
   (C)   Supporting documentation: if relevant to the proposed subdivision or
land development, the following documentation shall be required and submitted
prior to final plan approval.
      (1)   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan as required by
Chapter 102 of the rules and regulations of the Department of Environmental
Protection along with a letter from the County Conservation District approving
said plan, or the appropriate NPDES permit for stormwater discharges from
construction activities for sites involving more than one acre.
      (2)   Applicable permits issued by the Department of Environmental
Protection for waterway obstructions, stream or wetland encroachments and
community water systems.
      (3)   A sewage planning module or request for planning exemption and a
letter of approval for such from the Department of Environmental Protection.
      (4)   A water quality management permit, national pollutant discharge
elimination system (NPDES) permit or other permits that may be required for
sewage systems.
      (5)   Documents pertaining to homeowner associations, condominium
declarations and/or restrictive covenants.
      (6)   Approval by the United States Postal Service and County 9-1-
1 Center of street names.
      (7)   A highway occupancy permit issued by the State Department of
Transportation, if the subdivision or land development proposes access to a
state road, construction activities in a state road right-of-way, increased
traffic to a state road right-of-way, or changes drainage to a state road
right-of-way. If a permit is determined to not be necessary, then the
developer’s consultant shall submit a written statement that they have
contacted PennDOT and no permit is necessary.
      (8)   At the discretion of the township, a developer’s agreement
outlining the terms and conditions of the township plan approval and defining
delayed construction performance and maintenance bonding requirements.
Preparation of this agreement shall be in a form acceptable to the township
solicitor.
   (D)   Minor subdivision exclusions: the following may be omitted from plans
for subdivisions meeting the definition as minor subdivisions:
      (1)   Ground elevation information as otherwise required in §
155.050(B)(2)(b). Topographic mapping on a base using USGS 7.5 minute mapping
or better, may be substituted;
      (2)   Information on proposed streets as delineated in division (B)(7)(a)
above; and
      (3)   Information on proposed sewage collection and treatment facilities,
other than on-lot, as delineated in division (B)(7)(c) above, except when
located within the future service area of a sanitary sewer system as per an
approved Act 537 plan.
   (E)   Non-building subdivisions: in subdivisions where no new construction
is proposed, the plan requirements specified in the following sections may be
waived: §
155.050(B)(1)(g), (B)(1)(j), (B)(1)(l), (B)(1)(m), (B)(1)(q), (B)(1)(s), (B)(2)
(b), (B)(2)(f), (B)(2)(g), (B)(2)(i), (B)(3), division (B)(5) above and
division (B)(7) above. A request for planning waiver and non-building
declaration (to sewage planning requirements) must be completed and approved by
the township prior to subdivision approval.
   (F)   Side lot additions: in subdivisions where side lot additions are
proposed, this acreage shall be merged into the tract to which it is being
added. In these cases, the plan requirements specified to be waived in this
division (E) above may be waived here as well. Also, the submission of a
request for planning waiver and non-building declaration is not necessary.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 155.065  MOST STRINGENT REQUIREMENTS TO APPLY.
   In all land developments and subdivisions developed after the effective date
of this chapter, certain improvements shall be installed in accordance with
design specifications set forth herein. Whenever the township standards, in
applicable zoning ordinances, building codes, road ordinances or other
ordinances, resolutions or regulations require standards that exceed these
minimum standards, those township standards shall apply. Whenever the standards
of this chapter exceed those of the other municipal ordinances, the standards
of this chapter shall apply.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.066  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   The following general standards shall apply to all types of development; the
township will study the following factors affecting the suitability of a
proposed subdivision or land development.
   (A)   Land subject to flooding and land deemed by the township to be
uninhabitable for other reasons shall not be platted for residential occupancy,
nor for such other uses as may increase danger to health, life, property,
groundwater or aggravate the flood hazard; but such land within a plan shall be
set aside for such uses as will not be endangered by periodic or occasional
inundation or as will not endanger life, property or further aggravate or
increase the existing menace. Any development within a floodway shall be in
accordance with the applicable DEP permit.
   (B)   Areas characterized by steep slopes (slopes greater than 15%),
geologic formations, sink holes, wetlands or other such features which restrict
the usability of the land shall not be subdivided or developed.
   (C)   In determining the suitability of land for subdivision, the township
shall refer to applicable studies by the County Planning Commission, state and
federal agencies, including the soil survey prepared by the United States
Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service.
   (D)   The layout or arrangement of the subdivision or land development shall
conform to the County Comprehensive Plan, the Township Comprehensive
Development Plan and to any regulations or maps adopted in furtherance thereof;
in addition, the layout or arrangement of the subdivision or land development
shall conform to any local level Comprehensive Plan or other applicable
ordinances which may exist.
   (E)   Where evidence indicates that the minimum lot size requirements
specified in other sections of this chapter or in any applicable zoning
ordinance are not adequate to permit the installation of individual on-lot
water and/or sewage disposal facilities, along with an area to be set aside for
a replacement sewage absorption bed, the township shall require that the
Township Sewage Enforcement Officer (SEO) or the State Department of
Environmental Protection (DEP) make such tests as are necessary to determine
the adequacy of the proposed facilities in relation to the provisions of the
State Sewage Facilities Act 537, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., as amended, plus
other applicable state or local regulations. The township shall review and
shall make a final determination on the adequacy of the proposed facility.
   (F)   No subdivision showing reserve strips controlling the access to public
ways will be approved, except where the control and disposal of the land
comprising such strips are definitely placed within the jurisdiction of the
township under agreement meeting the approval of the township.
   (G)   Lot lines shall, where possible, follow municipal and county boundary
lines rather than cross them.
   (H)   All subdivision and land developments shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with recommendations received from the Township
Engineer.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.067  STREETS.
   (A)   The following general standards shall apply to all streets within a
subdivision.
      (1)   The location and width of all streets shall conform to the county
and local level Comprehensive Plans or to such parts thereof as may have been
adopted by the county or township.
      (2)   The proposed street system shall extend existing or recorded
streets with the same width or larger but in no case less than the required
minimum width.
      (3)   Where, in the opinion of the Township Supervisors and/or Planning
Commission, it is desirable to provide for street access to adjoining property,
street stubs shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of such property.
In addition, at the discretion of the Board of Supervisors, at least two points
of ingress and egress must be provided to the subdivision or land development.
Typically, a second ingress/egress point will be required for all subdivisions
of 20 lots or more.
      (4)   New minor streets shall be so designed as to discourage through
traffic, but the subdivides shall give adequate consideration to provision for
the extension and continuation of major arterial and collector streets into and
from adjoining properties.
      (5)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing street of
improper width or alignment, the township may require the dedication of land
sufficient to widen the street or correct the alignment.
      (6)   Private streets (streets not to be offered for dedication) are
discouraged. Private streets will be approved only if they meet the design
standards of this chapter except pervious pavement is allowable for private
streets. Private streets are prohibited in major subdivisions.
      (7)   Street pavement design shall conform with the following.
         (a)   The road construction standards contained herein are minimum
standards. These standards are adequate to provide safe, durable roads for all
streets within the township. In no case should a proposed design provide for
less than these standards require. Designs in excess of these standards may be
required when conditions warrant. Design criteria to be used shall be State
Department of Transportation Design Manual, Part 2, Highway Design. Material
and construction methods shall comply with the latest edition of PennDOT
Specification, Publication 408, and Standards for Roadway Construction, PennDOT
Publication 72.
         (b)   The township reserves the right to approve alternate designs for
material type, depth and width when sound engineering analysis proves the
acceptability of the alternate. In no instance shall a proposed alternate
design be less than the minimum requirement contained herein.
         (c)   Roads on the state or federal system must be designed to the
specifications required by the above-mentioned agencies, these standards
notwithstanding.
         (d)   All pavements shall be designed for a 20-year service life.
         (e)   Where it is proposed to use a road prior to the placement of the
wearing course, the base course of the road must be structurally designed to
support all anticipated loads.
         (f)   Parking lanes shall be provided where required by the township.
Thickness requirements for parking lanes shall be the same as the thickness
requirements for the cartway.
         (g)   Temporary turnarounds meeting the dimensional requirements
contained herein for a cul-de-sac shall be installed when streets are designed
for future extension to adjoining properties or future extension to subsequent
phases of a development. Temporary turnarounds shall be provided with easement
meeting the right-of-way requirements herein for cul-de-sacs. Temporary
turnarounds shall be constructed of a minimum of six inches of well compacted
gravel.
         (h)   All construction materials, equipment, procedures and methods
shall conform to the requirements of the State Department of Transportation
Specifications, Publication 408, most recent edition, unless specifically
stated otherwise in this chapter.
         (i)   Subgrade: in accordance with the latest edition of PennDOT
Publication 408, § 210. The subgrade shall be approved by the township prior to
placing of subbase.
         (j)   Subbase: in accordance with the latest edition of PennDOT
Publication 408, § 350. The subbase shall be approved by the township prior to
placement of base material.
         (k)   Bituminous concrete base course: in accordance with the latest
edition of PennDOT Publication 408, § 305. The bituminous concrete base course
shall be approved by the township prior to the placing of the wearing course.
         (l)   ID-2 bituminous wearing course: in accordance with the latest
edition of PennDOT Publication 408, § 420. Material shall conform to the latest
edition of PennDOT Publication 408, § 420.2 a, b and c. Skid resistance level
shall be as required by the latest edition of PennDOT Publication 242. A tack
coat shall be applied to the surface of any pavement that has been in place for
more than seven days prior to placement of subsequent course.
         (m)   Plain cement concrete curb (where required): in accordance with
the latest edition of PennDOT Publication 408, § 630. Curbing shall be plain
cement concrete curb as shown in PennDOT Standards for Roadway Construction,
Publication 72, RC-64. At the discretion of the township, low profile
(mountable) curbing may be acceptable.
         (n)   Shoulders: in accordance with the latest edition of PennDOT
Publication 408, § 653; shall be Type 3 as shown in PennDOT Standards for
Roadway Construction, Publication 72, RC-25, and as specified in PennDOT
Publication 408, § 653.2, except bituminous surface treatment is not required.
Shoulders less than six feet in width will not be required to use full depth
asphalt.
         (o)   Pavement structures shall be as follows:
 
Depth of Courses
Classification of Street             Base       Subbase
Arterial                 3.5 inches* 4.5 inches 6 inches
Collector                3.5 inches* 4.5 inches 6 inches
Local (minor)            1.5 inches  4.5 inches 6 inches
*Consists of wearing and binder courses
 
         (p)   Street cross slopes shall be at a rate of one-fourth inch per
foot for tangent alignments and shall be sloped in accordance with the super
elevation requirements of the latest edition of the PennDOT Design Manual, Part
2. Shoulder cross slopes shall be a minimum of one-half inch per foot and a
maximum of three-fourths inch per foot.
         (q)   Adequate measures shall be provided to fully drain the subbase
whether it be by placement of pie underdrain, pavement base drain, subgrade
drain, combination storm sewer and underdrain, or outletting subbase drainage
into parallel ditches. Subsurface drains to be in accordance with current
PennDOT Publication 72.
      (8)   Stormwater conveyance systems shall be designed in accordance with
the approval of the Township Engineer and the township stormwater management
ordinance (Chapter 53). All stormwater conveyance systems within rights-of-way
to be dedicated to the township shall conform with the following.
         (a)   Endwalls and inlets shall be as per the latest editions of the
PennDOT Publication 408, § 605, and PennDOT Publication 72, RC-31 and RC-34.
Pipe outlets shall be equipped with end treatments to prevent scour and
erosion.
         (b)   Pipe culverts shall be as per the latest edition of PennDOT
Publication 408, §§ 601, 602 and 603. Corrugated polyethylene culvert pipe is
acceptable up to and including 24-inch outside diameter. The minimum size of
culvert pipes shall be 15-inch outside diameter.
      (9)   Guide rail and median barrier requirements and design shall be as
per PennDOT Publication 13, Design Manual Part 2, Chapter 12. Material and
construction shall be as specified in PennDOT Publication 408, § 1109, and
PennDOT Publication 72, RC-50, 52, 53, 54 and 55.
      (10)   All street construction shall be inspected by the township. The
contractor shall notify the township 14 days prior to the time when inspection
is required. The contractor may not under any circumstances proceed with
subsequent stages until authorization to proceed is given by the township.
   (B)   Width. Minimum street right-of-way and pavement widths, shall be as
set forth in the following table:
Street Type Street Width or Length Shoulder Width Minimum Grade Maximum Grade
Street Type        Street Width or Shoulder Width Minimum Grade Maximum Grade
                   Length
Arterial (Major)
Cartway*           44 feet         10 feet        1%            5%
Right-of-way*      80 feet
Collector
Cartway*           24 feet         6 feet         1%            10%
Right-of-way*      60 feet
Local (Minor)
Cartway            18 feet         4 feet         1%            10%
Right-of-way       50 feet
Turnaround of Cul-
De-Sac
Cartway (diameter) 80 feet         4 feet         1%            5%
Length (maximum)   800 feet
Length (minimum)   250 feet
Right-of-way       100 feet
(diameter)
*Note: the Board of Supervisors reserves the option to allow the
determination of right-of-way width, cartway width, shoulder width and
minimum and maximum grades, of collector and arterial streets to be
determined on the basis of a traffic study furnished by the applicant, and
reviewed and accepted by the Township Engineer
 
   (C)   Alignment. Minimum street alignment standards shall conform with the
horizontal curvature requirements of the Rural Design Criteria as per the
Design Manual Part 2 Highway Design, Publication 13, PennDOT Bureau of Design,
latest edition. Proper sight distance shall be provided with respect to both
horizontal and vertical alignment in accordance with A Policy on Geometric
Design of Highways and Streets, American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials (AASHTO), Chapter IX, latest edition.
   (D)   Grades. Minimum street grade standards shall conform with the vertical
grade requirements of the Rural Design Criteria as per the Design Manual Part 2
Highway Design, Publication 13, PennDOT Bureau of Design, latest edition, up to
a maximum grade of 10%.
   (E)   Horizontal curves. Minimum horizontal curves shall conform with the
horizontal curvature requirements of the Rural Design Criteria as per the
Design Manual Part 2 Highway Design, Publication 13, PennDOT Bureau of Design,
latest edition.
   (F)   Vertical curves. Vertical curves shall be provided of sufficient
length to provide the safe sight distance for the design speed in accordance
with A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets, American Association
of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO), Chapter IX, latest
edition.
   (G)   Intersections. The following standards shall apply to all street
intersections.
      (1)   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles. No
street shall intersect another at an angle less than 75 degrees or more than
105 degrees.
      (2)   No more than two streets shall intersect at the same point.
      (3)   Streets intersecting another street shall either intersect directly
opposite to each other or shall be separated by at least 125 feet between
centerlines measured along the centerline of the street being intersected.
      (4)   Intersections with major streets shall be located not less than
1,000 feet apart measured from centerline to centerline along the centerline of
the major street.
      (5)   Street curb intersections shall be rounded by a tangential arc with
a minimum radius of:
         (a)   Twenty feet for intersections involving only minor streets;
         (b)   Thirty feet for all intersections involving a collector street;
and
         (c)   Forty feet for all intersections involving a major street.
      (6)   Street right-of-way lines shall be parallel to (concentric with)
curb arcs at intersections.
      (7)   Clear sight triangles shall be provided at all street
intersections. No buildings or obstructions are permitted in the area and such
triangles shall be established from a distance of 15 feet behind the edge of
pavement to the point:
         (a)   Seventy-five feet from the intersection of centerline for minor
streets; and
         (b)   One hundred fifty feet from the intersection of centerline for
all intersection with major streets.
      (8)   Minimum sight distance shall be provided at all street intersection
in accordance with the State Code, Title 67, Chapter 441, § 8(h).
      (9)   Leveling areas shall be provided at all street intersections having
not greater than three percent grades for a distance of 50 feet measured from
the nearest cartway edge of the intersecting streets.
   (H)   Alleys. Alleys shall not be permitted in residential subdivisions
except in cases where other methods of entrance and exit are impractical. In
other types of development, where permitted, their design standards shall be
determined by the township.
   (I)   Names. The subdivider may choose street names subject to the approval
of the township. Proposed streets which are in alignment with others already
existing and named shall be assigned the names of the existing streets. In no
case shall the name of a proposed street duplicate or confuse an existing
street name in the township, irrespective of the use of the suffix street,
road, avenue, boulevard, driveway, place, court, lane and the like.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.068  BLOCKS.
   (A)   Determination. The length, width and shape of blocks shall be
determined with due regard to the following:
      (1)   Provision of adequate sites for building of the type proposed;
      (2)   Topography;
      (3)   Requirements for safe and convenient vehicular and pedestrian
circulation; and
      (4)   Other site constraints.
   (B)   Width. Blocks subdivided into lots will be two lot depths in width,
excepting lots along a major thoroughfare which front on an interior street or
are prevented by the site topographic conditions or other inherent conditions
of the property, in which case the township may approve a single tier of lots.
   (C)   Length. All blocks in a subdivision shall have a maximum length of
1,200 feet and a minimum length of 400 feet. Blocks over 600 feet in length
shall require crosswalks wherever necessary to facilitate pedestrian
circulation and to give access to community facilities. Such crosswalks shall
have a width of not less than ten feet and a stabilized walkway of not less
than five feet.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.069  LOTS.
   (A)   Within the township, the width and area of lots shall be no less than
provided in any application or ordinance. Insofar as practical, side lot lines
should be at right angles to straight street lines or radial to curved street
lines.
   (B)   Lot lines should tend to follow municipal boundaries rather than cross
them in order to avoid interjurisdictional problems.
      (1)   Frontage. All lots shall meet the following frontage requirements.
         (a)   All lots in a major subdivision shall front a public street,
existing or proposed.
         (b)   All lots in a minor subdivision containing three or more lots
shall front a public street, existing or proposed.
         (c)   Lots in a minor subdivision of two lots shall front a public
street, existing or proposed or shall be provided with legal ingress/egress
including a recorded easement agreement. A shared use and maintenance agreement
shall be required to be submitted for township approval for all easement
agreements.
         (d)   Double or reverse frontage lots shall be avoided except where
required to provide separation of residential development from major streets or
to overcome specific topographic problems.
      (2)   Size. All lots shall meet the following minimum requirements.
         (a)   In all sections of the township not served by sanitary sewer nor
public water facilities, each lot shall have a minimum width of 100 feet at the
building line and a minimum area of 43,560 square feet. In addition, in
sections of the township requiring the utilization of on-lot sewage disposal,
the minimum lot size shall be large enough to accommodate the original
absorption bed and a tested, preserved and reserved area for a replacement
absorption bed while meeting all PA DEP required maximum isolation distances.
         (b)   In all sections of the township served by either public water
supply or public sewerage, each lot shall have a minimum width of 100 feet at
the building line and at least 21,780 square feet in area per single-family
dwelling; not less than 12,000 square feet in area per family for duplex
dwellings with a width of not less than 75 feet at the building line; and not
less than 7,500 square feet in area per family for row houses and apartments.
In addition, in sections of the township requiring the utilization of on-lot
sewage disposal, the minimum lot size shall be large enough to accommodate the
original absorption bed and a tested, preserved and reserved area for a
replacement absorption bed while meeting all PA DEP required maximum isolation
distances.
         (c)   In all sections of the township served by both public water
supply and public sewerage, each lot shall have a minimum width of 75 feet at
the building line and a minimum area of 9,000 square feet.
         (d)   Exceptions to the lot size requirements may be considered for
cluster housing and “green design” types of development where open space/green
space is incorporated into the overall development. All exceptions shall be
handled by way of the waiver process.
      (3)   Width. In no case shall the width of the lot at the building
setback line be less than 60 feet nor the area of the lot be less than 7,200
square feet. Corner lots for residential use shall have a width of at least 20%
greater than the aforementioned required widths to permit appropriate building
setback from and orientation to both streets, provided that corner lots need
not exceed 100 feet.
      (4)   Setback lines. Structures built on lots shall meet the following
setback lines depending upon the availability of public water and sanitary
sewer service. In all sections of the township served by sanitary sewer and/or
public water facilities, structures shall be constructed no closer than 35 feet
from front, 15 feet from side and 25 feet from rear property lines. In sections
lacking public water and/or sanitary sewer service, setbacks shall be adequate
to permit the proper installation and functioning of such systems, and be at
least the depth of those for lots having public water and sewer service.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.070  EASEMENTS.
   The following shall apply to easements within all subdivisions.
   (A)   Easements with a minimum of 15 feet shall be provided for poles,
wires, conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, gas, water and heat mains and/or
other utility lines intended to serve abutting lots. No structures or trees
shall be placed within such easements.
   (B)   Emphasis shall be placed upon the location of easements centered on or
adjacent to side and rear lot lines.
   (C)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a drainage easement conforming
substantially to the line of such watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream
and of such widths as will be necessary to preserve the unimpeded flow of
natural drainage or for the purpose of widening, deepening, improving or
protecting such drainage facilities or for the purpose of installing a
stormwater system.
   (D)   There shall be a minimum distance of 100 feet, measured in the
shortest distance between each proposed dwelling unit and any petroleum
products or natural gas transmission, high pressure line or high tension
electric line, which may traverse the subdivision.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.071  COMMUNITY FACILITIES.
   In reviewing subdivision plans, the township will consider the adequacy of
existing or proposed community facilities to serve the additional dwelling
units proposed by the subdivision. The reservation of land for community
facilities will be requested when appropriate; therefore, the subdivider shall
give earnest consideration to reserving land for parks, playgrounds, churches,
schools and other community facilities. If a facility of this type has been
planned by any group or agency in any area that is to be subdivided, the
subdivider shall ascertain from such organization whether or not it plans to
use the site.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.072  PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   The following public utilities, when required, shall meet the indicated
standards below.
   (A)   Water.
      (1)   Where public water lines are required in a new subdivision, they
shall be in conformity with the area-wide water plan for the county and any
applicable water plans developed for the municipal authority or utility company
providing the service in which the proposed subdivision is located. Whenever
the municipality, authority or utility company providing the service has no
standards, or has standards below those of the Department of Environmental
Protection, the Standards of the Department of Environmental Protection shall
apply.
      (2)   Public water lines should be located between the curbline and the
property line within any street right-of-way.
   (B)   Sanitary sewer.
      (1)   Where public sewer lines are required in a new subdivision, they
shall be in conformity with the area-wide sewer plan for the county and any
applicable sewer plans developed for the municipality in which the proposed
subdivision is located. The design specifications of all sewer lines installed
in a new subdivision must meet the minimum standards set forth by the municipal
authority or utility company providing the service in which the proposed
subdivision is located. Whenever the municipality, authority or utility company
providing the service has no standards, or has standards below those of the
Department of Environmental Protection, the Standards of the Department of
Environmental Protection shall apply.
      (2)   Public sewer lines shall be located as near to the centerline of
any utility easement as is reasonably possible to accommodate practical
installation, future maintenance and future replacement. All such sewer lines
shall provide sewage connectors to the property lines of each and every lot and
said sewage collection lines shall be properly capped. Manholes shall be
provided at all changes in grades and direction and in no instance shall the
distance between manholes exceed 400 feet. All sewer pipelines must be at least
eight inches in diameter and sewer laterals must be at least four inches in
diameter. Storm sewers or foundation underdrainage systems shall not be
connected with the sanitary sewer system.
   (C)   On-lot sewage disposal. Where it is found necessary and feasible to
rely upon on-lot systems for sewage disposal, the on-lot sewage disposal
systems shall meet the minimum requirements and standards of the State Sewage
Facilities Act 537, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., as amended. Within the township,
the provisions of Act 537 are administered by the township’s Sewage Enforcement
Officer.
   (D)   Storm sewers. Where storm sewers are required in a new subdivision,
they shall be in conformity with any applicable stormwater management, storm
sewer plans developed for the township and/or the minimum standards set forth
by the Township Engineer.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.073  STORMWATER DRAINAGE.
   (A)   All applicants shall comply with all applicable provisions of the
township’s stormwater management ordinance (
Chapter 53).
   (B)   In addition, subdivision and land development plan applicants that
propose to make surface changes in excess of 5,000 square feet shall first be
required to prepare and submit stormwater management plans for review by the
Township Engineer and gain approval by the township.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.074  LOT GRADING.
   The following standards shall apply to lot grading for subdivisions and land
developments.
   (A)   Blocks and lots shall be graded to provide proper drainage away from
buildings and to prevent the collection of stormwater in pools. Minimum 2%
slopes away from structures shall be required.
   (B)   A grading and draining plan shall be required for all subdivisions and
land developments, except minor subdivisions. Lot grading shall be:
      (1)   Designed as to carry surface waters to the nearest practical
street, storm drain or natural watercourse. Where drainage swales are used to
deliver surface waters away from buildings, their grade shall not be less than
1%. These shall be sodded, planted or lined in accordance with the DEP Erosion
and Sediment Control Program Manual, April 1990, as amended or superseded;
      (2)   Proposed contouring shall be provided for all detention /retention
areas. Other contouring shall be provided as necessary to depict the proposed
grading where typical sections and standard details are inadequate; and
      (3)   Consistent with stormwater management controls contained in any
local stormwater management ordinance (
Chapter 53).
   (C)   No final grading shall be permitted with a cut face steeper in slope
than two horizontal to one vertical, except under one or more of the following
conditions:
      (1)   The material in which the excavation is made is sufficiently stable
to sustain a slope of steeper than two horizontal to one vertical and a written
statement of a civil engineer, licensed by the commonwealth and experienced in
erosion control, to that effect is submitted to the Township Engineer and
accepted by him or her. The statement shall state that the site has been
inspected and that the deviation from the slope specified hereinbefore will not
result in injury to persons or damage to property; and/or
      (2)   A retaining wall constructed according to sound engineering
standards from which plans are submitted to the Township Engineer for review
and approval is provided.
   (D)   No final grading shall be permitted which creates any exposed surface
steeper in slope than two horizontal to one vertical, except under one or more
of the following conditions:
      (1)   The fill is located so that settlement, sliding or erosion will not
result in property damage or be hazardous to adjoining property, streets,
alleys or buildings;
      (2)   A written statement from a civil engineer, licensed by the
commonwealth and experienced in erosion control, certifying that he or she has
inspected the site and that the proposed deviation from the slope specified
above will not endanger any property or result in property damage, is submitted
to and accepted by the Township Engineer; and/or
      (3)   A wall is constructed to support the face of the fill.
   (E)   The top or bottom edge of slopes shall be a minimum of three feet from
property or right-of-way lines of streets or alleys in order to permit the
normal rounding of the edge without encroaching on the abutting property. All
property lines, where walls or slopes are steeper than one horizontal to one
vertical and five feet or more in height shall be protected by a protective
fence or suitable barrier no less than three feet in height accepted by the
Township Engineer.
   (F)   All lots must be kept free of any debris or nuisances whatsoever.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.075  EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   All applicants shall comply with all applicable provisions of the township’s
erosion and sedimentation control ordinance (
Chapter 151). In addition, subdivision and land development plan applicants
that propose earthmoving activity in excess of 5,000 square feet shall first be
required to prepare and submit an Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan to the
County Conservation District for review and approval.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.076  FLOOD HAZARD AREA REGULATIONS.
   The following standards shall apply to flood hazard areas within the
township:
   (A)   All subdivision or development of land within any designated
floodplain shall be in accordance with the floodplains ordinance (
Chapter 153), as amended, in order to promote the general health, welfare and
safety of the community; and
   (B)   In addition to meeting all requirements of the floodplains ordinance (
Chapter 153), minimum first floor elevations shall be provided on the final
plans for all lots within the floodplain.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
IMPROVEMENTS AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.090  PURPOSE; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to set forth the required
improvements in all subdivisions and land developments and the construction
standards required. Where not set forth, they shall be in accordance with the
prevailing standards as established by the Township Engineer. Alternate
improvement standards may be permitted if the Township Supervisors deem them
equal or superior in performance characteristics to the standards specified
herein. Additional or higher-type improvements may be required in specific
cases where the township believes it necessary to create conditions essential
to the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the citizenry of the
township.
   (B)   Any or all of the following improvements as may be required by the
Township Supervisors, pursuant to the authority granted in the municipal code,
considering the needs of the area in which the proposed subdivision is located,
must have been completed in accordance with the requirements established by
this chapter as well as in accordance with the requirements of the responsible
public authority affected, public officials or Township Engineer for that
portion included in the final plat. If the improvements are not completed, then
satisfactory arrangements must have been made with the Township Supervisors to
the satisfaction of all public authorities concerned regarding proper
completion of such improvements prior to the consideration of a final plat.
   (C)   The following improvements shall be installed by the subdivides. The
final plan shall not be approved until final detailed design of the
improvements is approved and the improvements are installed or financial
security has been established with the township.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.091  REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Monumentation.
      (1)   Prior to the release of the financial guarantee for completion of
improvements as required by§
153.030, the developer shall place substantial monumentation in accordance with
the current version of the Manual of Practice for Professional Land Surveyors
in the commonwealth at all property corners of lots and all points where lot
lines intersect curves, both front and rear, and all points of curve tangency
on all road right-of-way and property lines. Boundary monuments found on the
parent tract or exterior boundary of the tract to be subdivided during the
retracement survey process, that are found to be in their relative correct
position, shall not be disturbed; however, said found boundary monuments shall
be referenced (as to: material, size, shape and condition) on the final
subdivision plan to be recorded.
      (2)   Monuments should be set after the completion of roadway grading
activities in major subdivisions.
      (3)   Monuments shall be set prior to final plan approval in minor
subdivisions.
   (B)   Streets. All streets shall be graded to the full width of the right-
of-way, surfaced and improved to grades and dimensions shown on the plans,
profiles and cross-sections submitted by the subdivides and accepted by the
Township Engineer, in subdivisions where sidewalks are not required, the
sidewalk areas shall be graded in the same manner as if sidewalks were to be
constructed.
      (1)   Streets shall be graded, surfaced and improved to the dimensions
required by the cross-sections. Pavement base and wearing surface shall be
constructed according to the specifications as contained in §
155.067.
      (2)   Prior to placing street surface, adequate subsurface drainage for
the streets and all utilities under the streets shall be provided by the
subdivides upon the completion of the street improvements. Respective plans and
profiles as built shall be filed with the township.
   (C)   Curbs. Curbs shall be required on new streets in subdivisions which
have a typical lot width of interior lots at the building setback lines of less
than 100 feet, in all high-density subdivisions and for land developments.
Curbs may also be required in any subdivision in which the lot areas or lot
widths exceed 100 feet when the center-line street grade of any street exceeds
3%. In such cases curbs or other drainage controls shall be installed to
properly control surface damage and protect the streets from erosion. The
curbing requirement may be waived at the discretion of the township, upon the
request and justification by the applicant and after a recommendation of the
Township Planning Commission. When the requirement is waived, grass-lined
swales or rock-lined ditches shall be required. Curbs shall be as specified in
§
155.067. All curbs shall be depressed at intersections to sufficient width to
accommodate the requirements of the handicapped. The depression shall be in
line with sidewalks where provided.
   (D)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be provided where streets of a proposed subdivision
are extensions of existing streets having a sidewalk on one or both sides.
Sidewalks shall also be provided when considered necessary by the Township
Supervisors for the protection of the public or whenever it is determined that
the potential volume of pedestrian traffic or safety conditions creates the
need for them, based on the recommendation of the Township Planning Commission.
Sidewalks shall be provided on all streets and parking areas located within
multi-family and apartment developments and for land developments as noted in
Section 110-60D(3).
      (2)   When sidewalks are required, they shall meet the following
standards.
         (a)   Sidewalks shall be located within the street right-of-way, one
foot from the right-of-way line, and shall be a minimum of four feet wide,
except along collector and arterial streets and in the vicinity of shopping
centers, schools, recreation areas and other community facilities, where they
shall be a minimum of five feet wide.
         (b)   Generally, a grass planting strip should be provided between the
curb and sidewalk.
         (c)   Sidewalks shall be at least four inches thick, and shall be made
of Class A concrete as specified in PennDOT Publication 408, § 704, and
installed in accordance with PennDOT Publication 408, § 676, except that
aggregate for bed shall be a four-inch deep foundation and concrete shall be
broom finished. At the discretion of the township, pervious concrete or similar
type paving that would promote infiltration and reduce runoff may be
considered.
         (d)   Where unusual or peculiar conditions prevail with respect to
prospective traffic and/or safety of pedestrians, the Township Supervisors may
require different standards of improvements than those set forth in the
previous subsections. Crosswalks may be required when deemed necessary by the
Township Supervisors and as noted in §
155.068.
         (e)   Handicap-accessible ramps shall be provided on all sidewalks at
street intersections. Maximum gradient of an accessible ramp shall be 12 to one
(8.33%). Depressed curb shall be installed at ramp so as to create a lip of no
greater than one-half inch. Ramps shall be concrete as specified in division
(D)(2)(c) above with a nonslip finish.
         (f)   Maximum slope of banks measured perpendicular to the centerline
of the street should be three to one for fills and two to one for cuts.
   (E)   Sanitary sewers.
      (1)   The method of sanitary waste disposal in a proposed subdivision
shall be determined by the township. Generally, where a public sanitary sewer
system is within 1,000 feet of, or where plans approved by the governing bodies
provide for the installation of such public sanitary sewer facilities to within
1,000 feet of the proposed subdivision, and the capacity exists to serve the
proposed subdivision, the subdividers shall provide the subdivision with a
complete sanitary sewerage system to be connected to the existing or proposed
public sanitary sewerage system. The system shall be designed by a registered
professional engineer and meet the requirements of the State Department of
Environmental Protection and the respective municipal authority.
      (2)   To aid the Township Supervisors in making their decision upon the
best method of sanitary waste disposal within a proposed subdivision, the
subdividers shall submit, accompanying the preliminary plan application, two
copies of the sewage planning module and a copy of the transmittal letter to
the DEP which accompanied the planning module submission.
      (3)   In cases where no municipal sewer system is available under the
conditions stated previously, a decision shall be made as to which of the
following methods of sewage disposal best meets the needs of the proposed
subdivision: a community disposal system; an interim treatment plant;
individual on-lot septic tanks; or other satisfactory methods of sewage waste
disposal. The township shall recommend the most suitable type of sewage
disposal in consideration of the results of the sewage planning module, the
individual site characteristics of the proposed subdivision and both the short-
range (five to ten years) water and sewer program and the long-range (20 years)
water and sewer plan for the township. Regardless of the method of sewage
disposal chosen, the system must meet the requirements of the State Sewage
Facility Act 537, as amended,13 and other applicable local, state and federal
regulations. Where required, a DEP sewage planning module approval shall be
obtained prior to township plan approval authorizing construction.
      (4)   Upon completion of the sanitary sewer system, community disposal
system and/or interim treatment plant, one copy of as-built drawings shall be
filed with the township and one copy shall be filed with the respective
municipal authority.
   (F)   Water.
      (1)   Where a municipal water supply system is within 1,000 feet of, or
where plans approved by the governing body or private water company provide for
the installation of municipal water supply facilities to within 1,000 feet of
the proposed subdivision, and the capacity exists to serve the proposed
subdivision, the subdivision shall be provided with a complete water main
supply system which shall provide for firefighting flow rates recommended by
the National Fire Protection Association and be connected to the municipal
water supply. The system shall be designed by a registered professional
engineer. The system design shall be approved by the municipal authority or
utility company providing service. Evidence of issuance of permits from the
State Department of Environmental Protection, when such permits are required,
shall be presented to the Township Supervisors prior to approval of plans
authorizing construction.
      (2)   If water is to be provided by means other than by private wells
owned and maintained by the individual owners of lots within the subdivision or
development, applicants shall present evidence that the subdivision or
development is to be supplied by a certified public utility, a bona fide
cooperative association of lot owners, or by a municipal corporation, authority
or utility. A copy of a certificate of public convenience from the State Public
Utility Commission or an application for such certificate, a cooperative
agreement or a commitment or agreement to serve the area in question, whichever
is appropriate, shall be acceptable evidence, in cases where no municipal or
community water supply system is available, each lot in a subdivision shall be
provided with an individual water supply system in accordance with the minimum
standards of the State Department of Environmental Protection.
      (3)   The plans for installation of the mains of a water supply system
shall be prepared for the subdivision with the cooperation of the applicable
water supply agency, and accepted by its engineer. A statement of approval from
the engineer of the water supply agency to which the subdivision will be
connected shall be submitted to the township.  Upon the completion of the water
supply system, one copy each of the as-built plans for such system shall be
filed with the township.
   (G)   Stormwater management control.
      (1)   Lots shall be laid out, designed and graded in such a manner as to
provide for drainage of surface runoff away from buildings and into the natural
drainage system of the area. Stormwater management control improvements, as
required by the Township Engineer and any township stormwater management
ordinance (Chapter 53), shall be installed and maintained in accordance with
the plans submitted by the subdividers or developer and accepted by the
Township Engineer.
      (2)   The improvements shall be designed and constructed to the standards
set forth in §
155.073, and any township stormwater management ordinance (Chapter 53). One
copy of as-built drawings of stormwater management control systems shall be
filed with the township. Under no circumstances shall storm sewers be connected
with sanitary sewers.
   (H)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall meet the following
standards.
      (1)   Each proposed dwelling unit in a subdivision shall be provided with
two off-street parking spaces. Such off-street parking spaces may be provided
as an individual garage, carport and/or driveway, preferably located behind the
building line, or in a parking compound adjacent to or near the dwelling units
it serves. Driveway and parking compounds shall provide two usable and mud-free
parking spaces, each containing 200 square feet.
      (2)   Nonresidential subdivisions and land developments within the scope
of this chapter shall provide mud-free parking areas in conformance with §
155.137.
   (I)   Stop and street name signs. Stop and street name signs shall be placed
at all intersections in conformance with the specifications of the township.
They shall be paid for by the subdividers and installed by the township.
   (J)   Buffer areas. All nonresidential subdivisions and land developments
shall include a landscaped buffer area of at least six feet in width along all
public roadways and ten feet in width along property lines abutting existing
homes and/or homes under construction. In cases where the buffer area abuts
homes, at least 50% of the trees and shrubs shall consist of evergreens.
Landscaping shall be at least three feet in height and spaced no further than
three feet apart at the time of planting, unless an alternate planting plan by
a landscape professional is approved by the Board of Supervisors.
   (K)   Streetlights. In accordance with the conditions to be agreed upon by
the subdividers, the Township Supervisors and the appropriate public utility,
streetlights are required to be installed in all subdivisions. The subdividers
shall be responsible for making the necessary arrangements with the applicable
agencies, and whether or not streetlights are initially installed, the
subdividers shall be responsible for providing utility easements for future
street lighting installations.
   (L)   Shade trees. All possible efforts should be made by the subdivides to
preserve existing shade trees. At the discretion of the township, shade trees
of deciduous hardwood type with a minimum caliper of two inches shall be
planted between the sidewalk and the building line at least five feet from the
sidewalk, or between the curb and sidewalk, provided that the planting strip is
a minimum of six feet wide. Preserved shade trees may be included in the buffer
areas required under division (J) above.
   (M)   Fire hydrants.
      (1)   Fire hydrants shall be provided as an integral part of any water
supply system and shall be in accordance with the specifications set forth by
the National Fire Protection Association, the local water supply agency and as
approved by the respective local volunteer fire company.
      (2)   The fire hydrants shall be placed at intervals of not more than
1,000 feet and shall contain a minimum of 2, two and one-half-inch outlets and
one four-and-one-half-inch bumper outlet, unless specified otherwise by the
local fire company, to ensure compatibility with firefighting equipment.
   (N)   Underground wiring. All electric, telephone and television cable lines
shall be placed underground. Electric, telephone and television cables and
appurtenances shall be constructed in accordance with the rules, regulations
and specifications of the respective utility providers.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.
MOBILE HOME PARK DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 155.105  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The general design standards and required improvements of §§
155.065 through
155.076 and §§
155.090 through
155.091, and residential design standards shall apply to mobile home park
subdivisions or developments even though streets will not be submitted for
dedication. The following additional standards shall also apply to mobile home
developments.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.106  SITE LOCATION.
   A mobile home park shall be located on land having a reasonably flat terrain
(having an average grade of 8% or less). The land area shall be free from
swamps, marshes, garbage, excessive noise, smoke or other elements generally
considered detrimental to residential development. The location shall be free
from flooding by a 100-year flood and shall have access to public roads.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.107  PLACEMENT OF MOBILE HOMES.
   Each mobile home shall meet all requirements of the Uniform Construction
Code.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.108  SIZE OF PARK.
   The minimum size requirement for a mobile home park shall be three acres.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.109  MOBILE HOME LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   Lot area, dimension, setback and coverage shall meet with the approval of
the Township Supervisors and meet the following minimal requirements:
   (A)   Minimum lot area: 5,200 square feet per lot;
   (B)   Minimum lot width: 45 feet;
   (C)   Minimum setback from other homes and buildings: 30 feet;
   (D)   Minimum setback from streets, paved areas and common areas: 30 feet;
and
   (E)   Maximum lot coverage by buildings/structures: 25%.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.110  BUFFER AREAS.
   All mobile home parks projected to contain more than ten units at full
build-out shall be bounded by a buffer area with a minimum of 35 feet depth as
measured at right angles to the tract boundary lines. This space shall be used
for no other purpose but landscaping, except where access roads cross it. All
mobile home parks projected to contain less than ten units at full build-out
shall be bounded by a buffer area with a minimum of ten feet in depth as
measured at right angles to the tract boundary lines. This space shall be used
for no other purpose but landscaping, except where access roads cross it.
Buffer areas shall be landscaped and consist of at least 50% evergreens. All
landscaping shall be at least three feet in height at the time of planting.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.111  RECREATION AREAS.
   A mobile home park shall be provided with a recreation area for mobile home
residents. The recreation area shall be no less than 5% of the total area of
the park. Such an area shall be appropriately developed with recreation
facilities and easily accessible to all homes in the park.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.112  UTILITIES.
   All utilities serving mobile home lots shall be placed underground in
accordance with the requirements of the respective utility companies. Each
mobile home in the park shall be served by public water and sewerage or
approved central water and sewerage systems as well as with electric and other
utilities.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.113  DRAINAGE.
   Storm drainage from roofs and paved areas should be directed to infiltration
devices such as roof sumps and water quality devices such as vegetative filter
strips or bioretention areas and away from adjoining properties and public
roads. Trees and shrubbery shall be maintained on the property of the mobile
home park and on every lot within the park for absorption of water runoff and
hence for flood protection. Storm drainage shall also be handled according to
the requirements prescribed by the Township Engineer and/or in any township
stormwater management ordinance (
Chapter 53).
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.114  REFUSE STORAGE.
   Each mobile home shall provide its own garbage and refuse containers in
accordance with any township regulations pertaining to garbage and other solid
wastes, or the mobile home park shall provide a dumpster and private hauling
service where individual mobile homes cannot be served. Dumpsters shall be
placed within an enclosure or hidden with some other means satisfactory to the
township.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.115  SEWERAGE SYSTEMS.
   Each mobile home lot shall be provided with at least a four inch diameter
vertical riser pipe which connects the mobile home sewage drain outlet to the
sewer line. Provision shall be made for plugging the sewer riser pipe when a
mobile home does not occupy the lot. Surface drainage shall be directed away
from the riser. The rim of the riser pipe shall extend at least six inches
above ground elevation.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.116  WATER SYSTEMS.
   Each mobile home lot shall have a water riser pipe with a minimum inside
diameter of three-fourths inch which connects the mobile home water supply to
the central water system. An outside hose bib shall be supplied for each mobile
home.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.117  SIDEWALKS.
   All mobile home parks shall be provided with safe, convenient, all-season
pedestrian walks of ID-2 bituminous concrete, Portland cement concrete,
pervious concrete, or similar-type paving to a depth and width approved by the
Township Engineer between individual mobile homes and streets and to all park
facilities provided for the residents. Walkways serving park facilities shall
have a minimum width of four feet.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.118  PARKING AREAS.
   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each mobile home. All
parking spaces for mobile home lots shall be provided with a minimum of a tar
and chip surface, pervious concrete or similar type paving.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.119  INGRESS AND EGRESS.
   (A)   Access points to public streets from a mobile home park shall be
located no less than 60 feet from any public street intersection. Streets
within the mobile home park to be offered for municipal dedication shall be
constructed to township specifications as described in §§
155.065 through
155.076, except that one-way streets shall be allowed, provided that access by
fire and other emergency vehicles is not impaired, and provided that the street
plan is reviewed and accepted by the Township Engineer.
   (B)   All streets within mobile home parks, whether offered for municipal
dedication or not, shall conform to the following:
      (1)   General requirements. A safe and convenient vehicular access shall
be provided from abutting public streets or roads.
      (2)   Access. The entrance road connecting the park streets with a public
street or road shall have a minimum cartway width of 24 feet. Wherever a street
intersects a public street, a stop sign shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with township regulations.
      (3)   Illumination. In accordance with the conditions to be agreed upon
by the subdivides, the Township Supervisors and the appropriate public utility,
streetlights are required to be installed in all subdivisions. The subdivides
shall be responsible for making the necessary arrangements with the applicable
agencies, and whether or not street lights are initially installed, the
subdivides shall be responsible for providing utility easements for future
street lighting installations.
      (4)   Paving. All streets shall be provided a minimum of a tar and chip
surface which shall be durable and well-drained under normal use and weather
conditions. Pervious pavement is allowable for private streets.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.120  STREET SIGNS.
   Stop and street identification signs shall be provided for all streets at
every intersection in the mobile home park.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
SUPPLEMENTARY LAND DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.135  INTENT.
   In accordance with the definition in this chapter, as per the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code (MPC) (53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.), land development
may include various types of development and subdivision of land, in this
regard, §§
155.065 through
155.076 and §§
155.090 through
155.091 delineate design standards and construction requirements which are
intended to apply to all types of development, while §§
155.105 through
155.120 applies standards to the design of mobile home parks. It is recognized
by the Board of Supervisors that certain types of land development may have
needs and requirements unmet by these subchapters alone. This subchapter
provides such supplementary standards for various forms of nonresidential
development such as commercial retail, professional offices and manufacturing,
uses. It is the intent of this subchapter to supplement and not replace any of
the standards and requirements of the above referenced previous subchapters.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.136  SUBMISSION REVIEW PROCEDURES AND PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The submission and review procedures contained in §§
155.020 through
155.033 and §§
155.045 through
155.051 shall be required for all land development proposals, as noted in each
applicable section of the above-referenced sections.
   (B)   In addition, the following shall be required for all proposals for
commercial retail and professional office development in excess of 5,000 square
feet and for all proposals for manufacturing uses:
      (1)   A traffic study analyzing the capacity of area streets, roads and
intersections abutting the development, as determined by the Board of
Supervisors. The study shall include at a minimum an analysis of the system
before development, at each phase of development (if applicable) and at full
build-out. The study shall include an analysis of capacities, levels of service
and improvements required to maintain acceptable levels of service;
      (2)   A landscape plan for the site prepared by a landscape design or
site planning professional; and
      (3)   A sewer and water study of the proposed development as directed by
the Township Engineer.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.137  PARKING REQUIREMENTS; LOADING AREAS.
   Nonresidential development shall be designed in a manner that maximizes
benefits and minimizes conflicts in relation to parking and traffic safety;
specific supplementary requirements are as follows.
   (A)   All nonresidential proposals shall meet the following.
      (1)   In cases where more than a single row of parking spaces are
required due to projected parking demand and/or site conditions, the following
design configurations shall be followed.
         (a)   A minimum parking bay width of 45 feet shall be provided for 45-
degree (diagonal) parking, with a one-lane parking lane having a minimum width
of 14 feet.
         (b)   A minimum parking bay width of 61 feet shall be provided for 90-
degree (heading) parking with a two-way parking lane having a minimum width of
25 feet.
      (2)   All parking areas shall be paved with a bituminous surface or with
concrete, and include adequate drainage control as accepted by the Township
Engineer and/or in accordance with any township stormwater management ordinance
(Chapter 53). Pervious pavement and concrete is allowable for private parking
areas.
      (3)   Parking areas shall be designed so that vehicles need not back out
onto a public right-of-way.
   (B)   Commercial land developments.
      (1)   Commercial land developments within the scope of these regulations
shall provide paved parking areas.
      (2)   The minimum number of parking spaces of nine by 18 feet to be
provided will vary depending upon use and/or interior and/or gross square
footage area as summarized below:
Bar                                40% of capacity in persons
Bowling alley                      4 per alley
Car wash                           4 per washing stall
Church/synagogue                   1 per 3 seats
Community buildings                40% of capacity in persons
Convenience stores                 1 per 200 square feet GFA
Fiduciary institutions             1 per 250 square feet GFA
Hotel/motel                        1.5 per room
Industrial/manufacturing           1.1 per peak shift employee
Library                            1 per 300 square feet GFA
Medical center                     1 per 250 square feet GFA
Nursing/personal care home         1 per 3 rooming units
Offices:                            
  Under 49,999 square feet GFA    4.5 per 1,000 square feet GFA
  50,000 to 99,999 square feet GFA4 per 1,000 square feet GFA
  100,000+ square feet GFA        3.5 per 1,000 square feet GFA
Quick-food establishments          1 per 50 square feet GFA
Receiving/shipping                 1 per 5,000 square feet GFA
Restaurant                         1 per 3 seats
Retail store                       1 per 200 square feet GFA
Schools                             
  Elementary and middle schools   2 per classroom; but not less than 1 per
                                   teacher and staff
  High school                     4 per classroom; but not less than 2 per
                                   teacher and staff
Service station                    4 per bay and work area
Shopping center                    1 per 250 square feet GFA
Storage areas/warehouses           1 per 5,000 square feet GLA
Supermarket/grocery                1 per 250 square feet GFA
Theater                            1 per 3 seats
In shopping center                 1 per 4 seats
GFA = Gross Floor Area GLA = Gross Leasable Area
 
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.138  SPECIFIC SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS.
   Nonresidential development shall be designed in a manner that maximizes
benefits and minimizes conflicts in relation with public safety; specific
supplementary requirements are as follows.
   (A)   Proposed developments with drive-in facilities shall meet the
following standards.
      (1)   No more than two driveways shall be provided to any one property
from a public right-of-way.
      (2)   Driveways shall be no closer than 30 feet from any adjacent
property line.
      (3)   The maximum width of driveways shall be no wider than 50 feet.
      (4)   The intersection of any private drive and a public right-of-way
shall provide for proper sight distance visibility.
      (5)   A state highway occupancy permit shall be required from the State
Department of Transportation for any driveway access to a state highway, and a
township highway occupancy permit shall be required from the Township Board of
Supervisors for any driveway access to a township road prior to plan approval.
      (6)   Gasoline or other fuel pumps shall be no closer than 25 feet to any
public right-of-way.
   (B)   All proposed structures and buildings shall be no closer than 50 feet
to any right-of-way line.
   (C)   Proposals for industrial and/or commerce parks and shopping centers
shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   A 50-foot buffer shall be provided around the proposed park.
      (2)   Any internal illumination shall be of the sharp cutoff variety
avoiding glare above and onto adjacent properties.
      (3)   An internal street or traffic circulation system shall be provided.
      (4)   All plans for individual structures or buildings shall be subject
to review under the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Proposals for industrial facilities shall meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   All outdoor storage areas shall be buffered by landscaping or an
opaque fence.
      (2)   Manufacturing buildings may not cover more than 25% of the lot.
      (3)   Dumpsters shall be placed within an enclosure or hidden within some
other means satisfactory to the township.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
RECREATIONAL AND SEASONAL LAND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 155.150  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A recreational and seasonal land development includes the improvement
and development of land for seasonal and/or leisure-time activities.
   (B)   Such developments are for temporary occupancy and are not intended now
or in the future for year-round dwelling purposes, and may include travel
trailers, motor homes, campers, lots intended for tents and land intended for
various other outdoor recreational activities such as hunting and fishing;
however, developments comprised of cottages, cabins, second homes, other
permanent and fixed dwelling structures and any recreational and seasonal lots
for sale are excluded from this subchapter and are viewed as residential
subdivisions in relation to this chapter.
      (1)   Classification. Whenever any land development is proposed, before
any contract is made for the sale or lease of any part thereof, and before any
permit for development in such proposed land development shall be granted, the
owner or his or her agent shall apply for and secure approval of such proposed
land development in accordance with the following procedures for development,
which includes a maximum of two steps for a minor and three steps for a major
land development as follows:
         (a)   Minor development: includes ten or fewer campsites for
recreational and/or seasonal use.
            1.   Sketch plan (optional); and
            2.   Final plan.
         (b)   Major development: includes 11 or more campsites for
recreational and/or seasonal use.
            1.   Sketch plan (optional);
            2.   Preliminary plan; and
            3.   Final plan.
      (2)   Pre-application consultation. Prior to filing an application for
approval of a land development within the township, the owner or his or her
authorized agent shall meet with the Township Board of Supervisors for an
official classification of his or her proposed land development. The Township
Board of Supervisors shall determine whether the proposal shall be classified
as a minor development or a major land development. At this time, the Township
Board of Supervisors shall advise the owner or his or her authorized agent as
to which of the procedures contained herein must be followed.
      (3)   Official filing date. For the purpose of these regulations, the
official filing date shall be the date of the regular meeting of the Township
Board of Supervisors next following the date the application and plans are
received at the township building, provided that said regular meeting shall
occur more than 30 days following the submission of the application, the
official filing date shall be the thirtieth day following the day the
application has been submitted. On receipt of an application for land
development approval, the Township Board of Supervisors shall affix to the
application both the date of submittal and the official filing date.
      (4)   County Planning Commission review. All plans shall be submitted to
and reviewed by the County Planning Commission in accordance with its then
prevailing rules and regulations. The township shall forward to the applicant a
copy of any report of the County Planning Commission. The township shall not
approve an application until the county report is received or until the
expiration of 30 days from the date the application was forwarded to the
county.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.151  SUBMISSION AND REVIEW OF SKETCH PLAN.
   The submission and review of the optional sketch plan for land developments
shall follow the procedures outlined in §
155.026.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.152  OFFICIAL SUBMISSION AND REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   The submission and review of the official preliminary plan shall follow the
procedures outlined in §
155.029. Prior to the review and approval of the preliminary plan, the
applicant must make application and meet all requirements of the State
Department of Environmental Protection Regulations, 25 Pa. Code Chapter 191,
regarding organized camps and campgrounds, as well as any other state
government regulations which may apply.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.153  OFFICIAL SUBMISSION AND REVIEW OF FINAL PLAN.
   The submission and review of the final plan shall follow the procedures
outlined in §§
155.029 through
155.031.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.154  RECORDING OF FINAL PLAN.
   The recording of the final plan shall follow the procedures outlined in §
155.033.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.155  PERFORMANCE GUARANTIES.
   The submission of required performance guaranties shall follow the
procedures outlined in §
155.030(A).
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.156  PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   Plan requirements for all recreation and seasonal land developments shall
follow the requirements delineated in §§
155.045 through
155.051.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.157  DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Recreational and seasonal land developments shall be designed pursuant
to the applicable standards and requirements contained in §§
155.065 through
155.076 and §§
155.090 and
155.091, except for the following:
      (1)   Sections
155.067 through
155.091(B), streets (with the exception of §
155.067(G), which remains in effect for situations as noted in division (B)(1)
below);
      (2)   Section
155.068: blocks;
      (3)   Section
155.069: lots;
      (4)   Section
155.091(C): curbs;
      (5)   Section
155.091(D): sidewalks; and
      (6)   Section
155.091(H): off-street parking.
   (B)   The following design standards apply to recreational and seasonal land
developments not covered elsewhere in this chapter.
      (1)   Streets.
         (a)   The land development shall be designed to provide an access and
internal traffic circulation system adequate to accommodate the type and volume
of traffic to  be generated  and shall be constructed to provide a sound, all-
weather driving surface, reasonably smooth, free from mud, dust and/or standing
water. All private streets shall be considered to be required improvements. The
following minimum standards apply to all private streets.
            1.   Right-of-way width: 40 feet.
            2.   Cartway width: 16 feet for two-way roads; ten feet for one-way
roads.
            3.   Cartway construction: six inches of suitable, compacted and
graded stone base material to provide a permanent and all-weather surface which
will facilitate storm drainage management.
            4.   Maximum allowable grade: the maximum allowable grade for
private roads shall be a 14% slope for distances of no more than 500 feet;
however, special drainage measures and considerations will be required on
grades exceeding a 6% slope, including special roadway cross-sections, grading,
shoulder construction and stabilization, cross-drainage structures and cut-and-
fill slopes, as recommended and/or accepted by the Township Engineer.
            5.   Cul-de-sac minimum standards: while there are no minimum or
maximum length requirements, excessively long segments are discouraged due to
emergency vehicle access considerations. A turnaround area shall be provided at
the terminus of all dead-end and/or cul-de-sac segments having an unobstructed
maneuvering area equal to a 50-foot turning radius.
         (b)   The internal street and roadway system shall be privately owned
and appropriately noted on the final plan and provide safe and convenient
access to all campsites and facilities. The alignment and gradients of all
internal streets and roadways shall be properly adapted to the topography, to
the types of anticipated traffic and to the satisfactory control of surface
water. Points of connection between the private street and roadway system and
the existing public street system shall be designed to avoid congestion and
hazardous intersections, in accordance with §
155.067(G), intersections.
      (2)   Lots. Individual campsites shall be comprised of a minimum area of
at least 1,500 square feet, with no more than a total of 15 individual
campsites per acre. Each campsite shall be accessible from the private street/
roadway system without the necessity to cross any other campsite. In addition,
recreation vehicle campsites shall have a minimum width of 40 feet and a
minimum depth of 50 feet or 30% longer than the maximum length of the
recreational vehicle anticipated to occupy the space.
      (3)   Parking. Parking spaces shall be provided to accommodate the number
and size of vehicles anticipated. Parking spaces for all campsite users shall
be on the campsite lot. In addition, a minimum of one parking space for every
two campsites shall be provided for visitors. Parking spaces for visitors may
be on a common parking area. The parking spaces shall be of a compacted and
graded stone base material to provide a permanent and all weather surface and
support the types, lengths and weights of vehicles anticipated to use the
facility.
      (4)   Campsites. Individual campsites and accessory buildings shall be
designed to be at least 50 feet from any arterial highway or 35 feet from any
other type of public right-of-way. Recreational vehicle campsites for trailers,
campers and/or motor homes shall contain a stabilized vehicular parking pad of
shale, gravel, stone, paving or other suitable material and shall be
dimensioned that when any space is occupied, no portion of any camping unit
shall be within ten feet of any portion of any other camping unit or accessory
building and at least 15 feet from any internal private roadway.
      (5)   Relationship with adjoining properties. The design of proposed land
developments governed by this section shall take into account potential effects
and impacts on adjacent properties. A landscaped buffer strip having a minimum
width of 20 feet shall be provided along the perimeter of the land development,
within which no campsites shall be located.
      (6)   Minimum acreage. The minimum size for a recreation vehicle park is
five acres, of which 10% shall be set aside and developed as common use areas
for open and unenclosed recreation facilities, which may include any required
buffer areas.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.158  IMPROVEMENTS.
   Where appropriate the applicant of any land development shall be required to
provide the following improvements, or a suitable guaranty pursuant to §§
155.029(C) and
155.030(A), and address at least the following:
   (A)   Streets and access roads, including, where applicable, parking areas,
driveways, curb cuts and traffic control devices;
   (B)   Utilities, including, where applicable, stormwater management
facilities, sanitary sewer facilities, water facilities, pumping facilities,
gas lines, electrical facilities, telephone and other utility facilities;
   (C)   Any proposed amenities including recreational facilities, meeting
facilities and screening and landscaping;
   (D)   Any other improvements which may be required for approval; and
   (E)   Procedures and mechanisms guaranteeing the perpetual private
maintenance of all improvements by the owner and/or operator of the facility.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.159  MINIMUM FACILITIES.
   (A)   At a minimum, land developments proposed under this subchapter shall
include certain facilities, depending upon the type of camping area planned.
      (1)   Camping areas intended to primarily serve the needs of overnight
tenting campers shall include toilet facilities.
      (2)   Camping areas intended to primarily serve the needs of overnight
camper, trailer and motor home users shall include the availability of electric
service to individual campsites, central travel trailer sanitary and water
stations and toilet facilities.
      (3)   Camping areas intended to serve as longer term destinations shall
include back-in parking at campsites, individual electric and water
connections, central travel trailer sanitation station and central toilet and
shower facilities.
   (B)   The above are minimal requirements, subject to more stringent
requirements imposed by the regulations of 25 Pa. Code Chapter 191 of the State
Department of Environmental Protection. The applicant may provide enhanced
facilities such as laundry, picnic, swimming and other facilities. The
applicant shall specify the manner in which all facilities are to be privately
maintained.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
FEES
§ 155.170  PAYMENT; ESTABLISHMENT.
   The following fees shall be paid by the developer, subdivides or his or her
agent to the township by check or money order:
   (A)   An application fee for preliminary plan review when such plan is
required. The fee shall be as established by resolution by the Board of
Supervisors;
   (B)   An application fee for final plan review, which fee shall be as
established by resolution by the Board of Supervisors;
   (C)   A fee for review of the plan by the County Planning Commission, in
accordance with its schedule of fees for review of sewage facilities planning
modules and applications for subdivisions and land developments;
   (D)   A financial security in the amount of 110% of the cost of proposed
required improvements if the completion of such improvements is to be delayed
as a condition of final approval (see §§
155.020 through
155.033);
   (E)   A final security for the maintenance of improvements for no more than
18 months from the date of their acceptance of dedication and not to exceed 15%
of their actual cost of installation (see §§
155.020 through
155.033);
   (F)   A fee for review of the plan or consultation by the Township Engineer;
   (G)   A fee for inspection or consultation by the Township Engineer of
required improvements;
   (H)   A fee for review or consultation by the township solicitor or other
professional consultant; and
   (I)   All fee disputes shall be submitted in writing and in accordance with
the provisions outlined in the State Municipalities Planning Code, as amended.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
RELIEF FROM REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.185  MODIFICATION MAY BE GRANTED.
   From time to time, a situation may arise where the standards of this chapter
cause an undue hardship or prove unreasonable in application. Faced with this
situation a modification or alteration of requirements can be granted from the
literal application of the standards; however, modifications cannot be contrary
to the public interest and must observe the basic purpose and intent of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.186  MODIFICATION TO BE MINIMUM REQUIRED.
   Assurance must be provided that any modification is absolutely necessary and
represents the minimum possible modification. Unusual physical circumstances
may involve minor adjustments in curve radii, street grade or slope, cul-de-sac
length or problems over the width of an existing right-of-way. In most cases,
minor design modifications will not jeopardize public safety.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.187  REQUEST FOR MODIFICATION.
   Any request must be submitted in writing, citing the specific provisions or
standards from which relief is requested, and should be part of the preliminary
or final plan submission. A request states in full the grounds and facts of
unreasonableness or hardship upon which the request is based, the provisions of
the ordinance involved and the exact alteration or modification necessary. A
record of the request should appear in the official minutes of the Township
Board of Supervisors. This record documents the reasons for the request, facts
of unreasonableness and any action taken on the request. Any relief approved
should represent the minimum or least possible modification of the standard.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
ADMINISTRATION, AMENDMENT AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.200  REVISION AND AMENDMENT.
   The Township Board of Supervisors may revise or amend in whole or in part
these regulations; provided, however, that the amendment thereof shall be
accomplished in accordance with the provisions of § 505 of the Act of July 31,
1968, Pub. L. No. 247 (53 P.S. § 10505) as supplemented and amended.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.201  MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Modified standards. The provisions of these regulations are the
minimum standards for the protection of the public welfare. The Township Board
of Supervisors reserves the right to modify or to extend these regulations as
may be necessary in the public interest.
   (B)   Waiver. If a majority of the Township Board of Supervisors feels that
this chapter causes undue hardship upon a particular subdivision, it may grant
a waiver, provided that it does not nullify the intent and purpose of this
chapter. In granting waivers, the Township Board of Supervisors may impose such
conditions as will, in its judgment, advance the achievement of the intent of
this chapter. The standards and requirements of these regulations may be
modified by the Township Board of Supervisors in the case of a plan or program
for complete community, new town, neighborhood, cluster subdivision or mobile
home park which in the judgment of the Township Board of Supervisors provides
adequate open and public spaces and improvements for circulation, recreation,
light, air and service needs of the tract when fully developed and populated
and which also provides such covenants or other legal provisions which will
assure conformity to and achievement of the development goals of the township.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.202  RECONSIDERATION AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Any subdividers aggrieved by a finding, decision or recommendation of
the Township Board of Supervisors may request and shall receive another
opportunity to appear before the Township Board of Supervisors to present
additional relevant information. This request shall be in writing within 30
days after the original date of action by the Township Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such appeal, the Township Board of Supervisors shall
hold a hearing after proper notification of all parties concerned and in a
manner prescribed by law.
   (C)   After such hearing, the Township Board of Supervisors may affirm or
reverse the original action of the Township Board of Supervisors by a recorded
vote and in the manner prescribed by law. The findings and reasons for the
disposition of the appeal shall be stated on the records of the Township Board
of Supervisors. Affirmative action shall authorize the subdividers to continue
application from the point at which it was interrupted.
   (D)   Any person aggrieved by action of the Board of Supervisors may appeal
within 30 days directly to the Court of Common Pleas of the county in
accordance with and in a manner prescribed by law.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.203  KEEPING OF RECORDS.
   (A)   The Township Board of Supervisors shall maintain a record of its
findings, decisions and recommendations relative to all subdivision plans filed
for review.
   (B)   Such records shall be made available to the public.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 155.999  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or permits a violation of this chapter, upon being
found liable thereof in a civil enforcement proceeding, shall pay a fine of not
more than $600 plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney’s fees,
incurred by the township in the enforcement of this chapter. Such fines shall
be determined by the officer of the township authorized to do so by the Board
of Supervisors. No judgment shall be imposed until the date of the
determination of the violation by the District Justice and/or court. If the
defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the township may
enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable rules of civil procedure. Each
day a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense. Further, the
appropriate officers or agents of the township are hereby authorized to seek
equitable relief, including injunction, to enforce compliance herewith.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 9-3-1996; Ord. 2-2011, passed 10-6-2011)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   AGRICULTURAL SECURITY AREA
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1-92     4-2-1992    Cable television franchise granted to Warner Cable
                     Communications, Inc.
                    
 
TABLE II:  AGRICULTURAL SECURITY AREA
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
8-94     10-4-1994   Creation of Agricultural Security Area within a portion of
                     Anti Township and setting out landowners
1-2005   3-3-2005    Amending Ord. 8-94 by adding landowners
1-2008   10-2-2008   Amending Ord. 8-94 by adding landowners
2-2009   8-6-2009    Amending Ord. 8-94 by adding landowners
3-2009   12-10-2009  Amending Ord. 8-94 by adding landowners
1-2011   2-3-2011    Amending Ord. 8-94 by adding landowners
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Pennsylvania Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes Annotated
References to Pennsylvania Code
References to 1987 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA STATUTES
References to P.S. Code Section
References to P.S.            Code Section
32 P.S. §§ 680.1—680.17   53.001,
                              53.005
32 P.S. §§ 693.1—693.27   53.133
                              51.03,
35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq.    54.41,
                              54.43
35 P.S. §§ 691.1—691.1001 54.40
                              54.03,
                              54.40,
                              54.41,
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.    54.43,
                              155.066,
                              155.072,
                              155.091
35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq. 54.49
35 P.S. §§ 6018.101—6018.154.49
35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 et seq. 150.01
40 P.S. § 638                91.01
43 P.S. §§ 40.1 et seq.     32.04
47 P.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.    110.02
53 P.S. §§ 30.51 et seq.    51.03
53 P.S. §§ 4000.101 et seq. 51.03
53 P.S. §§ 5601 et seq.     155.005
53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq. 33.085
                              33.001,
                              33.003,
                              33.026,
53 P.S. §§ 6924.101—6924.333.027,
                              33.042, 
                              33.043,
                              33.060
53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq.     33.024,
                              33.027
                              53.010,
53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.    155.003,
                              155.005,
                              155.135
53 P.S. § 10107              155.006
53 P.S. § 10503(1.1)         53.005
53 P.S. § 10505              155.200
53 P.S. § 10509              53.008
53 P.S. § 10510              53.008
53 P.S. § 10515.1            53.132
53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq.    10.99,
                              33.026
53 P.S. § 66529              Ch. 92,
                              152.02
53 P.S. § 66601              152.99
53 P.S. § 66601(a)           10.10
53 P.S. § 66601(a.1)         10.10
53 P.S. § 66601(c.1)         10.99
53 P.S. § 66601(c.1)(4)      152.99
53 P.S. § 66601(d)           10.01
53 P.S. § 66601(d)(2)        92.99
72 P.S. § 806                33.027
72 P.S. § 8102-D             33.027
75 P.S. §§ 7301 et seq.     71.99
                              
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES
 
References to Pa C.S.       Code Section
2 Pa.C.S.                   55.99
18 Pa.C.S. § 4903          90.08
18 Pa.C.S. § 4904          90.08
58 Pa.C.S. Ch. 85, Subch. F 33.061
                            
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES ANNOTATIONS
 
References to Pa C.S.A       Code Section
1 Pa.C.S.A. § 1937          33.086
52 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 8401 et seq33.069
65 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 701 et seq.155.005
                             70.01,
75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq.71.01,
                             71.09,
                             113.01
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902(a)      Ch. 72, Sch. V
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CODE
References to Pa. Code Code Section
References to Pa. Code          Code Section
25 Pa. Code Chapter 73          54.44
25 Pa. Code § 92a.2            53.005
25 Pa. Code Chapter 102         53.006,
                                151.03
                                53.058,
25 Pa. Code Chapter 105         53.087,
                                53.059
25 Pa. Code Chapter 106         53.087
25 Pa. Code Chapter 191         155.159
25 Pa. Code § 252              54.04
                                153.023,
34 Pa. Code                     153.065,
                                153.096
34 Pa. Code Chapter 401 et seq. 150.01
                                153.061,
34 Pa. Code Chapters 401—405  153.062,
                                153.065
                                
 
REFERENCES TO 1987 CODE
1987 Code Reference 2017 Code Reference
1987 Code Reference 2017 Code Reference
14-1                32.01
14-2                32.02
14-3                32.03
14-4                32.04
14-5                32.99
14-6                32.05
18-1                31.15
18-2                31.16
18-3                31.17
18-4                31.18
18-5                31.19
18-6                31.20
18-7                31.21
18-8                31.22
32-1                31.01
32-2                31.01
35-7                54.07
35-8                54.07
42-1                90.01
42-2                90.02
42-3                90.03
42-4                90.04
42-5                90.05
42-6                90.06
42-7                90.07
42-8                90.99
42-9                90.99
42-10               90.08
42-11               90.09
44-1                110.01
44-2                110.02
44-3                110.03
44-4                110.99
47-1                150.30
47-2                150.31
47-3                150.32
47-4                150.33
47-5                150.34
47-6                150.35
47-7                150.36
47-8                150.99
47-9                150.37
47-10               150.38
52-1                50.01
52-2                50.02
52-3                50.03
52-4                50.04
52-5                50.99
74-1                91.01
74-2                91.02
74-3                91.03
74-4                91.04
74-5                91.05
74-6                91.99
77-1                115.01
77-2                115.02
77-3                115.03
77-4                115.04
77-5                115.05
77-6                115.06
77-7                115.07
77-8                115.99
77-9                115.08
77-10               115.09
77-11               115.10
77-12               115.11
82-1                114.01
82-2                114.02
82-3                114.03
82-4                114.04
82-5                114.05
82-6                114.06
82-7                114.99
94-1                112.01
94-2                112.02
94-3                112.03
94-4                112.04
94-5                112.05
94-6                112.06
94-7                112.07
94-8                112.99
94-9                112.08
98-1                93.40
98-2                93.41
102-1               113.01
102-2               113.02
102-3               113.03
102-4               113.04
102-5               113.05
102-6               113.06
102-7               113.07
102-8               113.99
102-9               113.08
102-10              113.09
102-11              113.10
105-1               54.01
105-2               54.02
105-3               54.03
105-4               54.04
105-5               54.05
105-6               54.06
105-7               54.99
105-8               54.20
105-9               54.21
105-10              54.22
105-11              54.23
105-12              54.24
105-13              54.25
105-14              54.26
105-15              54.99
105-16              54.27
105-17              54.40
105-18              54.41
105-19              54.42
105-20              54.43
105-21              54.44
105-22              54.45
105-23              54.46
105-24              54.47
105-25              54.48
105-26              54.49
105-27              54.50
105-28              54.51
105-29              54.99
107-1               154.01
107-2               154.02
107-3               154.03
107-4               154.04
107-5               154.05
107-6               154.06
107-7               154.07
107-8               154.08,
                    154.99
108-1               93.01
108-2               93.02
108-3               93.03
108-4               93.04
108-5               93.05
108-7               93.20
108-8               93.21
108-9               93.22
108-10              93.23
108-11              93.24
108-12              93.25
108-13              93.26
108-14              93.27
108-15              93.99
114-33              33.001
114-34              33.002
114-35              33.003
114-36              33.999
114-37              33.004
114-38              33.005
114-38.1            33.006
114-39              33.020
114-40              33.021
114-41              33.022
114-42              33.023
114-43              33.024
114-44              33.999
114-45              33.025
114-46              33.026
114-47              33.040
114-48              33.041
114-49              33.042
114-50              33.043
114-51              33.044
114-52              33.045
114-53              33.046
114-54              33.047
114-55              33.048
114-56              33.049
119-1               70.01
119-2               70.02
119-3               70.03
119-4               70.04
119-5               70.05
119-6               70.06,
                    Ch. 72, Sch. I
119-7               70.07
119-8               70.08,
                    Ch. 72, Sch. VI
119-9               Ch. 72, Sch. II
119-10              Ch. 72, Sch. III
119-11              Ch. 72, Sch. IV
119-12              70.09,
                    Ch. 73, Sch. I
119-13              70.10
119-14              70.11
119-15              Ch. 72, Sch. V
119-16              Ch. 72, Sch. V
119-17              70.12
119-18              70.99
119-19              71.01
119-20              71.02
119-21              71.03
119-22              71.04
119-23              71.05
119-24              71.06
119-25              71.07
119-26              71.08
119-27              71.99
119-28              71.09
123-1               52.01
123-2               52.02
123-3               52.03
123-4               52.04
123-5               52.05
123-6               52.06
123-7               52.07
123-8               52.08
123-9               52.99
                    
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res.  No. Date Passed Code Section
8-2003    8-7-2003    30.02
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     33.020—
241      3-7-1960    33.026,
                     33.999
321      2-6-1962    33.001—
                     33.006
                     114.01—
39       2-8-1965    114.06,
                     114.99
                     70.01—
                     70.12,
2-70     2-24-1970   70.99, ,
                     Ch. 72, Sch. I—
                     Sch. V,
                     Ch. 73, Sch. I
                     50.01—
3-72     12-4-1972   50.04,
                     50.99
2-73A    11-5-1973   93.40,
                     93.41
                     93.01—
3-74     6-24-1974   93.05,
                     93.40
1-80     9-8-1980    93.40
                     32.01—
2-81     9-1-1981    32.05,
                     32.99
5-85     12-18-1985  31.01
1-86     1-6-1986    33.005
                     115.01—
77-8     4-28-1986   115.11,
                     115.99
                     113.01—
4-86     5-19-1986   113.10,
                     113.99
5-1986   5-19-1986   113.07
6-1986   8-5-1986    150.55—
                     150.62
13-86    12-2-1986   33.040—
                     33.049
                     33.002,
16-86    12-22-1986  33.004,
                     33.999
1-87     2-3-1987    33.044
                     32.99,
4-87     10-6-1987   50.99,
                     93.99,
                     114.99
5-87     11-4-1987   33.006
4-88     12-1-1988   Ch. 73, Sch. I
                     112.01—
4-90     7-3-1990    112.08,
                     112.99
5-90     8-7-1990    115.11
6-90     8-7-1990    115.06
7-90     8-7-1990    Ch. 72, Sch. II
8-90     10-2-1990   Ch. 72, Sch. I
1-91     3-5-1991    Ch. 72, Sch. V
                     150.15—
1-92     4-2-1992    150.17,
                     TSO I
5-93     12-7-1993   Ch. 72, Sch. V
                     154.01—
5-94     9-6-1994    154.08,
                     154.99
6-94     9-6-1994    93.20—
                     93.27
8-94     10-4-1984   TSO II
2-95     7-11-1995   Ch. 73, Sch. I
                     32.99,
                     50.99,
                     70.99,
                     93.99,
3-96     9-3-1996    112.99,
                     113.99,
                     114.99,
                     115.99,
                     154.99,
                     155.999
4-87     9-3-1996    115.99
                     50.99,
                     70.99,
1-97     6-2-1997    93.99,
                     114.99,
                     115.99,
                     154.99
3-97     12-18-1997  31.01
                     70.01—
                     70.12,
1-88     1-4-1998    70.99,
                     Ch. 72 Sch. I—
                     Sch. VI
1-98     1-15-1998   71.99,
                     Ch. 72 Sch. I
2-98     2-19-1998   Ch. 73, Sch. I
3-1998   5-21-1998   150.55—
                     150.62
4-98     6-2-1998    Ch. 73, Sch. I
3-99     3-18-1999   Ch. 72, Sch. I
                     150.30—
7-1999   8-3-1999    150.38,
                     150.99
8-99     10-21-1999  Ch. 72, Sch. I
                     71.01—
1-2000   3-6-2000    71.09,
                     71.99
4-2000   5-1-2000    115.05
3-2000   5-18-2000   Ch. 73, Sch. I
5-2000   5-18-2000   113.05
7-2000   10-6-2000   31.15—
                     31.22
8-2000   10-19-2000  150.55—
                     150.62
9-2000   12-21-2000  Ch. 72, Sch. II
2-2001   4-19-2001   Ch. 72, Sch. II
                     52.01—
3-2001   5-7-2001    52.08,
                     52.99
4-2001   7-19-2001   110.01—
                     110.03
5-2001   8-6-2001    Ch. 72, Sch. II
6-2001   8-6-2001    150.55—
                     150.62
                     90.01—
7-2001   9-5-2001    90.09,
                     90.99
9-2001   12-3-2001   Ch. 73, Sch. I
                     91.01—
3-2002   4-4-2002    91.05,
                     91.99
1-2003   1-6-2003    Ch. 72, Sch. V
5-2003   4-3-2003    Ch. 73, Sch. I
6-2003   7-3-2003    30.02
2-2004   3-4-2004    30.01
3-2004   7-1-2004    150.01
1-2005   3-3-2005    TSO II
                     92.01—
3-2005   6-2-2005    92.03,
                     92.99
4-2005   7-7-2005    Ch. 73, Sch. I
1-2006   9-7-2006    33.027
3-2006   11-2-2006   Ch. 72, Sch. V
                     152.01—
5-2006   12-7-2006   152.27,
                     152.99
1-2007   3-1-2007    150.55—
                     150.62
03-2007  8-2-2007    Ch. 72, Sch. VI
04-2007  8-2-2007    Ch. 72, Sch. VI
6-2007   11-1-2007   Ch. 72, Sch. I
7-2007   12-6-2007   Ch. 72, Sch. I
1-2008   10-2-2008   TSO II
1-2009   1-5-2009    Ch. 72, Sch. I
2-2009   8-6-2009    TSO II
3-2009   12-10-2009  TSO II
1-2010   3-4-2010    54.41,
                     54.44
                     55.01—
2-2010   11-4-2010   55.07,
                     55.99
1-2011   2-3-2011    TSO III
                     155.001—
                     155.006,
                     155.020—
                     155.033,
                     155.045—
                     155.051,
                     155.065—
                     155.076,
                     155.090,
                     155.091,
2-2011   10-6-2011   155.105—
                     155.120,
                     155.135—
                     155.138,
                     155.150—
                     155.159,
                     155.170,
                     155.185—
                     155.187,
                     155.200—
                     155.203,
                     155.999
                     151.01—
3-2011   10-8-2011   151.12,
                     151.99
                     53.001—
                     53.010,
                     53.025,
                     53.026,
                     53.040—
                     53.042,
                     53.055—
                     53.059,
                     53.070—
4-2011   10-8-2011   53.072,
                     53.085—
                     53.087,
                     53.100—
                     53.103,
                     53.115—
                     53.118,
                     53.130—
                     53.133,
                     53.999
5-2011   11-3-2011   33.085—
                     33.092
1-2012   2-2-2012    92.02
                     111.01—
1-2013   - -2013     111.07,
                     111.99
2-2013   6-6-2013    150.33
3-2013   9-5-2013    92.02
4-2013   9-5-2013    52.01
                     33.060—
5-2013   11-7-2013   33.072,
                     33.999
                     51.01—
3-2015   8-6-2015    51.07,
                     51.99
                     153.001—
                     153.007,
                     153.020—
                     153.030,
                     153.045—
                     153.049,
                     153.060—
1-2018   2-1-2018    153.066,
                     153.080—
                     153.083,
                     153.095,
                     153.096,
                     153.110,
                     153.111,
                     153.999
1-2020   12-3-2020   32.15—
                     32.21
                    
 
 
