BOROUGH OF APPLEWOLD, PENNSYLVANIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance 105, passed 7-9-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Approval, adoption, and title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation and definitions
   
10.03   Effect of code on previous provisions
   
10.04   Sections and ordinances repealed
   
10.05   Exemptions from repeal
   
10.06   Application to future ordinances
   
10.07   Changes and revisions in previously adopted ordinances
   
10.08   Interpretation of provisions
   
10.09   Headings, editor’s notes, statutory references
   
10.10   Filing copies of code
   
10.11   Amendments to the code; code books to be kept up-to-date
   
10.12   Severability
   
10.13   Reference to other sections
   
10.14   Errors and omissions
   
10.15   Sections histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Altering or tampering with the code; penalties for violation
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 APPROVAL, ADOPTION, AND TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to 8 Pa.C.S. §
3301.5, the codification of all ordinances of a permanent and general nature
for the Borough of Applewold, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, are approved, adopted, ordained, and enacted as
a single ordinance of the Borough of Applewold and shall be known and
designated as the Borough of Applewold Code, for which designation “code of
ordinances,” “codified ordinances,” or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural and
words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE. All departments and the personnel thereof
established by the Borough Code or ordinance.
      ADOPTING ORDINANCE. The ordinance of the Borough of Applewold adopting
the Codified Ordinances of Applewold Borough, Pennsylvania, in accordance with
the Borough Code of Pennsylvania.
      AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
      AUTHORITY. Whenever in this code, authority is given to an officer or an
act is required to be performed, the authority may be exercised and the act may
be performed, at the instance of the officer, by a deputy or subordinate,
unless contrary to law or to the clear intent of any particular provision.
      BOROUGH and MUNICIPALITY. The Borough of Applewold, Pennsylvania.
      BOROUGH CODE. Public Law 432, of 2014, No. 37, effective June 17, 2014,
being 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq., as amended.
      BUDGET. The annual budget of the borough.
      CALENDAR/COMPUTATION OF TIME. The terms MONTH and YEAR mean the CALENDAR
MONTH or YEAR.
         (a)   The time expressed in days within which an act is to be done or
a period is to expire shall be computed by excluding the first and including
the last day, unless the last day is a Sunday, in which case it shall be
excluded.
         (b)   If time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday shall be
excluded.
      CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION. The management of the execution of contracts
between the borough and any individual, partnership, association, corporation,
or governmental body.
      COUNCIL. The Council of the Borough of Applewold, Pennsylvania.
      COUNTY. The County of Armstrong, Pennsylvania.
      ENGINEER. The Engineer of the borough.
      KEEPER and PROPRIETOR. Persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs,
and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or
employee.
      LAND/REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
      LAW. All applicable laws and ordinances of the United States of America,
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and the County of Armstrong.
      MANAGER and BOROUGH MANAGER. The chief administrative officer as
appointed by the Borough Council.
      OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION. When an oath is required or authorized by
law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken by a person having
conscientious scruples about taking an OATH. An AFFIRMATION shall have the same
effect as an OATH.
      ORDINANCE. Any ordinance of the Borough of Applewold, including this
code.
      OWNER. When applied to property, includes a part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or any part of the property.
      PERSON. An individual, association, club, corporation, firm, partnership,
body politic, or any other legal entity.
      PREMISES. When used as applicable to property, extends to and includes
land and buildings.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property and any mixed and lesser
estates or interests therein. PERSONAL PROPERTY includes every kind of property
except REAL PROPERTY. REAL PROPERTY includes lands, tenements, and
hereditaments.
      REASONABLE TIME. In all cases where provision is made for and act to be
done or notice to be given within a REASONABLE TIME, it shall be deemed to mean
the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act or the
giving of the notice.
      SECRETARY and BOROUGH SECRETARY. An appointed position charged with the
responsibility for taking meeting minutes; recording and certifying ordinances;
attesting to the execution of documents; and is the custodian of borough
records and the borough seal. The BOROUGH SECRETARY shall not be a member of
the Borough Council and serves an indefinite term at the pleasure of the
Borough Council.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
      SOLICITOR. The Solicitor of the borough.
      STATE and COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      STREET. Alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, streets, state
highways, and other public ways in the borough.
      TENANT and OCCUPANT. As applied to buildings or land, shall extend and be
applied to any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the
whole or any part of, a building or land, alone or with others.
      TIME. Whenever any time established in the codified ordinances for the
taking of any action expires on a Sunday or legal holiday, the time shall not
expire on the day but shall expire on the next week day.
§ 10.03 EFFECT OF CODE ON PREVIOUS PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this code, insofar as they are substantially the same as
those of ordinances and resolutions in force immediately prior to the enactment
of this code, are intended as a continuation of the ordinances and resolutions,
and not as new enactments, and the effectiveness of the provisions shall date
from the date of adoption of the prior ordinance or resolution. All the
provisions are hereby continued in full force and effect and are hereby
reaffirmed as to their adoption by the Borough Council, and it is the intention
of the Borough Council that each provision contained within the code is hereby
reenacted and reaffirmed as it appears in the code.
§ 10.04 SECTIONS AND ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of
this code are hereby repealed.
§ 10.05 EXEMPTIONS FROM REPEAL.
   The repeal provided for in §
10.04 shall not affect the following ordinances, resolutions, rights and
obligations which are hereby expressly saved from repeal; provided, however,
that the repeal of ordinances or parts thereof in §
10.04, or the saving from repeal of ordinances or parts thereof pursuant to
this section, shall not be construed so as to revive an ordinance or part
thereof previously repealed, superseded, or no longer of any effect:
   (A)   Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing, before the adoption
of these codified ordinances;
   (B)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money by or to the borough, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the
borough, or any evidence of the borough’s indebtedness, or any contract or
obligation assumed by the borough;
   (C)   Any ordinance or resolution of Council not in conflict or inconsistent
with the provisions of these codified ordinances;
   (D)   Any right, license, or franchise conferred by any ordinance or
resolution of Council or any other person or corporation;
   (E)   Any ordinance establishing, naming, relocating, or vacating any street
or other public way;
   (F)   Any ordinance or part thereof providing for the establishment of
positions, for salaries or compensation;
   (G)   Any prosecution, suit, or other proceeding pending, or any judgment
rendered, on or prior to the adoption of these codified ordinances;
   (H)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes or assessments;
   (I)   Any ordinance establishing or changing the boundaries of the borough;
or
   (J)   Any ordinance or resolution adopted by Council after the adoption of
the codified ordinances.
§ 10.06 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I, compatible with future legislation, shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.07 CHANGES AND REVISIONS IN PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Nonsubstantive grammatical changes. In compiling and preparing the
ordinances and resolutions of the borough for adoption and revision as part of
the code, certain nonsubstantive grammatical and style changes were made in one
or more of the ordinances. It is the intention of the Borough Council that all
the changes be adopted as part of the code as if the ordinances and resolutions
so changed had been previously formally amended to read as such.
   (B)   Substantive changes and revisions. In addition to the changes and
revisions in division (A) above, changes and revisions of a substantive nature
are hereby made to various ordinances and resolutions included in the code.
These changes are enacted to bring provisions into conformity with the desired
policies of the Borough Council, and it is the intent of the Borough Council
that all the changes be adopted as part of the code as if the ordinances and
resolutions so changed have been previously formally amended to read as such.
All changes and revisions shall be deemed to be in effect as of the effective
date of this code.
§ 10.08 INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of the code, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare. Where the provisions of the
code impose greater restrictions or requirements than those of any state
statute, other ordinance, resolution, or regulation, the provisions of the code
shall control.
   (B)   Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance, resolution, or
regulation impose greater restrictions or requirements, the provisions of the
statute, other ordinance, resolution, or regulation shall control.
§ 10.09 HEADINGS, EDITOR’S NOTES, STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   Headings of titles, chapters, sections, and divisions in the code, or
in supplements to the code, are inserted into the code, and may be inserted
into the supplements to the code, for the convenience of persons using the code
and are not part of the legislation.
   (B)   Editors’s notes and/or statutory references indicating sources of
sections, giving other information or referring the statutes or to other parts
of the code are inserted in the code, and may be inserted in supplements to the
code, for the convenience of persons using the code and are not part of the
legislation.
§ 10.10 FILING COPIES OF CODE.
   Three copies of the code in a bound volume shall be filed with the ordinance
books in the office of the Borough Manager and shall remain there for use and
examination by the public. Upon adoption, the copies shall be certified to by
the Borough Manager, as provided by law, and the certified copies shall remain
on file in the office of the Borough Manager, available to persons desiring to
examine the same during all times while the code is in effect.
§ 10.11 AMENDMENTS TO THE CODE; CODE BOOKS TO BE KEPT UP-TO-DATE.
   (A)   Any and all additions, deletions, amendments or supplements to the
code, when passed and adopted so as to indicate the intention of Borough
Council to be a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into the code
so that the references in the code shall be understood and intended to include
the changes. When any and all additions, deletions, amendments, or supplements
to the code shall be adopted, they shall be printed and inserted in the bound
code book as amendments and supplements to it.
   (B)   (1)   The Borough Manager or someone authorized or directed by him or
her shall keep the certified copies of the code book, which are required to be
kept in the Borough Manager’s office for public use, up-to-date.
      (2)   All changes in the code, and all ordinances and resolutions adopted
subsequent to the effective date of this code, which the Borough Council
specifically adopts as part of the code, shall be included in the code book by
reference until the changes or new ordinances or resolutions are printed as
supplements to the code book and inserted into the code book.
§ 10.12 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any title, chapter, section, division, or part thereof of this code
now enacted or subsequently amended or its application to any person or
circumstances is held to be illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional by a court of
competent jurisdiction, that determination shall not affect, impair, or
invalidate the remainder thereof, but is confined in its operation and
application to the title, chapter, section, division, or part thereof
determined illegal, invalid or unconstitutional.
   (B)   It is the intent of the Borough Council to declare that this code
would have been adopted if the illegal, invalid or unconstitutional title,
chapter, section, division, or part thereof would not have been included.
§ 10.13 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.14 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.15 SECTIONS HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   (1)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and
passage date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are
listed following the text of the code section.
      (2)   Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord.
20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (65 P.S. § 67.101) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This code book consists of all ordinances and resolutions of the borough and
shall be known as the codified ordinances of the borough.
      Statutory reference:
   Authority to codify ordinances, see 65 P.S. §§
67.101 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the borough published in a previous year and subsequently
amended, the previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by
“(Prior Code, §      )”.
§ 10.16 ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH THE CODE; PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to improperly change or amend, by additions
or deletions, or to alter or tamper with the code or any part or portion
thereof, in any manner which will cause the law of the borough to be
misrepresented thereby. Anybody violating this section shall, upon conviction,
be punished by a fine not to exceed $600, plus costs of prosecution or
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days or both.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of
these codified ordinances, including a provision of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, and including a rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant to any provision of these codified ordinances
or of any technical or other code adopted in these codified ordinances by
reference, and including any order made under authority, express or implied, of
any provision of these codified ordinances or of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, having to do with building,
housing, property maintenance, health, fire, or public safety codes or
ordinances, or with water, air, or noise pollution violations, for which no
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both for each offense. Unless
otherwise stated, a separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
   (B)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of
these codified ordinances, including a provision of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, and including a rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant to any provision of these codified ordinances
or of any technical or other code adopted in these codified ordinances by
reference, and including any order made under authority, express or implied, of
any provision of these codified ordinances or of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $600 or imprisoned not more
than 90 days, or both, for each offense. Unless otherwise stated, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (C)   The penalty provided for herein shall be in addition to any fee,
deposit, charge, surcharge, interest, insurance, or bond requirement or
equitable remedy provided in these codified ordinances, or in any standard,
technical, or other code adopted by reference in these codified ordinances, or
in any rule or regulation promulgated under authority of the standard,
technical, or other code adopted by reference in these codified ordinance, or
under authority of any other provision of these codified ordinances, or under
authority of state law.
Statutory reference:
   Collection of penalties, amounts, prosecution of violators, disposition of
fines,
    see 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 3321 to 3324
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOROUGH COUNCIL
      
31.   BOROUGH OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND
                           ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: BOROUGH COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Time and place of Council meeting
Municipal Authority
   
30.15   Intent
   
30.16   Articles of incorporation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 TIME AND PLACE OF COUNCIL MEETING.
   The regular meetings of the Borough Council shall convene in the Municipal
Building at a time and date to be set by the Council during the first meeting
of each year.
MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY
§ 30.15 INTENT.
   The borough hereby signifies its intention to organize an Authority under 53
Pa.C.S. §§ 5601 et seq., and its amendments.
(Prior Code, § 1-501) (Ord. 54, passed 11-17-1964)
§ 30.16 ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION.
   The Mayor and Borough Secretary are hereby authorized and directed to
execute and file, on behalf of the said borough and under its seal, articles of
incorporation for said Authority in substantially the following form:
   Articles of Incorporation
To the Secretary of the Commonwealth, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   In compliance with the requirements of 53 Pa.C.S. §§ 5601 et seq., as
amended, the Council of the Borough of Applewold, County of Armstrong,
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, desiring to organize an Authority thereunder,
does hereby certify:
   1. The name of the Authority is “Applewold Municipal Authority.”
   2. Said Authority is formed under the Act of May 2, 1945, P.L. 382, as
amended and supplemented.
   3. No other Authority organized under the said Act of May 2, 1945, as
amended, or by an previous Act of Assembly on authorizing and regulating
municipal authorities, is in existence in or for the incorporating
municipality, the Borough of Applewold, County of Armstrong, Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
   4. The name of the incorporating municipality is the Borough of Applewold
and the names and addresses of its municipal authorities are as follows:
   5. The names, addresses, and terms of office of the first members of the
Board of Said Authority are as follows:
   6. The project or projects to be undertaken by said Authority shall be
projects permitted and authorized by the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania as the Council of the Borough of Applewold may be from time to
time, by resolution or ordinance, specify.
 
(Prior Code, § 1-502) (Ord. 54, passed 11-17-1964)
CHAPTER 31: BOROUGH OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Secretary/Treasurer
   
31.02   Auditor
   
31.03   Police Department
Firefighters’ Relief Association
   
31.15   Association recognized
   
31.16   Association to receive funds
   
31.17   Appropriations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 SECRETARY/TREASURER.
   The Borough Council hereby authorizes that the offices of Secretary and of
Treasurer of the borough may be held by the same person.
(Prior Code, § 1-201) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 31.02 AUDITOR.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this section, all of the accounts
of the borough for this year and all subsequent years shall be audited by an
independent Auditor appointed each year by the Borough Council.
   (B)   Such Auditor shall be a certified public accountant or firm of
certified public accountants registered in the commonwealth.
   (C)   Such auditor shall be appointed annually by resolution of the Borough
Council at least 30 days prior to the close of the fiscal year to make an
independent examination of all the accounts and accounting records of the
borough for the fiscal year then closing.
   (D)   The compensation to be paid such Auditor shall be fixed by the Borough
Council.
(Ord. 98, 2012, passed 10-9-2012)
§ 31.03 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The borough shall enter into a written agreement with the Township of
East Franklin, terminating the Joint Police Department Agreement dated June 25,
1981, and the President of Council is hereby authorized, empowered, and
directed to make, execute, and deliver the same, and the Secretary of the
borough is hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to affix the borough seal
thereunto, and attest the same.
   (B)   Upon execution and delivery of said agreement, the borough does hereby
revoke its delegation to the West Hills Regional Police Commission of all of
the lawful functions, powers, and responsibilities of the borough relative to
police protection and the establishment, maintenance, and operation of a police
force, and it does hereby create the Police Department and the borough.
   (C)   Dissolution of the West Hills Regional Police District and Police
Force shall thereafter proceed in accordance with the terms and conditions of
the Joint Police Department Agreement dated June 25, 1981, to all intents and
purposes as if the original term thereof had expired without renewal.
(Prior Code, § 1-301) (Ord. 85, passed 1-4-1983)
FIREFIGHTERS’ RELIEF ASSOCIATION
§ 31.15 ASSOCIATION RECOGNIZED.
   The Applewold Firefighters’ Relief Association be and it is hereby
officially recognized by the Borough Council as an organization formed for the
purpose of maintaining an association for beneficial and protective purposes to
its members and their families in case of death, sickness, temporary or
permanent disability, or accident, from the funds collected therein.
(Prior Code, § 1-401) (Ord. 21, passed 12-8-1941)
§ 31.16 ASSOCIATION TO RECEIVE FUNDS.
   The aforesaid Applewold Firefighters’ Relief Association be and is hereby
designated by the Borough Council as the proper association to receive such
funds as are due and payable to the Borough Treasury to the Treasurer of the
state, from the 2% tax on premiums from foreign fire insurance companies.
(Prior Code, § 1-402) (Ord. 21, passed 12-8-1941)
§ 31.17 APPROPRIATIONS.
   There is hereby annually appropriated from the Borough Treasury all such sum
or sums of money that may hereafter be paid into the aforesaid Borough Treasury
by the Treasurer of the state on account of taxes paid on premiums by foreign
fire insurance companies in pursuance to an act of assembly in such case made
and provided.
(Prior Code, § 1-403) (Ord. 21, passed 12-8-1941)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
Municipal Services Fee
   
32.001   Definitions
   
32.002   Fee assessed
   
32.003   Fee set
   
32.004   Increase/decrease amount of fees
   
32.005   Allocation of fees
   
32.006   Late payment charges
   
32.007   Debts recoverable
   
32.008   Billing due date
Per Capita Tax
   
32.020   Levy
   
32.021   Collection
   
32.022   Bond
   
32.023   Warrant for collection
   
32.024   Compensation/Tax Collector
   
32.025   Notice tax due
   
32.026   Names to be added
   
32.027   Tax Collector; powers and duties
   
32.028   Amount of revenues
   
32.029   Reenactment
Earned Income/Net Profits Tax
   
32.040   Title
   
32.041   Definitions
   
32.042   Tax rate
   
32.043   Income Tax Officer
   
32.044   Taxpayers’ returns and payments
   
32.045   Employers’ collections and returns
   
32.046   Examination of records
   
32.047   Confidential information
   
32.048   Interest and penalty
   
32.049   Legal action
   
32.050   Expenses
   
32.051   Limitation
   
32.052   Effective date
Realty Transfer Tax
   
32.065   Short title
   
32.066   Authority for enactment
   
32.067   Definitions
   
32.068   Imposition of tax
   
32.069   Exempt parties
   
32.070   Transactions excluded from imposition of tax
   
32.071   Imposition of tax on documents relating to associations or
corporations and members, partners, stockholders, or shareholders thereof
   
32.072   Acquired company
   
32.073   Credits against tax
   
32.074   Extension of lease
   
32.075   Proceeds of judicial sale
   
32.076   Duties of the Recorder of Deeds
   
32.077   Statement of value
   
32.078   Civil penalties
   
32.079   Imposition of lien
   
32.080   Enforcement
   
32.081   Regulations
   
32.999   Penalty
MUNICIPAL SERVICES FEE
§ 32.001 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MUNICIPAL SERVICES. Any service provided by the borough for the benefit of
public health, safety, or welfare, including, but not limited to, police or
fire protection, emergency services, and code enforcement.
   RESIDENCE. A private dwelling capable of housing of one family unit
including, but not limited to, an individual home or an apartment unit.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. A facility used for the long-term residential care of
elderly or infirm individuals.
(Ord. 105, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 32.002 FEE ASSESSED.
   There is hereby levied and assessed upon each residence in the borough a fee
or charge to help defray the cost and expense of municipal services.
(Ord. 105, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 32.003 FEE SET.
   The fee or charge levied and assessed in §
32.002 herein shall be $10 per month per residence, or $10 per month for every
four beds in a residential facility.
(Ord. 105, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 32.004 INCREASE/DECREASE AMOUNT OF FEES.
   By resolutions duly adopted by Council of the borough, the amount of the fee
or charge established herein may, from time to time, be increased or decreased;
provided however, that such increase or decrease shall not apply to services
already rendered, but shall be prospective only.
(Ord. 105, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 32.005 ALLOCATION OF FEES.
   All fees or charges levied and assessed by or pursuant to this subchapter
and its supplements and amendments are imposed for the provision of municipal
services such as police patrols, fire and emergency services, and code
enforcement for the borough and shall be charged and periodically billed to and
collected from the owners of residences served.
(Ord. 105, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 32.006 LATE PAYMENT CHARGES.
   All fees or charges imposed under this subchapter remaining unpaid after
they have become due shall incur a penalty in the amount of $2 per month for
each month or fraction thereof that said fee or charge remains unpaid and
delinquent beyond 30 days after the date of billing.
(Ord. 105, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 32.007 DEBTS RECOVERABLE.
   All fees or charges, penalties, and interest imposed by or pursuant to this
subchapter and its supplements and amendments shall be recoverable for the
borough by its Solicitor as debts of like amounts are, by law, recoverable, or
in any other manner provided by law for the collection of a municipal claim.
(Ord. 105, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 32.008 BILLING DUE DATE.
   (A)   All fees or charges imposed by or pursuant to this subchapter and its
supplements and amendments shall be billed for and collected monthly and shall
be paid by the eighteenth date of the month when billing is made.
   (B)   Nonpayment beyond such period shall render the same delinquent.
(Ord. 105, passed 7-9-2024)
PER CAPITA TAX
§ 32.020 LEVY.
   An annual per capita tax of $10 for general borough purposes is hereby
levied and assessed under the authority of the Act of Assembly approved
December 31, 1965, being Act 511, known as the Local Tax Enabling Act, and its
supplements and amendments, upon each resident or inhabitant of the borough
over the age of 18 years, which tax shall be in addition to all other taxes
levied and assessed by the said borough pursuant to any other laws of the
commonwealth.
(Prior Code, § 24-101) (Ord. 60, passed 1-8-1968)
§ 32.021 COLLECTION.
   Every year, such tax shall be collected by the duly elected or appointed Tax
Collector of the borough in the same manner and at the same time as other
borough taxes are collected, as provided by the Local Tax Collection Law of
1945, as amended and supplemented, and his or her books, accounts, and records
pertaining to this tax shall be audited, adjusted, and settled in the manner
prescribed by law for the auditing, adjusting, and settling of accounts of
persons receiving or expending funds of the borough.
(Prior Code, § 24-102) (Ord. 60, passed 1-8-1968)
§ 32.022 BOND.
   Every year, the Tax Collector shall give bond secured and conditioned for
the collection and payment of such taxes as provided by law for other borough
taxes.
(Prior Code, § 24-103) (Ord. 60, passed 1-8-1968)
§ 32.023 WARRANT FOR COLLECTION.
   Every year, the entry of the per capita tax in the tax duplicates and the
issuance of such duplicate to the Tax Collector shall constitute his or her
warrant for the collection of the per capita tax hereby levied and assessed.
(Prior Code, § 24-104) (Ord. 60, passed 1-8-1968)
§ 32.024 COMPENSATION/TAX COLLECTOR.
   Every year, the expense of collection and compensation of the Tax Collector
shall be paid and allowed as provided in the Local Tax Collection Law of 1945,
as amended and supplemented, which compensation shall be the same as shall be
fixed from time to time for the collection of other borough taxes.
(Prior Code, § 24-105) (Ord. 60, passed 1-8-1968)
§ 32.025 NOTICE TAX DUE.
   Every year, the Tax Collector shall give notice to the taxpayers of the
amount of per capita tax due under this subchapter, at the same time and in the
same manner as provided by the Local Tax Collection Law of 1945, as amended and
supplemented.
(Prior Code, § 24-106) (Ord. 60, passed 1-8-1968)
§ 32.026 NAMES TO BE ADDED.
   In case the Tax Collector shall at any time find within the borough any
resident or inhabitant above the age of 18 years whose name does not appear
upon the tax duplicate for that year, he or she shall report the name of such
person forthwith to the Assessor, who shall thereupon certify the same unto the
Borough Council, which shall promptly certify the same to the Tax Collector
reporting such name, whereupon the Tax Collector shall add such name and the
assessment of this per capita tax against such person to the duplicate of the
borough, and shall proceed to collect the same.
(Prior Code, § 24-107) (Ord. 60, passed 1-8-1968)
§ 32.027 TAX COLLECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Every year, the Tax Collector shall give notice to the taxpayers,
shall have the power to collect said taxes by distress, shall have the power
and authority to demand and receive said tax from the employer of any person
owing any per capita tax, shall remit such taxes to the Borough Treasurer by
separate statement at the same time as other taxes are remitted to the borough,
shall allow discounts and add penalties, shall generally be subject to all the
duties, and shall have all the rights and authority conferred upon him or her
by the Local Tax Collection Law of 1945, as amended and supplemented.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be the intent of the Borough Council, in
enacting this subchapter, to confer upon the Tax Collector, in the collection
of this per capita tax, all the powers, together with all the duties and
obligations, to the same extent and as fully provided for in the Local Tax
Collection Law of 1945, as amended and supplemented.
(Prior Code, § 24-108) (Ord. 60, passed 1-8-1968)
§ 32.028 AMOUNT OF REVENUE.
   The total amount of revenue to be raised annually by this subchapter is
$1,000.
(Prior Code, § 24-109) (Ord. 60, passed 1-8-1968)
§ 32.029 REENACTMENT.
   This subchapter reenacts without substantial change the ordinance imposing a
per capita tax for the year 1967 under the Act of Assembly No. 511 approved
December 31, 1965, known as the Local Tax Enabling Act, as supplemented and
amended, and therefore, this subchapter shall be effective January 1, 1968. The
tax levied hereunder shall be imposed for the year 1968 and for every calendar
year thereafter, without annual reenactment of this subchapter, until the rate
of tax is subsequently changed or until repealed.
(Prior Code, § 24-110) (Ord. 60, passed 1-8-1968)
EARNED INCOME/NET PROFITS TAX
§ 32.040 TITLE.
   The title of this subchapter shall be the “Earned Income Tax of the Borough
of Applewold.”
(Prior Code, § 24-301) (Ord. 74, passed 12-5-1977)
§ 32.041 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. In this
subchapter, the singular shall include the plural and the masculine shall
include the feminine and the neuter.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise owned by two or more persons.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, profession, or undertaking of any nature
conducted for profit, whether by an individual, co-partnership, association, or
other entity.
   CORPORATION. Any corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States of America, the commonwealth, or any other state,
territory, or foreign country of dependency.
   EARNED INCOME. Salaries, wages, commissions, bonuses, incentive payments,
fees, tips, and other compensation received by a person or his or her personal
representative for services rendered, whether directly or through an agent, and
whether in cash or in property, not including, however, wages or compensation
paid to persons on active military service, periodic payments for sickness and
disability other than regular wages received during a period of sickness,
disability, or retirement or payments arising from workers’ compensation acts,
occupational disease acts, and retirement pay or pensions paid to persons
retired from service after reaching a specific age or after a stated period of
employment or payments commonly known as public assistance, or unemployment
compensation payments made by any governmental agency or payments to reimburse
expenses of payments made by employers or labor unions for wage and salary
supplemental programs, including, but not limited to, programs covering
hospitalization, sickness, disability, or death, supplemental unemployment
benefits, strike benefits, Social Security, and retirement.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, individual, co-partnership, association, corporation,
governmental body of unit or agency, or any other entity who or which employ
one or more persons on a salary, wage, commission, or other compensation basis.
   INCOME TAX OFFICER or TAX OFFICER. The person, public employee, or private
agency designated by the Council of the borough to collect and administer the
tax on earned income and net profits.
   NET PROFIT. The net income from the operation of a business, profession, or
other activity, except corporations, after provisions for all costs and
expenses incurred in the conduct thereof, determined either on a cash basis or
accrual basis in accordance with the accounting system used in such business,
profession, or other activity, but without deduction of taxes based on income.
   PERSON.
      (1)   Includes a natural person, an individual, co-partnerships,
associations, corporations, firms, or fiduciaries.
      (2)   Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the
term PERSON, as applied to associations, shall mean the partners or members
thereof and, as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers thereof.
   RESIDENT. A person, co-partnership, association, or other entity domiciled
in the borough.
   TAXPAYER. A person, co-partnership, association, or other entity required
hereunder to file a return on earned income or net profits, or pay a tax
return.
(Prior Code, § 24-302) (Ord. 74, passed 12-5-1977)
§ 32.042 TAX RATE.
   The following taxes are hereby imposed for the general borough purposes,
under the authority of the Act of December 31, 1965, P.L. 1257 (53 P.S. §§
6924.101 et seq.), known as the Local Tax Enabling Act:
   (A)   One percent of all compensation paid after January 1, 1978, to
residents;
   (B)   One percent of all compensation paid after January 1, 1978, to
nonresidents for work done or services rendered in the borough;
   (C)   One percent of the net profits earned after January 1, 1978, of
businesses, professions, and other activities conducted by residents; and
   (D)   One percent of all net profits earned after January 1, 1978, of
businesses, professions, and other activities conducted in the borough by
nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 24-303) (Ord. 74, passed 12-5-1977)
§ 32.043 INCOME TAX OFFICER.
   (A)   The Tax Officer is hereby designated receiver of the taxes imposed by
this subchapter. He or she shall be bonded by a good and reliable bonding
company at all times for all money coming into his or her hands for borough
purposes under this subchapter, the cost of which bonds shall be paid by the
borough. He or she shall collect and receive all such tax, shall furnish a
receipt for their payment, and shall keep a record showing the amount received
by him or her from each taxpayer under this subchapter and the date of the
receipt of such payment.
   (B)   The Tax Officer, with the approval of the Borough Council, is hereby
empowered to prescribe rules and regulations relating to any matter or thing
pertaining to the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this
subchapter. Such rules and regulations shall be inscribed by the Borough
Secretary into a book kept for that purpose and open to the inspection of the
public. Such rules and regulations shall have the same force and effect as if
they had been incorporated into this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 24-304) (Ord. 74, passed 12-5-1977)
§ 32.044 TAXPAYERS’ RETURNS AND PAYMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every person whose earnings or net profits are subject to any
tax imposed by this subchapter shall, on or before April 15 of each year make
and file a return with the receiver of the taxes imposed by this subchapter for
the preceding calendar year. Such return shall be filed on forms prescribed by
the Borough Solicitor, furnished at the expense of the borough, and obtainable
from the receiver of the taxes.
      (2)   (a)   The information on such return shall include:
            1.   The name of the taxpayer;
            2.   His or her place of employment or business;
            3.   The aggregate amount of compensation paid to him or her or net
profits earned by him or her during the preceding calendar year;
            4.   The amount of tax due to the borough under this subchapter;
and
            5.   The amount of tax on salaries, wages, commissions, and other
compensation or net profits paid by such taxpayer for the period covered by
such return to any other political subdivision of the commonwealth, including
the Armstrong School District, together with such other pertinent information
as may be required.
         (b)    Provided, however, that where a return is made for a fiscal
year or for any other period different from a calendar year, such return shall
be made within 75 days after the close of such fiscal year.
   (B)   (1)   The person making such return shall, at the time of filing
thereof, pay to the receiver of the taxes the amount of tax shown thereon, less
any credit of tax withheld by any employer from compensation earned, less any
credits and deductions allowed pursuant to the Act of December 31, 1965, P.L.
1257 (53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq.) known as the Local Tax Enabling Act, for
payment for any concurrent period of a like tax to any political subdivision of
this commonwealth by any resident of such political subdivision. Provided
however, that any taxpayer, other than those from whom the entire tax imposed
by this subchapter shall have been withheld by his or her employers from
compensation earned, shall make and file with the receiver of taxes, on forms
prescribed by him or her, a quarterly return on or before April 30 of the
current calendar year, July 31 of the current year, October 31 of the current
year, and January 31 of the succeeding calendar year, setting forth the
aggregate amount of compensation earned or net profits not subject to
withholding by him or her during the three-month periods ending March 31 of the
current year, June 30 of the current year, September 30 of the current year,
and December 31 of the current year, respectively and subject to the tax,
together with such other information as the receiver of taxes may require.
      (2)   Every taxpayer making such return shall, at the time of filing
thereof, pay to the officer the amount of taxes shown as due thereon for each
quarter. Provided further, that in any case where the sole income of any person
subject to any tax under this subchapter is in the form of compensation paid by
an employer and where the entire tax due by any employee shall have been
withheld by his or her employer and return thereof made to the receiver of the
taxes, such employee shall not be required to file a return thereof. However,
if such employee shall be a nonresident of the borough and shall also be
subject to a like tax imposed by any political subdivision within this
commonwealth of which he or she is a resident, such employee shall file a
return with the receiver of taxes, who is hereby authorized to refund such
employee any difference to which he or she shall be entitled under the
provisions of § 5 of the Act of December 31, 1965, P.L. 1257 (53 P.S. §§
6924.101 et seq.), known as the Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Prior Code, § 24-305) (Ord. 74, passed 12-5-1977)
§ 32.045 EMPLOYERS’ COLLECTIONS AND RETURNS.
   (A)   Every employer within the borough shall deduct, monthly or more
frequently than monthly, at the time of payment of compensation due by him,
her, or them to an employee, the tax of 1% of the amount of compensation for
such period.
   (B)   Such employer shall, quarterly, make a return and pay over to the
receiver of the taxes the amount of tax deducted, or the balance of any tax
deducted and not previously, during such quarter, remitted to the receiver of
the tax. Such quarterly returns shall be filed and the tax due therewith paid
over on or before April 30 of the current year, July 31 of the current year,
October 31 of the current year, and January 31 of the succeeding year, for
taxes deducted during the preceding three-months periods ending March 31 of the
current year, June 30 of the current year, September 30 of the current year,
and December 31 of the current year, respectively. Such return shall be on a
form furnished by or obtainable from the receiver of the taxes, and shall set
forth:
      (1)   The total amount of compensation paid by each employer during such
quarter;
      (2)   The amount of tax withheld;
      (3)   Previous remittances, if any, to the receiver of the taxes for the
said quarter; and
      (4)   The balance remitted herewith.
   (C)   On or before February 28 of each year, there shall be filed an annual
return, which shall be on a form furnished by and obtainable from the receiver
of the taxes, and shall set forth the name and residence of each employee of
such employer during all or part of the preceding calendar year, and any other
pertinent information that may be required. Provided, however, that the failure
of omission by any employer located either within or outside of the borough, to
deduct such tax and to make such return to the receiver of taxes shall not
relieve an employee from the payment of such tax and the compliance with such
regulations, with respect to making returns and the payment thereof, as may be
established under this subchapter. Every employee who discontinues business
prior to December 31 of the current year shall, within 30 days after the
discontinuance of business, file the returns and withholding statements
required and pay the tax due.
(Prior Code, § 24-306) (Ord. 74, passed 12-5-1977) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.046 EXAMINATION OF RECORDS.
   (A)   The Tax Officer or any other person designated by the Council for the
purpose is hereby authorized to examine any of the books, papers, and records
of the employer or supposed employer of any taxpayer or supposed taxpayer in
order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made, to
ascertain the amount of tax due by any person under this subchapter. Every such
employer or supposed employer or taxpayer or supposed taxpayer is hereby
directed and required to give to the Tax Officer or other authorized person the
means, facilities, and opportunity for such examinations and investigations as
are hereby authorized.
   (B)   The Tax Officer is hereby authorized to examine any person under oath
concerning any income which was or should have been returned for taxation and
to this end, the Borough Council may compel the production of books, records,
and papers and the attendance of all persons before such Tax Officer, whether
as parties or as witnesses, whom the Tax Officer believes to have knowledge of
such income.
(Prior Code, § 24-307) (Ord. 74, passed 12-5-1977)
§ 32.047 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Any information gained by the Tax Officer or any other official or agent of
the borough as a result of any return, investigation, hearing, or verification
required or authorized by this subchapter shall be confidential, except for
official purposes, and except in accordance with proper judicial order and or
as otherwise provided by law. Any disclosure of any information, contrary to
the provisions of this section, shall constitute a violation of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 24-308) (Ord. 74, passed 12-5-1977) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.048 INTEREST AND PENALTY.
   All taxes imposed under this subchapter remaining unpaid after they shall
have become due shall bear interest in addition to the amount of the unpaid tax
at the rate of 6% per annum, and the person against whom such tax is imposed
shall be further liable to a penalty of 0.5% of the amount of the unpaid tax
for each month or fraction of a month of nonpayment.
(Prior Code, § 24-309) (Ord. 74, passed 12-5-1977)
§ 32.049 LEGAL ACTION.
   All taxes imposed by this subchapter, together with all penalties, interest,
and costs, shall be recoverable by the Tax Officer or Borough Solicitor as
debts of like amounts are by law recoverable.
(Prior Code, § 24-310) (Ord. 74, passed 12-5-1977)
§ 32.050 EXPENSES.
   All expenses incurred in the administration of this subchapter shall be paid
by the borough. The receiver of the taxes imposed by this subchapter shall
receive such compensation for his or her services and expenses as the Council
may direct by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 24-312) (Ord. 74, passed 12-5-1977)
§ 32.051 LIMITATION.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any person or property as to whom or
which it is beyond the legal powers of the borough to impose the tax or duties
herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 24-313) (Ord. 74, passed 12-5-1977)
§ 32.052 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall go into effect on January 1, 1978, and the tax levied
hereunder shall continue in force annually on a calendar year basis without
annual reenactment.
(Prior Code, § 24-314) (Ord. 74, passed 12-5-1977)
REALTY TRANSFER TAX
§ 32.065 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Applewold Borough Realty Transfer Tax
Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 401) (Ord. 90, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 32.066 AUTHORITY FOR ENACTMENT.
   This subchapter is authorized by Article XI-D “Local Real Estate Transfer
Tax,” 72 P.S. §§ 8101-D et seq., and is administered, collected, and enforced
under the Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. §§
6924.101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 402) (Ord. 90, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 32.067 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise owned or conducted by two or more persons other than
a private trust or decedent’s estate.
   CORPORATION. A corporation, joint stock association, business trust, or
banking institution which is organized under the laws of this commonwealth of
the United States, or any other state, territory, foreign country, or
dependency.
   DOCUMENT. Any deed, instrument, or writing, whereby any lands, tenements, or
hereditaments situated wholly or in part within the borough, or any interest
therein, shall be claimed, rented, bargained, sold, transferred, demised,
vested, confirmed, or otherwise conveyed to a grantee purchaser, or any other
person; provided however, that the term DOCUMENT does not include wills,
mortgages, deeds of trust, or other instruments of like character given as
security for a debt, and deeds of release thereof to the debtor, land contracts
whereby legal title does not pass to the grantee until the total consideration
specified in the consideration is payable over a period of time exceeding 30
years, or instruments which solely grant, vest, or confirm a public utility
easement.
   FAMILY FARM CORPORATION. A corporation of which at least 75% of its assets
are devoted to the business of agriculture, and at least 75% of each class of
stock of the corporation is continuously owned by members of the same family.
The BUSINESS OF AGRICULTURE shall not be deemed to include:
      (1)   Recreational activities such as, but not limited to, hunting,
fishing, camping, skiing, show competition, or racing;
      (2)   The raising, breeding, or training of game animals or game birds,
fish, cats, dogs, or pets, or animals intended for use in sporting or
recreational activities;
      (3)   Fur farming;
      (4)   Stockyard and slaughter house operations; or
      (5)   Manufacturing or processing operations of any kind.
   MEMBERS OF THE SAME FAMILY. Any individual, such individual’s brothers and
sisters, the brothers and sisters of such individual’s parents and
grandparents, the ancestors and lineal descendants of any of the foregoing, the
spouse of any of the foregoing, and the estate of any of the foregoing.
Individuals related by half-blood or legal adoption shall be treated as if they
were related by the whole blood.
   PERSON. A natural person, association, or corporation. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a fine or imprisonment, the term PERSON, as
applied to associations, shall include the responsible members or general
partners thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   REAL ESTATE.
      (1)   All lands, tenements, or hereditaments within the borough
including, without limitation, buildings, structures, fixtures, mines,
minerals, oil, gas, quarries, spaces with or without upper or lower boundaries,
trees or other improvements, and immoveables or interests which by custom,
usage, or law pass with a conveyance of land, but excluding permanently
attached machinery and equipment in an industrial plant.
      (2)   A condominium unit.
      (3)   A tenant-stockholder’s interest in a cooperative housing
corporation, trust, or association, under a proprietary lease or occupancy
agreement.
   REAL ESTATE COMPANY. A corporation or association which is primarily engaged
in the business of holding, selling, or leasing real estate, 90% or more of the
ownership interest in which is held by 35 or fewer persons, and which:
      (1)   Derives 60% or more of the annual gross receipt from the ownership
or disposition of real property; or
      (2)   Holds real estate, the value of which comprises 90% or more of the
value of its entire tangible asset holdings, exclusive of tangible assets which
are freely transferable and actively traded on an established market.
   TITLE TO REAL ESTATE.
      (1)   Any interest in real estate which endures for a period of time, the
termination of which is not fixed or ascertained by a specific number of years,
including, without limitation, an estate in fee simple, life estate, or
perpetual leasehold.
      (2)   Any interest in real estate enduring for a fixed period of years,
but which either by reason of the length of the term, or the grant of a right
to extend the term by renewal or otherwise, consists of a group of rights
approximating those of an estate in fee simple, life estate, or perpetual
leasehold, including, without limitation, a leasehold interest or possessory
interest under a lease or occupancy agreement for a term of 30 years or more,
or a leasehold interest or possessory interest in real estate in which the
lessee has equity.
   TRANSACTION. The making, executing, delivering, accepting, or presenting for
recording of a document.
   VALUE.
      (1)   In the case of any bona fide sale of real estate at arms length, as
evidenced by any document granting, bargaining, selling, or otherwise conveying
any land, tenement, or hereditament, or interest therein, the amount of the
actual consideration therefor, including liens or other encumbrances thereon,
or a commensurate part of the liens or other encumbrances thereof, where such a
lien or encumbrance also encumbers other lands, tenements, or hereditaments,
whether or not the underlying indebtedness is assumed, and ground rents or a
commensurate part thereof which such liens or other encumbrances and ground
rents also encumber or are charged against other real estate; provided that,
where such documents shall set forth a small or nominal consideration, the
VALUE thereof shall be determined from the price set forth in or actual
consideration for the contract of sale.
      (2)   In the case of a gift, sale by execution upon a judgment, or upon
foreclosure of a mortgage by a judicial officer, transactions without
consideration, or for consideration less than the actual monetary worth of the
real estate, a taxable lease and occupancy agreement, a leasehold or possessory
interest, any exchange of property, or the real estate of an acquired company,
the actual monetary worth of the real estate determined by adjusting the
assessed value of the real estate for local real estate tax purposes for the
common level ratio factor developed by the State Department of Revenue from
state realty transfer tax based calculations.
      (3)   In the case of an easement or other interest in real estate, the
value of which is not determinable under divisions (1) or (2) above of this
definition, the actual monetary worth of such interest.
      (4)   The actual consideration for, or actual monetary worth of, any
executory agreement for the construction of buildings, structures, or other
permanent improvements to real estate between the grantor and other persons
existing before the transfer, and not removed thereby or between the grantor,
the agent, or principal of the grantor of a related corporation, association,
or partnership, and the grantee existing before or effective with the transfer.
(Prior Code, § 403) (Ord. 90, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 32.068 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, every person who
makes, executes, delivers, accepts, or presents for recording any document or
in whose behalf any document is made, executed, delivered, accepted, or
presented for recording, shall be subject to pay for and in respect to the
transaction, or any part thereof, a tax at the rate of 1% of the value of the
real estate represented by such document, which tax shall be payable at the
earlier of the time the document is presented for recording, or within 30 days
of acceptance of such document or within 30 days of becoming an acquired
company.
   (B)   The payment of the tax imposed herein shall be evidenced by the
affixing of an official stamp or writing by the Recorder of Deeds of the
county, whereon the date of the payment of the tax, amount of the tax, and the
signature of the collecting agent shall be set forth.
   (C)   It is the intent of this subchapter that the entire burden of the tax
imposed herein on a person or transfer shall not exceed the limitations
prescribed in the Local Tax Enabling Act of December 31, 1965, P.L. 1257, 53
P.S. §§
6924.101 et seq., so that if any other political subdivision shall impose or
hereafter shall impose such tax on the same person or transfer, then the tax
levied by the borough under the authority of that Act shall, during the time
such duplication of the tax exists, except as hereinafter otherwise provided,
be one-half of the rate, and such one-half rate shall become effective without
any action on the part of the borough; provided however, that the borough and
any other political subdivision which imposes such tax on the same person or
transfer may agree that instead of limiting their respective rates to one-half
of the rate herein, provided they will impose respectively different rates, the
total of which shall not exceed the maximum rate permitted under the Local Tax
Enabling Act.
   (D)   If, for any reason, the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate
in effect at the time due shall be added and collected.
(Prior Code, § 404) (Ord. 90, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 32.069 EXEMPT PARTIES.
   (A)   The United States, the commonwealth, or any of their
instrumentalities, agencies, or political subdivisions, shall be exempt from
payment of the tax imposed by this subchapter.
   (B)   The exemption of such governmental body shall not, however, relieve
any other party to a transaction from liability for the tax imposed under this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 405) (Ord. 90, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 32.070 TRANSACTIONS EXCLUDED FROM IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   The following transactions shall be excluded from payment of the tax
imposed under the terms of §
32.068:
      (1)   A transfer to the commonwealth or to any of its instrumentalities,
agencies, or political subdivisions, by gift, dedication, or deed in lieu of
condemnation or deed of confirmation in connection with condemnation
proceedings, or a reconveyance by the condemning body of the property condemned
to the owner of record at the time of condemnation, which reconveyance may
include property line adjustments, provided such reconveyance is made within
one year from the date of condemnation;
      (2)   A document which the borough is prohibited from taxing under the
Constitution or statutes of the United States;
      (3)   A conveyance to a municipality, township, school district, or
county, pursuant to acquisition by the municipality, township, school district,
or county, of a tax delinquent property at Sheriff’s sale or Tax Claim Bureau
sale;
      (4)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration, which corrects
or confirms a transfer previously recorded, but which does not extend or limit
existing record, legal title, or interest;
      (5)   A transfer of division in kind for no or nominal actual
consideration of property passed by testate or intestate succession, and held
by co-tenants; however, if any of the parties take shares greater in value than
their undivided interest, tax is due on the excess;
      (6)   A transfer between husband and wife, between persons who were
previously husband and wife who have since been divorced, provided the property
or interest therein subject to such transfer was acquired by the husband and
wife, or husband or wife, prior to the granting of the final decree in divorce,
between parent and child or the spouse of such child, between brother or
sister, or spouse of a brother or sister, and between a grandparent and
grandchild, or the spouse of such grandchild, except that a subsequent transfer
by the grantee within one year shall be subject to tax if the grantor were
making such transfer;
      (7)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration of property
passing by testate or intestate succession from a personal representative of a
decedent to the decedent’s devisee or heir;
      (8)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration to a trustee of
any ordinary trust, where the transfer of the same property would be exempt if
the transfer was made directly from the grantor to all of the possible
beneficiaries, whether or not such beneficiaries are contingent or specifically
named. No such exemption shall be granted unless the Recorder of Deeds is
presented with a copy of the trust instrument that clearly identifies the
grantor and all possible beneficiaries;
      (9)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from a trustee to
a beneficiary of an ordinary trust;
      (10)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from trustee to
successor trustee;
      (11)   (a)   A transfer for:
            1.   No or nominal actual consideration between principal and agent
or straw party; or
            2.   From or to an agent or straw party where, if the agent or
straw party were his or her principal, no tax would be imposed under this
subchapter.
         (b)   Where the document by which title is acquired by a grantee or
statement of value fails to set forth that the property was acquired by the
grantee from, or for the benefits of, his or her principal, there is a
rebuttable presumption that the property of the grantee, in his or her
individual capacity, if the grantee claims an exemption from taxation under
this division (A)(11).
      (12)   A transfer made pursuant to the statutory merger or consolidation
of a corporation or statutory division of a nonprofit corporation, except where
the State Department of Revenue reasonably determines that the primary intent
for such merger, consolidation, or division, is avoidance of the tax imposed by
this subchapter, or the tax imposed by the commonwealth on transfers of real
estate;   
      (13)   A transfer from a corporation or association of real estate held
of record in the name of the corporation or association where the grantee owns
stock of the corporation, or an interest in the association, in the same
proportion as his or her interest in or ownership of the real estate being
conveyed, and where the stock of the corporation or the interest in the
association has been held by the grantee for more than two years;
      (14)   A transfer from a nonprofit industrial development agency or
authority to a grantee of property conveyed by the grantee to that agency or
authority as security for a debt of the grantee or a transfer to a nonprofit
industrial development agency or authority;
      (15)   A transfer from a nonprofit industrial development agency or
authority to a grantee purchasing directly from it, but only if:
         (a)   The grantee shall directly use such real estate for the primary
purpose of manufacturing, fabricating, compounding, processing, publishing,
research and development, transportation, energy conservation, energy
production, pollution control, warehousing, or agriculture; and
         (b)   The agency or authority has the full ownership interest in the
real estate transferred.
      (16)   A transfer by a mortgagor to the holder of a bona fide mortgage in
default in lieu of a foreclosure or a transfer pursuant to a judicial sale, in
which the successful bidder is the bona fide holder of a mortgage, unless the
holder assigns the bid to another person;
      (17)   Any transfer between religious organizations or other bodies or
persons holding title for a religious organization, if such real estate is not
being or has not been used by such transferor for commercial purposes;
      (18)   A transfer to a conservancy which possesses a tax exempt status
pursuant to I.R.C. § 501(c)(3), being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3), and which has as
its primary purpose preservation of land for historic, recreational, scenic,
agricultural, or open space opportunities;
      (19)   A transfer of real estate devoted to the business of agriculture
to a family farm corporation by a member of the same family which directly owns
at least 75% of each class of the stock thereof;
      (20)   A transfer between members of the same family of an ownership
interest in a real estate company or family farm corporation;
      (21)   A transaction wherein the tax due is $1 or less; or
      (22)   Leases for the production or extraction of coal, oil, natural gas,
or minerals, and assignments thereof.
   (B)   In order to exercise any exclusion provided for in this section, the
true, full, and complete value of the transfer shall be shown on the statement
of value. A copy of the state realty transfer tax statement of value may be
submitted for this purpose. For leases of coal, oil, natural gas, or minerals,
the statement of value may be limited to an explanation of the reason such
document is not subject to tax under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 406) (Ord. 90, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 32.071 IMPOSITION OF TAX ON DOCUMENTS RELATING TO ASSOCIATIONS OR
CORPORATIONS AND MEMBERS, PARTNERS, STOCKHOLDERS, OR SHAREHOLDERS THEREOF.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in §
32.070, documents which make, confirm, or evidence any transfer or demise of
title to real estate between associations or corporations, and the members,
partners, shareholders, or stockholders thereof are fully taxable.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, corporations and associations are
entities separate from their members, partners, stockholders, or shareholders.
(Prior Code, § 407) (Ord. 90, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 32.072 ACQUIRED COMPANY.
   (A)   A real estate company is an acquired company upon a change in the
ownership interest in the company, however effected, if the change does not
effect the continuity of the company, and of itself or together with prior
changes, has the effect of transferring, directly or indirectly, 90% or more of
the total ownership interest in the company within a period of three years.
   (B)   With respect to real estate acquired after February 16, 1986, a family
farm corporation is an acquired company when, because of voluntary or
involuntary dissolution, it ceases to be a family farm corporation, or when,
because of the issuance or transfer of stock, or because of acquisition or
transfer of assets that are devoted to the business of agriculture, it fails to
meet the minimum requirements of the family farm corporation under this
subchapter.
   (C)   (1)   Within 30 days after becoming an acquired company, the company
shall present a declaration of acquisition with the Recorder of each county in
which it holds real estate for the affixation of documentary stamps and
recording. Such declaration shall set forth the value of real estate holdings
of the acquired company in such county.
      (2)   A copy of the state realty transfer tax declaration of acquisition
may be submitted for this purpose.
(Prior Code, § 408) (Ord. 90, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 32.073 CREDITS AGAINST TAX.
   (A)   Where there is a transfer of residential property by a licensed real
estate broker, which property was transferred to him or her within the
preceding year as consideration for the purchase of other residential property,
a credit for the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to him or
her shall be given to him or her towards the amount of the tax due upon the
transfer.
   (B)   Where there is a transfer by a builder of residential property which
was transferred to the builder within the preceding year as consideration for
the purchase of new, previously unoccupied residential property, a credit for
the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to the builder shall be
given to the builder toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   (C)   Where there is a transfer of real estate which is leased by the
grantor, a credit for the amount of tax paid at the time of the lease shall be
given the grantor toward the tax due upon the transfer.
   (D)   Where there is a conveyance by deed of real estate which was
previously sold under a land contract by the grantor, a credit for the amount
of tax paid at the time of the sale shall be given to grantor toward the tax
due upon the deed.
   (E)   If the tax due upon the transfer is greater than the credits given
under this section, the difference shall be paid. If the credit allowed is
greater than the amount of tax due, no refund or carry-over credit shall be
allowed.
(Prior Code, § 409) (Ord. 90, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 32.074 EXTENSION OF LEASE.
   In determining the term of the lease, it shall be presumed that a right or
option to renew or extend a lease will be exercised if the rental charge to the
lessee is fixed, or if a method for calculating the rental charge is
established.
(Prior Code, § 410) (Ord. 90, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 32.075 PROCEEDS OF JUDICIAL SALE.
   The tax herein imposed shall be fully paid, and have priority out of the
proceeds of any judicial sale of real estate before any other obligation,
claim, lien, judgment, estate, or costs of sale, and of the writ upon which the
sale is made, except the state realty transfer tax, and the Sheriff or other
officer conducting said sale shall pay the tax herein imposed out of the first
monies paid to him or her in connection therewith. If the proceeds of the sale
are insufficient to pay the entire tax herein imposed, the purchasers shall be
liable for the remaining tax.
(Prior Code, § 411) (Ord. 90, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 32.076 DUTIES OF THE RECORDER OF DEEDS.
   (A)   As provided in 16 P.S. § 11011-6, as amended by Act of July 7, 1983
(P.L. 40, No. 21), the Recorder of Deeds shall be the collection agent for the
local realty transfer tax, including any amount payable to Applewold Borough,
based on a redetermination of the amount of tax due by the commonwealth, of the
state realty transfer tax, without compensation from the borough.
   (B)   In order to ascertain the amount of taxes due when the property is
located in more than one political subdivision, the Recorder shall not accept
for recording such a deed unless it is accompanied by a statement of value
showing what taxes are due each municipality.
   (C)   On or before the tenth of each month, the Recorder shall pay over to
the borough all local realty transfer taxes collected, less 2% for the use of
the county, together with a report containing the information as is required by
the commonwealth in reporting collections of the state realty transfer tax. The
2% commission shall be paid to the county.
   (D)   Upon a redetermination of the amount of realty transfer tax due by the
commonwealth, the Recorder shall re-record the deed, or record the additional
realty transfer tax form, only when both the state and local amounts and a re-
recording or recording fee has been tendered.
(Prior Code, § 412) (Ord. 90, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 32.077 STATEMENT OF VALUE.
   Every document presented to the Recorder of Deeds for recording shall set
forth therein, and as a part of such document, the true, full, and complete
value thereof, or shall be accompanied by a statement of value executed by a
responsible person connected with the transaction showing such connection, and
setting forth the true, full, and complete value thereof, or the reason why, if
any, such document is not subject to tax under this subchapter. A copy of the
state realty transfer tax statement of value may be submitted for this purpose.
The provisions of this section shall not apply to any excludable real estate
transfers which are exempt from taxation based on family relationship. Other
documents presented for the affixation of stamps shall be accompanied by a
certified copy of the document and statement of value executed by a responsible
person connected with the transaction showing such connection and setting forth
the true, full, and complete value thereof or the reason, if any, why such
document is not subject to tax under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 413) (Ord. 90, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 32.078 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   If any part of any underpayment of tax imposed by this subchapter is
due to fraud, there shall be added to the tax an amount equal to 50% of the
underpayment.
   (B)   In the case of failure to record a declaration required under this
subchapter on the date prescribed therefor, unless it is shown that such
failure is due to reasonable cause, there shall be added to the tax 5% of the
amount of such tax, if the failure is for not more than one month, with an
additional 5% for each additional month or fraction thereof, during which such
failure continues, not exceeding 50% in the aggregate.
(Prior Code, § 414) (Ord. 90, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 32.079 IMPOSITION OF LIEN.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall become a lien upon the lands,
tenements, or hereditaments, or any interest therein, lying, being situated
wholly or in part within the boundaries of the borough, which lands, tenements,
hereditaments, or interest therein are described in or conveyed by or
transferred by document which is the subject of the tax imposed, assessed, and
levied by this subchapter, said lien to begin at the time when the tax under
this subchapter is due and payable, and continue until discharge by payment or
in accordance with the law, and the Solicitor is authorized to file a municipal
or tax claim in the Court of Common Pleas of the county, in accordance with
provisions of the Municipal Claims and Liens Act of 1923, 53 P.S. §§ 7101 et
seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 415) (Ord. 90, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 32.080 ENFORCEMENT.
   All taxes imposed by this subchapter, together with interest and penalties
prescribed herein, shall be recoverable as other debts of like character are
recovered.
(Prior Code, § 416) (Ord. 90, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 32.081 REGULATIONS.
   The Borough Council is charged with enforcement and collection of tax, and
is empowered to promulgate and enforce reasonable regulations for the
enforcement and collection of the tax. The regulations which have been
promulgated by the State Department of Revenue under 72 P.S. §§ 8101-C et seq.,
are incorporated into and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 417)
§ 32.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted before a District Justice of violating any of the
provisions or requirements of §§
32.040 through
32.053 or of failing, neglecting, or refusing to pay any tax, penalties or
interest imposed under §§
32.040 through
32.053, or refusing to permit the receiver of the taxes or any other person to
examine any of his or her books, papers, or records, or of knowingly making any
incomplete, false, or fraudulent return of doing or attempting to do anything
whatever to avoid the payment of the whole or any part of the tax imposed under
§§
32.040 through
32.053 shall be liable to a fine or penalty not exceeding $500, and costs of
prosecution, for each and every offense, or to imprisonment for not more than
30 days.
(Prior Code, § 24-311) (Ord. 74, passed 12-5-1977)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Fee assessed
   
50.03   Fee set
   
50.04   Increase/decrease amount of fee
   
50.05   Services to be charged for
   
50.06   Late payment charges
   
50.07   Debts recoverable
   
50.08   Billing due date
   
50.09   Services stopped on delinquent accounts
   
50.10   Containers
   
50.11   Council may enter into contracts/agreements
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REFUSE. Any and all normal waste resulting from daily living including, but
not limited to, waste paper, food scraps, grass clippings, leaves, dead
vegetation, but not including any materials which cannot be adequately
accommodated in the storage receptacles as hereinafter provided.
   RESIDENCE. A private dwelling for the housing of one family unit. May be
either an individual home or an apartment unit.
(Prior Code, § 20-101) (Ord. 76, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 50.02 FEE ASSESSED.
   There is hereby levied and assessed upon each residence in the borough a fee
or charge to help defray the cost and expense of the collection and disposal of
refuse.
(Prior Code, § 20-102) (Ord. 76, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 50.03 FEE SET.
   The fee or charge levied and assessed in §
50.02 shall be $25 per month, per residence.
(Prior Code, § 20-103) (Ord. 76, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 50.04 INCREASE/DECREASE AMOUNT OF FEE.
   By resolutions duly adopted by the Council of the borough, the amount of the
fee or charge established herein may, from time to time, be increased or
decreased; provided however, that such increase or decrease shall not apply to
services already rendered, but shall be prospective only.
(Prior Code, § 20-104) (Ord. 76, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 50.05 SERVICES TO BE CHARGED FOR.
   All fees or charges levied and assessed by or pursuant to this chapter and
its supplements and amendments are imposed for the refuse, collection, and
disposal service of the borough, and shall be charged and periodically billed
to and collected from the owners of residences served.
(Prior Code, § 20-105) (Ord. 76, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 50.06 LATE PAYMENT CHARGES.
   All fees or charges imposed under this chapter remaining unpaid after they
have become due shall bear interest in addition to the amount of the unpaid fee
or charge, at the rate of 6% per annum, and in addition, a penalty in the
amount of 1% of the amount of the unpaid fee or charge is hereby imposed for
each month or fraction thereof the said fee or charge remains unpaid and
delinquent beyond 18 days after the date of billing.
(Prior Code, § 20-106) (Ord. 76, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 50.07 DEBTS RECOVERABLE.
   All fees or charges, penalties, and interest imposed by or pursuant to this
chapter, and its supplements and amendments, shall be recoverable for the
borough by its Solicitor as debts of like amounts are, by law, recoverable, or
in any other manner provided by law for the collection of a municipal claim.
(Prior Code, § 20-107) (Ord. 76, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 50.08 BILLING DUE DATE.
   All fees or charges imposed by or pursuant to this chapter, and its
supplements and amendments, shall be billed for and collected monthly after the
service is performed, and shall be paid by the twenty-second day of the month
when billing is made. Nonpayment beyond such period shall render the same
delinquent.
(Prior Code, § 20-108) (Ord. 76, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 50.09 SERVICES STOPPED ON DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   All delinquent accounts for said fees or charges, interest, or penalties are
subject to stoppage of refuse collection and disposal service without notice.
Service shall be resumed thereafter only on payment of the accumulated fees or
charges for the period of collection, and period of noncollection, plus
interest, penalties, and costs of suit. The stoppage of such services by the
borough for nonpayment of such fees or charges shall be in addition to the
right of the borough to proceed for the collection of such unpaid fees or
charges, interest, and penalty as hereinbefore provided. The stoppage of such
service by the borough shall render the person or entity owning the property in
question delinquent in payment thereof, and if such stoppage continues beyond
the next regularly scheduled refuse collection date for that property, such
person or entity shall then be subject to the penalties hereinafter set forth.
(Prior Code, § 20-109) (Ord. 76, passed 9-14-1981) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 CONTAINERS.
   All refuse which is to be left for collection shall be stored in a covered,
metal or plastic container.
(Prior Code, § 20-110) (Ord. 76, passed 9-14-1981) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.11 COUNCIL MAY ENTER INTO CONTRACTS/AGREEMENTS.
   Passage of this chapter shall constitute authority for the Borough Council
to enter into contracts or agreements for the removal of refuse from within the
geographical boundaries of said borough.
(Prior Code, § 20-112) (Ord. 76, passed 9-14-1981)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any individual who fails to comply with the terms of this chapter
insofar as this chapter provides for storage of refuse and leaving the same for
collection shall be subject to citation for a summary offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine of up to $300, and imprisonment
of up to 30 days in jail, or both.
(Prior Code, § 20-111)
   (B)   In addition to the penalties set forth in §
50.09, any person failing in the collecting or refusing to pay the fees,
penalties, or interest imposed under this chapter for refuse collection, or
doing or attempting to do anything whatever to avoid the payment of the whole,
or any part of said fee, shall be liable to a fine or penalty not exceeding
$300, and costs of prosecution for each and every offense, or to a period of
imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 20-109)
(Ord. 76, passed 9-14-1981)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Connections required
   
51.02   Other disposal systems prohibited
   
51.03   Notice to connect
   
51.04   Connection to other systems prohibited
   
51.05   Violations
   
51.06   Conditions for connections
   
51.07   Connections to comply with specifications
   
51.08   Noncompliance
   
51.09   Definitions
   
51.10   Applicability
West Hills Area Water Pollution Control Authority
   
51.25   Intent
   
51.26   West Hills Area Water Pollution Control Authority
   
51.27   Appointment to the Board
   
51.28   Articles of incorporation
Rules, Regulations, and Prohibitions
   
51.40   Definitions
   
51.41   Unlawful connections
   
51.42   Appointment of authority as agent or designee
   
51.43   Right to enter property connected to the public sanitary sewer system
   
51.44   Proof of compliance on sale or transfer
   
51.45   Application for document of certification
   
51.46   Temporary document of certification
   
51.47   Municipal lien letters
   
51.48   Expiration of document of certification
   
51.49   Conflict with general police powers
   
51.50   Inspection fee
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   Every owner of property in the borough whose property abuts upon any public
sanitary sewer presently in existence or to be constructed in the future by
West Hills Area Water Pollution Control Authority shall connect, at its own
cost, each house, building, or other structure located on said property with
the aforementioned public sanitary sewers for the purpose of disposing of all
acceptable sanitary sewage emanating from said property.
(Prior Code, § 18-101) (Ord. 78, passed 11-23-1981) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 OTHER DISPOSAL SYSTEMS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, or occupier of any property in
the borough abutting upon any aforementioned public sanitary sewer to employ
any means, either by septic tank, cesspool, privy vault, mine hole, or
otherwise, for the disposal of acceptable sanitary sewage other than into and
through said public sanitary sewers.
(Prior Code, § 18-102) (Ord. 78, passed 11-2981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.03 NOTICE TO CONNECT.
   (A)   (1)   Where any house, building, or structure in the borough abutting
upon any aforementioned public sanitary sewer is now or hereafter may be using
any method for the disposal of acceptable sanitary sewage other than through
said public sanitary sewers, it shall be the duty of the Borough Secretary or
the authorized representative of West Hills Area Water Pollution Control
Authority (hereinafter called the “Authority”) to notify the owner, lessee, or
occupier of such structure in writing, either by personal service, certified
mail or registered mail, to disconnect the same and make proper connection for
the discharge and disposal of all acceptable sanitary sewage through the said
public sanitary sewers, as herein provided, within 60 days after receipt of
such notice.
      (2)   Any owner or lessee or occupier of a structure who cannot comply
with the provisions of this section as to connection within the 60-day period
stipulated above due to causes beyond his or her control shall apply to the
borough or the Authority within said 60-day period for a time extension of up
to six months in duration.
   (B)   Said application shall be made on a form to be furnished by the
borough or the Authority and shall contain a voluntary agreement on the part of
the applicant under which the applicant shall agree to commence paying the
regular monthly sewer rates immediately even though actual connection to the
public sanitary sewers will not be accomplished until some stated later date
within the said six months’ extension period.
(Prior Code, § 18-103) (Ord. 78, passed 11-23-1981) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 CONNECTION TO OTHER SYSTEMS PROHIBITED.
   No privy vault, cesspool, septic tank, mine hole, or similar receptacle for
human excrement shall at the present time or at any time hereafter, be
connected with the aforesaid public sanitary sewers.
(Prior Code, § 18-104) (Ord. 78, passed 11-23-1981) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation connected to any
aforementioned public sanitary sewers to connect any roof drain thereto or
permit any roof drain to remain connected thereto, or to permit, allow, or
cause to enter into said public sanitary sewers any stormwater, foundation
drain water, spring water, or surface water, or any sewage or industrial waste
from any property other than that for which a permit is issued.
(Prior Code, § 18-105) (Ord. 78, passed 11-23-1981) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 CONDITIONS FOR CONNECTIONS.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall make or cause to be made any
connection with any of the aforementioned public sanitary sewers until he or
she has fulfilled all of the following conditions.
   (A)   He or she shall make application to the borough or the Authority, as
the borough’s agent, upon a permit form to be formulated and supplied by the
borough or the Authority for permission to connect to the aforementioned public
sanitary sewers. Among other things, the applicant must state the character and
use of each structure located upon his or her property.
   (B)   He or she shall pay to the borough or the Authority the required tap
connection fee for each building unit on each property connected to the
aforementioned public sanitary sewers at the time of making application for
permission to make such connection or connections. The Authority and the
borough reserve the right to alter the amount of the tap connection fee
required by the Authority from time to time in the future in order to comply
with all requirements of the Farmers Home Administration under the Farmers Home
Administration Loan Agreement.
   (C)   No work shall commence before the payment of the aforesaid tap
connection fee and issuance of the aforementioned connection permit.
   (D)   He or she shall give the designated Inspector of the Borough or the
Authority at least 24 hours’ notice of the time when such connection shall be
made in order that said Inspector can be present to inspect and approve the
work of connection. The Inspector shall signify his or her approval of the
connection by endorsing his or her name and the date of approval on the
aforementioned connection permit in the possession of the permittees.
   (E)   At the time of inspection of the connection, the owner or owners of
properties shall permit the Inspector full and complete access to all sanitary
and drainage arrangements and facilities in each building and in and about all
parts of the property. No building sewer line shall be covered over, or in any
manner concealed, until after it is inspected and approved by said Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 18-106) (Ord. 78, passed 11-23-1981) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 CONNECTIONS TO COMPLY WITH SPECIFICATIONS.
   The construction and number and size of all building sewer lines or house
service sewers shall be done in accordance with the specifications, plans, and
procedures established by the borough and the Authority in the sewer system
rules and regulations, as the same may be from time to time published and
amended, copies of which, upon adoption by the Authority, shall be maintained
on file with the Borough Secretary and the Authority.
(Prior Code, § 18-107) (Ord. 78, passed 11-23-1981) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 NONCOMPLIANCE.
   If the owner or owners of any occupied houses, buildings, or structures in
the borough shall neglect or refuse to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter or the written notice as prescribed in §
51.03 hereof, the borough or the Authority may perform or cause to be performed
such work and labor and furnish or cause to be furnished such material as may
be necessary to comply with the provisions of this subchapter at the cost and
expense of such owner or owners, together with 10% additional thereof and all
charges and expenses incidental thereto, which sum shall be collected from said
owner or owners for the use of the borough or the Authority as debts are by law
collectible, or the borough or the Authority, as its agent, may, by its proper
officer, file a municipal claim or lien therefor against said premises as
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 18-108) (Ord. 78, passed 11-23-1981) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 DEFINITIONS.
   UNACCEPTABLE SANITARY SEWAGE and other terms used herein for purposes of
this subchapter shall have the same definitions as those which are set forth in
the sewer system rules and regulations (see § 51.07) said rules and regulations
to be applicable to all users of the aforementioned public sanitary sewers.
(Prior Code, § 18-109) (Ord. 78, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 51.10 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall be applicable to all owners or users of property to
which it refers without discrimination as to race, color, religion, sex, or
national origin.
(Prior Code, § 18-111) (Ord. 78, passed 11-23-1981)
WEST HILLS AREA WATER POLLUTION CONTROL AUTHORITY
§ 51.25 INTENT.
   It is the desire of the Borough Council, and the Borough Council hereby
signifies its intention, together with the Borough of West Kittanning and the
Townships of East Franklin and North Buffalo, to organize a Joint Authority
under 53 Pa.C.S. §§ 5601 et seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 1-521) (Ord. 68, passed 2-7-1972)
§ 51.26 WEST HILLS AREA WATER POLLUTION CONTROL AUTHORITY.
   The name of the proposed Joint Authority shall be “West Hills Area Water
Pollution Control Authority.”
(Prior Code, § 1-522) (Ord. 68, passed 2-7-1972)
§ 51.27 APPOINTMENT TO THE BOARD.
   The following persons are hereby appointed members of the Board of the West
Hills Area Water Pollution Control Authority for the terms of office indicated.
(Prior Code, § 1-523) (Ord. 68, passed 2-7-1972)
§ 51.28 ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION.
   Pursuant to said desire and intention of the Borough Council and in
conformance with the terms and provisions of said 53 Pa.C.S. §§ 5601 et seq.,
and its amendments, the proposed articles of incorporation are hereby set forth
in full as follows:
   Articles of Incorporation
   West Hills Area Water Pollution Control Authority
To the Secretary of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
   In compliance with the requirements of 53 Pa.C.S. §§ 5601 et seq., approved the
second day of May, 1945, P.L. 382, as amended, Boroughs of Applewold and West
Kittanning and the Townships of East Franklin and North Buffalo, all of Armstrong
County, Pennsylvania, signifying their desire and intention that a Joint Municipal
Authority be established under the provisions of the aforementioned law and that a
Certificate of Incorporation be issued to said Authority, the Boroughs of Applewold
and West Kittanning and the Townships of East Franklin and North Buffalo, all of
Armstrong County, Pennsylvania, do hereby certify:
   (A) The name of the Authority shall be: West Hills Area Water Pollution Control
Authority.
   (B) The Authority is formed under the Act of May 2, 1945, P.L. 382, as amended.
   (C) No other Joint Authority has been organized under the provisions of this Act,
or the Act approved June 28, 1935, P.L. 463, and is in existence within said
boroughs and townships.
   (D) The names of the incorporating municipalities are the Boroughs of Applewold
and West Kittanning and the Townships of East Franklin and North Buffalo, all of
Armstrong, Pennsylvania.
   (E) The names and addresses of the municipal authorities of the incorporating
municipalities are:
      The names and addresses of the Mayor and the members of the Borough Council of
the Borough of Applewold, Armstrong County, Pennsylvania, are as follows:
      The names and addresses of the Mayor and the members of the Borough Council of
the Borough of West Kittanning, Armstrong County, Pennsylvania, are as follows:
      The name and addresses of the members of the Board of Supervisors of the
Township of East Franklin, Armstrong County, Pennsylvania, are as follows:
      The names and addresses of the members of the Board of Supervisors of the
Township of North Buffalo, Armstrong County, Pennsylvania, are as follows:
   (F) The names and addresses and terms of office of the first members of the Board
of said Joint Authority are as follows:
   (G) The purposes of this Joint Authority is to and it is hereby directed and
empowered to undertake the planning, acquisition, construction, financing, and
operation of a regional sewage collection, transportation, and treatment system to
serve the Incorporating Municipalities and adjacent areas pursuant to and in
accordance with the provisions of the Memorandum of Proceeding entering into by said
Incorporating Municipalities.
   WITNESS the hands of the Mayors and the Presidents and Secretaries of the Borough
Councils and the seals of the Boroughs of Applewold and West Kittanning and the
hands of the Chairpersons of the Boards of Supervisors and Township Secretaries and
the seals of the Townships of East Franklin and North Buffalo.
                      BOROUGH OF APPLEWOLD
(Borough Seal)        By ________________________
                         President of Council
Attest:               By ________________________
                         Mayor
_____________________ BOROUGH OF WEST KITTANNING
Borough Secretary
                      By _______________________
                         President of Council
 
(Prior Code, § 1-524) (Ord. 68, passed 2-7-1972)
RULES, REGULATIONS, AND PROHIBITIONS
§ 51.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS. Engineering fees, legal fees, and time spent by
Authority employees directly related to a violation of this subchapter.
   CASH SECURITY. Cash, certified check, or treasurer’s check.
   DOCUMENT OF CERTIFICATION. An official document from the proper officer of
the Authority stating that there exist no known illegal ground water, storm or
surface water connections or other illegal conditions which are allowing ground
water, storm or surface water to enter into the sanitary sewer system on a
specific property for which such certification is requested and/or which is
being sold.
   FILING FEE. The fee established for the document of certification or the
temporary document of certification which may from time to time be amended by
the Authority by resolution.
   ILLEGAL GROUND WATER, STORM AND SURFACE WATER CONNECTIONS. The entry of
ground water, storm or surface water or the connection of downspouts, roof
drainage, surface areaway drainage, or foundation or basement drainage into the
sanitary sewer system.
   IMPROVED AND SEWERED REAL PROPERTY. Real property on which any building,
driveway, or parking pad, or other surface or subsurface structure improvement,
has been constructed, installed, or erected where the real property or any
improvement on the real property is connected to the sanitary sewer system.
   MUNICIPAL LIEN LETTER. A letter written from the proper official of the
borough and/or the West Hills Area Water Pollution Control Authority regarding
a particular property, stating the existence and status of any monetary amounts
due to the municipality or authority and any conditions at the subject property
that violate written municipal ordinances or authority rules and regulations
which must be corrected.
   PERSON. Any person, syndicate, associate, partnership, firm, corporation,
institution, agency, authority, or other entity recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   PRIVATE SANITARY SEWER. The sewer extending from any building connected to
the public sewer system of the Authority, to the public right-of-way or to a
public sanitary sewer on the subject property, excluding the wye or other
service connection pipe fitting.
   PUBLIC LATERAL SANITARY SEWER. The sanitary sewer extending from the public
sanitary sewer to the private sanitary sewer.
   SALE or TRANSFER. The sale, transfer, or assignment of any interest in real
property. Provided however, that refinancing of real property without a
conveyance is not a SALE or TRANSFER under this subchapter.
   SEWER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The private sanitary sewer and any connections
thereto, whether legal or illegal.
   TEMPORARY DOCUMENT OF CERTIFICATION. A temporary document of certification
from the proper officer of the Authority which expires within a stated time
period or by a certain date, issued pursuant to the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 97, passed 2-12-2008)
§ 51.41 UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS.
   After the effective date of this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to connect any rain leader, roof drain, downspout, gutter, parking lot
drain, driveway drain, interior or exterior sump, French drain, spring, or
other collector or source of ground water or storm or surface waters,
including, but not limited to, the fresh air vent of the improved and sewered
property’s private sanitary sewer to the sanitary sewer system of the Authority
or otherwise allow, permit, or cause ground water, storm or surface water to
enter into a private sanitary sewer which in turn empties into the sanitary
sewer system of the Authority.
(Ord. 97, passed 2-12-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.42 APPOINTMENT OF AUTHORITY AS AGENT OR DESIGNEE.
   (A)   The borough hereby appoints the West Hills Area Water Pollution
Control Authority as its agent or designee for the implementation and
enforcement of this subchapter and all other ordinances of the borough dealing
with or pertaining to sanitary sewers within the corporate limits of the
borough.
   (B)   The said agent or designee is hereby authorized and empowered to make
reasonable rules and regulations for the operation, implementation, and
enforcement of this subchapter as the Authority deems necessary which shall
include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Creating necessary forms;
      (2)   Establishing acceptable forms of security or guarantees;
      (3)   Establishing acceptable testing methods;
      (4)   Limiting the times of year in which temporary documents of
certification are available for reasons of weather; and
      (5)   Establishing fees.
   (C)   All rules and regulations issued pursuant to this section shall be in
writing and be adopted by the Authority prior to such rules and regulations
becoming effective.
(Ord. 97, passed 2-12-2008)
§ 51.43 RIGHT TO ENTER PROPERTY CONNECTED TO THE PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The Authority shall have the right to enter upon any property serviced
by a private sanitary sewer connected to the public sanitary sewer system of
the Authority and shall have the right to inspect all sewer drainage systems
within the corporate limits of the borough.
   (B)   Said right of entry shall be to determine whether or not said private
sewer drainage systems allow either infiltration or inflow of prohibited ground
water or storm or surface water into the sanitary sewer lines of the Authority.
   (C)   The Authority’s right to inspect said sewer drainage systems shall
include, but not be limited to, the right to:
      (1)   Dye test said sewer drainage system;
      (2)   Air test said sewer drainage system;
      (3)   Smoke test said sewer drainage system;
      (4)   Inspect surface drains and lines to determine whether or not the
same are connected to or intersect with the abovesaid private sanitary sewer;
      (5)   Use of a portable television camera or any other means as deemed
necessary by the Authority; or
      (6)   Observe building conditions that allow ground or storm water to
enter the sanitary sewer system, including but not limited to leaking walls,
sump pumps, interior drains, or gutters or channels.
   (D)   In the event that the Authority finds that said sewage drainage system
is either malfunctioning, defective, or illegally connected, or otherwise
allowing the infiltration or inflow of prohibited ground water, storm or
surface water into the sanitary sewer lines of the Authority within the borough
corporate limits, the property owner shall repair or replace said defective
private sanitary sewer or condition within 30 days of receipt of written notice
from the Authority.
   (E)   In the event the property owner fails or refuses to perform the
necessary remedial measures to repair or replace said private sanitary sewer or
disconnect illegal conditions or otherwise remedy illegal conditions, the
Authority shall have the right to enter upon said property and perform such
measures.
   (F)   In the event the Authority is required to perform said remedial
measures, the cost of said remediation shall be borne by the property owner and
the Authority shall be reimbursed said costs. Such cost shall include direct
costs incurred by the Authority plus reasonable administrative costs.
   (G)   (1)   In the event the property owner fails or refuses to reimburse
said costs within 30 days of written notice by the Authority, the Authority
shall have the right to lien said property pursuant to the Municipal Lien Law
of the commonwealth, being 53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq.
      (2)   The right to lien shall be in addition to any other remedies,
penalties or fines set forth herein. Said remedies shall be considered
cumulative, and the Authority shall have the right to exercise any or all of
said remedies as it may determine to be appropriate.
(Ord. 97, passed 2-12-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.44 PROOF OF COMPLIANCE ON SALE OR TRANSFER.
   After the effective date of this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to sell or transfer improved and sewered real property located within
the borough without having obtained and delivered to the buyer or transferee,
at or prior to closing or transfer, a document of certification or temporary
document of certification for the property being sold or transferred.
(Ord. 97, passed 2-12-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.45 APPLICATION FOR DOCUMENT OF CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any person selling or transferring improved and sewered real estate
located within the borough, (hereinafter “applicant”) shall make application on
a form furnished by the Authority at least ten days before the date of sale or
transfer. The Authority or its designee will perform a dye test, smoke test,
air test, or televising of the sewer drainage system on the property to be sold
or transferred, said smoke test to involve the use of non-toxic, non-staining
smoke which is forced through the sewer system by the use of air blowers. The
Authority shall have the right to approve the test as performed and/or to
require that additional tests be made. The Authority shall also have the right
to rely on the results of any internal televising of the main sewer completed
by the Authority, its designee, or its contractor.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that there are no illegal ground water, storm or
surface water connections and the existing drainage system is sound, that is,
that it does not allow the entry of ground water, storm or surface water, the
Authority or its designee shall issue a document of certification upon the
payment of a fee as established from time to time by resolution of the
Authority.
      (2)   When an illegal ground water, storm or surface water connection or
unsound sewer drainage system is discovered by means of the abovementioned
testing, no document of certification shall be issued until the illegal
connections/unsound sewer drainage system are removed/repaired, the system
retested and certification of such removal/repair by a plumber, contractor, or
other person acceptable to the Authority is received.
(Ord. 97, passed 2-12-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.46 TEMPORARY DOCUMENT OF CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   A temporary document of certification may be issued at the sole
discretion of the Authority.
   (B)   When a ground water or storm or surface water condition/connection to
the sanitary sewer system is discovered as abovesaid and the necessary work to
remove the condition/connection would require a length of time such as to
create a hardship for the seller or applicant, the seller or applicant may
apply to the Authority for a temporary document of certification. The seller or
applicant must submit the following with the properly completed application:
      (1)   A bona fide executed contract with a plumber/contractor /person
acceptable to the Authority requiring the plumber/contractor/person to complete
the remedial work necessary to the removal of the conditions and/or connections
allowing ground water, or storm or surface water to enter the sanitary sewer
system and granting the Authority the right and power to enforce the contract;
      (2)   Cash security in the amount equal to 110% of the contract described
in division (B)(1) above;
      (3)   The agreement of the purchaser or transferee to be responsible for
all the cost overruns related to the remedial work together with a license from
the purchaser or transferee to the Authority or its agents, contractors, and/or
employees, its or their agents, contractors, and/or employees, to enter upon
the property to complete the remedial work in case of default by the plumber/
contractor/person or the applicant; and
      (4)   The filing fee as established from time to time by resolution of
the Authority.
   (C)   When the testing required herein cannot be performed because of
weather conditions, the seller or applicant may apply to the Authority for a
temporary document of certification. The seller or applicant must submit the
following with the properly completed application:
      (1)   Cash security in the amount of $1,000. This amount may be amended
from time to time by resolution of the Authority; and
      (2)   (a)   The written signed agreement of the purchaser or transferee
to correct at the purchaser’s or transferee’s sole expense any ground water or
storm or surface water conditions and/or connections which allow ground water,
storm or surface water to enter into the sanitary sewer system as disclosed by
the subsequent tests required herein, together with a license from the
purchaser or transferee to the Authority and its agents, contractors, and
employees to enter upon the property to conduct the required testing should the
applicant fail to do so.
         (b)   Nothing in this division (C)(2) shall prohibit any purchaser or
transferee from requiring the applicant to reimburse the purchaser or
transferee for any costs incurred in connection with such remedial work;
provided however, that the primary responsibility for the remedial work and all
costs thereof shall run with the land and no such agreement shall affect the
Authority’s enforcement powers or excuse the current owner of the property from
performance.
   (D)   The Authority may reject the application for temporary document of
certification whenever in the sole judgment of the Authority the conditions
defined by §
51.45 do not exist or the submissions required by this section have not been
properly made.
   (E)   The temporary document of certification shall be effective for 60 days
and the expiration date of the temporary document of certification shall be
noted on the certificate. If, upon the expiration of the temporary document of
certification, the seller or applicant has not applied for and received a
document of certification as provided for in this subchapter, the cash security
shall be forfeited and the Authority may use the funds toward completion of the
remedial work and/or the required testing.
   (F)   The application for temporary document of certification form shall be
available upon request from the authority.
(Ord. 97, passed 2-12-2008)
§ 51.47 MUNICIPAL LIEN LETTERS.
   (A)   On or after the effective date of this subchapter, all lien letters
issued by the borough shall state that the applicant must comply with this
subchapter and that the applicant must contact the West Hills Area Water
Pollution Control Authority with regard to the requirements of this subchapter.
The borough municipal lien letter shall further state that the borough’s lien
letter shall be legally valid only if the applicant has complied with this
subchapter.
   (B)   A request to the West Hills Area Water Pollution Control Authority for
a municipal lien letter will be issued only if all the requirements of this
subchapter have been complied with.
(Ord. 97, passed 2-12-2008)
§ 51.48 EXPIRATION OF DOCUMENT OF CERTIFICATION.
   A document of certification issued under this subchapter shall be valid for
a period for seven years from the date of issuance.
(Ord. 97, passed 2-12-2008; Ord. 104, passed 2-13-2024)
§ 51.49 CONFLICT WITH GENERAL POLICE POWERS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall limit in any fashion whatsoever the
borough’s right or that of its designee to enforce its ordinances, rules, or
regulations, or the laws of the commonwealth. Nothing in this subchapter shall
be a defense to any citation issued by any municipal corporation or the
commonwealth pursuant to any other law or ordinance.
(Ord. 97, passed 2-12-2008)
§ 51.50 INSPECTION FEE.
   An inspection fee in an amount to be determined from time to time by
resolution of the Authority shall be paid to the Authority for any inspection
services rendered by the Authority for any private sanitary sewer repair,
replacement, alteration, reconnection, or other service rendered by the
Authority. The amount of said fee shall be amendable from time to time by
resolution of the Authority.
(Ord. 97, passed 2-12-2008)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty prescribed in §§
51.01 through
51.10, any person, firm, or corporation failing to make a proper connection
within the time specified after receipt of proper notice as provided in §
51.03 hereof shall, upon conviction thereof before a District Justice, pay a
fine or penalty of $300 for each day in violation hereof, and violating any of
the other provisions of §§
51.01 through
51.10 shall pay a fine or penalty of not more than $300, or be sentenced to
undergo an imprisonment of not less than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 18-110)
   (C)   Any person who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with any of
the terms or provisions of §§
51.40 through
51.50, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $50 and, in default
of payment, to imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30 days. Each day that
such person shall continue in violation of §§
51.40 through
51.50 shall constitute a separate offense, punishable by a like fine or
imprisonment hereunder upon conviction thereof.
(Ord. 78, passed 11-23-1981; Ord. 97, passed 2-12-2008)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   MOVING REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions and interpretation
   
70.02   Manner of adopting permanent traffic and parking regulations
   
70.03   Temporary and emergency regulations
   
70.04   Experimental regulations
   
70.05   Authority of police officers
   
70.06   Speed control enforcement; authority
   
70.07   Continuation of prior regulations
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   Words and phrases, when used in this title, shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in the Vehicle Code of Pennsylvania, being 75 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.,
as now in force, or as hereafter amended, enacted, or reenacted, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning. In this title, the singular
shall include the plural, the plural shall include the singular, and the
masculine shall include the feminine. For the purpose of this title, the
following definition applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   LEGAL HOLIDAYS. Include: New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Juneteenth,
Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas.
(Prior Code, § 15-101) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 70.02 MANNER OF ADOPTING PERMANENT TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS.
   All traffic and parking regulations of a permanent nature shall be enacted
as ordinances, as parts of ordinances, as amendments to ordinances, or as
amendments to this title.
(Prior Code, § 15-102) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 70.03 TEMPORARY AND EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have the following powers to regulate traffic and
parking temporarily and in time of emergency:
      (1)   In the case of fire, flood, storm, or other emergency, to establish
temporary traffic and/or parking regulations; and
      (2)   In the case of emergency or to facilitate public works, or in the
conduct of parades, processions, or public events, to restrict or prohibit
traffic and/or parking in limited areas for periods of not more than 72 hours.
   (B)   Such temporary and emergency regulations shall be enforced by the
Mayor and the police in the same manner as permanent regulations.
(Prior Code, § 15-103) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Borough Council may, from time to time, designate places upon and
along the highways in the borough where for a period of not more than 90 days,
specific traffic and/or parking regulations, prohibitions, and restrictions
shall be in force and effect, and shall designate such location by proper signs
and markings. Such regulations, prohibitions, and restrictions shall be
effective just as they had been specified in this title.
   (B)   No person shall operate or park a vehicle or tractor in violation of
any such regulation, prohibition, or restriction, and no person shall move,
remove, destroy, or deface any sign or marking erected, posted, or made by
authority of this section.
(Prior Code, § 15-104) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 AUTHORITY OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   The police officers of the borough are hereby given authority to direct
traffic on the highways of the borough, and at intersections thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15-105) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 70.06 SPEED CONTROL ENFORCEMENT; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the “Applewold Borough Speed Control
Enforcement Ordinance.”
   (B)   The Police Department serving the borough is hereby authorized to
exercise all powers granted to local authorities under the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.
C.S. § 3368, which includes the authority to use certain speed-timing devices
for the determination of speed of motor vehicles as are now, or as may be
hereafter authorized and approved by the Department of Transportation or the
commonwealth. This section authorizes the use of said devices upon all highways
within the borough be they borough, county, or state highways or streets.
(Ord. 101, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 70.07 CONTINUATION OF PRIOR REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this title, so far as they are the same as those of
ordinances in force immediately prior to the adoption of this title, are
intended as a continuation of such ordinances and regulations and not as new
enactments. The provisions of this title shall not affect any act done or
liability incurred, nor shall they affect any suit or prosecution pending or to
be instituted to enforce any right or penalty or to punish any offense under
any such ordinance or regulations as aforesaid.
(Prior Code, § 15-402) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall operate or park a vehicle or tractor in violation
of any such regulations in §
70.03, or who shall move, remove, destroy, injure, or deface any sign or
marking erected, posted, or made to give notice of any such regulation shall,
upon conviction thereof, be liable to the penalty set forth in the law or
elsewhere in this title for a violation of such nature and, in case of
violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the law or elsewhere in
this title, to a fine of not more than $25 and costs of prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 15-103)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
70.04 shall, upon conviction thereof, be liable to the penalty set forth in the
law or elsewhere in this title for a violation of such nature, and in case of a
violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the law or elsewhere in
this chapter, to a fine of not more than $25 and costs of prosecution.
Provided, the purpose of §
70.04 is to allow for the test and experimental determination of the
feasibility and desirability of permanent changes in the ordinances of the
borough relative to traffic and parking.
(Prior Code, § 15-104)
(Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
CHAPTER 71: MOVING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Motor vehicles not to be driven on sidewalks
   
71.02   Unlawful to operate motor vehicles on streets closed for construction
or repair
   
71.03   Play streets authorized
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 MOTOR VEHICLES NOT TO BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall drive any vehicle except a human powered vehicle upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary
driveway.
(Prior Code, § 15-201) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE MOTOR VEHICLES ON STREETS CLOSED FOR CONSTRUCTION
OR REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle upon any street
in the borough that is under construction, resurfacing, or repair, in disregard
of any official sign, barricade, or notice that the same is closed to vehicular
traffic.
(Prior Code, § 15-205) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 PLAY STREETS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to designate as play streets, whenever
he or she shall deem such action advisable, and for whatever period of time
directed by him or her any portion of any street in the borough whereon
sledding and coasting shall be permitted. Such street shall be set apart for
the purpose under the direction of the Mayor.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon any play street at any
time when such street shall be so designated, except in case of emergency, with
special permission of the police officer in charge, who shall first clear such
play street of all persons using such street for the purpose for which it was
set aside.
(Prior Code, § 15-206) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
71.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and
costs or prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 15-201)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
71.02 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $25 together with costs of prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 15-205)
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
71.03 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $25 together with costs of prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 15-206)
(Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Parking without lights authorized
   
72.02   Vehicles to be parked within marked spaces; parking prohibited in
certain marked areas
   
72.03   Parking of boats, truck tractors, trailers, and trucks prohibited on
streets in residential zones
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 PARKING WITHOUT LIGHTS AUTHORIZED.
   The boundary limits of the borough are hereby established as a zone in which
motor vehicles may remain standing without lights, and all highways within such
boundary limits are hereby designated as highways where motor vehicles may
remain standing without lights.
(Prior Code, § 15-301) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 72.02 VEHICLES TO BE PARKED WITHIN MARKED SPACES; PARKING PROHIBITED IN
CERTAIN MARKED AREAS.
   (A)   Wherever a particular parking space shall be lined or marked off on
any street or alley or upon the adjacent curb, every vehicle parked shall be
parked within the lines marking such parking space, and all vehicles parked on
streets or alleys within the borough, whether parking spaces are marked or not,
shall be parked only in the direction of the permitted traffic flow.
   (B)   Parking shall be prohibited at all times in any manner by any vehicle:
      (1)   Which in any way will block the intersection of any street with
another street, any intersection of a street with any alley;
      (2)   So as to block the entrance or exit from any alley;
      (3)   At any point within the painted line area adjacent to any fire
hydrant;
      (4)   At any point within the painted line area marking the permissible
distance to park from any intersection;
      (5)   In any area where erected signs or painted lines indicate a “no
parking” area;
      (6)   In any manner so as to block any public driveway or access way to a
parking lot or parking facility or other facility of the borough; or
      (7)   So as to block any private driveway within the borough.
(Prior Code, § 15-302) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PARKING OF BOATS, TRUCK TRACTORS, TRAILERS, AND TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON
STREETS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   The parking of boats, truck tractors, trailers, and trucks, except those not
exceeding three-quarter ton capacity, shall be prohibited on all streets in the
borough. Provided, trucks, truck tractors, and trailers shall be permitted upon
any street for the purpose of making deliveries to or picking up goods, wares,
merchandise, or materials from premises situated upon any such street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 15-304) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   The owner of any vehicle parked so as to violate any provision of this
chapter shall be given a traffic ticket or citation, assessing fine for
violation in the following amounts:
   (A)   Fifteen dollars for: blocking an intersection, a street or an alley,
parking in a prohibited zone adjacent to a fire hydrant, or blocking private or
public driveways or accessways;
   (B)   Fifteen dollars for parking in a prohibited zone too close to an
intersection, parking on any sidewalk within the borough, or parking in a
prohibited zone designated by an erected sign or by painted lines indicating a
“no parking” zone; and
   (C)   Fifteen dollars for parking in the wrong direction on any street or
overparking in a limited parking zone not metered.
(Prior Code, § 15-305) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   License required
   
73.02   Applications for license; inspection of bicycles
   
73.03   License fee; renewal; transfer; license tag
   
73.04   Rental of bicycles
   
73.05   Regulations for operation of bicycles
   
73.06   Unlawful to ride on sidewalks
   
73.99   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, it shall be unlawful
for any person or persons to operate or use a bicycle upon any of the streets,
alleys, or public thoroughfares of the borough without first obtaining a
license therefor and having said bicycle properly registered and tagged.
(Prior Code, § 3-101) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSE; INSPECTION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Application for license shall be made and kept by the Chief of Police
or any other authorized person of the borough upon forms provided for that
purpose, said forms to contain the name, date of birth, and address of the
owner, together with a description of the bicycle, plus the number on the frame
of the bicycle for which issued, sufficient for identification thereof.
   (B)   Before licensing a bicycle, it must appear to the Chief of Police that
the applicant is the owner of said bicycle, or that he or she is entitled to
possession thereof, and no bicycle shall be registered or licensed, nor shall
any license be renewed as hereinafter provided, until inspected, examined, and
found to be in a safe mechanical condition.
   (C)   Inspection of bicycles may be done by the Chief of Police and/or by
any one or more responsible persons or groups of persons designated by Borough
Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-102) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 73.03 LICENSE FEE; RENEWAL; TRANSFER; LICENSE TAG.
   (A)   The annual license fee to be paid for each bicycle shall be determined
by Borough Council at a meeting each year, special notice of which shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in and about the borough. Any
license granted hereunder shall be effective until next June 1, when the same
shall expire and must be renewed annually thereafter for the current license
fee determined by Borough Council.
   (B)   Licenses may be transferred without charge when the ownership of said
bicycle is transferred.
   (C)   Upon application and satisfactory evidence of the loss of a tag, a new
tag may be issued upon payment of the current yearly license fee. The license
tag granted shall be displayed on the bicycle at all times, attached to the
frame in the rear directly under the seat of the bicycle in a manner that is
plainly visible.
(Prior Code, § 3-103) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 RENTAL OF BICYCLES.
   A rental agency shall not rent or offer any bicycle for rent, unless the
bicycle is licensed and a license plate is attached thereto as provided herein
in §§
73.01 through
73.03.
(Prior Code, § 3-104) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 REGULATIONS FOR OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   In addition to the laws of the state, it shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to operate or use a bicycle upon the streets, alleys, or public
thoroughfares of the borough in violation of any of the following regulations.
   (A)   No bicycle may be operated, unless it is in a safe mechanical
condition and in good working order at all times.
   (B)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a bell or horn, if the same is
obtainable, capable of emitting sound, which is audible for not less than 100
feet.
   (C)   Every bicycle, when operated on a public thoroughfare, shall be kept
as close to the right-hand curb as possible, and shall be operated in single
file only.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a bicycle to carry another
person(s) on the bicycle unless the bicycle is designed for more than one
person or has a safely constructed infant seat attached to the rear of the
bicycle, and the passengers are carried only on the seats designed for that
purpose. It shall also be unlawful for anyone to tow or draw any coaster sled,
person on roller skates, toy vehicles, or any other similar vehicle when
operating a bicycle on any street, alley, or public thoroughfare in the borough
and, further, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any bicycle to be towed
on his or her bicycle by any other vehicle.
   (E)   No rider of a bicycle shall remove both hands from the handlebars, nor
feet from the pedals, nor practice any acrobatic stunts or fancy riding on any
street, alley, or public thoroughfare in the borough.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any bicycle to carry any
package, bundle, or article thereon, in a manner which prevents the rider from
keeping both hands on the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 3-105) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 UNLAWFUL TO RIDE ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to ride a bicycle upon any of
the sidewalks of the borough.
(Prior Code, § 3-106) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
73.01 through
73.06 shall, upon conviction thereof (before the Mayor or any Justice of the
Peace) be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $2 or not more than $10,
plus costs. Provided further, that the penalties set forth herein shall apply
only to those violations not heretofore regulated by the laws of the
commonwealth.
(Prior Code, § 3-107) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits established
      
II.   One-way streets
      
III.   Stop intersections
      
IV.   Gross weight limits established
      
V.   Parking prohibited at all times in certain areas
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The following speed limits are hereby established:
 
Street                                 Between       Speed Limit
Allegheny Avenue                       Entire length 25 mph
Hickory Street                         Entire length 15 mph
LR 03134                               Entire length 25 mph
Shady Lane                             Entire length 25 mph
All other streets, avenues, and alleys               15 mph
 
   (B)   Any person who shall operate a vehicle at a speed in excess of that
established therefor, upon any highway or portion thereof as specified in this
schedule shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of $35 and,
for exceeding a maximum speed limit by more than five mph, shall pay an
additional fine of $2 for each mile per hour in excess of five mph over the
maximum speed limit.
(Prior Code, § 15-202) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982; Ord. 93, passed 8-7-1989)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The following are hereby established as one-way streets:
 
Streets         From         To               Direction of Travel
Franklin Avenue Maple Street LR 03134         North
Poplar Street   LR 03134     Allegheny Avenue East
Ridge Avenue    Maple Street Franklin Avenue  North
 
   (B)   Any person who shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street or
portion thereof hereby established as a one-way street other than in the
direction hereby established for traffic thereon shall, upon conviction
thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $25 and costs or
prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 15-203) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
SCHEDULE III. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The following intersections are hereby established as stop
intersections, and official stop signs shall be erected (or are hereby
confirmed if heretofore erected) in such a position as to face traffic
approaching the second-named street upon the first-named street, in the
direction or directions hereby indicated. All vehicles approaching any such
intersection upon the first-named street, in the direction or directions hereby
indicated in each case, shall come to a full stop, within a reasonable
distance, before entering any such intersection:
Stop Street Through Street Direction of Travel
Stop Street      Through Street   Direction of Travel
                 Maple Street     North and south
Allegheny Avenue Old LR 422       North
                 Poplar Street    North and south
Franklin Avenue  Hickory Street   South
                 Maple Street     North
                 Franklin Avenue  East and west
Hickory Street   LR 03134         West
                 Ridge Avenue     East and west
LR 03134         Franklin Avenue  North
                 Poplar Street    South
                 Allegheny Avenue East
Maple Street     Franklin Avenue  East and west
                 Ridge Avenue     West
Poplar Street    Allegheny Avenue East
                 Franklin Avenue  North
Ridge Avenue     Hickory Street   South
                 Maple Street     North and south
 
   (B)   Any driver of a vehicle who shall fail to come to a full stop, within
a reasonable distance, before entering any stop intersection, as required in
division (A) above, shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine
of $25 together with costs of prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 15-204) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982; Ord. 103, passed 2-13-2024)
SCHEDULE IV. GROSS WEIGHT LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any motor vehicle
or other vehicle, trailer, or tractor-trailer combination having a gross weight
in excess of that herein prescribed, upon any of the following streets or
portions thereof where such streets or portions thereof have been posted with
notice of such maximum weight:
 
Street           Between                                         Weight Limit
Allegheny Avenue Entire length (with exception of that portion   15,000 pounds
                 within the confines of State Highway Route 422)
Franklin Avenue                                                  15,000 pounds
Hickory Street                                                   15,000 pounds
Ridge Avenue                                                     15,000 pounds
 
      (2)   Provided, that aforesaid weight limit shall not apply to any motor
vehicle or other vehicle, trailer, or tractor-trailer combination making
deliveries or picking up goods, wares, material, or merchandise from any
property located upon any such restricted zone, or any motor vehicle or other
vehicle, or trailer or tractor-trailer combination for which a special permit
to operate in any such restricted zone shall have been issued by the Mayor.
      (3)   Provided further, the provisions of this schedule shall not apply
to the driving of vehicles hauling food or household goods, public utility
vehicles, firefighting equipment, garbage and rubbish vehicles, or school and
public transportation buses.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this schedule shall,
upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of $75 plus $75 for each
500 pounds, or part thereof, in excess of 3,000 pounds over the maximum
allowable weight limit, plus costs of prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 15-207) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
SCHEDULE V. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   Parking shall be prohibited at all times in the following locations:
 
Street           Side  Between
Allegheny Avenue East  Entire length
Poplar Street    North Entire length
 
(Prior Code, § 15-303) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Keeping of Animals
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Wild animals
   
90.03   Domestic animals
   
90.04   Household pets
   
90.05   Compliance with state law
Animal Nuisances
   
90.20   Animal defecation on public and private property
   
90.21   Disposal of animal feces
   
90.22   Dogs accompanying blind or handicapped persons exempted
   
90.99   Penalty
KEEPING OF ANIMALS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. In this
subchapter, the singular shall include the plural, the plural shall include the
singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine.
   ANIMAL. Any domestic animal or fowl, any wild animal, or any household pet.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal as herein defined as a household pet, a large
animal, or a small animal.
   HOUSEHOLD PET. Any dog, cat, or other domestic animal normally and
ordinarily kept in or permitted to be at large in the dwelling of its owner.
   LARGE ANIMAL. Any domestic animal of the bovine, equine, sheep, or hog
family.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation.
   SMALL ANIMAL. Any domestic animal such as a rabbit, hare, guinea pig, rat,
mouse, or chinchilla, and any domestic animal such as a chick, turkey, goose,
duck, or pigeon (except homing pigeons).
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal, bird, fowl, or reptile not normally or ordinarily
domesticated, not normally or ordinarily raised in this area and climate as
livestock or for work or breeding purposes, or not normally kept as a household
pet.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
§ 90.02 WILD ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any wild animal at any place
within the borough, except where the same shall be permitted in a park,
zoological garden, or similar establishment for exhibit to the public or to any
portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2-102) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any reason to keep any domestic animals, except
household pets, except as provided in this section.
   (A)   Large animals shall be confined to quarters, no part of which shall be
closer than 100 feet from the exterior limits of any dwelling or of any
property line.
   (B)   Small animals shall be kept confined in quarters, no part of which
shall be closer than ten feet from the exterior limits of any dwelling or of
any property line.
   (C)   The keeper of every such domestic animal shall confine the same in an
enclosure sufficient to prevent such animal from running at large, and such
enclosure shall be of a size conducive to good sanitation practices, and
adequate and sanitary drainage facilities shall be provided.
   (D)   Every keeper of a domestic animal shall cause the litter and droppings
therefrom to be collected daily in a container or receptacle of such type that,
when closed, it shall be ratproof and flytight, and after every such
collection, shall cause such container or receptacle to be kept closed. At
least twice a week, every such keeper shall cause all litter and droppings so
collected to be disposed of in such a manner as not to permit the presence of
fly larvae.
   (E)   Every keeper of a domestic animal shall cause all feed provided
therefor to be stored and kept in a ratproof and flytight building, box,
container, or receptacle.
(Prior Code, § 2-103) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 HOUSEHOLD PETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any household pet, except as
provided in this section.
   (A)   If any such pet shall be kept in a dwelling owned or occupied by its
owner, such owner shall be required to follow such procedures and practices as
to the number of such pets to be kept there, and as to sanitation, to ensure
that no public nuisance shall be created or maintained and no threat to the
health of persons living elsewhere than in such dwelling shall be created.
   (B)   If any such pet shall be kept in an enclosure outside such dwelling,
the provisions of §
90.03, insofar as the same applies to small animals, shall be applicable to the
keeping of such household pet.
(Prior Code, § 2-104) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   Any violation of this subchapter that would also violate any state law shall
be prosecuted under that state law and not under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-106) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
ANIMAL NUISANCES
§ 90.20 ANIMAL DEFECATION ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person having possession, custody, or control of any animals shall
knowingly or negligently permit any dog or other animal to defecate upon any
gutter, street, driveway, alley, curb, or sidewalk in the borough, or upon the
floors or stairways of any building or place frequented by the public or used
in common by the tenants, or upon the outside walls, walkways, driveways,
alleys, curbs, or stairways of any building abutting on a public street or
park, or upon the grounds of any public park or public area, or upon any
private property other than the property of the owner of such animal.
(Prior Code, § 2-201) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 DISPOSAL OF ANIMAL FECES.
   Any person having possession, custody, or control of any dog or other animal
which commits a nuisance in any area other than the private property of the
owner of such dog or other animal, as prohibited in §
90.20, shall be required to immediately remove the said feces from such surface
and either:
   (A)   Carry same away for disposal in a toilet; or
   (B)   Place same in a nonleaking container for deposit in a trash or litter
receptacle.
(Prior Code, § 2-202) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 DOGS ACCOMPANYING BLIND OR HANDICAPPED PERSONS EXEMPTED.
   The provisions of §§
90.20 and
90.21 shall not apply to a guide dog accompanying any blind persons, or to a
dog used to assist any other physically handicapped person.
(Prior Code, § 2-203) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.05 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $300 and costs of prosecution, or to undergo imprisonment for not more
than 30 days. Provided, each violation of any provision of §§
90.01 through
90.05 and each day the same continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-105)
   (C)   The penalty for violation of any provision contained in §§
90.20 or
90.21 shall be not less than $10 nor more than $300 and costs of prosecution,
or to imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 2-106)
(Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Abandoned and Junked Automobiles; Junk Accumulation
   
91.01   Title
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Accumulation/storage of junk
Storage of Motor Vehicles
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Storage of certain vehicles
   
91.17   Regulations
   
91.18   Inspection; notice to comply
   
91.19   Authority to remedy noncompliance
   
91.20   Hearings
   
91.21   Remedies not mutually exclusive
   
91.99   Penalty
ABANDONED AND JUNKED AUTOMOBILES; JUNK ACCUMULATION
§ 91.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as “Applewold Borough
Abandoned and Junked Automobile and Junk Accumulation Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 13-101) (Ord. 62, passed 7-1-1968)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CALENDAR DAY. A period of 24 hours measured from midnight of any calendar
day.
   JUNK. Any and all forms of waste and refuse of any type of material,
including scrap metal, junked motor vehicles, glass, industrial waste, and
other salvageable material. This shall not pertain to refuse and garbage unless
the same is contained within fully enclosed containers constructed of
impermeable materials in such manner as to be airtight and watertight.
   JUNKED AUTOMOBILES. Any automobile outside of a fully enclosed building not
in full and complete working order and without current registration plates or
any automobile stored for resale as junked metal or any automobile outside of a
fully enclosed building stored for selling parts therefrom.
   PERSON. Every natural person, association, or corporation. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing or imposing a fine, or penalty of imprisonment in
default thereof, the term as applied to associations shall mean any member
thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the president or secretary
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 13-102) (Ord. 62, passed 7-1-1968)
§ 91.03 ACCUMULATION/STORAGE OF JUNK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store any abandoned or junked
automobile or to accumulate junk on private or public property within the
geographical boundaries of the borough for any portion of a calendar day.
   (B)   The storage of any automobile as prohibited in this section or the
accumulation of any junk for more than one calendar day shall constitute a
separate and distinct unlawful act for any portion of each calendar day;
provided however, that nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to
prohibit or render unlawful the storage of abandoned or junked automobiles or
the accumulation of junk within the confines of any junk yard within the
borough which is duly licensed and operating under the provisions of other
ordinances of this borough.
(Prior Code, § 13-103) (Ord. 62, passed 7-1-1968) Penalty, see §
91.99
STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. In this
subchapter, the singular shall include the plural, the plural shall include the
singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
   LESSEE. Owner for the purpose of this subchapter, when the lessor holds the
lessee responsible for maintenance and repairs.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any type of mechanical device, propelled by a motor, in which
persons or property may be transported upon public streets or highways, and
including trailers or semitrailers pulled thereby.
   NUISANCE. Any condition, structure, or improvement which shall constitute a
threat to the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of the borough.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or
other legal entity.
   OWNER. The actual owner, agent, or custodian of the property on which motor
vehicles are stored, whether individual or partnership, association, or
corporation.
(Prior Code, § 10-101) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 91.16 STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   Except for licensed motor vehicles with valid state inspection stickers,
used motor vehicles, junked or otherwise, shall be stored on private premises
in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-102) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 REGULATIONS.
   Any person desiring to store or to continue to store motor vehicle(s) on
private grounds, except those mentioned in §
91.16, shall comply with the following.
   (A)   All gas and oil shall be drained from the vehicle.
   (B)   All glass shall be removed from any broken windshield, window, or
mirror.
   (C)   All upholstery shall be removed.
   (D)   All wheels shall be removed so that the vehicle is rendered incapable
of movement.
   (E)   All trunk lids shall be removed or shall have their locks removed.
   (F)   All such stored motor vehicles shall be at least 25 feet from any
building so as not to obstruct any firefighting equipment or emergency
vehicles.
   (G)   All such stored motor vehicles shall be at least 25 feet from any
river or stream or any other natural watercourse.
   (H)   All such stored motor vehicles shall at all times be kept free of
vermin infestation.
(Prior Code, § 10-103) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 INSPECTION; NOTICE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   The Inspector is hereby empowered to inspect grounds on which motor
vehicles are stored to determine if there is compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter. If noncompliance with the provision of this subchapter
constitutes a nuisance, or if any condition, structure, or improvement poses a
threat to the health, safety, or welfare of the public, he or she shall issue a
written notice to be served by registered or certified mail upon the owner of
said premises, or, if his or her whereabouts or identity be unknown, by posting
the notice conspicuously upon the offending premises.
   (B)   Said notice shall specify the condition or structure or improvement
complained of, and shall require the owner to commence to remove or otherwise
rectify the condition or structure or improvement as set forth therein within
ten days of mailing or posting of said notice, and thereafter, to fully comply
with the requirements of the notice within a reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 10-104) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 AUTHORITY TO REMEDY NONCOMPLIANCE.
   If the owner of grounds on which motor vehicles are stored does not comply
with the notice to abate the conditions within the time limit prescribed, the
borough shall have the authority to take measures to correct the conditions and
collect the cost of such corrections plus 10% additional. The borough, in such
event and pursuant to its statutory or otherwise authorized police powers,
shall have the right and power to enter upon the offending premises to
accomplish the foregoing.
(Prior Code, § 10-105) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 91.20 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Inspector may request and
shall be granted a hearing before the Council, provided he or she shall file
with said Council a written petition requesting such hearing and setting forth
a brief statement of the grounds therefor within ten days after notice of the
Inspector’s decision. The hearing shall commence not later than 30 days after
the date on which the petition was filed unless postponed for sufficient cause.
   (B)   After such hearing, the Council shall sustain, modify, or overrule the
action of the Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 10-106) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 91.21 REMEDIES NOT MUTUALLY EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided herein for the enforcement of this subchapter, or any
remedy provided by law, shall not be deemed mutually exclusive; rather, they
may be employed simultaneously or consecutively, at the option of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 10-108) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, upon conviction of §§
91.01 through
91.03 before a District Justice, shall be sentenced to a fine not to exceed
$300 and costs or to imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 13-104)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
91.15 through
91.21 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding
$300 together with costs of prosecution, or to undergo imprisonment for a term
not to exceed 30 days. Each violation of any provision of §§
91.15 through
91.21, or each day the same is continued, shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-107)
(Ord. 62, passed 7-1-1968; Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Fire hazards
   
92.02   Abatement of nuisance
   
92.03   Option available
Outdoor Burning
   
92.15   Purpose
   
92.16   Applicability
   
92.17   Definitions
   
92.18   General prohibition on outdoor burning and open burning
   
92.19   Open burning of refuse
   
92.20   Open burning of trees, logs, brush, stumps, leaves, and grass clippings
   
92.21   Campfires
   
92.22   Rules and regulations governing permitted burning
   
92.23   Burning permits
   
92.24   Liability
   
92.25   Right of entry and inspection
   
92.26   Enforcement
   
92.27   Fire suppression training
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 FIRE HAZARDS.
   All persons, firms, or corporations, owners of property, tenants, and
occupiers of same, within the limits of the borough are hereby prohibited from
burning by open fire or by semi-open containers that will emit sparks, smoke,
or obnoxious odors, all inflammable substances, rubbish, dead grass, brush,
including dead leaves, garbage, decayed vegetation, and other debris and broken
fragments which may be considered inflammable and unsanitary, and a fire hazard
to adjoining residences, buildings, and improvements, and also may cause
obnoxious odors.
(Prior Code, § 7-101) (Ord. 37, passed 8-4-1952) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   In the alternative, upon ten days’ notice from the Street Committee of
Council or Street Commissioner of said borough, to any such offender to comply
with the provisions of this subchapter, and if such offender refuses or
neglects to comply with the provisions of this subchapter, then the Borough
Authorities may, at their discretion, abate the said nuisance and charge the
costs and expenses of same against the person, firm, or corporation, owner, or
occupier of the property so offending, to be collected by the proper legal
proceedings by suit instituted by said Borough Authorities.
(Prior Code, § 7-103) (Ord. 37, passed 8-4-1952)
§ 92.03 OPTION AVAILABLE.
   The system now in force of collecting and transporting each week the truck
haulage, garbage, and refuse, papers, and other inflammable substances, is
available and is conducted for the convenience of the residents of said
borough.
(Prior Code, § 7-104) (Ord. 37, passed 8-4-1952)
OUTDOOR BURNING
§ 92.15 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is intended to promote the public health, safety, and
welfare and to safeguard the health, comfort, living conditions, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of the borough by regulating the air pollution and fire
hazards of open burning and outdoor burning.
(Ord. 102, passed - -2022)
§ 92.16 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to all outdoor burning and open burning within
the borough.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to grilling or cooking food using
charcoal, wood, propane, or natural gas in cooking or grilling appliances.
   (C)   This subchapter does not apply to burning for the purpose of
generating heat in a stove, furnace, fireplace, or other heating device within
a building used for human or animal habitation.
   (D)   This subchapter does not apply to the use of propane, acetylene,
natural gas, gasoline, or kerosene in a device intended for heating,
construction, or maintenance activities.
(Ord. 102, passed - -2022)
§ 92.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPFIRE or FIREPIT. A small, contained, outdoor fire intended for
recreation or cooking but not including a fire intended for disposal of waste,
wood, or refuse.
   CLEAN WOOD. Natural wood which has not been painted, varnished, or coated
with a similar material, has not been pressure-treated with preservatives, and
does not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood
products.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Building waste materials, including, but
not limited to, waste shingles, insulation, lumber, treated wood, painted wood,
wiring, plastics, packaging, and rubble that results from construction,
remodeling, repair, and demolition operations on a house, commercial, or
industrial building, or other structure.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of the Fire Department with main jurisdiction in the
borough, or his or her designee.
   MUNICIPALITY. A county, township, borough, or city.
   OPEN BURNING. Kindling or maintaining a fire where the products of
combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a
stack or a chimney. This includes burning in a burn barrel.
   OUTDOOR BURNING. Open burning or burning in an outdoor wood-fired boiler or
patio wood burning unit.
   OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRE BOILER. A wood-fired boiler, stove, or furnace that is not
located within a building intended for habitation by humans or domestic
animals.
   PATIO WOOD-BURNING UNIT. A chiminea, patio warmer, or other portable wood-
burning device used for outdoor recreation and/or heating.
   REFUSE. Any waste material except trees, logs, brush, stumps, leaves, grass
clippings, and other vegetative matter.
(Ord. 102, passed - -2022)
§ 92.18 GENERAL PROHIBITION ON OUTDOOR BURNING AND OPEN BURNING.
   Open burning and outdoor burning are prohibited in the borough unless the
burning is specifically permitted in this subchapter.
(Ord. 102, passed - -2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 OPEN BURNING OF REFUSE.
   Open burning of refuse in any form is prohibited.
(Ord. 102, passed - -2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20 OPEN BURNING OF TREES, LOGS, BRUSH, STUMPS, LEAVES, AND GRASS
CLIPPINGS.
   Open burning of trees, lots, brush, stumps, leaves, and grass clippings is
allowed only in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   On the eastern side of Allegheny Avenue in the area between the
riverbank and the Allegheny River, but not on the flat, grassy area adjacent to
Allegheny Avenue; and
   (B)   Only done on privately owned land and completed by property owner or
designee, aged at least 18 years.
(Ord. 102, passed - -2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 CAMPFIRES.
   Campfires are permitted on residential properties in accordance with the
following provisions:
   (A)    No less than 15 feet from any structure; and
   (B)   Adult, aged at least 18 years, must be present.
(Ord. 102, passed - -2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING PERMITTED BURNING.
   (A)   Permitted burning shall only be conducted at locations at least 15
feet from any structure.
   (B)   Burning shall be allowable in all months; however, compliance of all
state ozone action provisions must be abided by.
   (C)   Burning shall be constantly attended and supervised by a competent
person of at least 18 years of age until the fire is extinguished and is cold.
The person shall have readily available for use such fire extinguishing
equipment as may be necessary for the total control of the fire.
   (D)   No materials may be burned upon any street, curb, gutter, or sidewalk
or on the ice of a lake, pond, stream, or waterbody.
   (E)   No burning may occur on any public lands within the municipality.
   (F)   No burning may be conducted on days when the Department of
Environmental Protection has declared an “air quality action day” applicable to
the borough.
(Ord. 102, passed - -2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 BURNING PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall start or maintain any outdoor burning or open burning
covered under this section without a burning permit issued by the Borough
Secretary or other authorized designee which may be assigned by the Borough
Council.
   (B)   Any person responsible for burning leaves, brush, clean wood, or other
vegetative debris under §
92.20 shall obtain a one-time burning permit before starting the fire. There
shall be a $25 fee for such permit. Dates in which permits will be issued are
at the discretion of Borough Council in conjunction with the Fire Department
who has primary jurisdiction over the borough.
   (C)   An outdoor campfire does not require a permit, provided it complies
with all other provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   When weather conditions warrant, the Mayor, Council President, or
other designee may temporarily suspend issuing of burning permits and may
temporarily suspend previously issued burning permits.
   (E)   A burning permit issued under this section shall require compliance
with all applicable provisions of this subchapter and any additional special
restrictions deemed necessary to protect public health and safety.
   (F)   Any violation of the conditions of a burning permit shall be deemed a
violation of this subchapter. Any violation of this subchapter will cause the
burning permit to be void.
(Ord. 102, passed - -2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 LIABILITY.
   A person utilizing or maintaining an outdoor fire shall be responsible for
all fire suppression costs and any other liability resulting from damage caused
by the fire.
(Ord. 102, passed - -2022)
§ 92.25 RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION.
   The Fire Chief of the main Fire Department with authority in the borough who
presents credentials may inspect any property for the purpose of ascertaining
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 102, passed - -2022)
§ 92.26 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Fire Chief or authorized designee are authorized to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 102, passed - -2022)
§ 92.27 FIRE SUPPRESSION TRAINING.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this subchapter, structures and other
materials may be burned for fire suppression training only in accordance with
all the following provisions.
   (A)   The burn must be exclusively for fire prevention training. The burning
shall not be used as a means to dispose of waste or material including tires
and other hazardous materials.
   (B)   All asbestos must be removed and certification of such removal
provided to the Borough Secretary no less than three business days prior to the
scheduled burn. Asbestos must be removed by a licensed asbestos abatement
contractor.
   (C)   Shingles may remain if deemed necessary by the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 102, passed - -2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Persons, firms, or corporations, owners of property, tenants, and
occupiers of same, who fail to comply with §§
92.01 through
92.03, shall, upon conviction before a District Justice, be sentenced to a fine
not to exceed $300 and costs, or to imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30
days.
(Prior Code, § 7-102)
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or
governmental entity who violates any of the provisions of §§
92.15 through
92.27 or fails to comply with a duly authorized order issued pursuant to §§
92.15 through
92.27 shall be deemed to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction as
defined by the Pennsylvania Statute which shall be punishable by civil fine no
less than $100 and no more than $2,500.
      (2)   The violator shall pay costs which may include all expenses, direct
and indirect, which the borough has incurred in connection with the municipal
infraction. In no case , however, shall costs of not less than $150 nor more
than $1,500 be ordered. In addition, the borough shall have the right to
proceed in any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an
injunction, restraining order, or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance
with §§
92.15 through
92.27. Each day that a violation of §§
92.15 through
92.27 exists shall constitute a separate violation of §§
92.15 through
92.27.
(Ord. 37, passed 8-4-1952; Ord. 102, passed - -2022)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
CHAPTER 110: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions and interpretation
   
110.02   License required; conditions of issuance; fee
   
110.03   Application for license
   
110.04   Issuance of license; custody, display, or exhibit
   
110.05   Prohibited acts
   
110.06   Supervision; records and reports
   
110.07   Suspension and revocation of license; appeal
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The singular shall
include the plural, the plural shall include the singular, and the masculine
shall include the feminine and the neuter.
   LEGAL HOLIDAYS. Includes New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Juneteenth,
Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, association, corporation, or other
legal entity.
   TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESS. Includes the following:
      (1)   Engaging in peddling, soliciting, or taking orders, either by
sample or otherwise, for any goods, wares, or merchandise upon any street,
alley, sidewalk, or public ground, or from house to house, within the borough;
and/or
      (2)   Selling, soliciting, or taking orders for any goods, wares, or
merchandise from a fixed location within the borough, on a temporary basis,
which shall include, but shall not be limited to, such activities conducted at
the time of special occasions or celebrations, for seasonal purposes, or for or
in advance of specific yearly holidays.
(Prior Code, § 13-201) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; CONDITIONS OF ISSUANCE; FEE.
   (A)   No person shall engage in any transient retail business within the
borough without first having obtained from the Mayor a license, for which a
fee, which shall be for the use of the borough, shall be charged in accordance
with annual resolution of Borough Council setting those fees for the following
year.
   (B)   Provided, no license fee shall be charged under this section:
      (1)   To farmers selling their own produce;
      (2)   For the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, donated by the
owners thereof, the proceeds whereof are to be applied to any charitable or
philanthropic purpose;
      (3)   To any manufacturer or producer in the sale of bread and bakery
products, meat and meat products, or milk and milk products;
      (4)   To children under the age of 18 years who take orders for and
deliver newspapers, greeting cards, candy, bakery products, and the like, or
who represent the Scouting America or Girl Scouts or similar organizations;
      (5)   To any honorable discharged member of any of the armed services who
complies with the Act of 1867, April 8, P.L. 50, as amended, and who procures
from the Prothonotary a certificate in pursuance of the Act of Assembly;
      (6)   To the seeking or taking of orders by insurance agents or brokers
licensed under the insurance laws of the commonwealth;
      (7)   To any person who has complied with the provisions of Act 1990-202,
known as the Solicitation of Funds for Charitable Purposes Act, being 10 P.S.
§§
162.1 et seq.; or
      (8)   For taking orders for merchandise, by sample, from dealers or
merchants for individuals or companies who pay a license or business privilege
tax at their chief place of business.
   (C)   But all persons exempted hereby from the payment of the license fee
shall be required to register with the Mayor and obtain a license without fee.
Provided further, any person dealing in one or more of the exempted categories
mentioned in division (B) above, and dealing with other goods, wares, or
merchandise not so exempted, shall be subject to the payment of the license fee
fixed by this section for his or her activities in connection with the sale of
goods, wares, and merchandise not in such exempted categories, provided
further, the Mayor may similarly exempt from payment of the license fee, but
not from registering with him or her, persons working without compensation and
selling goods, wares, or merchandise for the sole benefit of any nonprofit
corporation. Provided further, every license issued under the provisions of
this chapter shall be issued on an individual basis to any person or persons
engaging in such business. Every individual shall obtain a separate license,
issued to him or her in his or her name, and the license fee hereby imposed
shall be applicable to every such individual license, except that a
representative of a charitable organization may obtain the licenses for the
applicants therein.
(Prior Code, § 13-202) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person desiring a license under this chapter shall first make
application to the Mayor for such license. If such person shall also be
required to obtain a license from any state or county officer, he or she shall,
when making such application, exhibit a valid license from such state or county
officer.
   (B)   The applicant shall state:
      (1)   His or her criminal record, if any;
      (2)   The name and address of the person by whom he or she is employed;
      (3)   The type of goods, wares, and merchandise he or she wishes to deal
with in such transient retail business;
      (4)   The length of time for which license is to be issued; and
      (5)   The type and license number of the vehicle to be used, if any.
(Prior Code, § 13-203) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 110.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; CUSTODY, DISPLAY, OR EXHIBIT.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such application and the prescribed fee, the Mayor, if
he or she shall find such application in order, shall issue the license
required under this chapter. Such license shall contain the information
required to be given on the application therefor.
   (B)   Every license holder shall carry such license upon his or her person
if engaged in transient retail business from house to house or upon any of the
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds, or shall display such license at
the location where he or she shall engage in such business if doing so at a
fixed location. He or she shall exhibit such license, upon request, to all
police officers, municipal officials, and citizens or residents of the borough.
(Prior Code, § 13-204) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person in any transient retail business shall:
   (A)   Sell any product or type of product not mentioned in his or her
license;
   (B)   Hawk or cry his or her wares upon any of the streets, alleys,
sidewalks, or public grounds in the borough;
   (C)   When operating from a vehicle, stop or park such vehicle upon any of
the streets or alleys in the borough for longer than necessary in order to sell
therefrom to persons residing (or working) in the immediate vicinity;
   (D)   Park any vehicle upon any of the streets or alleys in the borough for
the purpose of sorting, rearranging, or cleaning any of his or her goods,
wares, or merchandise or of disposing of any carton, wrapping material, or of
any stock or wares or foodstuffs which have become unsaleable through handling,
age, or otherwise; or
   (E)   Engage in any business activity, except by prior appointment, at any
time on a Sunday or legal holiday or at any time before 10:00 a.m. or after 5:
00 p.m. on any day of the week other than a Sunday or legal holiday.
(Prior Code, § 13-205) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 SUPERVISION; RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Mayor shall supervise the activities of all persons holding licenses
under this chapter. He or she shall keep a record of all licenses issued
hereunder, and shall make a report thereof each month to the Borough Council.
(Prior Code, § 13-206) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 110.07 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to suspend or revoke any license issued
under this chapter when he or she deems such suspension or revocation to be
beneficial to the public health, safety, or morals, for violation of any
provision of this chapter, or for giving false information upon any application
for a license hereunder.
   (B)   Appeals from any suspension or revocation may be made to the Council
at any time within ten days after such suspension or revocation.
   (C)   No part of a license fee shall be refunded to any person whose license
shall have been suspended or revoked.
(Prior Code, § 13-207) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding $300 together with
costs of prosecution, or to undergo imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
Provided, each violation of any provision of this chapter, and each day the
same is continued, shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 13-208) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct prohibited
   
130.02   Littering prohibited
Firearms and Weapons
   
130.15   Discharge of firearms prohibited
   
130.16   Use of air rifles, bow and arrows, or similar devices restricted
   
130.17   Exceptions
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Disorderly conduct is hereby prohibited within the borough. A person
is guilty of disorderly conduct if, with intent to cause public inconvenience,
annoyance, or alarm, or recklessly creating a risk thereof, he or she:
      (1)   Engages in fighting or in threatening, violent, or tumultuous
behavior;
      (2)   Makes unreasonable noise;
      (3)   Uses obscene language, or makes obscene gesture; or
      (4)   Creates a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act
which serves no legitimate purpose of the actor.
   (B)   Provided, as used in this section, the word PUBLIC means affecting or
likely to affect persons in a place to which the public or a substantial group
has access. Among the places included are streets, alleys and sidewalks,
transport facilities, schools, prisons, apartment houses, places of business,
or amusement, any neighborhood, or any premises which are open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 6-301) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation or any agent
thereof to place, throw, store, accumulate, or maintain, or cause to be placed,
thrown, stored, accumulated, or maintained any used cans, papers, paper boxes,
used lumber, rubbish, debris, animal matter, garbage, empty bottles, or other
containers upon any property within the borough or on or near any alley,
highway, or stream located in said borough.
(Prior Code, § 6-401) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
FIREARMS AND WEAPONS
§ 130.15 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   Except in necessary defense of person and property and except as provided in
§
130.17, it shall be unlawful, within the borough, for any person to use, fire,
or discharge any pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun, or device which is designed
to use a cartridge manufactured for use in a pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun,
or any other firearm.
(Prior Code, § 6-201) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 USE OF AIR RIFLES, BOW AND ARROWS, OR SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any air rifle, air pistol,
spring gun, spring pistol, BB gun, bow and arrow, or similar device, or any
implement that is not a firearm, which impels a pellet of any kind with a force
that can reasonably be expected to cause bodily harm at any place within the
borough except on a properly constructed target range except as provided in §
130.17.
(Prior Code, § 6-202) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply:
   (A)   To persons licensed to hunt in this commonwealth while actually
engaged in hunting where permitted under the laws of the commonwealth;
   (B)   To members of any organization incorporated under laws of this
commonwealth engaged in target shooting upon the grounds or property belonging
to or under the control of such organization; or
   (C)   To any law enforcement officers when used in the discharge of their
official duties.
(Prior Code, § 6-203) (Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
130.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding
$300 together with costs of prosecution, or to undergo imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 6-302)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §
130.02 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding
$300, together with costs of prosecution, or to undergo imprisonment for a term
not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 6-402)
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
130.15 through
130.17 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding
$300 together with costs of prosecution, or to undergo imprisonment for not
more than 30 days. Provided, each violation of any provision of §§
130.15 through
130.17, and each day the same is continued shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-204)
(Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
CHAPTER 131: CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Curfew established; exceptions
   
131.02   Parents not to permit violation
   
131.03   Procedure upon violation
   
131.04   Multiple violations
   
131.05   Police discretion in age determination
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 CURFEW ESTABLISHED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any MINOR (herein defined to be a person
under 18 years of age) to be or remain in or upon any public highway, park, or
other public place within the borough at night, after the hour of 9:00 p.m.,
EST, unless such minor is accompanied by any parent, guardian, or other person
having the legal custody of such minor.
   (B)   As a warning, a whistle or siren, to be known as the “curfew whistle,”
shall be sounded at 9:00 p.m., prevailing time, each evening, after which all
such minors shall be required to be at home or out of the streets, alleys,
parks, and public places in the borough, except as herein provided for.
(Prior Code, § 6-101) (Ord. 69, passed 7-9-1973; Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 PARENTS NOT TO PERMIT VIOLATION.
   It is hereby made unlawful for any parent, guardian, or person having the
legal care or custody of any of the children of the age designated in §
131.01, to allow or permit any such minor, ward, or other person under such
age, while in such legal custody, to go or be in or upon any of the streets,
alleys, parks, or public places in said borough after the time prohibited in §
131.01, except as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 6-102) (Ord. 69, passed 7-9-1973; Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 PROCEDURE UPON VIOLATION.
   Any minor as designated in §
131.01 found upon the borough streets, alleys, parks, or public places within
the borough, in violation of §
131.01 shall be taken into custody by the Borough Police and delivered to his
or her parents, guardian, or person having the legal custody of said minor, and
report thereof made to the Mayor, who shall make a record thereof in a book to
be kept for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 6-103) (Ord. 69, passed 7-9-1973; Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 MULTIPLE VIOLATIONS.
   Said minors who shall violate this chapter more than three times shall be
reported to a society or organization whose purpose is to take charge of
incorrigibles and delinquents and proceedings be then taken in the Court of
Quarter Sessions or Juvenile Court for their permanent welfare, and a like
procedure shall be taken in cases where the permanent welfare, and a like
procedure shall be taken in cases where the arrest of the parent, guardian, or
legal custodian shall not be effective, or where, for any other reason, the
provisions of §
131.01 cannot be made effective by fines and penalties imposed hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 6-104) (Ord. 69, passed 7-9-1973; Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 131.05 POLICE DISCRETION IN AGE DETERMINATION.
   The police officers of the borough, in taking minors into custody under this
chapter, shall use their discretion in determining age, and in doubtful cases,
may require positive proof, and until such proof is furnished, the officer’s
judgment shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 6-105) (Ord. 69, passed 7-9-1973; Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   If said parent, guardian, or person having the legal custody of said minor
shall again allow him or her to be on said streets, alleys, parks, or public
places in violation of §
131.01, said parent, guardian, or person having the legal custody of said minor
so offending shall, upon conviction before a District Justice, be sentenced to
a fine not to exceed $300 and costs or to imprisonment for a term not to exceed
30 days, and a like penalty shall be imposed upon any person aiding or abetting
in the violation of the intent and purpose of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-103) (Ord. 69, passed 7-9-1973; Ord. 84, passed 12-6-1982)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
151.   CODE ENFORCEMENT
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
Excavations/Opening Permits
   
150.001   Definitions
   
150.002   Permit required
   
150.003   Limit of work
   
150.004   Work to start within time limit
   
150.005   Permits not transferable
   
150.006   Expiration/extension
   
150.007   Openings made by borough
   
150.008   Exception
   
150.009   Street use consistent with permit
   
150.010   Revocation of permit
   
150.011   Applicant’s duties
   
150.012   Permit holder’s duties
   
150.013   Openings/excavations
   
150.014   Backfilling/inspections
   
150.015   Deposit
   
150.016   Schedule of charges
   
150.017   Refund
   
150.018   Bond
   
150.019   Insurance
Regulation of Original Construction in the Repair of Sidewalks
   
150.030   Construction and repair required
   
150.031   Construction materials
   
150.032   Conformity to line and grade
   
150.033   Notice to do work
   
150.034   Inspection
   
150.035   Authority of borough to perform work and collect costs
   
150.036   Emergency repairs
   
150.037   Construction and repair done on owner’s initiative without notice
Removal of Snow and Ice from Sidewalks
   
150.050   Definitions
   
150.051   Responsibility for removal of snow and ice from sidewalks
   
150.052   Responsibility for removal from roofs
   
150.053   Authority for the borough to remove snow and ice and impose charges
therefor
Maintenance of Shade Trees
   
150.065   Definitions
   
150.066   Borough Council to act as Shade Tree Commission
   
150.067   Permit required
   
150.068   Restrictions on planting and growing of certain trees
   
150.069   Clearance above street and sidewalk
   
150.070   Removal and trimming of trees
   
150.999   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS/OPENINGS PERMITS
§ 150.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person who makes application for a permit.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Applewold, County of Armstrong, Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
   EMERGENCY. Any unforeseen circumstances or occurrences, the existence of
which constitutes a clear and immediate danger to persons or properties.
   MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY. Any body corporate and politic created pursuant to the
laws of the commonwealth.
   PERMITTEE. Any person who has been issued a permit and has agreed to fulfill
all the terms of this subchapter.
   PERSON. Includes any natural person, partnership, firm, association,
utility, corporation, or authority created pursuant to an act of the
Pennsylvania General Assembly. Whenever used in any section prescribing and
imposing a penalty, the term PERSON, as applied to associations, shall mean the
partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers
thereof.
   PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANY. Any company subject to the jurisdiction of and
control by the State Public Utility Commission.
   STREET. Includes a public street, public easement, public right-of-way,
public highway, public alley, public way, or public road accepted or maintained
by the borough.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Chairperson of the Maintenance Committee of the Borough
Council or a responsible agent or agency employed by the Council for the
purposes of enforcing the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-101) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 150.002 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any tunnel, opening, or
excavation of any kind in or under the surface of any street without first
securing a permit from the borough for each separate undertaking. Provided
however, any person maintaining pipes, lines, or other underground facilities
in or under the surface of any street may proceed with an opening without a
permit when emergency circumstances demand the work to be done immediately,
provided the permit could not reasonably and practically have been obtained
beforehand. The person shall thereafter apply for a permit on the first regular
business day on which the office of the Superintendent is open for business and
said permit shall be retroactive to the date when the work was begun. In all
cases where emergency openings are necessary, the Borough Police Department
shall be notified prior to such opening.
(Prior Code, § 21-102) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.003 LIMIT OF WORK.
   No person to whom a permit has been granted shall perform any of the work
authorized by such permit in any amount greater than that specified in the
permit, except that upon approval by the Superintendent, additional work may be
done under the provisions of the permit in such an amount as the Superintendent
shall deem appropriate and necessary to complete the work. Any deposit and bond
posted in connection with the permit shall be deemed to cover any such
additional work as may be approved pursuant to this section within the limit
mentioned herein.
(Prior Code, § 21-103) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.004 WORK TO START WITHIN TIME LIMIT.
   Work for which a permit has been issued shall commence within ten days after
the issuance of the permit therefor. If not so commenced, the permit shall be
automatically terminated unless the permittee applies to the Superintendent for
an extension of time within which to commence work. If such an extension is
granted, the original permit shall remain in force for the period of time
specified in the extension. Permits which terminate within ten days after
issuance or within any extension of time granted by the Superintendent may be
renewed only upon the payment of an additional permit fee as originally
required.
(Prior Code, § 21-104) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 150.005 PERMITS NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Permits are not transferable from one person to another, and the work shall
not be made in any place other than the location specifically designated in the
permit.
(Prior Code, § 21-105) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.006 EXPIRATION/EXTENSION.
   (A)   Every permit shall expire at the time stated in the permit. If the
permittee should not complete the work within the specified time, he or she
shall, prior to expiration of the permit, present in writing to the
Superintendent a request for an extension of time, setting forth therein the
reasons for the requested extension.
   (B)   If, in the opinion of the Superintendent, such an extension is
necessary and not contrary to the public interest, the permittee may be granted
additional time for the completion of the work.
(Prior Code, § 21-106) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 150.007 OPENINGS MADE BY BOROUGH.
   (A)   All street openings required by utilities owned and/or operated by the
borough shall be made and restored under the direction and supervision of the
Superintendent.
   (B)   The permit, fee, deposit, insurance, and bond requirements of this
subchapter shall not be applicable to any openings made by such municipally
owned and/or operated utilities.
(Prior Code, § 21-107) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 150.008 EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be applicable in those instances
where the highway is maintained by the commonwealth or by the county.
(Prior Code, § 21-108) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 150.009 STREET USE CONSISTENT WITH PERMIT.
   Every permit shall be granted subject to the right of the borough or of any
other person to lawfully use the street for any purpose not inconsistent with
the permit.
(Prior Code, § 21-109) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 150.010 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any permit may be revoked by the Superintendent, after notice to the
permittee, for:
      (1)   Violation of any condition of the permit or of any provision of
this subchapter;
      (2)   Violation of any provision of any other applicable ordinance or law
relating to the work; or
      (3)   Existence of any condition or the doing of any act constituting or
creating a nuisance or endangering life or property.
   (B)   A permittee shall be granted a period of three days from the date of
the notice to correct the violation and to proceed with the diligent
prosecution of the work authorized by the permit before said permit is revoked.
Written notice of any such violation or condition shall be served upon the
permittee or his or her agent engaged in the work. The notice shall contain a
brief statement of the reasons for revoking the permit. Notice may be given
either by personal delivery thereof to the person to be notified or by
certified or registered United States mail addressed to the person to be
notified.
   (C)   (1)   When any permit has been revoked and the work authorized by the
permit has not been completed, the Superintendent shall do such work as may be
necessary to restore the street or part thereof to as good a condition as
before the opening was made.
      (2)   All expenses thereby incurred by the borough shall be recovered
from the deposit or bond the permittee has made or filed with the borough.
(Prior Code, § 21-110) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 150.011 APPLICANT’S DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of any applicant to:
   (A)   Make written application for such permit with the Superintendent on
such form as he or she shall prescribe. No work shall commence until the
Superintendent has approved the application and plan and issued a permit and
until the permittee has paid and provided all fees, deposits, certificates, and
bonds required by subchapter;
   (B)   Furnish in triplicate a plan showing the work to be performed under
said permit. Two copies of such plan shall be returned to the applicant at the
time the permit is granted; and
   (C)   Agree to save the borough, its officers, employees, and agents,
harmless from any and all costs, damages and liabilities which may accrue or be
claimed to accrue by reason of any work performed under said permit. The
acceptance of any permit under this subchapter shall constitute such an
agreement by the applicant whether the same is expressed or not.
(Prior Code, § 21-111) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 150.012 PERMIT HOLDER’S DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of any person receiving a permit to:
   (A)   Pay a permit fee of $10;
   (B)   Make a deposit to cover the cost of inspecting the work authorized by
the permit, unless excepted from such requirements by other provisions
contained herein;
   (C)   Furnish a performance bond as required by this subchapter, unless
excepted from such requirement;
   (D)   Furnish a certificate of insurance as required by this subchapter,
unless excepted from such requirement;
   (E)   Keep the original copy of the permit and an approved copy of the plan
at all times while such work is in progress at the location for which said
permit was granted and show such permit and/or plan upon demand by the borough
highway or police authorities; and
   (F)   Provide adequate security for the protection of existing municipal
water lines and other utility service lines to insure against any damage to
water lines occasioned by permittee’s excavation for a period of five years
from the date of completion of the work.
(Prior Code, § 21-112) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.013 OPENINGS/EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   No opening or excavation in any street shall extend beyond the center
line of the street before being backfilled and the surface of the street
temporarily restored.
   (B)   No more than 100 feet measured longitudinally shall be opened in any
street at any one time.
   (C)   All utility facilities shall be located sufficiently ahead of trench
excavation work to avoid damage to those facilities and to permit their
relocation, if necessary.
   (D)   Pipe drains, pipe culverts, or other facilities encountered shall be
protected by the permittee.
   (E)   Any person whose facilities are damaged or caused to be relocated by
the permittee may make the necessary repairs or relocation and file a claim
against the permittee with the borough for the cost of such repairs or
relocation. Public utility companies concerned shall be notified by the borough
in sufficient time to determine the validity of the damage or relocation
claims. The cost of such repair or relocation work may be held by the
Superintendent from the deposit pending determination of liability for the
damage.
   (F)   Monuments of concrete, iron, or other lasting materials set for the
purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any street or property
subdivision, or a precise survey reference point or a permanent survey bench
mark within the borough shall not be removed or disturbed or caused to be
removed or disturbed unless permission to do so is first obtained in writing
from the Superintendent. Permission shall be granted only upon condition that
the permittee shall pay all expenses incident to the proper replacement of the
monument.
   (G)   When work performed by the permittee interferes with the established
drainage system of any street, provision shall be made by the permittee to
provide proper drainage to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
   (H)   When any earth, gravel, or other excavating material is caused to
roll, flow, or wash upon any street the permittee shall cause the same to be
removed from the street within 24 hours after deposit. In the event the earth,
gravel, or other excavated material so deposited is not removed, the
Superintendent shall cause such removal and the cost incurred shall be paid by
the permittee or deducted from his or her deposit.
   (I)   Every permittee shall place around the project such barriers,
barricades, lights, warning flags, or danger signs as shall be determined by
the Superintendent to be necessary for the protection of the public.
Barricading shall be in compliance with the regulations set forth in the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of Highways, Traffic Engineering
Bureau’s “Specifications for Control and Protection of Traffic on Construction
and Maintenance Projects,” Bulletin 43 (1961 Edition), and any future revisions
thereto. Additional safety requirements may be prescribed by the
Superintendent. Whenever any person fails to provide or maintain the safety
devices required by the Superintendent, such devices shall be installed and
maintained by the borough, with the amount of the costs thereof being paid by
the permittee. No person shall willfully move, remove, injure, destroy, or
extinguish any barrier, warning light, sign, or notice erected, placed, or
posted in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (J)   Access to private driveways shall be provided except during working
hours when construction operations prohibit provision of such access. Free
access must be provided at all times to fire hydrants.
   (K)   Excavated materials shall be laid compactly along the side of the
trench and kept trim so as to cause as little inconvenience as possible to
public travel. If the street is not wide enough to hold the excavated material
without using part of the adjacent sidewalk, the permittee shall keep a
passageway at least one-half the sidewalk width, open along such sidewalk line.
   (L)   Work authorized by a permit shall be performed between the hours of 7:
00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday, unless the permittee obtains
written consent from the Superintendent to do the work at an earlier or later
hour.
   (M)   In granting any permit, the Superintendent may attach such conditions
thereto as may be reasonably necessary to prevent damage to public or private
property or to prevent the operation from being conducted in a manner hazardous
to life or property or in a manner likely to create a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 21-113) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.014 BACKFILLING/INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All pavement cuts, openings, and excavations shall be properly made,
backfilled, and temporarily surfaced by the permittee according to borough
specifications.
   (B)   The Superintendent must be notified by the permittee during the 48-
hour period preceding beginning of backfilling of the date and approximate time
at which backfilling will be begun.
   (C)   The work of the final restoration, including both paving surface and
paving base, shall be performed by the permittee according to borough
specifications.
   (D)   After excavation is commenced, the work of making and backfilling the
same shall be prosecuted with due diligence.
   (E)   The Superintendent shall make such inspections as he or she may deem
necessary of all work authorized by a permit. The Superintendent is empowered
to provide a full-time inspector if necessary to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (F)   The permittee shall notify the Superintendent in writing upon
completion of all work accomplished under the provisions of the permit. A
certificate of final inspection shall be issued by the Superintendent to each
permittee no sooner than one year after the permanent restoration of the
excavation has been made, provided the work authorized by the permit has been
performed according to borough specifications. Prior to the issuance of a
certificate, the Superintendent shall make a final inspection of the
restoration to determine whether borough specifications have been adhered to.
   (G)   If any settlement in a restored area occurs within a period of one
year from date of completion of the permanent restoration, any expense incurred
by the borough in correcting such settlement shall be paid by the permittee or
recovered from his or her bond, unless the permittee submits proof satisfactory
to the Superintendent that the settlement was not due to defective backfilling.
   (H)   In no case shall any opening made by a permittee be considered in the
charge or care of the borough, or any of its officers or employees, and no
officer or employee is authorized in any way to take or assume any jurisdiction
over any such opening, except in the exercise of the police power, when it is
necessary to protect life and property.
(Prior Code, § 21-114) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.015 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   The Superintendent, upon receipt of a properly completed application,
shall determine the amount of the deposit to be made by the permittee in
accordance with a schedule of charges hereinafter provided; provided however,
that the minimum amount of the deposit shall be $100. The deposit shall be paid
at the time the permit is received, and the deposit shall be used to reimburse
the borough for the cost of any work and/or materials furnished by it in
connection with the work authorized by the permit, to cover all necessary
inspections of said work, and for any other purpose set forth in this
subchapter.
   (B)   The Borough may elect to waive this requirement insofar as it pertains
to a public utility company if such company files with the borough its
corporate bond in a form satisfactory to the Borough Solicitor, conditioned
upon the payment to the borough of all costs which would otherwise be covered
by and paid out of such a deposit. In the event any public utility company
elects to file such a bond, the borough shall bill such company monthly for
such costs as it accrues. Deposit may be either in the form of a certified
treasurer’s or cashier’s check, or lawful money of the United States, or by
bond, as set forth in this division (B).
   (C)   If any deposit is less than sufficient to pay all costs, the permittee
shall, upon demand, pay to the borough an amount equal to the deficiency. If
the permittee fails or refuses to pay such deficiency, the borough may
institute an action to recover the same in any court of competent jurisdiction.
Until such deficiency is paid in full, no additional permits shall be issued to
such permittee.
(Prior Code, § 21-115) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 150.016 SCHEDULE OF CHARGES.
   The Superintendent shall establish and maintain a schedule of charges for
inspections, labor, materials, and such other expenses as may be incurred by
the borough in meeting the requirements of this subchapter. In developing the
schedule, the Superintendent shall be guided by the prevailing costs in the
area for labor, materials, and equipment. The Superintendent shall revise the
schedule of charges periodically to reflect any increase or decrease in costs
used to establish such charges.
(Prior Code, § 21-116) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 150.017 REFUND.
   Upon notification by the permittee that all work authorized by the permit
has been completed, and after restoration of the opening, and after issuance of
the certificate of final inspection, the Superintendent shall refund to the
permittee his or her deposit, less all costs incurred by the borough in
connection with said permit. In no event shall the permit fee be refunded.
(Prior Code, § 21-117) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 150.018 BOND.
   (A)   Each applicant, upon the receipt of a permit, shall provide the
borough with an acceptable corporate surety bond or, if the applicant so
desires, a cash bond to guarantee faithful performance of the work authorized
by a permit granted pursuant to this subchapter. The amount of the bond shall
be 100% of the estimated cost of restoring the street opening. The term of the
bond shall begin upon the date of posting thereof, and shall terminate upon the
receipt by the permittee of a certificate of final inspection from the
Superintendent.
   (B)   Whenever the Superintendent shall find that a default has occurred in
the performance of any term of condition of the permit, written notice thereof
shall be given to the principal and to the surety on the bond. Such notice
shall state the work to be done, the estimated cost thereof, and the period of
time deemed by the Superintendent to be reasonably necessary for the completion
of the work. After receipt of such notice, the surety must, within the time
therein specified, either cause the required work to be performed or, failing
therein, indemnify the borough for the cost of doing the work as set forth in
the notice.
(Prior Code, § 21-118) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 150.019 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Each applicant, upon the receipt of a permit, shall provide the
borough with an acceptable certificate of insurance indicating that he or she
is insured against claims for damages for personal injury, as well as against
claims for property damage, which may arise from or out of the performance of
the work, whether such performance be by himself or herself, his or her
subcontractor, or anyone directly or indirectly employed by him or her.
   (B)   Such insurance shall cover collapse, explosive hazards, and
underground work by equipment on the street, and shall include protection
against liability arising from completed operations. Such insurance shall
further provide coverage for a period of five years after the work is
completed, insuring against damage resulting from the disturbance of other pipe
lines and underground facilities. The amount of the insurance shall be
prescribed by the Superintendent in accordance with the nature of the risk
involved. A public utility company or municipal authority may be relieved of
the obligation of submitting such a certificate if it submits satisfactory
evidence that it is insured or has adequate provisions for self-insurance, in
accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-119) (Ord. 81, passed 11-23-1981) Penalty, see §
150.999
REGULATION OF ORIGINAL CONSTRUCTION IN THE REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS
§ 150.030 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR REQUIRED.
   The Council of the borough may require owners of property abutting on any
street, including state highways, to construct, pave, repave, and keep in good
repair the sidewalk, curb, and gutter along such property, at such grades and
under such regulations as may be prescribed by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 201) (Ord. 87, passed 10-7-1985)
§ 150.031 CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.
   Any construction, paving, repaving, or repairing of sidewalks and curbs as
provided in §
150.030 shall be done with the use of concrete in a thickness of not less than
four inches.
(Prior Code, § 202) (Ord. 87, passed 10-7-1985) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.032 CONFORMITY TO LINE AND GRADE.
   All sidewalks, curbs, and gutters shall be constructed, paved, repaved, or
repaired upon the line and grade obtained by the property owner from the
Borough Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 203) (Ord. 87, passed 10-7-1985) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.033 NOTICE TO DO WORK.
   Notice to construct, pave, repave, and repair sidewalks, curbs, or gutters
shall be given by registered or certified mail to abutting property owners, and
such owners shall have 30 days to comply with said notice in conformity with
any construction specifications prescribed by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 204) (Ord. 87, passed 10-7-1985)
§ 150.034 INSPECTION.
   At any time during the performance of the required work, the Borough
Engineer may inspect the work to determine whether construction specifications
are being observed.
(Prior Code, § 205) (Ord. 87, passed 10-7-1985)
§ 150.035 AUTHORITY OF BOROUGH TO PERFORM WORK AND COLLECT COSTS.
   Upon the failure of any property owner to construct, pave, repave, or
maintain any sidewalk, curb, or gutter in compliance with notice to do so as
set forth in §
150.033, the borough may do the same or cause the same to be done and may levy
the cost of its work on such owner as a property lien to be collected in the
manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 206) (Ord. 87, passed 10-7-1985)
§ 150.036 EMERGENCY REPAIRS.
   (A)   Where in the opinion of the Borough Council a dangerous condition
exists that can be repaired by an expenditure of $100, the borough shall send
such property owner notice by registered or certified mail stating emergency
repairs are required.
   (B)   Upon failure of such owner to comply with the notice within 48 hours
after receiving it, the borough may make emergency repairs and levy the cost of
its work on such owner as a property lien to be collected in the manner
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 207) (Ord. 87, passed 10-7-1985)
§ 150.037 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR DONE ON OWNER’S INITIATIVE WITHOUT NOTICE.
   Any property owner not required by notice to construct, pave, repave, or
keep in repair sidewalks, curbs or gutters, may construct, pave, repave, or
repair the sidewalk, curb, and gutter abutting his or her property; provided,
however, that such owner shall make application to the Borough Engineer before
commencing work, shall conform to the provisions of this subchapter and other
regulations as to specifications for construction and repair work, and shall
notify the Engineer within two days after completion of his or her work.
(Prior Code, § 208) (Ord. 87, passed 10-7-1985) Penalty, see §
150.999
REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE FROM SIDEWALKS
§ 150.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any improved property.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association, or company. Any
PERSON owning, occupying, or using any property within the borough.
   SIDEWALKS. Portion of a street between the curb line or the lateral lines of
a cartway, and the adjacent property lines intended for use by pedestrians.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of a way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is opened to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Prior Code, § 301) (Ord. 88, passed 10-7-1985)
§ 150.051 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE FROM SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Every person in charge or control of any building or lot of land
fronting or abutting on a paved sidewalk, whether as owner, tenant, occupant,
lessee, or otherwise, shall remove and clear away or cause to be removed or
cleared away snow and/or ice from a path of at least 30 inches in width from so
much of said sidewalk as is in front of or abuts on said building or lot of
land.
   (B)   The owner of a property shall be responsible for conforming to the
requirements of this section where such property is occupied by such owner or
is unoccupied or vacant, or where such property is a multiple business or
multiple dwelling property occupied by more than one tenant or occupier.
   (C)   The occupant or tenant of a single unit leased property occupied only
by said tenant or occupier shall be responsible for performing to the
requirements of this section.
   (D)   In the event snow and/or ice on a sidewalk has become so hard that it
cannot be removed without likelihood of damage to the sidewalk, the person
charged with its removal shall, within the time hereinabove mentioned, cause
enough sand or other abrasive to be put on the sidewalk to make travel
reasonably safe; and shall, as soon thereafter as weather permits, cause to be
cleared a path in said sidewalk of at least 30 inches in width.
(Prior Code, § 302) (Ord. 88, passed 10-7-1985) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.052 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL FROM ROOFS.
   Every person in charge or control of any building or other structure,
whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall remove and
clear away or cause to be removed and cleared away, any accumulation of snow
and ice on said building or other structure which is liable to fall on any
sidewalk, street, or highway, or other public way. Such work shall be completed
within 24 hours after the cessation of any fall of snow, sleet, or freezing
rain.
(Prior Code, § 303) (Ord. 88, passed 10-7-1985) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.053 AUTHORITY FOR THE BOROUGH TO REMOVE SNOW AND ICE AND IMPOSE CHARGES
THEREFOR.
   In any case where the owner, occupant, or tenant shall fail, neglect, or
refuse to comply with any of the provisions for the removal of snow and ice
from the sidewalk as set forth in §
150.051 within the time limit prescribed therein, the borough may proceed
immediately to clear all snow and/or ice from the sidewalks and to collect the
expense for said removal, together with a 10% charge, from such owner,
occupant, or tenant. The cost imposed under this section for the removal of
snow may be in addition to any fine or penalty imposed for the failure to
remove snow and ice from sidewalks as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 304) (Ord. 88, passed 10-7-1985) Penalty, see §
150.999
MAINTENANCE OF SHADE TREES
§ 150.065 DEFINITIONS.
   The word PERSON, as used in this subchapter, shall mean and include any
natural person, partnership, association, firm, or corporation. The singular
shall include the plural, the plural shall include the singular, and the
masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
(Prior Code, § 25-101) (Ord. 83, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 150.066 BOROUGH COUNCIL TO ACT AS SHADE TREE COMMISSION.
   The Borough Council hereby elects to assume the duties and responsibilities
of a Shade Tree Commission in accordance with Borough Code enacted Act 2014-37,
being 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 2720 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 25-102) (Ord. 83, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 150.067 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit is required before any tree within the rights-of-way of borough
streets can be cut down or planted. An application for said permit may be
obtained from the Borough Secretary.
(Prior Code, § 25-103) (Ord. 83, passed 12-6-1982)
§ 150.068 RESTRICTIONS ON PLANTING AND GROWING OF CERTAIN TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant, maintain, or allow to grow the
trees commonly referred to as “weeping willow” and “cottonwood” within the
lines of any street, alley, or sidewalk in the borough, or within 100 feet of
any public sewer or water line. Existing trees with a height of ten feet or
more are exempted from this provision.
(Prior Code, § 25-104) (Ord. 83, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.069 CLEARANCE ABOVE STREET AND SIDEWALK.
   Every owner of property in the borough shall be required to keep limbs and
branches of all trees growing upon such property or along the street, sidewalk,
curb, or alley abutting upon such property trimmed so that no part of such
limbs or branches or of the foliage growing thereupon shall have a clearance of
less than eight feet above the surface of the sidewalk or of less than 14 feet
above the surface of the roadway of any street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 25-105) (Ord. 83, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.070 REMOVAL AND TRIMMING OF TREES.
   It shall be the responsibility of property owners in the borough to conform
to the requirements of this subchapter as to trees upon property owned by them,
or along streets, alleys, and sidewalks abutting upon such property, and, upon
notice from the Borough Council, to remove any tree or trees growing in
violation of §
150.068, and to trim or cut the branches or limbs of trees as required by §
150.067. Any person failing to comply with any such notice, within the time
limit stated therein, shall be guilty of a violation of this subchapter and,
following the expiration of such time limit, the Borough Council shall have the
authority to cause the work required by such notice to be done by the
municipality or under contract therewith, and to collect the cost of such work,
with an additional amount of 10% from such property owner in default.
(Prior Code, § 25-106) (Ord. 83, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any owner, occupant, or tenant who shall fail to remove any snow or
ice from the sidewalk as required by §
150.051 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $10 and costs of prosecution, and in default of payment of such fine and
costs, may be sentenced to imprisonment for a period not to exceed five days.
Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate sentence.
(Prior Code, § 305)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
150.065 through
150.070 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $300 together with costs of prosecution, or to imprisonment for a term not
to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 25-107)
(Ord. 83, passed 12-6-1982; Ord. 88, passed 10-7-1985)
CHAPTER 151: CODE ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
151.01   Uniform Construction Code
§ 151.01 UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE.
   (A)   The borough hereby elects to administer and enforce the provisions of
the State Construction Act, Act 45 of 1995, 35 P.S. §§
7210.101 to 7210.103, as amended from time to time, together with its
regulations.
   (B)   The Uniform Construction Code, together with the regulations
promulgated thereunder as contained in 34 Pa. Code, Chapters 401 to 405, as
amended from time to time, be and is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference as the Municipal Building Code of the borough.
   (C)   The Code shall be administered and enforced within the borough in any
one or more of the following ways as may be determined by the Supervisors of
the borough from time to time by resolution:
      (1)   By the designation of an employee of the municipality to serve as a
Municipal Code Official and to act on behalf of the municipality;
      (2)   By the retention of one or more Construction Code Officials or
third party agencies to act on behalf of the municipality;
      (3)   By agreement with one or more other municipalities for the joint
administration and enforcement of this Act through an inter-municipal
agreement;
      (4)   By entering into a contract with another municipality for the
administration and enforcement of this Act on behalf of this municipality; and
      (5)   By entering into an agreement with the State Department of Labor
and Industry for plan review, inspections and enforcement of structures other
than one-family or two-family dwelling units and utility and miscellaneous use
structures.
   (D)   A Board of Appeals shall be established by resolution of the governing
body of the borough in conformity of the requirements of the relevant
provisions of the code as may be amended from time to time and for the purposes
set forth therein, if at any time, enforcement and administration is undertaken
jointly with one or more other municipalities, said Board of Appeals shall be
established by joint action of the participating municipalities.
   (E)   All building code ordinances or portions of ordinances which were
adopted by the borough on or before July 1, 1999 and which equal or exceed the
requirements of the code shall continue in full force and effect until such
time as such provisions fail to equal or exceed the minimum requirements of the
code as amended from time to time.
   (F)   All building code ordinances or portions of ordinances which are in
effect as of the effective date of this section and whose requirements are less
than the minimum requirements of the code, are hereby amended to conform with
the comparable provisions of the code.
   (G)   All relevant ordinances, regulations and policies of the borough not
governed by the code shall remain in full force and effect.
   (H)   Fees assessable by the borough for the administration and enforcement
undertaken pursuant to this section and the code shall be established by the
governing body by resolution from time to time.
   (I)   This section shall take effect on July 8, 2004.
(Ord. 96, passed 7-13-2004; Ord. passed 8-10-2004)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Statutory authorization
   
152.002   Intent
   
152.003   Applicability
   
152.004   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.005   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.006   Existing structures in identified floodplain areas
   
152.007   Variances
   
152.008   Definitions
Administration
   
152.020   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.021   Permits required
   
152.022   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.023   Application procedures and requirements
   
152.024   Review of application by others
   
152.025   Changes
   
152.026   Placards
   
152.027   Start of construction
   
152.028   Enforcement
   
152.029   Appeals
Identification of Floodplain Areas
   
152.040   Identification
   
152.041   Description and special requirements of identified floodplain areas
   
152.042   Changes in identification of area
   
152.043   Boundary disputes
   
152.044   Jurisdictional boundary changes
Technical Provisions
   
152.055   General
   
152.056   Elevation and floodproofing requirements
   
152.057   Design and construction standards
   
152.058   Development which may endanger human life
   
152.059   Special requirements for subdivisions and development
   
152.060   Special requirements for manufactured homes
   
152.061   Special requirements for recreational vehicles
Activities Requiring Special Permits
   
152.075   General
   
152.076   Application requirements for special permits
   
152.077   Application review procedures
   
152.078   Special technical requirements
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the commonwealth has, by the passage of the State
Floodplain Management Act of 1978, being 32 P.S. §§
679.101 et seq., delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to
adopt floodplain management regulations to promote public health, safety, and
the general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Borough Council does
hereby order as follows.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 152.002 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote the general health, welfare, and safety of the community;
   (B)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future;
   (C)   Minimize danger to public health by protecting water supply and
natural drainage;
   (D)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units, and its residents, by preventing excessive development in areas subject
to flooding; and
   (E)   Comply with federal and state floodplain management requirements.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 152.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business, or
corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any construction or
development anywhere within the borough unless a permit has been obtained from
the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   A permit shall not be required for minor repairs to existing buildings
or structures.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.004 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any other conflicting provisions which may be in
effect in identified floodplain areas. However, any other ordinance provisions
shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that those provisions are
more restrictive. If there is any conflict between any of the provisions of
this chapter, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 152.005 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this
chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
accepted engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood heights
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside
any identified floodplain areas, or that land uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   (B)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the borough or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 152.006 EXISTING STRUCTURES IN IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter do not require any changes or
improvements to be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an
improvement is made to any existing structure, the provisions of division (B)
below shall apply.
   (B)   The following provisions shall apply whenever any improvement is made
to an existing structure located within any identified floodplain area.
      (1)   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be
allowed within any floodway area/district that would cause any increase in BFE.
      (2)   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be
allowed within AE area/district without floodway that would, together with all
other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE more than one foot
at any point.
      (3)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure to an extent or amount of 50% or more of its
market value, shall constitute a substantial improvement and shall be
undertaken only in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   The above activity shall also address the requirements of the 34
Pa. Code, as amended and the 2024 IBC and the 2024 IRC or most recent revision
thereof adopted by the state.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 152.007 VARIANCES.
   (A)   If compliance with any of the requirements of this chapter would
result in an exceptional hardship to a prospective builder, developer or
landowner, the borough may, upon request, grant relief from the strict
application of the requirements.
   (B)   Requests for variances shall be considered by the borough in
accordance with the procedures contained in §
152.029 and the following.
      (1)   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development,
use, or activity within any floodway area/district that would cause any
increase in the BFE.
      (2)   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development,
use, or activity within any AE area/district without floodway that would,
together with all other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE
more than one foot at any point.
      (3)   Except for a possible modification of the regulatory flood
elevation requirement involved, no variance shall be granted for any of the
other requirements pertaining specifically to development regulated by §§
152.040 through
152.044 or to §
152.058.
      (4)   If granted, a variance shall involve only the least modification
necessary to provide relief.
      (5)   In granting any variance, the borough shall attach whatever
reasonable conditions and safeguards it considers necessary in order to protect
the public health, safety, and welfare, and to achieve the objectives of this
chapter.
      (6)   Whenever a variance is granted, the borough shall notify the
applicant in writing that:
         (a)   The granting of the variance may result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance; and
         (b)   Such variances may increase the risks to life and property.
      (7)   In reviewing any request for a variance, the borough shall
consider, at a minimum, the following:
         (a)   There is good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   The granting of the variance will:
            1.   Neither result in an unacceptable or prohibited increase in
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary public
expense;
            2.   Nor create nuisances, cause fraud on, or victimize the public;
or
            3.   Conflict with any other applicable state or local ordinances
and regulations.
      (8)   A complete record of all variance requests and related actions
shall be maintained by the borough. In addition, a report of all variances
granted during the year shall be included in the annual report to the FEMA.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any of division (B) above, however, all structures
shall be designed and constructed so as to have the capability of resisting the
1% annual chance flood.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.008 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD or 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD).
   BASE FLOOD DISCHARGE. The volume of water resulting from a base flood as it
passes a given location within a given time, usually expressed in cubic feet
per second (cfs).
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) for Zones AE, A1-30 that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from a flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its flood below ground level on
all sides.
   BUILDING. A combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all manufactured homes and trailers to be
used for human habitation.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The construction, reconstruction, renovation, repair, expansion, or
alteration of buildings or other structures;
      (2)   The placement of manufactured homes; streets, and other paving;
      (3)   Utilities;
      (4)   Filling, grading, and excavation;
      (5)   Mining;
      (6)   Dredging;
      (7)   Drilling operations;
      (8)   Storage of equipment or materials; and
      (9)   The subdivision of land.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD. A temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency that includes flood profiles, the flood insurance
rate map, the flood boundary and floodway map, and the water surface elevation
of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN AREA.
      (1)   A relatively flat or low land area which is subject to partial or
complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river, or watercourse;
and/or
      (2)   Any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of surface
waters from any source.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation that have been certified either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREA. An umbrella term that includes all of the areas
within which the community has selected to enforce floodplain regulations. It
will always include the area identified as the special flood hazard area on the
flood insurance rate maps and flood insurance study, but may include additional
areas identified by the community. See §§
152.040 and
152.041 for the specifics on what areas the community has included in the
IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREA.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest fully enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished, flood resistant, partially enclosed area, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, and incidental storage, in an area
other than a basement area is not considered the LOWEST FLOOR of a building,
provided that such space is not designed and built so that the structure is in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis, and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term includes
park trailers, travel trailers, recreational and other similar vehicles which
are placed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MINOR REPAIR. The replacement of existing work with equivalent materials for
the purpose of its routine maintenance and upkeep, but not including the
cutting away of any wall, partition, or portion thereof, the removal or cutting
of any structural beam or bearing support, or the removal or change of any
required means of egress, or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting
the exitway requirements, nor shall MINOR REPAIRS include addition to,
alteration of, replacement, or relocation of any standpipe, water supply,
sewer, drainage, drain leader, gas, oil, waste, vent, or similar piping,
electric wiring, mechanical, or other work affecting public health or general
safety.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after February 17, 2016 and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures. Any construction started after November 1, 1986 and before February
17, 2016 is subject to the ordinance in effect at the time the permit was
issued, provided the start of construction was within 180 days of permit
issuance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility, or any other legal entity whatsoever, which is recognized by law as
the subject of rights and duties.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred after December 31, 1974 or on or after the community’s
initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM) dated November 1, 1986, whichever is
later, and, as such, would be required to be compliant with the regulations of
the National Flood Insurance Program.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred on or before December 31, 1974 or before the community’s
initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM) dated November 1, 1986, whichever is
later, and, as such, would not be required to be compliant with the regulations
of the National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Not more than 400 square feet, measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Not designed for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) or estimated
flood height as determined using simplified methods plus a freeboard safety
factor of one and one-half feet.
   SPECIAL PERMIT. A special approval which is required for hospitals, nursing
homes, jails, and new manufactured home parks/subdivisions and substantial
improvements to such existing parks, when such development is located in all,
or a designated portion of, a floodplain.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). An area in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on the FIRM as
Zone A, A1-A30, AE, or A99.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the permit was issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days after the date of the
permit and shall be completed within 12 months after the date of issuance of
the permit unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain
Administrator. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation, or the placement of a manufacture home on a foundation.
PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling, nor does it include the installation of streets and
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or re-division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs, or
devisees, transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided
however, that the SUBDIVISION by lease of land for agricultural purposes into
parcels of more than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of
access or any residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage from any cause sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% or more of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, of which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage,” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
   UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE (UCC). The statewide building code adopted by the
Pennsylvania General Assembly in 1999 applicable to new construction in all
municipalities, whether administered by the municipality, a third party, or the
Department of Labor and Industry. Applicable to residential and commercial
buildings, the CODE adopted The International Residential Code (IRC) and the
International Building Code (IBC), by reference, as the construction standard
applicable with the state floodplain construction. For coordination purposes,
references to the above are made specifically to various sections of the IRC
and the IBC.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in VIOLATION until
such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.020 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Borough Secretary is hereby appointed to administer and enforce
this chapter and is referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator may:
      (1)   Fulfill the duties and responsibilities set forth in these
regulations;
      (2)   Delegate duties and responsibilities set forth in these regulations
to qualified technical personnel, plan examiners, inspectors, and other
employees; or
      (3)   Enter into a written agreement or written contract with another
agency or private sector entity to administer specific provisions of these
regulations.
   (B)   Administration of any part of these regulations by another entity
shall not relieve the community of its responsibilities pursuant to the
participation requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program as set forth
in 44 C.F.R. § 59.22.
   (C)   In the absence of a designated Floodplain Administrator, the
Floodplain Administrator duties are to be fulfilled by the President of Borough
Council.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 152.021 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be required before any construction or development is
undertaken within any area of the borough.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.022 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit only after it has
been determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance
with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of any permit, the Floodplain Administrator
shall review the application for the permit to determine if all other necessary
government permits required by state and federal laws have been obtained, such
as those required by the State Sewage Facilities Act (Act 1966-537, being 35
P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., as amended), the State Dam Safety and Encroachments Act
(Act 1978-325, being 32 P.S. §§ 693.1 et seq., as amended),the State Clean
Streams Act (Act 1937-394, being 35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq., as amended), and the
U.S. Clean Water Act, § 404, 33 U.S.C. § 1344. No permit shall be issued until
this determination has been made.
   (C)   (1)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or
other authorized official shall inspect the premises to determine that the work
is progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable municipal laws and ordinances.
      (2)   He or she shall make as many inspections during and upon completion
of the work as are necessary.
   (D)   In the discharge of his or her duties, the Floodplain Administrator
shall have the authority to enter any building, structure, premises, or
development in the identified floodplain area, upon presentation of proper
credentials, at any reasonable hour to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does
not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances,
or that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant,
the Floodplain Administrator shall revoke the permit and report such fact to
the Borough Council for whatever action it considers necessary.
   (F)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain in perpetuity all records
associated with the requirements of this ordinance including, but not limited
to, finished construction elevation data, permitting, inspection, and
enforcement.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator is the official responsible for
submitting a biennial report to FEMA concerning community participation in the
National Flood Insurance Program.
   (H)   The responsibility, authority, and means to implement the commitments
of the Floodplain Administrator can be delegated from the person identified.
However, the ultimate responsibility lies with the person identified in the
floodplain ordinance as the Floodplain Administrator/Manager.
   (I)   The Floodplain Administrator shall consider the requirements of the 34
Pa. Code and the 2024 IBC and the 2024 IRC as replaced or amended.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 152.023 APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for such a permit shall be made, in writing, to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms supplied by the borough. Such application
shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is
to occur;
      (3)   Name and address of contractor;
      (4)   Site location including address;
      (5)   Listing of other permits required;
      (6)   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost, including a
breakout of flood-related cost and the market value of the building before the
flood damage occurred, where appropriate; and
      (7)   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
   (B)   If any proposed construction or development is located entirely or
partially within any identified floodplain area, applicants for permits shall
provide all the necessary information in sufficient detail and clarity to
enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and conform with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes
and ordinances;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and
water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards;
      (4)   Structures will be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement;
      (5)   Building materials are flood-resistant;
      (6)   Appropriate practices that minimize flood damage have been used;
and
      (7)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities have been designed and located to
prevent water entry or accumulation.
   (C)   Applicants shall file the following minimum information plus any other
pertinent information as may be required by the Floodplain Administrator to
make the determination in division (B) above:
      (1)   A completed permit application form;
      (2)   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of
one inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
         (a)   North arrow, scale, and date;
         (b)   Topographic contour lines, if available;
         (c)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures,
and other improvements, including the location of any existing or proposed
subdivision and development:
         (d)   The location of all existing streets, drives, and other
accessways; and
         (e)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
identified floodplain areas, and, if available, information pertaining to the
floodway, and the flow of water, including direction and velocities.
      (3)   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures, and other
improvements, drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
         (a)   The proposed lowest floor elevation of any proposed building
based upon North American Vertical Datum of 1988;
         (b)   The elevation of the base flood; and
         (c)   Supplemental information as may be necessary under 34 Pa. Code,
the 2024 IBC, or the 2024 IRC or latest edition thereof adopted by the state.
      (4)   The following data and documentation:
         (a)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing
measures and corresponding elevations;
         (b)   If available, information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces, and other factors associated with a base
flood;
         (c)   Documentation, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, to show that the cumulative effect of any proposed development
within floodway area (see § 152.041(A)) when combined with all other existing
and anticipated development, will not increase the base flood elevation at any
point;
         (d)   Documentation, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, to show that the cumulative effect of any proposed development
within an AE Area/District without floodway (§
152.041(B)) when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the base flood elevation more than one foot at any point
within the community;
         (e)   A document, certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect, which states that the proposed construction or development has been
adequately designed to withstand the pressures, velocities, impact and uplift
forces associated with the base flood. Such statement shall include a
description of the type and extent of floodproofing measures which have been
incorporated into the design of the structure and/or the development;
         (f)   Detailed information needed to determine compliance with §§
152.057(F) and 152.058, including:
            1.   The amount, location, and purpose of any materials or
substances referred to in §§
152.057(F) and 152.058 which are intended to be used, produced, stored, or
otherwise maintained on-site; and
            2.   A description of the safeguards incorporated into the design
of the proposed structure to prevent leaks or spills of the dangerous materials
or substances listed in §
152.058 during a base flood.
         (g)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s “Planning Module for Land Development;” and
         (h)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection, to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control.
   (D)   Applications for permits shall be accompanied by a fee, payable to the
municipality based upon the estimated cost of the proposed construction as
determined by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 152.024 REVIEW OF APPLICATION BY OTHERS.
   A copy of all plans and applications for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval may
be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to any other appropriate agencies
and/or individuals (e.g., Planning Commission, Municipal Engineer, and the
like) for review and comment.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 152.025 CHANGES.
   After the issuance of a permit by the Floodplain Administrator, no changes
of any kind shall be made to the application, permit, or any of the plans,
specifications, or other documents submitted with the application without the
written consent or approval of the Floodplain Administrator. Requests for any
such change shall be in writing and shall be submitted by the applicant to
Floodplain Administrator for consideration.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 152.026 PLACARDS.
   In addition to the permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a
placard, or similar document, which shall be displayed on the premises during
the time construction is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the
permit, the date of its issuance, and be signed by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.027 START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Work on the proposed construction or development shall begin within
180 days after the date of issuance of the development permit. Work shall also
be completed within 12 months after the date of issuance of the permit or the
permit shall expire unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the
Floodplain Administrator. The issuance of development permit does not refer to
the zoning approval, if zoning approval is required prior to construction.
   (B)   The ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   (C)   Time extensions shall be granted only if a written request is
submitted by the applicant, who sets forth sufficient and reasonable cause for
the Floodplain Administrator to approve such a request and the original permit
is compliant with the ordinance and FIRM/FIS in effect at the time the
extension is granted.
(Ord. 100, passed 1-16-2016)
§ 152.028 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized municipal
representative determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that
there has been a violation of any provisions of this chapter, or of any
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, the Floodplain Administrator shall give
notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time not to exceed a period of 30 days for the
performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or his or her agent as the case
my require; provided, however, that such notice or order shall be deemed to
have been properly served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been
served with such notice by any other method authorized or required by the laws
of this state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial actions which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 152.029 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any action or decision of the Floodplain
Administrator concerning the administration of the provisions of this chapter
may appeal to the Court of Common Pleas. Such appeal must be filed, in writing,
within 30 days after the decision, determination, or action of the Floodplain
Administrator.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such appeal, the Court of Common Pleas shall consider
the appeal in accordance with the Municipal Planning Code and any other local
ordinance.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Court of Common Pleas may
seek relief therefrom by appeal to court, as provided by the laws of this
state, including the State Floodplain Management Act, being 32 P.S. §§
679.101 et seq.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
IDENTIFICATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 152.040 IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   The identified floodplain area shall be any areas of the borough
classified as special flood hazard areas (SFHAs) in the flood insurance study
(FIS) and the accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) dated February 17,
2016, and issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or the most
recent revision thereof, including all digital data developed as part of the
flood insurance study.
   (B)   The FIS and FIRMS referenced in division (A) above, and any subsequent
revisions and amendments, are hereby adopted by the borough and declared to be
a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 152.041 DESCRIPTION AND SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS OF IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   The identified floodplain area shall consist of the following specific
areas.
   (A)   The FLOODWAY AREA shall be those areas identified in the FIS and the
FIRM as floodway and which represent the channel of a watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without increasing the water surface elevation by more than one foot at any
point. This term shall also include floodway areas which have been identified
in other available studies or sources of information for those special flood
hazard areas where no floodway has been identified in the FIS and FIRM.
      (1)   Within any floodway area, no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development shall be permitted
unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed
encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within the
community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   Within any floodway area, no new construction or development shall
be allowed, unless the appropriate permit is obtained from the Department of
Environmental Protection Regional Office.
   (B)   The AE AREA/DISTRICT shall be those areas identified as an AE Zone on
the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which base flood elevations
have been provided.
      (1)   The AE AREA ADJACENT TO THE FLOODWAY shall be those areas
identified as an AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for
which base flood elevations have been provided and a floodway has been
delineated.
      (2)   AE AREA WITHOUT FLOODWAY shall be those areas identified as an AE
Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which base flood
elevations have been provided but no floodway has been determined.
         (a)   No permit shall be granted for any construction, development,
use, or activity within any AE area/district without floodway unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development would not,
together with all other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE
more than one foot at any point.
         (b)   No new construction or development shall be located within the
area measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless
the appropriate permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental
Protection Regional Office.
   (C)   (1)   The A AREA/DISTRICT shall be those areas identified as an A Zone
on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no base flood
elevations have been provided. For these areas, elevation and floodway
information from other federal, state, or other acceptable sources shall be
used when available. Where other acceptable information is not available, the
base flood elevation shall be determined by using the elevation of a point on
the boundary of the identified floodplain area which is nearest the
construction site.
      (2)   In lieu of division (C)(1) above, the municipality may require the
applicant to determine the elevation with hydrologic and hydraulic engineering
techniques. Hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by
professional engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall
certify that the technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted
technical concepts. Studies, analyses, computations, and the like shall be
submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the
municipality.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 152.042 CHANGES IN IDENTIFICATION OF AREA.
   (A)   The identified floodplain area may be revised or modified by the
Borough Council where studies or information provided by a qualified agency or
person documents the need for such revision. However, prior to any such change
to the special flood hazard area, approval must be obtained from FEMA.
   (B)   Additionally, as soon as practicable, but not later than six months
after the date such information becomes available, a community shall notify
FEMA of the changes to the special flood hazard area by submitting technical or
scientific data. See §
152.055(B) for situations where FEMA notification is required.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 152.043 BOUNDARY DISPUTES.
   Should a dispute concerning any identified floodplain boundary arise, an
initial determination shall be made by the Floodplain Administrator and any
party aggrieved by this decision or determination may appeal to the Borough
Council. The burden of proof shall be on the appellant.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 152.044 JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARY CHANGES.
   (A)   Prior to development occurring in areas where annexation or other
corporate boundary changes are proposed or have occurred, the community shall
review flood hazard data affecting the lands subject to boundary changes.
   (B)   The community shall adopt and enforce floodplain regulations in areas
subject to annexation or corporate boundary changes which meet or exceed those
in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
TECHNICAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.055 GENERAL.
   (A)   (1)   No encroachment, alteration, or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected
by such action have been notified by the municipality, and until all required
permits or approvals have first been obtained from the Department of
Environmental Protection Regional Office.
      (2)   No encroachment, alteration, or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse unless it can be shown that the activity will not
reduce or impede the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse in any way.
      (3)   In addition, FEMA and the State Department of Community and
Economic Development shall be notified prior to any alteration or relocation of
any watercourse.
   (B)   (1)   When the borough proposes to permit the following encroachments,
the applicant shall (as per 44 C.F.R. § 65.12), proceed with division (B)(2)
below:
         (a)   Any development that causes a rise in the base flood elevations
within the floodway;
         (b)   Any development occurring in Zones A1-30 and Zone AE without a
designated floodway, which will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base
flood elevation; or
         (c)   Alteration or relocation of a stream (including, but not limited
to, installing culverts and bridges).
      (2)   The applicant shall:
         (a)   Apply to FEMA for conditional approval of such action prior to
permitting the encroachments to occur;
         (b)   Upon receipt of the Administrator’s conditional approval of map
change and prior to approving the proposed encroachments, a community shall
provide evidence to FEMA of the adoption of floodplain management ordinances
incorporating the increased base flood elevations and/ or revised floodway
reflecting the post-project condition; and
         (c)   Upon completion of the proposed encroachments, a community shall
provide as-built certifications. FEMA will initiate a final map revision upon
receipt of such certifications in accordance with 44 C.F.R. part 67.
   (C)   Any new construction, development, uses, or activities allowed within
any identified floodplain area shall be undertaken in strict compliance with
the provisions contained in this chapter and any other applicable codes,
ordinances, and regulations.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.056 ELEVATION AND FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures.
      (1)   In AE and A1-30 Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated up to, or
above, the regulatory flood elevation.
      (2)   In A Zones, where there are no base flood elevations specified on
the FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood
elevation determined in accordance with §
152.041(C).
      (3)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2024 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2024 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the latest edition thereof adopted by the state, and
ASCE 24 and 34 Pa. Code (Chapters 401-405 as amended) shall be utilized, where
they are more restrictive.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   In AE and A1-30, any new construction or substantial improvement of
a nonresidential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood elevation, or be designed and
constructed so that the space enclosed below the regulatory flood elevation:
         (a)   Is floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage or water; and
         (b)   Has structural components with the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   In A Zones, where no base flood elevations are specified on the
FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated or completely floodproofed up to, or above,
the regulatory flood elevation determined in accordance with §
152.042(C).
      (3)   Any nonresidential structure, or part thereof, made watertight
below the regulatory flood elevation shall be floodproofed in accordance with
the W1 or W2 space classification standards contained in the publication
entitled “Floodproofing Regulations” published by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers (June 1972, as amended March 1992) or with some other equivalent
standard. All plans and specifications for such floodproofing shall be
accompanied by a statement certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect which states that the proposed design and methods of construction are
in conformance with the above referenced standards.
      (4)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the latest edition thereof adopted by the state, and
ASCE 24 and 34 Pa. Code (Chapters 401-405 as amended) shall be utilized, where
they are more restrictive.
   (C)   Space below the lowest floor.
      (1)   Basements are prohibited.
      (2)   Fully enclosed space below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
which will be used solely for the parking of a vehicle, building access, or
incidental storage in an area other than a basement, shall be designed and
constructed to allow for the automatic entry and exit of flood waters for the
purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on exterior walls. The term FULLY
ENCLOSED SPACE also includes crawl spaces.
      (3)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Historic structures. Historic structures undergoing repair or
rehabilitation that would constitute a substantial improvement as defined in
this chapter must comply with all ordinance requirements that do not preclude
the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure. Documentation
that a specific ordinance requirement will cause removal of the structure from
the National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic
places must be obtained from the Secretary of the Interior or the State
Historic Preservation Officer. Any exemption from ordinance requirements will
be the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
   (E)   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to a principal building
need not be elevated or floodproofed to remain dry, but shall comply, at a
minimum, with the following requirements.
      (1)   The structure shall not be designed or used for human habitation,
but shall be limited to the parking of vehicles, or to the storage of tools,
material, and equipment related to the principal use or activity.
      (2)   Floor area shall not exceed 200 square feet.
      (3)   The structure will have a low damage potential.
      (4)   The structure will be located on the site so as to cause the least
obstruction to the flow of floodwaters.
      (5)   Power lines, wiring, and outlets will be elevated to the regulatory
flood elevation.
      (6)   Permanently affixed utility equipment and appliances such as
furnaces, heaters, washers, dryers, and the like are prohibited.
      (7)   Sanitary facilities are prohibited.
      (8)   The structure shall be adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement and shall be designed to automatically provide
for the entry and exit of floodwater for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic
forces on the walls. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed
the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, and the like, or
other coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry or
exit of floodwaters.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.057 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The following minimum standards shall apply for all construction and
development proposed within any identified floodplain area.
   (A)   Fill. If fill is used, it shall:
      (1)   Extend laterally at least 15 feet beyond the building line from all
points;
      (2)   Consist of soil or small rock materials only. Sanitary landfills
shall not be permitted;
      (3)   Be compacted to provide the necessary permeability and resistance
to erosion, scouring, or settling;
      (4)   Be no steeper than one vertical to two horizontal feet unless
substantiated data justifying steeper slopes are submitted to, and approved by
the Floodplain Administrator; and
      (5)   Be used to the extent to which it does not adversely affect
adjacent properties.
   (B)   Drainage facilities. Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to
convey the flow of storm water runoff in a safe and efficient manner. The
system shall ensure proper drainage along streets, and provide positive
drainage away from buildings. The system shall also be designed to prevent the
discharge of excess runoff onto adjacent properties.
   (C)   Water and sanitary sewer facilities and systems.
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer facilities
and systems shall be located, designed, and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damages and the infiltration of flood waters.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer facilities and systems shall be designed to prevent
the discharge of untreated sewage into floodwaters.
      (3)   No part of any on-site waste disposal system shall be located
within any identified floodplain area except in strict compliance with all
state and local regulations for such systems. If any such system is permitted,
it shall be located so as to avoid impairment to it, or contamination from it,
during a flood.
      (4)   The design and construction provisions of the UCC and FEMA #348,
“Protecting Building Utilities from Flood Damages,” and “The International
Private Sewage Disposal Code” shall be utilized.
   (D)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical and
telephone systems shall be located, elevated (where possible) and constructed
to minimize the chance of impairment during a flood.
   (E)   Streets. The finished elevation of all new streets shall be no more
than one foot below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (F)   Storage. All materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or in
times of flooding, could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life, and not
listed in §
152.053, shall be stored at or above the regulatory flood elevation or
floodproofed to the maximum extent possible.
   (G)   Placement of buildings and structures. All buildings and structures
shall be designed, located, and connected so as to offer the minimum
obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to have a minimum effect
upon the flow and height of floodwater.
   (H)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, storage tanks, and other similar
objects or components located below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
securely anchored or affixed to prevent flotation.
   (I)   Floors, walls, and ceilings.
      (1)   Wood flooring used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be installed to accommodate a lateral expansion of the flooring, perpendicular
to the flooring grain without causing structural damage to the building.
      (2)   Plywood used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be of
a marine or water-resistant variety.
      (3)   Walls and ceilings at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be designed and constructed of materials that are water-resistant and will
withstand inundation.
      (4)   Windows, doors, and other components at or below the regulatory
flood elevation shall be made of metal or other water-resistant material.
   (J)   Paints and adhesives.
      (1)   Paints and other finishes used at or below the regulatory flood
elevation shall be of marine or water-resistant quality.
      (2)   Adhesives used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
of a marine or water-resistant variety.
      (3)   All wooden components (doors, trim, cabinets, and the like) used at
or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be finished with a marine or
water-resistant paint or other finishing material.
   (K)   Electrical components.
      (1)   Electrical distribution panels shall be at least three feet above
the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Separate electrical circuits shall serve lower levels and shall be
dropped from above.
   (L)   Equipment. Water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and ventilating
units, and other electrical, mechanical, or utility equipment or apparatus
shall not be located below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (M)   Fuel supply systems. All gas and oil supply systems shall be designed
to prevent the infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharges from
the system into floodwaters. Additional provisions shall be made for the
drainage of these systems in the event that floodwater infiltration occurs.
   (N)   Uniform Construction Code coordination.
      (1)   The standards and specifications contained in 34 Pa. Code (Chapters
401-405), as amended and not limited to the following provisions shall apply to
the above and other sections and subsections of this chapter, to the extent
that they are more restrictive and supplement the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   International Building Code (IBC) 2024 or the latest edition
thereof adopted by the commonwealth: §§ 801, 1202, 1403, 1603, 1605, 1612, and
Appendix G.
      (3)   International Residential Building Code (IRC) 2024 or the latest
edition thereof adopted by the commonwealth: §§ R104, R105, R109, Appendix E,
and Appendix J.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.058 DEVELOPMENT WHICH MAY ENDANGER HUMAN LIFE.
   (A)   (1)   In accordance with the State Floodplain Management Act, being 32
P.S. §§
679.101 et seq., and the regulations adopted by the Department of Community and
Economic Development as required by this Act, any new or substantially improved
structure which meet any of the following shall be subject to the provisions of
this section, in addition to all other applicable provisions:
         (a)   Will be used for the production or storage of any of the
following dangerous materials or substances;
         (b)   Will be used for any activity requiring the maintenance of a
supply of more than 550 gallons, or other comparable volume, or any of the
following dangerous materials or substances on the premises; or
         (c)   Will involve the production, storage, or use of any amount of
radioactive substances.
      (2)   The following list of materials and substances are considered
dangerous to human life:
         (a)   Acetone;
         (b)   Ammonia;
         (c)   Benzene;
         (d)   Calcium carbide;
         (e)   Carbon disulfide;
         (f)   Celluloid;
         (g)   Chlorine;
         (h)   Hydrochloric acid;
         (i)   Hydrocyanic acid;
         (j)   Magnesium;
         (k)   Nitric acid and oxides of nitrogen;
         (l)   Petroleum products (gasoline, fuel oil, and the like);
         (m)   Phosphorus;
         (n)   Potassium;
         (o)   Sodium;
         (p)   Sulphur and sulphur products;
         (q)   Pesticides (including insecticides, fungicides, and
rodenticides); and
         (r)   Radioactive substances, insofar as such substances are not
otherwise regulated.
   (B)   Within any floodway area, any structure of the kind described in
division (A) above shall be prohibited. Where permitted within any identified
floodplain area, any new or substantially improved residential structure of the
kind described in division (A) above shall be elevated to remain completely dry
up to at least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation and built in
accordance with §§
152.055, 152.056, or 152.057.
   (C)   (1)   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, any new
or substantially improved nonresidential structure of the kind described in
division (A) above shall be built in accordance with §§
152.055 through
152.057, including:
         (a)   Elevated, or designed and constructed, to remain completely dry
up to at least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation; and
         (b)   Designed to prevent pollution from the structure or activity
during the course of a base flood.
      (2)   Any such structure, or part thereof, that will be built below the
regulatory flood elevation shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the standards for completely dry floodproofing contained in the publication
“Floodproofing Regulations,” (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, June 1972, as
amended March 1992) or with some other equivalent watertight standard.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 152.059 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISIONS AND DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals and development proposals containing at
least 50 lots or at least five acres, whichever is the lesser, in identified
floodplain areas where base flood elevation data are not available, shall be
supported by hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analyses that determine base
flood elevations and floodway information.
   (B)   The analyses shall be prepared by a licensed professional engineer in
a format required by FEMA for a conditional letter of map revision and letter
of map revision. Submittal requirements and processing fees shall be the
responsibility of the applicant.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 152.060 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, all
manufactured homes, and any improvements thereto, shall be:
      (1)   Placed on a permanent foundation;
      (2)   Elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation;
      (3)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement; and
      (4)   Should have all ductwork and utilities, including HVAC/heat pump
elevated to the regulatory flood elevation.
   (B)   Installation of manufactured homes shall be done in accordance with
the manufacturers’ installation instructions as provided by the manufacturer.
Where the applicant cannot provide the above information, the requirements of
Appendix E of the 2024 “International Residential Building Code” or the “U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Permanent Foundations for
Manufactured Housing,” 1996 Edition, draft or latest revision thereto and 34
Pa. Code Chapters 401 to 405 shall apply.
   (C)   Consideration shall be given to the installation requirements of the
2024 IBC, and the 2024 IRC or the latest edition thereto adopted by the state,
and 34 Pa. Code, as amended where appropriate and/or applicable to units where
the manufacturers’ standards for anchoring cannot be provided or were not
established for the proposed unit(s) installation.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.061 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles in Zones A, A1-30, and AE must either:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
   (C)   Meet the permit requirements for manufactured homes in §
152.060.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016) Penalty, see §
152.999
ACTIVITIES REQUIRING SPECIAL PERMITS
§ 152.075 GENERAL.
   In accordance with the administrative regulations promulgated by the
Department of Community and Economic Development to implement the State
Floodplain Management Act, being 32 P.S. §§
679.101 et seq., the following activities shall be prohibited within any
identified floodplain area unless a special permit has been issued by the
borough:
   (A)   The commencement of any of the following activities, or the
construction, enlargement, or expansion of any structure used, or intended to
be used, for any of the following activities:
      (1)   Hospitals;
      (2)   Nursing homes; or
      (3)   Jails or prisons.
   (B)   The commencement of, or any construction of, a new manufactured home
park or manufactured home subdivision, or substantial improvement to an
existing manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.076 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL PERMITS.
   Applicants for special permits shall provide five copies of the following
items:
   (A)   A written request, including a completed permit application form;
   (B)   A small scale map showing the vicinity in which the proposed site is
located;
   (C)   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of one
inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
      (1)   North arrow, scale, and date;
      (2)   Topography based upon the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of
1988, showing existing and proposed contours at intervals of two feet;
      (3)   All property and lot lines including dimensions, and the size of
the site expressed in acres or square feet;
      (4)   The location of all existing streets, drives, other accessways, and
parking areas, with information concerning widths, pavement types, and
construction, and elevation;
      (5)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
buildings, structures, and other public or private facilities, including
railroad tracks and facilities, and any other natural and human-made features
affecting, or affected by, the proposed activity or development;
      (6)   The location of the floodplain boundary line, information, and spot
elevations concerning the base flood elevation, and information concerning the
flow of water, including direction and velocities;
      (7)   The location of all proposed buildings, structures, utilities, and
any other improvements; and
      (8)   Any other information which the municipality considers necessary
for adequate review of the application.
   (D)   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures, and other improvements,
clearly and legibly drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
      (1)   Sufficiently detailed architectural or engineering drawings,
including floor plans, sections, and exterior building elevations, as
appropriate;
      (2)   For any proposed building, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and, as required, the elevation of any other floor;
      (3)   Complete information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces, and other factors associated with the
base flood;
      (4)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing
measures;
      (5)   Cross-section drawings for all proposed streets, drives, other
accessways, and parking areas, showing all rights-of-way and pavement widths;
      (6)   Profile drawings for all proposed streets, drives, and vehicular
accessways, including existing and proposed grades; and
      (7)   Plans and profiles of all proposed sanitary and storm sewer
systems, water supply systems, and any other utilities and facilities.
   (E)   The following data and documentation:
      (1)   Certification from the applicant that the site upon which the
activity or development is proposed is an existing separate and single parcel,
owned by the applicant or the client he or she represents;
      (2)   Certification from a registered professional engineer, architect,
or landscape architect that the proposed construction has been adequately
designed to protect against damage from the base flood;
      (3)   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, landscape architect, or other qualified person which contains a
complete and accurate description of the nature and extent of pollution that
might possibly occur from the development during the course of a base flood,
including a statement concerning the effects such pollution may have on human
life;
      (4)   A statement certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
description of the effects the proposed development will have on base flood
elevation and flows;
      (5)   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
description of the kinds and amounts of any loose buoyant materials or debris
that may possibly exist or be located on the site below the base flood
elevation and the effects such materials and debris may have on base flood
elevation and flows;
      (6)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s “Planning Module for Land Development;”
      (7)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control;
      (8)   Any other applicable permits such as, but not limited to, a permit
for any activity regulated by the Department of Environmental Protection under
§ 302 of Act 1978-166; and
      (9)   An evacuation plan which fully explains the manner in which the
site will be safely evacuated before or during the course of a base flood.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 152.077 APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   Upon receipt of an application for a special permit by the borough, the
following procedures shall apply in addition to those in §§
152.020 through
152.029.
   (A)   Within three working days following receipt of the application, a
complete copy of the application and all accompanying documentation shall be
forwarded to the County Planning Commission by registered or certified mail for
its review and recommendations. Copies of the application shall also be
forwarded to the Borough Planning Commission and Borough Engineer for review
and comment.
   (B)   If an application is received that is incomplete, the borough shall
notify the applicant in writing, stating in what respect the application is
deficient.
   (C)   If the borough decides to disapprove an application, it shall notify
the applicant, in writing, of the reasons for the disapproval.
   (D)   If the borough approves an application, it shall file written
notification, together with the application and all pertinent information, with
the Department of Community and Economic Development, by registered or
certified mail, within five working days after the date of approval.
   (E)   Before issuing the special permit, the borough shall allow the
Department of Community and Economic Development within 30 days, after receipt
of the notification by the Department, to review the application and decision
made by the borough.
   (F)   If the borough does not receive any communication from the Department
of Community and Economic Development during the 30-day review period, it may
issue a special permit to the applicant.
   (G)   If the Department of Community and Economic Development should decide
to disapprove an application, it shall notify the borough and the applicant, in
writing, of the reasons for the disapproval, and the borough shall not issue
the special permit.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
§ 153.078 SPECIAL TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §§
152.055 through
152.061, the following minimum requirements shall also apply to any proposed
development requiring a special permit. If there is any conflict between any of
the following requirements and those in §§
152.055 through
152.061 or in any other code, ordinance, or regulation, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
   (B)   No application for a special permit shall be approved unless it can be
determined that the structure or activity will be located, constructed, and
maintained in a manner which will:
      (1)   Fully protect the health and safety of the general public and any
occupants of the structure. At a minimum, all new structures shall be designed,
located, and constructed so that:
         (a)   The structure will survive inundation by waters of the base
flood without any lateral movement or damage to either the structure itself, or
to any of its equipment or contents below the BFE;
         (b)   The lowest floor (including basement) will be elevated to at
least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation; and
         (c)   The occupants of the structure can remain inside for an
indefinite period of time and be safely evacuated at any time during the base
flood.
      (2)   Prevent any significant possibility of pollution, increased flood
levels or flows, or debris endangering life and property.
   (C)   All hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by
professional engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall
certify that the technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted
technical concepts. Studies, analyses, computations, and the like shall be
submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the
borough and the Department of Community and Economic Development.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or who fails or refuses to comply with any notice,
order, or direction of the Floodplain Administrator or any other authorized
employee of the municipality shall be guilty of a summary offense and, upon
conviction, shall pay a fine to borough of not less than $25 nor more than $600
plus costs of prosecution. In addition to the above penalties all other actions
are hereby reserved including an action in equity for the proper enforcement of
this chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any violation of, or
noncompliance with, this chapter shall not excuse the violation or
noncompliance or permit it to continue. All such persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations and noncompliance within a reasonable time.
Any development initiated or any structure or building constructed,
reconstructed, enlarged, altered, or relocated, in noncompliance with this
chapter may be declared by the Borough Council to be a public nuisance and
abatable as such.
(Ord. 100, passed -16-2016)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.003   Purposes
   
153.004   Findings
   
153.005   Definitions
   
153.006   Specific definitions
   
153.007   Maps and boundaries
   
153.008   Use of property
   
153.009   Summary of lot area requirements
   
153.010   Appeals
Permitted Uses
   
153.025   R Residential
   
153.026   E Economic
   
153.027   N Natural
Parking and Loading Requirements
   
153.040   Off-street parking in R Residential District
   
153.041   Off-street parking in E Economic District
Signs, Trees, and Streets
   
153.055   Applications
   
153.056   Permitted sign use
   
153.057   Condition and maintenance of signs
   
153.058   Purpose of sign used
   
153.059   Billboards
   
153.060   Tree species
   
153.061   Streets
Supplementary Regulations
   
153.075   General
   
153.076   Essential services
   
153.077   Structures on small lots
   
153.078   Storage
   
153.079   Environmental protection
   
153.080   Fences or hedges
   
153.081   Lot area measurement
   
153.082   Swimming pools
   
153.083   Construction standards
   
153.084   Accessory structures
   
153.085   Building setbacks
Nonconforming Uses
   
153.100   When permitted
   
153.101   Unsafe structure
   
153.102   Alterations
   
153.103   Restoration
   
153.104   Extension
   
153.105   Changes
   
153.106   Construction prior to effective date of chapter
   
153.107   Abandonment
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.120   Appointment and powers of the Zoning Officer
   
153.121   Zoning permit
   
153.122   Certificate of use and occupancy
   
153.123   Schedule of fees, charges, and expenses
   
153.124   Enactment of zoning ordinance amendments
   
153.125   Procedure for landowner curative amendments
   
153.126   Procedure for borough curative amendments
Zoning Hearing Board
   
153.140   Zoning Hearing Board
   
153.141   Hearings
   
153.142   Jurisdiction
   
153.143   Variance
   
153.144   Special exceptions
   
153.145   Parties appellant to the Board
   
153.146   Stay of proceedings
   
153.147   Time limitations
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “The Zoning Ordinance of the
Borough of Applewold,” and the district map shall be known and may be cited as
the “Zoning District Map.”
(Prior Code, § 101) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
§ 153.002 PURPOSES.
   (A)   The purposes of this chapter are to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare; to facilitate and encourage orderly and appropriate
development and redevelopment; to preserve and improve the natural beauty and
tranquility of the physical and social environment and to enhance the quality
of life guaranteed the citizens of the commonwealth under Article I, § 27 of
the Constitution of the commonwealth; to establish population density maximums;
to prevent or reduce traffic congestion; and to maintain the quality and
operation of the public water supply and sewerage systems, fire and police
protection, schools, parks, and other necessary services.
   (B)   The Land Use Development Plan for Armstrong County, 2016, contains
specific community development objectives which are the basis for the following
objectives:
      (1)   Physical resources.
         (a)   Employ proper land development techniques to eliminate practices
that waste land;
         (b)   Maintain the basic residential character of a relatively
developed community; and
         (c)   Provide the maximum return in comfort, convenience, and services
for a minimum of tax expenditures.
      (2)   Enhancement of the environment.
         (a)   Improve the aesthetic appearance of the community;
         (b)   Provide park and other recreation amenities;
         (c)   Provide adequate water and sewerage systems; and
         (d)   Safeguard against physical blight and declining property values.
      (3)   Community identity.
         (a)   Emphasize an orderly and cohesive development pattern; and
         (b)   Development of community focal points.
(Prior Code, § 102) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
§ 153.003 FINDINGS.
   The Borough Council makes the following findings in adopting this chapter.
   (A)   The present uses of all parcels within the limits of the borough are
consistent with the residential nature of the borough which has existed
throughout its 85-year history. The businesses which have existed during this
period — a resort hotel (The Rivercliff), two grocery stores, three beauty
shops, a nursing home, a service station, a windshield repair shop, a doctor’s
office, a boarding home, a surveying firm, a brokerage company — never altered
this pattern of land use and, with exception of the windshield repair shop and
the surveying firm, both operated from the proprietors’ homes and the boarding
home for the elderly, are no longer extant.
   (B)   The borough occupies a very small geographic area, approximately one-
half mile along the north-south axis and approximately one-quarter mile at the
widest along the east-west axis. The Allegheny River prevents further expansion
to the east, and on the west the river cliff is a barrier. An industrial area
and swampy terrain lies to the south, while a major highway, Butler Pike,
encompasses the northern boundary. The Township of East Franklin entirely
surrounds the borough.
   (C)   A total of 128 dwellings and one boarding home for the elderly are
occupied by approximately 400 persons. There are only three vacant lots with
the borough, and all but 12 lots lie within the 100-year floodplain defined by
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers studies. Consequently, further development for any
purpose is quite limited.
   (D)   Many of the lots within the borough are quite narrow, and many
families own more than one vehicle. Thus, there is a very considerable demand
for relatively limited on-street parking space. In those areas in which multi-
family dwellings, home businesses, and boarding homes are located, the
availability of on-street parking is totally inadequate to meet the demands of
resident and nonresident vehicular operators. It is therefore essential under
these circumstances that off-street parking be provided in these situations.
   (E)   (1)   Within one-half mile of the borough are the commercial areas of
the Boroughs of Kittanning and West Kittanning and the Franklin Village mall in
the Township of East Franklin in which are available all the essential goods
and services.
      (2)   Both heavy and light industry exits in the Boroughs of Kittanning
and Ford City, as well as being scattered throughout other nearby
municipalities. Metropolitan Pittsburgh is less than an hour distant, and many
residents travel the Allegheny Valley Expressway corridor to other places of
employment.
(Prior Code, § 103) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
§ 153.004 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   It is the intent of the Borough Council to use language in this
chapter within the common meaning of the words and phrases contained herein.
Unless the context clearly manifests an intent to give certain words and
phrases a meaning at variance with common usage or unless any certain words and
phrases are “words of art” and the context of these words and phrases manifests
an intent to use them as “words of art” or unless the context clearly manifests
an intent to use these words and phrases as defined by judicial glossing.
   (B)   In the event of any ambiguity in the language of this chapter, those
principles set forth in the Rules of Construction, 1 Pa.C.S. §§ 1901 et seq.,
which may be applicable in this context shall control.
(Prior Code, § 104) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
§ 153.005 SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. Any body granted jurisdiction under a land use ordinance or under
this chapter to render final adjudications.
   DECISION. Final adjudication of any board or other body granted jurisdiction
under any land use ordinance or this chapter to do so, either by reason of the
grant of exclusive jurisdiction or by reason of appeals from determinations.
All DECISIONS shall be appealable to the Court of Common Pleas of the county
and judicial district wherein the borough lies.
   DETERMINATION.
      (1)   Final action by an officer, body, or agency charged with the
administration of any land use ordinance or applications thereunder, except the
following:
         (a)   The Borough Council;
         (b)   The Zoning Hearing Board; or
         (c)   The Planning Commission, only if and to the extent the Planning
Commission is charged with final decision on preliminary or final plans under
the subdivision and land development or planned residential development
ordinances.
      (2)   DETERMINATIONS shall be appealable only to the boards designated as
having jurisdiction for such appeal.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any of the following activities:
         (a)   The improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots,
tracts, or parcels of land for any purpose involving:
            1.   A group of two or more residential or nonresidential
buildings, whether proposed initially or cumulatively, or a single
nonresidential building on a lot or lots regardless of the number of occupants
or tenure; or
            2.   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially
or cumulatively, between or among two or more existing or prospective occupants
by means of, or for the purposes of, streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups, or other features.
         (b)   A subdivision of land.
      (2)   LAND DEVELOPMENT does not include development which involves:
         (a)   The conversion of an existing single-family detached dwelling or
single-family semi-detached dwelling into not more than three residential
units, unless such units are intended to be a condominium;
         (b)   The addition of an accessory building, including farm building,
on a lot or lots subordinate to an existing principal building; or
         (c)   The addition or conversion of buildings or rides within the
confines of an enterprise which would be considered an amusement park. For the
purposes of this definition, an AMUSEMENT PARK is defined as a tract or area
used principally as a location for permanent amusement structures or rides.
This exclusion shall not apply to newly acquired acreage by an amusement park
until initial plans for the expanded area have been approved by the proper
authorities.
   LOT. A designated parcel, tract, or area of land established by a plat or
otherwise as permitted by law and to be used, developed, or built upon as a
unit.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable, single-family dwelling intended for permanent
occupancy, contained in one unit or in two or more units designed to be joined
into one integral unit capable of again being separated for repeated towing,
which arrives at a site complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, and constructed so that it may be
used without a permanent foundation.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land in a mobile home park, improved with the
necessary utility connections and other appurtenances necessary for the
erection thereon of a single mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel or contiguous parcels of land which has been so
designated and improved that it contains two or more mobile home lots for the
placement thereon of mobile homes.
   MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY. A body politic and corporate created pursuant to 53
Pa.C.S. §§ 5601 et seq.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot the area or dimension of which was lawful prior to
the adoption or amendment of this chapter, but which fails to conform to the
requirements of the zoning district in which it is located by reason of such
adoption or amendment.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure or part of a structure manifestly not
designed to comply with the use or extent of use provisions of this chapter or
amendment heretofore or hereafter enacted, where such structure lawfully
existed prior to the enactment of this chapter or amendment or prior to the
application of this chapter or amendment to its location by reason of
annexation. Such NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES include, but are not limited to,
nonconforming signs.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use, whether of land or of structure, which does not
comply with the applicable use provisions in this chapter or amendment
heretofore or hereafter enacted, where such use was lawfully in existence prior
to the enactment of this chapter or amendment, or prior to the application of
this chapter or amendment to its location by reason of annexation.
   PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. An area of land, controlled by a landowner,
to be developed as a single entity for a number of dwelling units, or
combination of residential and nonresidential uses, the development plan for
which does not correspond in lot size, bulk, type of dwelling, or use, density,
or intensity, lot coverage, and required open space to the regulations
established in any one district created, from time to time, under the
provisions of this chapter.
   PUBLIC GROUNDS. Includes:
      (1)   Parks, playgrounds, trails, paths, and other recreational areas and
other public areas;
      (2)   Sites for schools, sewage treatment, refuse disposal, and other
publicly owned or operated facilities; and
      (3)   Publicly owned or operated scenic and historic sites.
   PUBLIC HEARING. A formal meeting held pursuant to public notice by the
Borough Council, intended to inform and obtain public comment, prior to taking
action in accordance with the this chapter.
   PUBLIC MEETING. A forum held pursuant to notice under Act 1998-93, known as
the “Sunshine Act,” 65 Pa.C.S. §§ 701 et seq.
   PUBLIC NOTICE. Notice published once each week for two successive weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation in the borough. Such NOTICE shall state the
time and place of the hearing and the particular nature of the matter to be
considered at the hearing. The first publication shall not be more than 30 days
and the second publication shall not be less than seven days from the date of
the hearing,
   REPORT.
      (1)   Any letter, review, memorandum, compilation, or similar writing
made by any body, board, officer, or consultant other than a solicitor to any
other body, board, officer, or consultant for the purpose of assisting the
recipient of such report in the rendering of any decision or determination.
      (2)   All REPORTS shall be deemed recommendatory and advisory only and
shall not be binding upon the recipient, board, officer, body, or agency, nor
shall any appeal lie therefrom.
      (3)   Any REPORT used, received, or considered by the body, board,
officer, or agency rendering a determination or decision shall be made
available for inspection to the applicant and all other parties to any
proceeding upon request, and copies thereof shall be provided at cost of
reproduction.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use permitted in a particular zoning district pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter and Articles VI and IX of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10601 et seq., 10901 et seq.
   STREET. Includes street, avenue, boulevard, road, highway, freeway, parkway,
lane, alley, viaduct, or any other ways used or intended to be used by
vehicular traffic or pedestrians whether public or private.
   STRUCTURE. Any human-made object having an ascertainable stationary location
on or in land or water, whether or not affixed to the land.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division or redivision of a lot, tract, or parcel of land by
any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land,
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development
      (2)   Provided, however, that the SUBDIVISION by lease of land for
agricultural purposes into parcels of more than ten acres, not involving any
new street or easement of access or any residential dwelling, shall be
exempted.
   VARIANCE. Relief granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and
Articles VI and IX of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§
10101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 105) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986; Ord. 89A, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 153.006 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purposes of applying the provisions of this chapter, the borough is
divided into the following zoning districts:
   (A)   R Residential;
   (B)   E Economic; and
   (C)   N Natural.
(Prior Code, § 201) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
§ 153.007 MAPS AND BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown on
the map entitled “Zoning District Map” on file in the office of the Zoning
Officer, which map with all explanatory matter thereon shall be deemed to
accompany, be, and thereby made a part of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The boundaries between districts are, unless otherwise
indicated, either the center lines of streets or such lines extended, or
parallel lines hereto, property lines, or other physical boundaries and
delineations.
      (2)   Where streets, property lines, or other physical delineations are
not applicable, boundaries shall be determined by the scale shown on the zoning
districts map.
(Prior Code, § 202) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
§ 153.008 USE OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   No building shall hereafter be erected or altered than specified
herein:
         (a)   To exceed the height;
         (b)   To accommodate a greater number of families;
         (c)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or
         (d)   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, or side
yards.
      (2)   However, in the event that application of the side setback
specifications would require that a residence on any given lot be less than 26
feet in width, a residence may be constructed on such a lot beyond the side
setback limits, provided that the residence is centered on the lot and is not
wider than the width of the lot less two feet on either side, or is 26 feet,
whichever is less.
   (B)   (1)   The front setback shall be measured from the curb line of
Allegheny Avenue, Franklin Avenue, Ridge Avenue, Poplar Street, Maple Street,
or Hickory Street along the long axis of the lot.
      (2)   The side setback shall be measured from the lot lines parallel to
the long axis of the lot.
      (3)   In the event that the long axis of any given lot is not more or
less perpendicular to the center line of the fronting roadway, the front and
side setbacks shall be fixed in such a way that the placement of the residence
on any such lot is harmonious with placement of residences in the vicinity of
that lot.
   (C)   No part of a yard or other open space required about any building for
the purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be included
as part of a yard or other open space similarly required for another building.
(Prior Code, § 301) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986; Ord. 89A, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 153.009 SUMMARY OF LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   All Lots
Lots
   Minimum width at building line and lot area:     30; 3,000 sq. ft.
Height
   Maximum height:                              2.5 stories or 35 ft.
                                                   3 stories or 40 ft.
Lot Coverage
   Maximum coverage:                         “R”40%
                                                “E”60%
   Allegheny Avenue
   100 Block
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  22 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                6 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
   200 Block
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  42 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                9 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
   300 Block
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  42 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                3 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
   Franklin Avenue
   100 Block
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  10 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                6 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
   200 Block
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  21 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                3 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
   300 Block (East)
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  17 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                3 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
   300 Block (West)
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  10 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                3 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
   Ridge Avenue
   200 Block
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  16 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                3 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
   300 Block (East)
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  10 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                5 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
   300 Block (West)
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  15 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                3 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
   Hickory Street
   Allegheny - Franklin
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  9 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                3 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
   Franklin - Ridge
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  3 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                2 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
   Maple Street
   Allegheny - Franklin (South)
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  12 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                3 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
   Allegheny - Franklin (North)
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  10 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                2 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
   Franklin - Ridge
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  6 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                2 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
   Poplar Street (North)
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  12 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                3 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
   Poplar Street (South)
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  11 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                2 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
   Minimum line side:                               2 ft.
   Franklin - Ridge
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  6 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                2 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
   Poplar Street
   Poplar Street (North)
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  12 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                3 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
   Poplar Street (South)
Front Setback
   Required depth:                                  11 ft.
Side Setback
   Minimum one side:                                2 ft.
Rear Yard
   Minimum depth:                                   15 ft.
Rear Setback
   Minimum depth:                                   3 ft.
Notes to Table:
As used in this table, the term MINIMUM shall be interpreted to permit a
greater extent than that stated; the term MAXIMUM a lesser extent; and the
term REQUIRED neither a greater nor lesser extent. On Allegheny Avenue, the
front setback shall be measured from the western curb line.
 
(Prior Code, § 501) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
§ 153.010 APPEALS.
   Proceedings for securing review of any ordinance, decision, determination,
or order of the Borough Council, its agencies, or officer adopted or issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be in accordance with the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 1201) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
PERMITTED USES
§ 153.025 R RESIDENTIAL.
   In R Residential Districts, only the following structures and uses are
permitted:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwellings;
   (B)   Multi-family dwellings subject to the lot area requirements per unit
contained herein;
   (C)   Private garages and outbuildings accessory to the principal use
(noncommercial);
   (D)   Parks, playgrounds, and other recreational uses (noncommercial);
   (E)   Educational and religious uses;
   (F)   Home gardening without sale of products (noncommercial);
   (G)   Bomb or fallout shelters;
   (H)   Municipal buildings;
   (I)   The keeping of animals in this district shall be limited to house pets
in the normal meaning of the term and shall not be interpreted to include any
activity of a commercial nature such as a kennel or coop functions;
   (J)   Home occupations and professional offices of the occupant as
subsidiary and subordinate use to residential units, provided however:
      (1)   Official residence shall be maintained by the occupant who may be
an owner, a renter, or a lessee;
      (2)   The accessory use shall not occupy more than 40% of the ground
floor area of the principal dwelling building;
      (3)   There shall not be an animal hospital or animal clinic in
connection therewith; and
      (4)   There shall be a minimum of three off-street parking spaces in
addition to those required under the provisions of this chapter.
   (K)   Police and fire protection buildings;
   (L)   Conversion apartments, under the following conditions.
      (1)   Each living unit provides a minimum of not less than 200 square
feet of habitable living area.
      (2)   Each living unit contains not less than one bathroom and three
habitable rooms, at least one of which shall be a bedroom.
      (3)   Separate and private sanitary facilities, cooking and dining
accommodations are provided for each living unit.
      (4)   Fire and safety provisions are certified to be adequate by the
Chief of the Borough Fire Department.
      (5)   A minimum of one off-street parking space is provided for each
residential unit.
   (M)   Group or boarding homes, provided that they meet all federal, state,
and local requirements imposed by statute, regulation, or ordinance, now or
hereafter adopted.
(Prior Code, § 401) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.026 E ECONOMIC.
   In E Economic Districts, only the following uses are permitted:
   (A)   Private clubs, lodges, recreation buildings or properties
(noncommercial);
   (B)   Personal services, barber shops, beauty shops, stores, minor repair
shops, and dry-cleaning pickup stores;
   (C)   Banks, motels, offices, restaurants, food, eating, and drinking
establishments;
   (D)   Wholesale establishments, warehousing, automotive display, sales,
repair, and associated uses, except wrecking and storage of junk vehicles;
   (E)   Printing, publishing, and allied processes;
   (F)   Retail establishments;
   (G)   Gasoline service stations and automobile repair;
   (H)   Accessory buildings and uses;
   (I)   Parking as required in this chapter;
   (J)   Building material supplies, including stone crushing or concrete
mixing;
   (K)   Distribution plant, beverage bottling or distribution;
   (L)   Laboratories devoted to research, design, experimentation, processing,
and fabrication incidental thereto;
   (M)   Carpenter, electrical, plumbing, heating, or sheet metal shop,
furniture upholstering, laundry and clothes cleaning or dyeing establishment,
printing shop, or publishing plant;
   (N)   The manufacturing of chemicals, rubber products; and
   (O)   Transport facilities, including, without limitation, rail, truck, and
bus.
(Prior Code, § 402) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.027 N NATURAL.
   In N Natural Areas, the only permitted use is non-permanent boat docking and
other recreational non-commercial uses. In this area, there shall be no
permanent structure of any type or for any purpose whatsoever, nor shall there
be any temporary structures of any type or for any purpose, other than
temporary non-permanent boat docks, grass, ornamental vegetation and trees of
the permitted species may be planted and maintained in those portions of the
natural areas which are at street level. Trees of the permitted species may be
planted along the riverbank below the street level, however, all other
vegetation within this area shall be such as occurs naturally. Nothing shall be
done within this area to prevent regeneration of natural vegetation within this
area.
(Prior Code, § 403) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.040 OFF-STREET PARKING IN R RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   Off-street parking facilities shall be provided in the Residential District
as specified herein.
   (A)   For any multi-family structure, there shall be a minimum of one off-
street parking space per living unit within the structure.
   (B)   Off-street parking facilities for other permitted uses in the R
District are as follows:
      (1)   Residential uses: one per 300 square feet of gross lot area;
      (2)   Home occupation: three parking spaces; and
      (3)   Churches, auditoriums, or other places of public assembly: one
parking space for each three seats.
   (C)   For any group or boarding home, the minimum number of off-street
parking spaces shall be equal to the number of residents in any such home
divided by two.
(Prior Code, § 601) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.041 OFF-STREET PARKING IN E ECONOMIC DISTRICT.
   Off-street parking facilities shall be provided in the Economic District as
specified herein.
   (A)   (1)   The required parking spaces shall be determined by the Borough
Council.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of a zoning permit by the Zoning Officer,
plans of the proposed commercial or industrial development shall be submitted
to the Planning Committee of Council who will review and recommend approval to
the Council.
      (3)   The Council must approve the proposed parking plans prior to the
issuance of the zoning permit.
   (B)   The loading and unloading of trucks and all other vehicles shall be
conducted in such a manner that no part of said truck or vehicle or the
operation of loading or unloading shall extend onto the adjacent sidewalk or
roadway, or in any other manner hinder or impede the use thereof.
(Prior Code, § 602) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
SIGNS, TREES, AND STREETS
§ 153.055 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Signs may be erected and maintained only when in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter and any and all other ordinances and regulations
of the borough relating to the erection, alteration, or maintenance of signs
and similar devices.
   (B)   Within ten feet of the curb line of any street or avenue within the
borough or along the east side of Allegheny Avenue to an elevation 15 feet
below the level of the road surface, trees may be planted and maintained only
in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and all other ordinances
and regulations of the borough relating to the planting, maintaining, and
cutting of trees and other vegetation.
   (C)   Operation and parking of vehicles on the streets and alleys within the
borough shall be subject to the limitations set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 701) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.056 PERMITTED SIGN USE.
   (A)   R Residential District.
      (1)   Signs advertising the sale, rental, or development of property;
signs indicating the location and direction of premises; signs erected by
churches, schools, or other similar institutions; signs supporting political
candidates who are running in the next election from the first day of the third
month prior to the month in which the election is to be held until the second
day following the election, provided the area of any such sign does not exceed
12 square feet;
      (2)   Small announcement signs designating professional offices such as
those of a doctor, lawyer, engineer, architect, or similar professional person,
provided such signs do not exceed two square feet in area;
      (3)   The bottom-most part of signs shall not exceed the height of two
and one-half feet above ground level;
      (4)   The face of any sign shall be parallel to the curb line from which
the front setback is measured; and
      (5)   Signs shall be located a minimum distance of 15 feet from the
street right-of-way.
   (B)   E Economic District.
      (1)   Signs normally contingent to a business, and erected at the site of
such business, are permitted, unless otherwise specified in this chapter.
      (2)   Signs, parking areas, and buildings may be illuminated, provided
the use of such illumination does not confuse, blind, or distract vehicle
operators on the streets or highways adjacent to the site.
      (3)   The bottom-most part of signs shall not exceed the height of two
and one-half feet above ground level.
      (4)   The face of any sign shall be parallel to the curb line from which
the front setback is measured.
      (5)   Signs shall be located a minimum distance of 15 feet from the
street right-of-way.
   (C)   N Natural District. No signs whatsoever are permitted within this
district.
(Prior Code, § 702) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.057 CONDITION AND MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS.
   In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, every sign referred
to herein must be constructed of durable materials, kept in repair, and not
allowed to become dilapidated. Each sign shall be removed when the
circumstances leading to its erection no longer apply.
(Prior Code, § 703) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.058 PURPOSE OF SIGN USED.
   In addition to other requirements of this chapter, no signs or other
advertising displays shall be permitted, except those specifically pertaining
to the use of the property on which they are located. Further, all lighting and
illumination of signs shall conform to accepted practices regarding hazards to
traffic.
(Prior Code, § 704) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.059 BILLBOARDS.
   Billboards are prohibited in all districts.
(Prior Code, § 705) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.060 TREE SPECIES.
   (A)   Within the areas described above, no species of tree shall be planted
other than sugar maple, acer aachrum, or black maple, acer nigrum. For purposes
of this section, TREES shall mean any woody plant having a mature height in
excess of eight feet.
   (B)   The borough may itself plant trees of these species within these areas
or may require the landowner to plant such trees therein.
   (C)   The borough may also remove or require the removal of any tree within
this area, either by reason of the condition of the tree or by reason of the
species thereof, and replacement thereof with either approved species of maple.
In the event that removal is required by reason of the species of the removed
tree, the borough shall compensate the landowner for the cost of removal and
replacement.
(Prior Code, § 706) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.061 STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   Except for the portion of Allegheny Avenue which lies within the
confines of State Highway Route 422, no vehicle shall be operated on the
streets or alleys of the borough with a gross weight in excess of 15,000
pounds.
      (2)   This weight limit shall not apply to any vehicle delivering
material to or picking up material from any property nor to any vehicle for
which a special permit to operate has been issued by the Mayor nor to the
operation of vehicles hauling food or household goods, public utility vehicles,
firefighting vehicles, or school or public transportation buses.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   No boat, trailer, or truck, except those with a capacity
of less than three-quarters of a ton, truck tractor, or truck trailer shall be
parked on any street or alley in the borough; provided however, a truck or
truck tractor and trailer may be parked for the purpose of delivering material
to or picking up material from any property within the borough.
         (b)   Parking for such a purpose shall be limited to the time
reasonably necessary to complete the delivery or pickup.
      (2)   No vehicle whatsoever shall be parked on the east side of Allegheny
Avenue, either at the edge of the paved roadway or beyond within the Natural
Area.
(Prior Code, § 707) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 153.075 GENERAL.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be subject to such exceptions,
additions, or modifications as herein provided by the following supplementary
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 801) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
§ 153.076 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   Essential services, as defined herein, shall be permitted within the
borough, subject to restrictions approved by the Borough Council, based on the
recommendation of the Planning Committee with respect to use, design, yard
area, setback, and height.
(Prior Code, § 802) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
§ 153.077 STRUCTURES ON SMALL LOTS.
   Notwithstanding the limitations imposed by any other provisions of this
chapter, the Zoning Hearing Board may permit erection of a structure on any lot
separately owned or under contract of sale containing, at the time of the
effective date of this chapter, an area or width smaller than that required for
a single-family dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 803) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
§ 153.078 STORAGE.
   (A)   No lot or premises shall be used for the storage of junk vehicles,
appliances, furniture, glass, scrap metal, or industrial, commercial, or
household waste nor for the storage or collection of any other miscellaneous
items not reasonably related to the permitted actual use of the lot or premises
nor for the storage of items reasonably related to the permitted actual use in
excess of the amount reasonably necessary for the permitted actual use.
   (B)   (1)   Storage of items reasonably related to the permitted actual use
shall only be done inside a fully enclosed building, and no such storage shall
be done on any porch or in any yard.
      (2)   No lot or premises shall be used as a garbage dump or a dead animal
rendering plant, nor may manure, rubbish, or garbage be collected and stored
within the borough where the same may be construed as a detriment to public
health or safety.
   (C)   Household garbage may be temporarily accumulated within fully enclosed
containers constructed of impermeable materials in such a manner as to be
airtight and watertight.
   (D)   No exceptions shall be made.
(Prior Code, § 804) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.079 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION.
   No person shall conduct any activity within the borough which results in
pollution of the waters of the commonwealth, as those terms are defined in “The
Clean Streams Law, Act of 22 June, 1937, P.L. 1987, as amended, 35 P.S. §§
691.1 et seq., or in air pollution or air contamination, as those terms are
defined in the “Air Pollution Control Act,” Act of 8 January, 1960, P.L. (1959)
2119, as amended, 35 P.S. §§ 4001 et seq., nor shall any owner or occupant of
any lot within the borough permit any condition thereon to remain which results
in pollution of the waters of the commonwealth or in air pollution or air
contamination.
(Prior Code, § 805) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.080 FENCES OR HEDGES.
   (A)   No fence, structure, or wall shall be located between the curb line of
any street and the main structure.
   (B)   (1)   Hedges or other planting shall not be located at street corners
so as to block a clear line-of-sight across the corner lots.
      (2)   The height of such vegetation is restricted to three feet within a
triangular point on each curb line 30 feet from the corner intersection of
these curb lines.
(Prior Code, § 806) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
§ 153.081 LOT AREA MEASUREMENT.
   For purpose of measuring lot area on exceptionally deep lots, only that part
of the depth which is less than six times the average width of the lot may be
utilized in calculations.
(Prior Code, § 807) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
§ 153.082 SWIMMING POOLS.
   Private swimming pools are permitted only when located in the rear yards,
properly fenced according to any federal, state, or local statute, regulation,
or ordinance and so as to avoid becoming an attractive nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 808) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.083 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   No living quarters shall be placed in a cellar dwelling or garage or
in any other room or space having less than seven feet of ceiling clearance
above the first floor of the residence. The elevation of the first floor of any
residence shall be above the elevation of the 100-year flood level as
determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for Pool #6 of the Allegheny
River.
   (B)   No structure of a temporary character shall be used at any time as a
residence, either temporarily or permanently.
   (C)   (1)   The cost of any residence erected within the borough, exclusive
of the cost of preparing the ground, the cost of the foundation and the cost of
any porches or garages shall be not less than $27,000 adjusted by a factor
equal to the average Consumer Price Index for the year preceding construction
as compared with the average Consumer Price Index for 1985, all Urban
Consumers, United States (CPI) published by the United States Department of
Labor, or, in the event this index is no longer published, by such other index
as may approximate this inflation figure.
      (2)   Any residence constructed within the borough shall be permanently
and integrally attached to the foundation and shall be constructed in
accordance with the cost recently published HUD and IBC Building Codes related
to permanent structures.
(Prior Code, § 809) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.084 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Structures permitted within this chapter as complementary to the principal
structure shall be located per all uses by the following.
   (A)   No structure shall be located within the required distance from the
front lot line to the building line of the principal structure.
   (B)   No structure on corner lots shall be located less than the required
distance from the front lot line to the building line of the structure for the
adjoining lot on the side street.
   (C)   No accessory structure shall be located between the front curb line
and the principal structure.
(Prior Code, § 810) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.085 BUILDING SETBACKS.
   Where one or more existing structures are located on lots within 100 feet in
either direction of a proposed structure, setback shall conform with the
average setbacks of the existing structures.
(Prior Code, § 811) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 153.100 WHEN PERMITTED.
   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, a use of building or land
existing at the time of the effective date of this chapter may be continued
even though such use does not conform with the provisions of these regulations
for the district in which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 901) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
§ 153.101 UNSAFE STRUCTURE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the strengthening or restoring to a
safe condition of any portion of a building or structure declared unsafe by a
proper authority.
(Prior Code, § 902) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
§ 153.102 ALTERATIONS.
   A nonconforming building or structure may be altered, improved, or
reconstructed, provided such work is not to an extent exceeding in aggregate
cost 75% of the fair market value of the building or structure, unless the
building or structure is changed to a conforming use.
(Prior Code, § 903) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.103 RESTORATION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the reconstruction, repairing,
rebuilding, and continued use of any nonconforming building or structure
damaged by fire, collapse, explosion, or Act of God subsequent to the effective
date of this chapter wherein the expense of such work does not exceed 75% of
the fair market value of the building or structure at the time such damage
occurred.
(Prior Code, § 904) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
§ 153.104 EXTENSION.
   A nonconforming use shall not be extended, but the extension of a lawful use
to any portion of a nonconforming building or structure which existed prior to
the effective date of this chapter shall not be deemed the extension of such
nonconforming use.
(Prior Code, § 905) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.105 CHANGES.
   No nonconforming building, structure, or use shall be changed to another
nonconforming use.
(Prior Code, § 906) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.106 CONSTRUCTION PRIOR TO EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHAPTER.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in plans, construction, or
designated use of a building or structure for which a zoning permit has been
issued and the construction of which shall have been diligently prosecuted
within two months of the date of such permit, and the ground story framework of
which shall have been completed within four months of the date of the permit,
and which the entire building shall be completed according to such plans as
filed within one year from the effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 907) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
§ 153.107 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   A nonconforming use of a building or land which has been abandoned
shall not thereafter be returned to such nonconforming use.
   (B)   A nonconforming use shall be considered ABANDONED as follows:
      (1)   When the intent of the owner to discontinue the use is apparent;
      (2)   When the characteristic equipment and furnishing of the
nonconforming use have been removed from the premises and have not be replaced
by similar equipment within 90 days, unless other facts show intention to
resume the nonconforming use;
      (3)   When a nonconforming use has been discontinued for a period of at
least six months;
      (4)   When it has been replaced by a conforming use; or
      (5)   When it has been changed to another use under permit from the
Zoning Hearing Board.
(Prior Code, § 908) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.120 APPOINTMENT AND POWERS OF THE ZONING OFFICER.
   (A)   For the administration of this chapter, a Zoning Officer, who shall
not hold any elective office in the borough, shall be appointed.
   (B)   The Zoning Officer shall meet the qualifications established by the
borough and shall be able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the borough a
working knowledge of municipal zoning.
   (C)   The Zoning Officer shall administer this chapter in accordance with
its literal terms, and shall not have the power to permit any construction or
any use or change of use which does not conform to this chapter.
   (D)   The Zoning Officer is hereby authorized to institute civil enforcement
proceedings as a means of enforcement when acting within the scope of his or
her employment.
   (E)   The Zoning Officer’s duties shall include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Receive applications for and issue zoning permits and sign permits
as permitted by the terms of this chapter;
      (2)   Keep an official record of all business activities, including
complaints of violation of any of the provisions of this chapter and of the
action taken consequent on each such complaint. All such records shall be open
to public inspection. File copies of all applications received, permits issued,
reports and inspections made in connection with any structure, building, sign,
or land shall be retained as long as they remain in existence;
      (3)   Make inspections as required to fulfill his or her duties. He or
she shall have the right to enter any building or structure or enter upon any
land at any reasonable hour in the course of his or her duties;
      (4)   Issue permits for special exception uses or for variances only
after such uses or buildings have been approved by the Zoning Hearing Board in
accordance with the regulations of this chapter;
      (5)   Be responsible for keeping this chapter and the Zoning Map up to
date so as to include all amendments thereto;
      (6)   Issue certificates of use and occupancy in accordance with the
terms of this chapter; and
      (7)   The Zoning Officer shall identify and register nonconforming uses
and structures created as a result of the adoption of this chapter or created
as a result of amendments thereto.
   (F)   (1)   If it appears to the borough that a violation of this chapter
has occurred, the borough shall initiate enforcement proceedings by sending an
enforcement notice as provided in this section.
      (2)   The enforcement notice shall be sent to the owner of record of the
parcel on which the violation has occurred, to any person who has filed a
written request to receive enforcement notices regarding that parcel, and to
any other person requested in writing by the owner of record.
      (3)   An enforcement notice shall state at least the following:
         (a)   The name of the owner of record and any other person against
whom the borough intends to take action;
         (b)   The location of the property in violation;
         (c)   The specific violation with a description of the requirements
which have not been met, citing in each instance the applicable provisions of
this chapter;
         (d)   The date before which the steps for compliance must be commenced
and the date before which the steps must be completed;
         (e)   The recipient of the notice has the right to appeal to the
Zoning Hearing Board within a period of ten days; and
         (f)   Failure to comply with the notice within the time specified,
unless extended by appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board, constitutes a violation,
with possible sanctions clearly described.
(Prior Code, § 1001) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986; Ord. 89A, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 153.121 ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   No building, structure, or sign shall be erected, constructed, moved,
added to, or structurally altered, nor shall land be put to any use without a
permit therefor, issued by the Zoning Officer. No such permit shall be issued
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, or upon written
exception, variance, or as otherwise provided for by this chapter, or upon
written order from the Zoning Hearing Board in the form of special exception,
variance, or as otherwise provided for by this chapter, any applicable law or
any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   All applications shall be made in writing and shall be accompanied by
two sets of plans showing at least the following information as applicable:
      (1)   Actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon;
      (2)   The exact size and location on the lot of buildings, structures, or
signs existing or proposed extensions thereto;
      (3)   The number of dwelling units, if applicable;
      (4)   Parking spaces provided or loading facilities;
      (5)   Statement indicating the existing or proposed use;
      (6)   Height of structure, building, or sign;
      (7)   Essential services; and
      (8)   All other information necessary for the Zoning Officer to determine
conformance with and provide for enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the Zoning
Officer after he or she shall have marked such copies either as approved or
disapproved and attested to same by his or her signature on such copy.
   (D)   One copy of all such plans shall be retained by the Zoning Officer for
his or her permanent records.
   (E)   Such approval and zoning permit shall be issued or refused within 30
days from date of application. In case of refusal, the applicant shall be
informed of his or her rights of appeal. The application for a permit shall be
submitted in such form as the Zoning Officer may prescribe.
   (F)   The zoning permit shall expire within six months from date of issuance
if work described in any permit has not begun. If work described in any zoning
permit has begun within the six-month period, said permit shall expire after
two years from date of issuance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1002) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
§ 153.122 CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   A certificate of use and occupancy shall be required upon the
completion of the work contemplated. It shall be unlawful to use or occupy any
structure, building, or land, or portions thereof, in any manner until a
certificate of use and occupancy has been issued.
   (B)   The application for certificate of use and occupancy shall be
submitted in such form as the Zoning Officer may prescribe.
   (C)   The Zoning Officer shall inspect any use, structure, building, sign,
or land, or portions thereof, and shall determine the conformity therewith to
this chapter. If he or she is satisfied that the completed work is in
conformity with this chapter and with the work listed in the zoning permit, he
or she shall issue a certificate of use and occupancy.
   (D)   Certificate of use and occupancy shall be granted or refused in
writing, within ten days from the date of application.
   (E)   In situations in which performance standards are applicable, no
certificate of occupancy shall become permanent until 30 days after the
facility is fully operating and upon reinspection by the Zoning Officer to
determine that the facility is in compliance with all performance standards.
After reinspection, the Zoning Officer shall notify the applicant that the
facility is in full compliance with all performance standards and that the
certificate of use and occupancy is permanent or that the facility does not
comply and that the certificate of use and occupancy is still temporary.
(Prior Code, § 1003) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.123 SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES, AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   The Borough Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges, and
expenses and collection procedures for zoning permits, certificates of
occupancy, special exceptions, variances, and appeals and other matters
pertaining to this chapter.
   (B)   The schedule of fees shall be available for inspection in the office
of the Zoning Officer and may be altered or amended by Borough Council.
   (C)   Until all application fees, charges, and expenses have been paid in
full, no action shall be taken on any application of appeal.
(Prior Code, § 1004) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986)
§ 153.124 ENACTMENT OF ZONING ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Borough Council may from time to time amend, supplement, or repeal
any of the regulations and provisions of this chapter. The procedure for the
preparation of a proposed zoning ordinance as set forth in § 607 of the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. § 10607, is hereby declared
optional.
   (B)   Before voting on the enactment of an amendment, the Borough Council
shall hold a public hearing thereon, pursuant to public notice. In addition, if
the proposed amendment involves a zoning map change, notice of said public
hearing shall be conspicuously posted by the borough at points deemed
sufficient by the borough along the perimeter of the tract to notify
potentially interested citizens. The affected tract or area shall be posted at
least one week prior to the date of the hearing.
   (C)   In the case of an amendment other than that prepared by the Zoning
Commission, the Borough Council shall submit each such amendment to the Zoning
Commission at least 30 days prior to the hearing on such proposed amendment to
provide the Zoning Commission an opportunity to submit recommendations.
   (D)   If, after any public hearing held upon an amendment, the proposed
amendment is changed substantially, or is revised, to include land previously
not affected by it, the Borough Council shall hold another public hearing,
pursuant to public notice, before proceeding to vote on the amendment.
   (E)   At least 30 days prior to the public hearing on the amendment by the
Borough Council, the borough shall submit the proposed amendment to the County
Planning Agency for recommendations.
   (F)   Within 30 days after enactment, a copy of the amendment to this
chapter shall be forwarded to the County Planning Agency.
(Prior Code, § 1005) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986; Ord. 89A, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 153.125 PROCEDURE FOR LANDOWNER CURATIVE AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   A landowner who desires to challenge on substantive grounds the
validity of this chapter or the zoning map or any provision thereof, which
prohibits or restricts the use or development of land in which he has an
interest may submit a curative amendment to the Borough Council with a written
request that his or her challenge and proposed amendment be heard and decided
as provided in §
916.1 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code (hereinafter “MPC”), 53
P.S. §
10916.1. The curative amendment and challenge shall be referred to the Planning
Commission and the County Planning Agency as provided in § 609 and notice of
the hearing thereon shall be given as provided in §§ 610 and 916.1 of the MPC,
53 P.S. §§ 10609, 10610, and 10916.1.
   (B)   The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with § 908 of the MPC, 53
P.S. § 10908, and all references therein to the Zoning Hearing Board shall, for
purposes of this section, be references to the Borough Council. If the borough
does not accept a landowner’s curative amendment brought in accordance with
this subsection and a court subsequently rules that the challenge has merit,
the court’s decision shall not result in a declaration of invalidity for this
entire chapter and zoning map, but only for those provisions which specifically
relate to the landowner’s curative amendment and challenge.
   (C)   The Borough Council, if it determines that a validity challenge has
merit, may accept a landowner’s curative amendment, with or without revision,
or may adopt an alternative amendment which will cure the challenged defects.
The Borough Council shall consider the curative amendments, plans and
explanatory material submitted by the landowner and shall also consider:
      (1)   The impact of the proposal upon roads, sewer facilities, water
supplies, schools, and other public service facilities;
      (2)   If the proposal is for a residential use, the impact of the
proposal upon regional housing needs and the effectiveness of the proposal in
providing housing units of a type actually available to and affordable by
classes of persons otherwise unlawfully excluded by the challenged provisions
of this chapter or zoning map;
      (3)   The suitability of the site for the intensity of use proposed by
the site’s soils, slopes, woodlands, wetlands, floodplains, aquifers, natural
resources, and other natural features;
      (4)   The impact of the proposed use on the site’s soils, slopes,
woodlands, wetlands, flood plains, natural resources, and natural features, the
degree to which these are protected or destroyed, the tolerance of the
resources to development and any adverse environmental impacts; and
      (5)   The impact of the proposal on the preservation of agriculture and
other land uses which are essential to public health and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 1006) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986; Ord. 89A, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 153.126 PROCEDURE FOR BOROUGH CURATIVE AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   If the borough determines that this chapter, or any portion thereof,
is substantially invalid, it shall take the following actions: the borough
shall declare by formal action this chapter or portions hereof substantially
invalid and propose to prepare a curative amendment to overcome such
invalidity. Within 30 days of such declaration and proposal, the Borough
Council shall:
      (1)   By resolution, make specific findings setting forth the declared
invalidity of this chapter, which may include;
         (a)   References to specific uses which are either not permitted or
not permitted in sufficient quantity;
         (b)   Reference to a class of use or uses which requires revision; or
         (c)   Reference to this entire chapter which requires revisions.
      (2)   Begin to prepare and consider a curative amendment to this chapter
to correct the declared invalidity.
   (B)   Within 180 days from the date of the declaration and proposal, the
borough shall enact a curative amendment to validate, or reaffirm the validity
of, this chapter pursuant to the provisions of § 609 of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code (hereinafter “MPC”), 53 P.S. § 10609, in order to
cure the declared invalidity of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Upon the initiation of the procedures as set forth in division
(A) above, the Borough Council shall not be required to entertain or consider
any landowner’s curative amendment filed under §
609.1 of the MPC, 53 P.S. §
10609.1, nor shall the Zoning Hearing Board be required to give a report
requested under §§
909.1 or
916.1 of the MPC, 53 P.S. §§
10909.1, 10916.1, subsequent to the declaration and proposal based upon the
grounds identical or substantially similar to those specified by the resolution
required by division (A) above.
      (2)   Upon completion of the procedures set forth in divisions (A) and
(B) above, no rights to a cure pursuant to the provisions of §§
609.1 and
916.1 of the MPC, 53 P.S. §§
10609.1, 10916.1, shall, from the date of the declaration and proposal, accrue
to any landowner on the basis of the substantive invalidity of this chapter for
which there has been a curative amendment pursuant to this section.
   (D)   The borough, having utilized the procedures set forth in this section,
may not again utilize said procedure for a period of 36 months following the
date of enactment of a curative amendment, or reaffirmation of the validity of
this chapter; provided, however, if after the date of declaration and proposal
there is a substantially new duty imposed upon the borough by virtue of a
change in statute or by virtue of a Pennsylvania Appellate Court decision, the
borough may utilize the provisions of this section to propose a curative
amendment to this chapter to fulfill said duty or obligation.
(Prior Code, § 1007) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986; Ord. 89A, passed 8-10-1993)
ZONING HEARING BOARD
§ 153.140 ZONING HEARING BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created for the borough a Zoning Hearing Board in
accordance with the provisions of Article IX of the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10901 et seq.
   (B)   The membership of the Board shall consist of five residents of the
borough appointed by resolution by the Borough Council. The terms of office
shall be five years and shall be so fixed that the term of office of one member
shall expire each year. The Board shall promptly notify the Borough Council of
any vacancies which occur. Appointments to fill vacancies shall be only for the
unexpired portion. Members of the Board shall hold no other office in the
borough.
   (C)   Any Board member may be removed for malfeasance, misfeasance, or
nonfeasance in office or for other just cause by a majority vote of the Borough
Council which appointed the member, taken after the member has received 15
days’ advance notice of the intent to take such a vote. A hearing shall be held
in connection with the vote if the member shall request it in writing.
   (D)   The Board shall elect from its own membership its officers, who shall
serve annual terms as such and may succeed themselves. For the conduct of any
hearing and the taking of any action a quorum shall be not less than a majority
of all the members of the Board, but the Board may appoint a hearing officer
from its own membership to conduct any hearing on its behalf and the parties
may waive further action by the Board as provided in this chapter.
   (E)   The Board may make, alter, and rescind rules and forms for its
procedure, consistent with ordinances of the borough and laws of the
commonwealth. The Board shall keep full public records of its business, which
records shall be the property of the borough and shall submit a report of its
activities to the Borough Council as requested by the Borough Council.
   (F)   Within the limits of funds appropriated by the Borough Council, the
Board may employ or contract for secretaries, clerks, legal counsel,
consultants, and other technical and clerical services. Members of the Board
may receive compensation for the performance of their duties, as may be fixed
by the Borough Council, but in no case shall it exceed the rate of compensation
authorized to be paid to the members of the Borough Council.
(Prior Code, § 1101) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986; Ord. 89A, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 153.141 HEARINGS.
   The Zoning Hearing Board shall conduct hearings and made decisions in
accordance with the following requirements.
   (A)   Public notice shall be given and written notice shall be given to the
applicant, the Zoning Officer, and to any person who has made timely request
for the same. Written notices shall be given at such time and in such manner as
shall be prescribed by rules of the Board. In addition to the written notice
provided herein, written notice of said hearing shall be conspicuously posted
on the affected tract of land at least one week prior to the hearing.
   (B)   The hearing shall be held within 60 days from the date of the
applicant’s request, unless the applicant has agreed in writing to an extension
of time.
   (C)   The hearings shall be conducted by the Board, or the Board may appoint
any member as a hearing officer. The decision, or, where no decision is called
for, the findings shall be made by the Board, however, the appellant or the
applicant, as the case may be, in addition to the borough, may, prior to the
decision of the hearing, waive decision or findings by the Board and accept the
decision or findings of the hearing officer as final.
   (D)   The parties to the hearing shall be the borough, any person affected
by the application who has made timely appearance of record before the Board,
and any other person, including civic or community organizations permitted to
appear by the Board. The Board shall have power to require that all persons who
wish to be considered parties enter appearances in writing on forms provided by
the Board for that purpose.
   (E)   The chairperson or acting chairperson of the Board or the hearing
officer presiding shall have power to administer oaths and issue subpoenas to
compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of relevant documents and
papers, including witnesses and documents requested by the parties.
   (F)   The parties shall have the right to be represented by counsel and
shall be afforded the opportunity to respond and present evidence and argument
and cross-examine adverse witnesses on all relevant issues.
   (G)   Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but irrelevant, immaterial,
or unduly repetitious evidence may be excluded.
   (H)   The Board or the hearing officer, as the case may be, shall keep a
stenographic record of the proceedings. The appearance fee for a stenographer
shall be shared equally by the applicant and the Board. The cost of the
original transcript shall be paid by the Board if the transcript is ordered by
the Board or hearing officer or shall be paid by the person appealing from the
decision of the Board if such appeal is made, and in either event, the cost of
additional copies shall be paid by the person requesting such copy or copies.
In other cases, the party requesting the original transcript shall bear the
cost thereof.
   (I)   The Board or the hearing officer shall not communicate, directly or
indirectly, with any party or his or her representatives in connection with any
issue involved except upon notice and opportunity for all parties to
participate, shall not take notice of any communication, reports, staff
memoranda, or other materials, except advice from their solicitor, unless the
parties are afforded an opportunity to contest the material so noticed and
shall not inspect the site or its surroundings after the commencement of
hearings with any party or his or her representative unless all parties are
given an opportunity to be present.
   (J)   The Board or the hearing officer, as the case may be, shall render a
written decision or, when no decision is called for, make written findings on
the application within 45 days after the last hearing before the Board or
hearing officer. Where the application is contested or denied, each decision
shall be accompanied by findings of fact and conclusions based thereon together
with the reasons therefor. Conclusions based on any provisions of this chapter
or of any law, ordinance, rule, or regulation shall contain a reference to the
provision relied on and the reasons why the conclusion is deemed appropriate in
the light of the facts found. If the hearing is conducted by a hearing officer,
and there has been no stipulation that his or her decision or findings are
final, the Board shall make his report and recommendations available to the
parties within 45 days and the parties shall be entitled to make written
representations thereon to the Board prior to final decision or entry of
findings, and the Board’s decision shall be entered no later than 30 days after
the report of the hearing officer. Where the Board fails to render the decision
within the period required by this division (J), or fails to hold the required
hearing within 60 days from the date of the applicant’s request for a hearing,
the decision shall be deemed to have been rendered in favor of the applicant
unless the applicant has agreed in writing or on the record to an extension of
time. When a decision has been rendered in favor of the applicant because of
the failure of the Board to meet or render a decision as hereinabove provided,
the Board shall give public notice of the said decision within ten days from
the last day it could have met to render a decision in the same manner as
provided in division (A) above. If the Board shall fail to provide such notice,
the applicant may do so. Nothing in this division (J) shall prejudice the right
of any party opposing the application to appeal the decision to a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (K)   A copy of the final decision or, where no decision is called for, of
the findings shall be delivered to the applicant personally or mailed to him
not later than the day following its date. To all other persons who have filed
their name and address with the Board not later than the last day of the
hearing, the Board shall provide by mail or otherwise, brief notice of the
decision or findings and a statement of the place at which the full decision or
findings may be examined.
   (L)   The Borough Council shall establish, by resolution, fees with respect
to hearings before the Zoning Hearing Board.
(Prior Code, § 1102) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986; Ord. 89A, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 153.142 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Zoning Hearing Board shall have exclusive jurisdiction to hear and
render final adjudications in the following matters:
      (1)   Substantive challenges to the validity of any land use ordinance,
except those brought before the Borough Council pursuant to §§
609.1 and
916.1(a)(2) of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code (hereinafter
“MPC”), 53 P.S. §§
10609.1, 10916.1;
      (2)   Challenges to the validity of a land use ordinance raising
procedural questions or alleged defects in the process of enactment or adoption
which challenges shall be raised by an appeal taken within 30 days after the
effective date of said ordinance. Where the ordinance appealed from is the
initial zoning ordinance of the Borough and a Zoning Hearing Board has not been
previously established, the appeal raising procedural questions shall be taken
directly to court;
      (3)   Appeals from the determination of the Zoning Officer, including,
but not limited to, the granting or denial of any permit, or failure to act on
the application therefor, the issuance of any cease and desist order or the
registration or refusal to register any nonconforming use, structure, or lot;
      (4)   Appeals from a determination by the Borough Engineer or the Zoning
Officer with reference to the administration of any floodplain or flood hazard
ordinance or such provisions within a land use ordinance;
      (5)   Applications for variances from the terms of this chapter and flood
hazard ordinance or such provisions within a land use ordinance, pursuant to §
910.2 of the MPC, 53 P.S. §
10910.2;
      (6)   Applications for special exceptions under this chapter or
floodplain or flood hazard ordinance or such provisions within a land use
ordinance, pursuant to §
912.1 of the MPC, 53 P.S. §
10912.1;
      (7)   Appeals from the determination of any officer or agency charged
with the administration of any transfers of development rights or performance
density provisions of this chapter;
      (8)   Appeals from the Zoning Officer’s determination under §
916.2 of the MPC, 53 P.S. §
10916.2; and
      (9)   Appeals from the determination of the Zoning Officer or Borough
Engineer in the administration of any land use ordinance or provision thereof
with reference to sedimentation and erosion control and storm water management
insofar as the same relate to development not involving applications under
Article V or VII of the MPC, 53 P.S. §§ 10501 et seq., 10701 et seq.
   (B)   The Borough Council shall have exclusive jurisdiction to hear and
render final adjudications in the following matters:
      (1)   All applications for approvals of planned residential developments
under Article VII of the MPC pursuant to the provisions of § 702 of the MPC, 53
P.S. § 10702;
      (2)   All applications pursuant to § 508 of the MPC, 53 P.S. § 10508, for
approval of subdivisions or land developments under Article V of the MPC, 53
P.S. §§ 10501 et seq;
      (3)   Applications for conditional use under the express provisions of
this chapter;
      (4)   Applications for curative amendment to this chapter or pursuant to
§§
609.1 and
916.1(a) of the MPC, 53 P.S. §§
10609.1, 10916.1(a);
      (5)   All petitions for amendments to land use ordinances, pursuant to
the procedures set forth in § 609 of the MPC, 53 P.S. § 10609; and
      (6)   Appeals from the determination of the Zoning Officer or the Borough
Engineer in the administration of any land use ordinance or provisions thereof
with reference to sedimentation and erosion control and storm water management
insofar as the same relate to applications for land development under Articles
V and VII of the MPC, 53 P.S. §§ 10501 et seq., 10701 et seq. Where such
determination relates only to development not involving an Article V or VII
application, the appeal from such determination of the Zoning Officer or the
Borough Engineer shall be to the Zoning Hearing Board pursuant to this section.
Where the applicable land use ordinance vests jurisdiction for final
administration of subdivision and land development applications in the Planning
Commission, all appeals from determinations under this division (B) shall be to
the Planning Commission and all appeals from the decision of the Planning
Agency shall be to court.
(Prior Code, § 1103) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986; Ord. 89A, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 153.143 VARIANCE.
   (A)   The Zoning Hearing Board shall hear requests for variances where it is
alleged that the provisions of this chapter inflict unnecessary hardship upon
the applicant. The Board may by rule prescribe the form of application and may
require preliminary application to the Zoning Officer. The Board may grant a
variance, provided that all of the following findings are made where relevant
in a given case.
      (1)   There are unique physical circumstances or conditions, including
irregularity, narrowness, or shallowness of lot size or shape, or exceptional
topographical or other physical conditions peculiar to the particular property
and that the unnecessary hardship is due to such conditions and not the
circumstances or conditions generally created by the provisions of this chapter
in the neighborhood or district in which the property is located.
      (2)   Because of such physical circumstances or conditions, there is no
possibility that the property can be developed in strict conformity with the
provisions of this chapter and that the authorization of a variance is
therefore necessary to enable the reasonable use of the property.
      (3)   Such unnecessary hardship has not been created by the applicant.
      (4)   The variance, if authorized, will not alter the essential character
of the neighborhood or district in which the property is located, nor
substantially or permanently impair the appropriate use or development of
adjacent property, nor be detrimental to the public welfare.
      (5)   The variance, if authorized, will represent the minimum variance
that will afford relief and will represent the least modification possible of
the regulation in issue.
   (B)   In granting any variance, the Board may attach such reasonable
conditions and safeguards as it may deem necessary to implement the purposes of
this chapter and the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§
10101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1104) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986; Ord. 89A, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 153.144 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   Where the Borough Council, in this chapter, has stated special exceptions to
be granted or denied by the Zoning Hearing Board pursuant to express standards
and criteria, the Board shall hear and decide requests for such special
exceptions in accordance with such standards and criteria. In granting a
special exception, the Board may attach such reasonable conditions and
safeguards, in addition to those expressed in this chapter, as it may deem
necessary to implement the purposes of this chapter and the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1105) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986; Ord. 89A, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 153.145 PARTIES APPELLANT TO THE BOARD.
   Appeals raising the substantive validity of any land use ordinance (except
those to be brought before the Borough Council pursuant to the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., procedural
questions or alleged defects in the process of enactment or adoption of a land
use ordinance; or from the determination of the Zoning Officer, including, but
not limited to, the granting or denial of any permit, or failure to act on the
application therefor, the issuance of any cease and desist order or the
registration or refusal to register any nonconforming use, structure or lot;
from a determination by the Borough Engineer or the Zoning Officer with
reference to the administration of any floodplain or flood hazard ordinance or
such provisions within a land use ordinance; from the determination of any
officer or agency charged with the administration of any transfers of
development rights or performance density provisions of this chapter; from the
determination of the Zoning Officer or Borough Engineer in the administration
of any land use ordinance or provision thereof with reference to sedimentation
and erosion control and storm water management insofar as the same relate to
development not involving subdivision and land development or planned
residential development may be filed with the Zoning Hearing Board in writing
by the landowner affected, any officer or agency of the borough, or any person
aggrieved. Requests for a variance and for special exception may be filed with
the Board by any landowner or any tenant with the permission of such landowner.
(Prior Code, § 1106) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986; Ord. 89A, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 153.146 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Upon filing of any appeal proceeding before the Zoning Hearing Board,
and during its pendency before the Board, all land development pursuant to any
challenged ordinance, order, or approval of the Zoning Officer or of any agency
or body, and all official action thereunder, shall be stayed unless the Zoning
Officer or any other appropriate agency or body certifies to the Board facts
indicating that such stay would cause imminent peril to life or property, in
which case the development or official action shall not be stayed otherwise
than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the Board or by the court
having jurisdiction of zoning appeals, on petition, after notice to the Zoning
Officer or other appropriate agency or body. When an application for
development, preliminary or final, has been duly approved and proceedings
designed to reverse or limit the approval are filed with the Board by persons
other than the applicant, the applicant may petition the court having
jurisdiction of zoning appeals to order such persons to post bond as a
condition to continuing the proceedings before the Board.
   (B)   (1)   After the petition is presented, the court shall hold a hearing
to determine if the filing of the appeal is frivolous. At the hearing, evidence
may be presented on the merits of the case. It shall be the burden of the
applicant for a bond to prove the appeal is frivolous.
      (2)   After consideration of all evidence presented, if the court
determines that the appeal is frivolous, it shall grant the petition for a
bond. The right to petition the court to order the appellants to post bond may
be waived by the appellee, but such waiver may be revoked by him or her if an
appeal is taken from a final decision of the court.
   (C)   The question whether or not such petition should be granted and the
amount of the bond shall be within the sound discretion of the court. An order
denying a petition for bond shall be interlocutory. An order directing the
responding party to post a bond shall be interlocutory.
   (D)   If an appeal is taken by a respondent to the petition for a bond from
an order of the court dismissing a zoning appeal for refusal to post a bond and
the appellate court sustains the order of the court below to post a bond, the
respondent to the petition for a bond, upon motion of the petitioner and after
hearing in the court having jurisdiction of zoning appeals, shall be liable for
all reasonable costs, expenses, and attorney fees incurred by the petitioner.
(Prior Code, § 1107) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986; Ord. 89A, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 153.147 TIME LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall be allowed to file any proceeding with the Zoning
Hearing Board later than 30 days after an application for development,
preliminary or final, has been approved by the borough if such proceeding is
designed to secure reversal or to limit the approval in any manner unless such
person alleges and proves that he or she had no notice, knowledge, or reason to
believe that such approval had been given. If such person has succeeded to his
or her interest after such approval, he or she shall be bound by the knowledge
of his or her predecessor in interest. The failure of anyone other than the
landowner to appeal from an adverse decision on a tentative plan or from an
adverse decision by the Zoning Officer on a challenge to the validity of this
chapter or an amendment hereto or map or an amendment thereto shall preclude an
appeal from a final approval except in the case where the final submission
substantially deviates from the approved tentative approval.
   (B)   All appeals from determinations adverse to the landowner shall be
filed by the landowner within 30 days after notice of the determination is
issued.
(Prior Code, § 1108) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986; Ord. 89A, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, partnership, or corporation who or which has
violated or permitted the violation of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon being found liable therefor in a civil enforcement proceeding commenced by
the borough, pay a judgment of not more than $500 plus all court costs,
including reasonable attorney fees incurred by the borough as a result thereof.
      (2)   No judgment shall commence or be imposed, levied, or payable until
the date of the determination of a violation by the District Justice. If the
defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the borough may enforce
the judgment pursuant to the applicable rules of civil procedure.
      (3)   Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation, unless the District Justice determining that there has been a
violation further determines that there was a good faith basis for the person,
partnership, or corporation violating this chapter to have believed that there
was no such violation, in which event there shall be deemed to have been only
one such violation until the fifth day following the date of the determination
of a violation by the District Justice and thereafter, each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   (B)   The Court of Common Pleas, upon petition, may grant an order of stay,
upon cause shown, tolling the per diem fine pending a final adjudication of the
violation and judgment.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed or interpreted to
grant any person or entity other than the borough the right to commence any
action for enforcement pursuant to this section.
   (D)   District Justices shall have initial jurisdiction over proceedings
brought under this section.
(Prior Code, § 1202) (Ord. 89, passed - -1986; Ord. 89A, passed 8-10-1993)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
      
II.   GOVERNMENTAL/INTERGOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
      
III.   PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
IV.   SEWERS
      
V.   STREET LIGHTING
      
VI.   STREETS/SIDEWALKS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1-C      10-4-1904   Permitting T. W. Phillips Gas Company to provide service
                     into the borough.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-1)
                     Granting the Central District and Printing Telegraph
                     Company of Pennsylvania the right to erect and maintain
1-E      2-21-1908   poles, wires, cables, and fixtures, together with the
                     necessary supports upon, over, along, and under the
                     streets, highways, footwalks, lanes, and alleys of the
                     borough.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-2)
1-F      1-13-1911   Permitting Kittanning Electric Company to service the
                     borough.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-3)
                     Granting permission to J. K. Davidson and Brothers to
                     construct, at its own expense, a protective fill, with
                     refuse gravel or other materials, to the western
50       6-5-1961    embankment of the Allegheny River, the entire length of
                     Allegheny Avenue, a distance of approximately 2,500 feet,
                     under the supervision of the United States Army Engineers,
                     in accordance with the conditions and specifications of
                     the United States Army Engineers.
                     (Prior Code, § 1-4)
 
 
TABLE II: GOVERNMENTAL/INTERGOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Appointing a Commission of five citizens of the borough to be known as the
     10-6-  Zoning Commission to recommend the boundaries of various districts and
20   1941   appropriate regulations to be enforced therein, and to authorize said
            Commission to hold public hearings and submit its final report, with plans,
            to the Council.
            (Prior Code, § 3-1)
     10-6-  Extending the protection accorded by the Old Age and Survivors’ Insurance
38   1952   System in the Social Security Act, to the full-time employees of the
            borough.
            (Prior Code, § 3-2)
93   10-13- Entering into an agreement with the Borough of West Kittanning to provide
     1998   police services for one year, subject to renewal.
99   10-9-  Entering into a participation agreement with Armstrong UCC Group, in
     2012   accordance with the Uniform Construction Code.
 
 
TABLE III: PUBLIC PROPERTY
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Taking Lot No. 49 by right of eminent domain and
10       8-22-1934   authorizing to secure payment of damages to the owners
                     thereof.
                   (Prior Code, § 4-1)
                     Approving the purchase of Lot No. 49 from Anna B. Cameron
13       4-1-1935    and D. U. Cameron, and fixing the consideration to be paid
                     therefor.
                   (Prior Code, § 4-2)
27       10- -1944   Authorizing the purchase from Iva M. Richardson and Walter
                     Richardson a portion of Lot No. 52 1/2.
                   (Prior Code, § 4-3)
94, 1999 3-9-1999    Authorizing the sale of the borough’s water distribution
                     system.
                    
 
 
 
TABLE IV: SEWERS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the construction and installation of inlets
                     and laying of storm sewer on Allegheny Avenue to provide
43       10-3-1955   adequate surface drainage of water from state highways,
                     Routes 251 and 422, and approving the agreement for said
                     construction and installation with the State Department of
                     Highways.
                     (Prior Code, § 5-1)
                     Authorizing the execution and delivery of a memorandum of
                     proceeding between the borough, the Borough of West
67       2-7-1972    Kittanning, the Township of East Franklin, and the
                     Township of North Buffalo for sanitary sewage collection,
                     transportation, and treatment services.
                     (Prior Code, § 5-2)
                     Authorizing the execution and delivery of a purchase
                     agreement between West Hills Area Water Pollution Control
                     Authority and the borough, the Borough of West Kittanning,
71       2-4-1974    the Township of East Franklin, and the Township of North
                     Buffalo, and authorizing the execution and filing of an
                     approval request and debt statement for said purchase
                     agreement with the State Department of Community Affairs.
                     (Prior Code, § 5-3)
                     Authorizing the West Hills Area Water Pollution Control
77       11-23-1981  Authority to lay, construct, maintain, repair, and replace
                     sanitary sewer lines and appurtenances thereof in streets,
                     roads, alleys, and rights-of-ways of the borough.
                     (Prior Code, § 5-4)
                     Authorizing the conveyance of certain borough-owned
79       11-23-1981  sanitary sewer lines and the appurtenances thereof
                     necessary for the proposed sewer project to West Hills
                     Area Pollution Control Authority.
                     (Prior Code, § 5-5)
                     Authorizing the execution and delivery of a sewer
                     rehabilitation agreement with West Hills Area Water
80       11-23-1981  Pollution Control Authority, and directing the proper
                     officers of the borough to execute and deliver said sewer
                     rehabilitation agreement.
                     (Prior Code, § 5-6)
 
 
TABLE V: STREET LIGHTING
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1-D      10-28-1907  Permitting Armstrong Electric Company to furnish street
                     lights for the borough.
                     (Prior Code, § 6-1)
3-A      7-5-1921    Accepting a five-year contract with West Penn Power
                     Company to provide street lights.
                     (Prior Code, § 6-2)
                     An agreement with the West Penn Power Company for lighting
5        7-12-1926   the streets, alleys, highways, and public places of the
                     said borough.
                     (Prior Code, § 6-3)
                     An agreement with the West Penn Power Company for lighting
7        10-15-1930  the streets, alleys, highways, and public places of the
                     said borough.
                     (Prior Code, § 6-4)
                     An agreement with the West Penn Power Company for lighting
15-A     10-7-1935   the streets, alleys, highways, and public places of the
                     said borough.
                     (Prior Code, § 6-5)
                     An agreement with the West Penn Power Company for lighting
18       6-12-1939   the streets, alleys, highways, and public places of the
                     said borough.
                     (Prior Code, § 6-6)
                     An agreement with the West Penn Power Company for lighting
26       6-12-1944   the streets, alleys, highways, and public places of the
                     said borough.
                     (Prior Code, § 6-7)
                     An agreement with the West Penn Power Company for lighting
40       2-1-1954    the streets, alleys, highways, and public places of the
                     said borough.
                     (Prior Code, § 6-8)
                     An agreement with the West Penn Power Company for lighting
45       3-2-1959    the streets, alleys, highways, and public places of the
                     said borough.
                     (Prior Code, § 6-9)
                     An agreement with the West Penn Power Company for lighting
55A      5-3-1965    the streets, alleys, highways, and public places of the
                     said borough.
                     (Prior Code, § 6-10)
                     An agreement with the West Penn Power Company for lighting
66       2-1-1971    the streets, alleys, highways, and public places of the
                     said borough.
                     (Prior Code, § 6-11)
 
 
TABLE VI: STREETS/SIDEWALKS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1-A      5-23-1900   The grade map of the borough made May 1, 1900, by R. L.
                     Ralston be adopted.
                     (Prior Code, § 7-1)
                     Grading, paving, curbing, and widening of the northern end
2        2-24-1913   of Allegheny Avenue, at the point of intersection with the
                     county bridge.
                     (Prior Code, § 7-2)
                     Approving the agreement of a proposed dedication by the
                     Armstrong County Trust Company to the borough of a strip
12       2-7-1935    of land in North Buffalo Township, Armstrong County,
                     Pennsylvania, 12 feet wide, to coincide with the southern
                     borough line (Allegheny Avenue).
                     (Prior Code, § 7-3)
                     Vacating an alley 12 feet wide, being part of an alley
14       4-1-1935    known as Hickory Alley, leading from Allegheny Avenue and
                     as presently used, extending to Hickory Alley as now
                     located.
                     (Prior Code, § 7-4)
16       12-21-1936  Improvement on Tarrtown Road.
                     (Prior Code, § 7-5)
                     Improving Allegheny Avenue, Franklin Avenue, Ridge Avenue,
17       5-22-1939   Maple Street, Hickory Street, and certain other unimproved
                     streets and avenues.
                     (Prior Code, § 7-6)
                     Changing the name of a public street known as Shady Alley
33       3-7-1949    by adopting a new name designating said street as Shady
                     Avenue.
                     (Prior Code, § 7-7)
                     Improving that portion of Franklin Avenue Extension, 16
44       10-7-1957   feet in width at a distance of 335 feet northerly from
                     Poplar Street.
                     (Prior Code, § 7-8)
61       6-3-1968    Improvement on Traffic Route 422 in the borough.
                     (Prior Code, § 7-9)
                     Laying out, opening, and adopting as a public street a
70       12-3-1973   part of a certain street to be known as Franklin Avenue,
                     and fixing the length and width thereof.
                     (Prior Code, § 7-10)
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Pennsylvania Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Code
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA STATUTES
P.S. Cite Code Section
P.S. Cite                       Code Section
10 P.S. §§ 162.1 et seq.      110.02
16 P.S. § 11011-6              32.076
                                152.001;
32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq.    152.029;
                                152.058;
                                152.075
32 P.S. §§ 693.1 et seq.      152.022
35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq.      152.022;
                                153.079
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.      152.022
35 P.S. §§ 4001 et seq.       153.079
35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 to 7210.10151.01
53 P.S. §§ 271 et seq.        153.005
                                32.042;
53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq.   32.044;
                                32.066;
                                32.068
53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq.       32.079;
                                51.43
                                153.005;
                                153.010;
53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.      153.143;
                                155.144;
                                153.145
53 P.S. §§ 10501 et seq.      153.142
53 P.S. § 10508                153.142
53 P.S. §§ 10601 et seq.      153.005
53 P.S. § 10607                153.124
                                153.125;
53 P.S. § 10609                153.126;
                                153.142
53 P.S. § 10609.1              153.126;
                                153.142
53 P.S. § 10610                153.125
53 P.S. §§ 10701 et seq.      153.142
53 P.S. § 10702                153.142
53 P.S. §§ 10901 et seq.      153.005;
                                153.140
53 P.S. § 10908                153.125
53 P.S. § 10910.2              153.142
53 P.S. § 10912.1              153.142
                                153.125;
53 P.S. § 10916.1              153.126;
                                153.142
53 P.S. § 10916.1(a)           153.142
53 P.S. § 10916.2              153.142
72 P.S. §§ 8101-C et seq.     32.081
72 P.S. §§ 8101-D et seq.     32.066
                                
 
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CODE
 
Pa. Code                        Code Section
                                152.006;
                                152.022;
34 Pa. Code                     152.023;
                                152.056;
                                152.057;
                                152.060
34 Pa. Code Chapters 401 to 405 151.01
                                
 
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES
Pa.C.S. Cite Code Section
Pa.C.S. Cite               Code Section
1 Pa.C.S. §§ 1901 et seq.153.004
8 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq. 10.02
8 Pa.C.S. §§ 2720 et seq.150.066
8 Pa.C.S. § 3301.5        10.01
8 Pa.C.S. §§ 3321 to 332410.99
                           30.15;
                           30.16;
53 Pa.C.S. §§ 5601 et seq51.25;
                           51.28;
                           153.005
65 Pa.C.S. §§ 701 et seq.153.005
75 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.70.01
75 Pa.C.S. § 3368         70.06
                           
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
1-1                TSO Table I
1-2                TSO Table I
1-3                TSO Table I
1-4                TSO Table I
1-201              31.01
1-301              31.03
1-401              31.15
1-402              31.16
1-403              31.17
1-501              30.15
1-502              30.16
1-521              51.25
1-522              51.26
1-523              51.27
1-524              51.28
2-101              90.01
2-102              90.02
2-103              90.03
2-104              90.04
2-105              90.99
2-106              90.05;
                   90.99
2-201              90.20
2-202              90.21
2-203              90.22
3-1                TSO Table II
3-2                TSO Table II
3-101              73.01
3-102              73.02
3-103              73.03
3-104              73.04
3-105              73.05
3-106              73.06
3-107              73.99
4-1                TSO Table III
4-2                TSO Table III
4-3                TSO Table III
5-1                TSO Table IV
5-2                TSO Table IV
5-3                TSO Table IV
5-4                TSO Table IV
5-5                TSO Table IV
5-6                TSO Table IV
6-1                TSO Table V
6-2                TSO Table V
6-3                TSO Table V
6-4                TSO Table V
6-5                TSO Table V
6-6                TSO Table V
6-7                TSO Table V
6-8                TSO Table V
6-9                TSO Table V
6-10               TSO Table V
6-11               TSO Table V
6-101              131.01
6-102              131.02
6-103              131.03;
                   131.99
6-104              131.04
6-105              131.05
6-201              130.15
6-202              130.16
6-203              130.17
6-204              130.99
6-301              130.01
6-302              130.17
6-401              130.02
6-402              130.17
7-1                TSO Table VI
7-2                TSO Table VI
7-3                TSO Table VI
7-4                TSO Table VI
7-5                TSO Table VI
7-6                TSO Table VI
7-7                TSO Table VI
7-8                TSO Table VI
7-9                TSO Table VI
7-10               TSO Table VI
7-101              92.01
7-102              92.99
7-103              92.02
7-104              92.03
10-101             91.15
10-102             91.16
10-103             91.17
10-104             91.18
10-105             91.19
10-106             91.20
10-107             91.99
10-108             91.21
13-101             91.01
13-102             91.02
13-103             91.03
13-104             91.99
13-201             110.01
13-202             110.02
13-203             110.03
13-204             110.04
13-205             110.05
13-206             110.06
13-207             110.07
13-208             110.99
15-101             70.01
15-102             70.02
15-103             70.03;
                   70.99
15-104             70.04;
                   70.99
15-105             70.05
15-201             71.01;
                   71.99
15-202             Ch. 74, Sched. I
15-203             Ch. 74, Sched. II
15-204             Ch. 74, Sched. III
15-205             71.02;
                   71.99
15-206             71.03;
                   71.99
15-207             Ch. 74, Sched. IV
15-301             72.01
15-302             72.02
15-303             Ch. 74, Sched. V
15-304             72.03
15-305             72.99
15-402             70.07
18-101             51.01
18-102             51.02
18-103             51.03
18-104             51.04
18-105             51.05
18-106             51.06
18-107             51.07
18-108             51.08
18-109             51.09
18-110             51.99
18-111             51.10
20-101             50.01
20-102             50.02
20-103             50.03
20-104             50.04
20-105             50.05
20-106             50.06
20-107             50.07
20-108             50.08
20-109             50.09;
                   50.99
20-110             50.10
20-111             50.99
20-112             50.11
21-101             150.001
21-102             150.002
21-103             150.003
21-104             150.004
21-105             150.005
21-106             150.006
21-107             150.007
21-108             150.008
21-109             150.009
21-110             150.010
21-111             150.011
21-112             150.012
21-113             150.013
21-114             150.014
21-115             150.015
21-116             150.016
21-117             150.017
21-118             150.018
21-119             150.019
24-101             32.020
24-102             32.021
24-103             32.022
24-104             32.023
24-105             32.024
24-106             32.025
24-107             32.026
24-108             32.027
24-109             32.028
24-110             32.029
24-301             32.040
24-302             32.041
24-303             32.042
24-304             32.043
24-305             32.044
24-306             32.045
24-307             32.046
24-308             32.047
24-309             32.048
24-310             32.049
24-311             32.999
24-312             32.050
24-313             32.051
24-314             32.052
25-101             150.065
25-102             150.066
25-103             150.067
25-104             150.068
25-105             150.069
25-106             150.070
25-107             150.999
101                153.001
102                153.002
103                153.003
104                153.004
105                153.005
201                150.030
201                153.006
202                150.031
202                153.007
203                150.032
204                150.033
205                150.034
206                150.035
207                150.036
208                150.037
301                150.050
301                153.008
302                150.051
303                150.052
304                150.053
305                150.999
401                32.065
401                153.025
402                32.066
402                153.026
403                32.067
403                153.027
404                32.068
405                32.069
406                32.070
407                32.071
408                32.072
409                32.073
410                32.074
411                32.075
412                32.076
413                32.077
414                32.078
415                32.079
416                32.080
417                32.081
501                153.009
601                153.040
602                153.041
701                153.055
702                153.056
703                153.057
704                153.058
705                153.059
706                153.060
707                153.061
801                153.075
802                153.076
803                153.077
804                153.078
805                153.079
806                153.080
807                153.081
808                153.082
809                153.083
810                153.084
811                153.085
901                153.100
902                153.101
903                153.102
904                153.103
905                153.104
906                153.105
907                153.106
908                153.107
1001               153.120
1002               153.121
1003               153.122
1004               153.123
1005               153.124
1006               153.125
1007               153.126
1101               153.140
1102               153.141
1103               153.142
1104               153.143
1105               153.144
1106               153.145
1107               153.146
1108               153.147
1201               153.010
1202               153.999
                   
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1-A      5-23-1900   TSO Table VI
1-C      10-4-1904   TSO Table I
1-D      10-28-1907  TSO Table V
1-E      2-21-1908   TSO Table I
1-F      1-13-1911   TSO Table I
2        2-24-1913   TSO Table VI
3-A      7-5-1921    TSO Table V
5        7-12-1926   TSO Table V
7        10-15-1930  TSO Table V
10       8-22-1934   TSO Table III
12       2-7-1935    TSO Table VI
13       4-1-1935    TSO Table III
14       4-1-1935    TSO Table VI
15-A     10-7-1935   TSO Table V
16       12-21-1936  TSO Table VI
17       5-22-1939   TSO Table VI
18       6-12-1939   TSO Table V
20       10-6-1941   TSO Table II
21       12-8-1941   31.15—
                     31.17
26       6-12-1944   TSO Table V
27       10- -1944   TSO Table III
33       3-7-1949    TSO Table VI
                     92.01—
37       8-4-1952    92.03;
                     92.99
38       10-6-1952   TSO Table II
40       2-1-1954    TSO Table V
43       10-3-1955   TSO Table IV
44       10-7-1957   TSO Table VI
45       3-2-1959    TSO Table V
50       6-5-1961    TSO Table I
54       11-17-1964  30.15;
                     30.16
55A      5-3-1965    TSO Table V
60       1-8-1968    32.020—
                     32.029
61       6-3-1968    TSO Table VI
                     91.01—
62       7-1-1968    91.03;
                     91.99
66       2-1-1971    TSO Table V
67       2-7-1972    TSO Table IV
68       2-7-1972    51.25—
                     51.28
                     131.01—
69       7-9-1973    131.05;
                     131.99
70       12-3-1973   TSO Table VI
71       2-4-1974    TSO Table IV
                     32.040—
74       12-5-1977   32.052;
                     32.999
                     50.01—
76       9-14-1981   50.11;
                     50.99
77       11-23-1981  TSO Table IV
                     51.01—
78       11-23-1981  51.10;
                     51.99
79       11-23-1981  TSO Table IV
80       11-23-1981  TSO Table IV
                     150.001—
81       11-23-1981  150.019;
                     150.030—
                     150.037
83       12-6-1982   150.999
                     31.01;
                     70.01—
                     70.05;
                     70.07;
                     70.99;
                     71.01—
                     71.03;
                     71.99;
                     72.01—
                     72.03;
                     72.99;
                     73.01—
                     73.06;
                     73.99;
                     Ch. 74, Sched. I;
                     Ch. 74, Sched. II;
                     Ch. 74, Sched. III;
                     Ch. 74, Sched. IV;
                     Ch. 74, Sched. V;
84       12-6-1982   90.03;
                     90.04;
                     90.05;
                     90.20—
                     90.22;
                     90.99;
                     91.15;
                     91.17—
                     91.21;
                     91.99;
                     110.01—
                     110.07;
                     110.99;
                     130.01;
                     130.02;
                     130.15—
                     130.17;
                     130.99;
                     131.01—
                     131.05;
                     131.99
85       1-4-1983    31.03
90       7-6-1987    32.065—
                     32.080
                     150.050—
                     150.053;
88       10-7-1985   150.065—
                     150.070;
                     150.999
                     153.001—
                     153.010;
                     153.025—
                     153.027;
                     153.040;
                     153.041;
                     153.055—
                     153.061;
89       - -1986     153.075—
                     153.085;
                     153.100—
                     153.107;
                     153.120—
                     153.126;
                     153.140—
                     153.147;
                     153.999
93       8-7-1989    Ch. 74, Sched. I
                     153.005;
                     153.008;
                     153.120;
89A      8-10-1993   153.124—
                     153.126;
                     153.140—
                     153.147
93       10-13-1998  TSO Table II
94, 1999 3-9-1999    TSO Table III
96       7-13-2004   151.01
-        8-10-2004   151.01
                     51.40—
97       2-12-2008   51.50;
                     51.99
98, 2012 10-9-2012   31.02
99       10-9-2012   TSO Table II
                     152.001—
                     152.008;
                     152.020—
                     152.029;
                     152.040—
100      -16-2016    152.044;
                     152.055—
                     152.061;
                     152.075—
                     152.078;
                     152.999
101      3-9-2021    70.06
                     92.15—
102      - -2022     92.27;
                     92.99
103      2-13-2024   Ch. 74, Sched. III
104      2-13-2024   51.48
105      7-9-2024    32.001—
                     32.008
                    
 
 
