BEDFORD BOROUGH, PENNSYLVANIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through September 2, 2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 2022-05
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE BOROUGH OF BEDFORD, BEDFORD
COUNTY, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE BOROUGH OF     BEDFORD DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED
IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Borough of Bedford
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the Borough of Bedford and for the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Pennsylvania empower and
authorize the Borough of Bedford to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Borough of Bedford has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Borough
of Bedford of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance
in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Borough of Bedford and for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
health, safety and general welfare of the Borough of Bedford that this
ordinance take effect at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOROUGH OF BEDFORD, BEDFORD COUNTY,
PENNSYLVANIA:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Borough of Bedford, Bedford
County, Pennsylvania."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
         TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
         10. General Provisions
         TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
         30.   Organization
         31.   Emergency Services
         32.   Finances
         33.   Taxation
         TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
         50.   Solid Waste
         51.   Water
         52.   Sewers
         TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
         70.   Traffic Regulations
         71.   Parking Regulations
         72.   Recreational Vehicles
         73.   Traffic Schedules
         74.   Parking Schedules
         TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
         90.   Animals
         91.   Fire Prevention
         92.   Property Maintenance
         93.   Nuisances
         94.   Parks and Recreation
         95.   Streets and Sidewalks
         TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         110.   General Provisions
         111.   Peddler and Solicitors
         112.   Retail Food Establishments
         113.   Fire Insurance Companies
         114.   Professional Services Contracts
         TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
         130.   Curfew
         131.   Alcoholic Beverages
         132.   Misdemeanors
         TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
         150.   Building and Sign Regulations
         151.   Streets and Sidewalks
         152.   Flood Prevention
         153.   Subdivision and Land Development
         154.   Zoning
         TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
         I.   Agreements
         II.   Acquisitions and Vacations
         III.   Franchises
         IV.   Zoning
         PARALLEL REFERENCES
         References to Pennsylvania Statutes
         References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes
         References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes Annotated
         References to Pennsylvania Code
         References to 2001 Code
         References to Resolutions
         References to Ordinances
         INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published and effective as of January 1,
2023 and approval by the Bedford Borough Council and the Borough Secretary of
the Borough of Bedford is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such
Code of Ordinances in the Office of the Secretary.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
Section 7.   It shall be unlawful for anyone to change, alter, or tamper with
the Code of Ordinances in any manner which will intentionally misrepresent the
laws of the Borough. Whosoever shall violate this Section shall, upon
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than six hundred
dollars ($600.00) and costs, or in default of payment thereof, shall be subject
to imprisonment for a term not to exceed thirty (30) days.
Section 8.   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Borough Council
that the chapters, parts, sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases
of this codification are severable. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase of this code is declared unconstitutional, illegal or otherwise
invalid by the judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, that
invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining chapters, parts, sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases of this codification.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Borough of Bedford, Bedford County, Pennsylvania on
this fifth day of December, 2022.
                              Borough of Bedford
                              By:  /s/
                              Council (Vice) President
ATTEST:
  /s/   
Borough Secretary
                        Approved this 5th day of December, 2022.
                         /s/
                        Mayor
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Approval, adoption, and title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation and definitions
   
10.03   Effect of code on previous provisions
   
10.04   Sections and ordinances repealed
   
10.05   Exemptions from repeal
   
10.06   Application to future ordinances
   
10.07   Changes and revisions in previously adopted ordinances
   
10.08   Interpretation of provisions
   
10.09   Headings, editor’s notes, statutory references
   
10.10   Filing copies of code
   
10.11   Amendments to the code; code books to be kept up-to-date
   
10.12   Severability
   
10.13   Reference to other sections
   
10.14   Errors and omissions
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Altering or tampering with the code; penalties for violation
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 APPROVAL, ADOPTION, AND TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to 8 Pa.C.S. § 3301.5, the codification of all ordinances of
a permanent and general nature for the Borough of Bedford, Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated
into component codes, titles, chapters, and sections, are approved, adopted,
ordained, and enacted as a single ordinance of the borough and shall be known
and designated as the Borough of Bedford Code, for which designation “code of
ordinances,” “codified ordinances,” or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural and
words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE. All departments and the personnel thereof
established by the Borough Code or ordinance.
      ADOPTING ORDINANCE. The ordinance of the Borough of Bedford adopting the
Codified Ordinances of Bedford, Pennsylvania, in accordance with the Borough
Code of Pennsylvania.
      AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
      AUTHORITY. Whenever in this code, authority is given to an officer or an
act is required to be performed, the authority may be exercised and the act may
be performed, at the instance of the officer, by a deputy or subordinate,
unless contrary to law or to the clear intent of any particular provision.
      BOROUGH and MUNICIPALITY. The Borough of Bedford, Pennsylvania.
      BOROUGH CODE. Pub. Law 432, of 2014, No. 37, effective June 17, 2014,
being 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq., as amended.
      BUDGET. The annual budget of the borough.
      CALENDAR/COMPUTATION OF TIME. The terms MONTH and YEAR mean the CALENDAR
MONTH or YEAR. The time expressed in days within which an act is to be done or
a period is to expire shall be computed by excluding the first and including
the last day, unless the last day is a Sunday, in which case it shall be
excluded. If time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday shall be excluded.
      CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION. The management of the execution of contracts
between the borough and any individual, partnership, association, corporation,
or governmental body.
      COUNCIL. The Council of the Borough of Bedford, Pennsylvania.
      COUNTY. The County of Bedford, Pennsylvania.
      ENGINEER. The engineer of the borough.
      KEEPER and PROPRIETOR. Persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs,
and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent, or
employee.
      LAND/REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
      LAW. All applicable laws and ordinances of the United States of America,
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and the County of Bedford.
      MANAGER and BOROUGH MANAGER. The chief administrative officer as
appointed by the Borough Council.
      OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION. When an oath is required or authorized by
law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken by a person having
conscientious scruples about taking an OATH. An AFFIRMATION shall have the same
effect as an OATH.
      ORDINANCE. Any ordinance of the Borough of Bedford, including this code.
      OWNER. When applied to property, includes a part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or any part of the property.
      PERSON. An individual, association, club, corporation, firm, partnership,
body politic, or any other legal entity.
      PREMISES. When used as applicable to property, extends to and includes
land and buildings.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property and any mixed and lesser
estates or interests therein. PERSONAL PROPERTY includes every kind of property
except REAL PROPERTY. REAL PROPERTY includes lands, tenements, and
hereditaments.
      REASONABLE TIME. In all cases where provision is made for an act to be
done or notice to be given within a REASONABLE TIME, it shall be deemed to mean
the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act or the
giving of the notice.
      SECRETARY and BOROUGH SECRETARY. An appointed position charged with the
responsibility for taking meeting minutes; recording and certifying ordinances;
attesting to the execution of documents; and is the custodian of borough
records and the borough seal. The BOROUGH SECRETARY shall not be a member of
the Borough Council and serves an indefinite term at the pleasure of the
Borough Council.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
      SOLICITOR. The Solicitor of the borough.
      STATE and COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      STREET. Alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, streets, state
highways, and other public ways in the borough.
      TENANT and OCCUPANT. As applied to buildings or land, shall extend and be
applied to any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the
whole or any part of, a building or land, alone or with others.
      TIME. Whenever any time established in the codified ordinances for the
taking of any action expires on a Sunday or legal holiday, the time shall not
expire on the day but shall expire on the next week day.
§ 10.03 EFFECT OF CODE ON PREVIOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this code, insofar as they are substantially the
same as those of ordinances and resolutions in force immediately prior to the
enactment of this code, are intended as a continuation of the ordinances and
resolutions, and not as new enactments, and the effectiveness of the provisions
shall date from the date of adoption of the prior ordinance or resolution.
   (B)   All the provisions are hereby continued in full force and effect and
are hereby reaffirmed as to their adoption by the Borough Council, and it is
the intention of the Borough Council that each provision contained within the
code is hereby reenacted and reaffirmed as it appears in the code.
§ 10.04 SECTIONS AND ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of
this code are hereby repealed.
§ 10.05 EXEMPTIONS FROM REPEAL.
   The repeal provided for in §
10.04 shall not affect the following ordinances, resolutions, rights, and
obligations which are hereby expressly saved from repeal; provided, however,
that the repeal of ordinances or parts thereof in §
10.04, or the saving from repeal of ordinances or parts thereof pursuant to
this section, shall not be construed so as to revive an ordinance or part
thereof previously repealed, superseded, or no longer of any effect:
   (A)   Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing, before the adoption
of these codified ordinances;
   (B)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money by or to the borough, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the
borough, or any evidence of the borough’s indebtedness, or any contract or
obligation assumed by the borough;
   (C)   Any ordinance or resolution of Council not in conflict or inconsistent
with the provisions of these codified ordinances;
   (D)   Any right, license, or franchise conferred by any ordinance or
resolution of Council or any other person or corporation;
   (E)   Any ordinance establishing, naming, relocating, or vacating any street
or other public way;
   (F)   Any ordinance or part thereof providing for the establishment of
positions, for salaries or compensation;
   (G)   Any prosecution, suit, or other proceeding pending, or any judgment
rendered, on or prior to the adoption of these codified ordinances;
   (H)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes or assessments;
   (I)   Any ordinance establishing or changing the boundaries of the borough;
or
   (J)   Any ordinance or resolution adopted by Council after the adoption of
the codified ordinances.
§ 10.06 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I, compatible with future legislation, shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.07 CHANGES AND REVISIONS IN PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Nonsubstantive grammatical changes. In compiling and preparing the
ordinances and resolutions of the borough for adoption and revision as part of
the code, certain nonsubstantive grammatical and style changes were made in one
or more of the ordinances. It is the intention of the Borough Council that all
the changes be adopted as part of the code as if the ordinances and resolutions
so changed had been previously formally amended to read as such.
   (B)   Substantive changes and revisions. In addition to the changes and
revisions in division (A) above, changes and revisions of a substantive nature
are hereby made to various ordinances and resolutions included in the code.
These changes are enacted to bring provisions into conformity with the desired
policies of the Borough Council, and it is the intent of the Borough Council
that all the changes be adopted as part of the code as if the ordinances and
resolutions so changed have been previously formally amended to read as such.
All changes and revisions shall be deemed to be in effect as of the effective
date of this code.
§ 10.08 INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS.
   In interpreting and applying the provision of the code, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety,
comfort, convenience, and general welfare. Where the provisions of the code
impose greater restrictions or requirements than those of any state statute,
other ordinance, resolution, or regulation, the provisions of the code shall
control. Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance, resolution, or
regulation impose greater restrictions or requirements, the provisions of the
statute, other ordinance, resolution, or regulation shall control.
§ 10.09 HEADINGS, EDITOR’S NOTES, STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   Headings of titles, chapters, sections, and divisions in the code, or
in supplements to the code, are inserted into the code, and may be inserted
into the supplements to the code, for the convenience of persons using the code
and are not part of the legislation.
   (B)   Editors’s notes and/or statutory references indicating sources of
sections, giving other information or referring the statutes or to other parts
of the code are inserted in the code, and may be inserted in supplements to the
code, for the convenience of persons using the code and are not part of the
legislation.
§ 10.10 FILING COPIES OF CODE.
   Three copies of the code in a bound volume shall be filed with the ordinance
books in the office of the Borough Manager and shall remain there for use and
examination by the public. Upon adoption, the copies shall be certified to by
the Borough Manager, as provided by law, and the certified copies shall remain
on file in the office of the Borough Manager, available to persons desiring to
examine the same during all times while the code is in effect.
§ 10.11 AMENDMENTS TO THE CODE; CODE BOOKS TO BE KEPT UP-TO-DATE.
   (A)   Any and all additions, deletions, amendments, or supplements to the
code, when passed and adopted so as to indicate the intention of Borough
Council to be a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into the code
so that the references in the code shall be understood and intended to include
the changes. When any and all additions, deletions, amendments, or supplements
to the code shall be adopted, they shall be printed and inserted in the bound
code book as amendments and supplements to it.
   (B)   The Borough Manager or someone authorized or directed by him or her
shall keep the certified copies of the code book, which are required to be kept
in the Borough Manager’s office for public use, up-to-date. All changes in the
code, and all ordinances and resolutions adopted subsequent to the effective
date of this code, which the Borough Council specifically adopts as part of the
code, shall be included in the code book by reference until the changes or new
ordinances or resolutions are printed as supplements to the code book and
inserted into the code book.
§ 10.12 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any title, chapter, section, division, or part thereof of this code
now enacted or subsequently amended or its application to any person or
circumstances is held to be illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional by a court of
competent jurisdiction, that determination shall not affect, impair, or
invalidate the remainder thereof, but is confined in its operation and
application to the title, chapter, section, division, or part thereof
determined illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional.
   (B)   It is the intent of the Borough Council to declare that this code
would have been adopted if the illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional title,
chapter, section, division, or part thereof would not have been included.
§ 10.13 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.14 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   (1)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and
passage date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are
listed following the text of the code section.
      (2)   Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord.
20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (65 P.S. § 67.101) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This code book consists of all ordinances and resolutions of the
borough and shall be known as the codified ordinances of the borough.
         Statutory reference:
            Authority to codify ordinances, see 65 P.S. §§ 67.101 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the borough published in a previous year and subsequently
amended, the previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by
“(Prior Code, Ch.          Pt.           §          ).”
§ 10.16 ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH THE CODE; PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to improperly change or amend, by additions
or deletions, or to alter or tamper with the code or any part or portion
thereof, in any manner which will cause the law of the borough to be
misrepresented thereby. Anybody violating this section shall, upon conviction,
be punished by a fine not to exceed $600, plus costs of prosecution or
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days or both.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of
these codified ordinances, including a provision of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, and including a rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant to any provision of these codified ordinances
or of any technical or other code adopted in these codified ordinances by
reference, and including any order made under authority, express or implied, of
any provision of these codified ordinances or of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, having to do with building,
housing, property maintenance, health, fire, or public safety codes or
ordinances, or with water, air, or noise pollution violations, for which no
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both for each offense. Unless
otherwise stated, a separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
   (B)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of
these codified ordinances, including a provision of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, and including a rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant to any provision of these codified ordinances
or of any technical or other code adopted in these codified ordinances by
reference, and including any order made under authority, express or implied, of
any provision of these codified ordinances or of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $600 or imprisoned not more
than 90 days, or both, for each offense. Unless otherwise stated, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (C)   The penalty provided for herein shall be in addition to any fee,
deposit, charge, surcharge, interest, insurance, or bond requirement or
equitable remedy provided in these codified ordinances, or in any standard,
technical, or other code adopted by reference in these codified ordinances, or
in any rule or regulation promulgated under authority of the standard,
technical, or other code adopted by reference in these codified ordinance, or
under authority of any other provision of these codified ordinances, or under
authority of state law.
Statutory reference:
   Collection of penalties, amounts, prosecution of violators, disposition of
fines, see 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 3321 to 3324
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ORGANIZATION
      
31.   EMERGENCY SERVICES
      
32.   FINANCES
      
33.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: ORGANIZATION
Section
Elected Officials
   
30.001   Mayor’s salary
   
30.002   Tax Collector’s Commission
   
30.003   Junior Council Person
Authorities
   
30.015   Intention and desire to organize the municipal authority
   
30.016   Articles of incorporation of the municipal authority
   
30.017   Intention and desire to organize Bedford Borough Water Authority
   
30.018   Articles of incorporation of Bedford Borough Water Authority
   
30.019   Necessity for establishment of Bedford Water Authority
   
30.020   Council of Governments
   
30.021   Authorized signatories
   
30.022   Tax Collection Committee representatives
Boards and Commissions
   
30.035   Borough Planning Commission established
Borough Manager
   
30.050   Creation of office
   
30.051   Appointment and removal
   
30.052   Qualifications
   
30.053   Bond
   
30.054   Manager’s compensation
   
30.055   Powers and duties
   
30.056   Disability or absence of the Manager
Plans and Policies
   
30.070   County Hazard Mitigation Plan
   
30.071   Tobacco-free zones
   
30.072   National Incident Management System
   
30.073   Civil rules and regulations
   
30.074   Procedure to sell of borough property
   
30.075   Salaries, leave, and vacation
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 30.001 MAYOR’S SALARY.
   The salary of the Mayor of the borough shall be fixed from time to time by
Borough Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 1, § 101) (Ord. 316, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 5-91, passed
12-19-1991)
§ 30.002 TAX COLLECTOR’S COMMISSION.
   The compensation of the Tax Collector of the borough shall be as follows for
the borough taxes collected by him or her: for taxes on real estate collected
at any time during the discount period, a commission of 2%; for taxes on real
estate collected at any time during the face and penalty period, 4%; and for
taxes on occupations, regardless of when collected, 4%.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 1, § 102) (Ord. 317, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 30.003 JUNIOR COUNCIL PERSON.
   (A)   The Council of the borough hereby creates the position of “Junior
Council Person.”
   (B)   The term of the office shall be during the school year, from September
through May.
   (C)   Candidates for the office shall submit a written application to
Borough Council with a one-page cover letter highlighting the applicant’s
interest in the position. After considering all submissions, Borough Council
shall appoint student/students at a regularly scheduled meeting.
   (D)   The Junior Council Person shall be a student in his or her junior or
senior year of high school with preference given to residents of the borough.
   (E)   The Junior Council Person shall, upon appointment, take a “Junior
Council Person Pledge.”
   (F)   The Junior Council Person shall not receive compensation.
   (G)   The Junior Council Person shall be permitted to attend all meetings of
Council and all committee meetings and shall be permitted to participate fully
in those proceedings, except that he or she shall not be afforded the right to
vote and shall not be permitted to attend executive sessions.
(Res. 05-2015, passed 5-4-2015)
AUTHORITIES
§ 30.015 INTENTION AND DESIRE TO ORGANIZE THE MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY.
   The Borough Council hereby signifies its intention and desire to organize an
Authority under the provisions of the Municipality Authorities Act of 1945, as
amended.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 2, § 201) (Ord. passed 4-2-1951)
§ 30.016 ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OF THE MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY.
   The Burgess, the President of the Borough Council and the Secretary are
hereby authorized and directed to execute on behalf of the borough, Articles of
Incorporation for said Authority, substantially in the following form:
MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY
ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
To the Secretary of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania:
   In compliance with the requirements of the Act of May 2, 1945, Pub. Law 382,
as amended, known as the “Municipality Authorities Act of 1945,” the Borough of
Bedford, County of Bedford, Pennsylvania, pursuant to a duly adopted ordinance
authorizing the formation of a Municipal Authority, hereby certifies:
   1.   The name of the Authority shall be the “Municipal Authority of the
Borough of Bedford, County of Bedford, Pennsylvania;”
   2.   This Authority is formed under the provisions of the Act of May 29,
1945, Pub. Law 382, as amended;
   3.   No other authority organized under said Municipality Authorities Act of
May 29, 1945, Pub. Law 382, as amended, or under the Act of June 28, 1935, Pub.
Law 463, as amended, or under the Act of December 27, 1933, Pub. Law (Special
Sessions) 114, is in existence in or for the incorporating municipality, the
Borough of Bedford;
   4.   The name of the incorporating municipality is the Borough of Bedford,
County of Bedford, Pennsylvania;
   5.   The names and addresses of the Burgess and Councilmen and other
municipal authorities of said incorporating municipality are as follows:
 
Burgess:              H. Cyril Bingham, Bedford, Pennsylvania
President of Council: Arthur S. Russell, Bedford, Pennsylvania
                      C.H. Hughes, Bedford, Pennsylvania
                      Don C. Reiley, Bedford, Pennsylvania
Councilmen:           Paul R. Koontz, Bedford, Pennsylvania
                      Alfred Burtnett, Bedford, Pennsylvania
                      E.C. Landis, Bedford, Pennsylvania
                      Paul A. Young, Bedford, Pennsylvania
Secretary of Council: Helen Cuppett, Bedford, Pennsylvania
 
   6.   The names, addresses and terms of office of the first members of the
Board of the Municipal Authority to be formed are as follows:
 
Robert G. Salathe       Bedford, Pennsylvania One year
D. Cress Reiley         Bedford, Pennsylvania Two years
R. Richard Eichelberger Bedford, Pennsylvania Three years
John K. Manock          Bedford, Pennsylvania Four years
Edmund L. Flynn         Bedford, Pennsylvania Five years
 
   7.   The ordinance authorizing the creation of said Authority, certified
from the records of the incorporating municipality, together with advertisement
of notice of filing these Articles of Incorporation are each submitted
herewith; and
   8.   The term of existence of the Authority is increased to a date 50 years
from the date of approval of these Articles of Amendment.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 2, § 202) (Ord. passed 4-2-1951; Ord. passed 2-3-1975)
§ 30.017 INTENTION AND DESIRE TO ORGANIZE BEDFORD BOROUGH WATER AUTHORITY.
   The Council of the borough hereby signifies its intention and desire to
organize an Authority under the provisions of the Act of May 2, 1945, Pub. Law
382, known as the “Municipality Authorities Act of 1945,” its amendments and
supplements, for the purposes of acquiring, holding, constructing, improving,
maintaining and operating, owning, leasing, either in the capacity of lessor or
lessee, waterworks, water supply works, and water distribution systems.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 2, § 211) (Res. passed 9-14-1959)
§ 30.018 ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OF BEDFORD BOROUGH WATER AUTHORITY.
   The President of Council and the Secretary of the borough hereby are
authorized and directed to execute, in behalf of this borough, Articles of
Incorporation for said Authority, in substantially the following form:
ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
To The Secretary of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania:
   In compliance with the requirements of the Act of May 2, 1945, Pub. Law 382,
known as the “Municipality Authorities Act of 1945,” as amended and
supplemented, and pursuant to a resolution adopted by the municipal authorities
of the Borough of Bedford, Bedford County, Pennsylvania, expressing the
intention and desire of the municipal authorities of said municipality hereby
does certify:
   1.   The name of the Authority is “Bedford Borough Water Authority.”
   2.   The said Authority is formed under the provisions of the Act of May 2,
1945, Pub. Law 382, known as the “Municipality Authorities Act of 1945,” as
amended and supplemented, for the purposes of acquiring, holding, constructing,
improving, maintaining and operating, owning, leasing, either in the capacity
of lessor or lessee, waterworks, water supply works and water distribution
systems.
   3.   No other Authority has been organized under the said “Municipality
Authorities Act of 1945,” as amended and supplemented, or under the Act of June
28,1935, Pub. Law 463, as amended, and is in existence in or for the
incorporating municipality, except that the incorporating municipality
heretofore has incorporated the “Municipal Authority of the Borough of Bedford,
County of Bedford, Pennsylvania,” under the provisions of said “Municipality
Authorities Act of 1945.” The municipality by resolution or ordinance has
specified certain projects to be undertaken by said Municipal Authority of the
Borough of Bedford, County of Bedford, Pennsylvania, which specified projects
do not include a project of the type or nature which may be undertaken by the
Authority formed hereby.
   4.   The name of the incorporating municipality is Borough of Bedford,
Bedford County, Pennsylvania.
   5.   The names and addresses of the municipal authorities of said
incorporating municipality are:
 
President of Council: E.G. Studebaker (No number) Juliana Heights
                      Oscar J. Straub 129 East Penn Street
                      Harry Fletcher (No number) Meadowbrook Terrace
Councilmen:           Thomas P. Reiley 112 1/2 South Juliana Street
                      Sheldon D. Ickes (No number) West Barclay Street
                      A.C. Koontz 137 West Pitt Street
                      R. Ted Brown (No number) Echo Vale Drive
 
   6.   The names and addresses and terms of office of the first members of the
Board of said Authority, each of whom is a resident and citizen of said
incorporating municipality, are as follows:
 
Homer S. Wertz   (No number) Juliana Heights      5 years
J.A. Ott         (No number) East Watson Street   4 years
James E. Russell (No number) South Thomas Street  3 years
C.H. Hughes      (No number) East Watson Street   2 years
CO. Reighard     (No number) South Richard Street 1 year
 
   7.   The term of existence of the Authority shall end on April 1, 2041.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 2, § 212) (Res. passed 9-14-1959; Ord. 1-91, passed 5-
13-1991)
§ 30.019 NECESSITY FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF BEDFORD WATER AUTHORITY.
   The adoption of this subchapter is deemed necessary for the benefit and
preservation of the public health, peace, comfort, and general welfare of, and
will increase the prosperity of, the people of the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 2, § 212) (Res. passed 9-14-1959)
§ 30.020 COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS.
   (A)   The Council of the borough endorses the creation of a Council of
Governments by the municipalities located within the county.
   (B)   The Council of the borough authorizes the borough to join this Council
of Governments for the purpose of administering and enforcing building codes
and such other purposes as the Council of the borough shall hereafter
authorize.
(Res. 06-2003, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 30.021 AUTHORIZED SIGNATORIES.
   Individuals holding the following positions with the borough are hereby
authorized to be signatories on borough checks and other financial documents:
   (A)   Borough Council President;
   (B)   Borough Council Vice President;
   (C)   Borough Council President pro tempore;
   (D)   Borough Treasurer;
   (E)   Borough Assistant Treasurer; and
   (F)   Borough Assistant Secretary.
(Res. 01-2010, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 30.022 TAX COLLECTION COMMITTEE REPRESENTATIVES.
   (A)   The following individuals are appointed as TCC delegates for the
borough:
      (1)   Primary voting delegate;
      (2)   First alternate voting delegate; and
      (3)   Second alternate voting delegate.
   (B)   If the primary voting delegate cannot be present for a TCC meeting,
the first alternate voting delegate shall be the representative at the TCC
meeting. If both the primary voting delegate and the first alternate voting
delegate cannot be present for a TCC meeting, the second alternate voting
delegate shall be the representative at the TCC meeting.
   (C)   These appointments are effective immediately and shall continue until
successors are appointed. All delegates shall serve at the pleasure of this
governing body and may be removed at any time.
(Res. 07-2009, passed 9-1-2009)
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 30.035 BOROUGH PLANNING COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   A Borough Planning Commission, composed of five members, is hereby
established in and for the borough. The members of the said Commission shall be
appointed as provided by law, and the Commission may exercise all powers and
shall perform all duties vested by law in borough planning agencies. Provided,
the Borough Planning Commission, as now constituted, shall serve as the
Planning Commission hereby created, and nothing herein shall change the tenure
of any member of the said Planning Commission, but all vacancies in the
membership of such existing Planning Commission, regardless of the
circumstances thereof, shall be filled in conformity with the law governing
borough planning agencies in effect at the time of the occurrence of such
vacancy.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 3, § 301) (Ord. 318, passed 6-4-1973)
BOROUGH MANAGER
§ 30.050 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   The office of Borough Manager is hereby created by the Council of the
borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 8, § 801) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 30.051 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL.
   The Manager shall be appointed for an indefinite term by a majority of all
members of the Council of the borough. The Manager shall serve at the pleasure
of the Council of the borough, and he or she may be removed at any time by a
majority vote of all its members. At least 30 days before such removal is to
become effective, the Council of the borough shall furnish the Manager with a
written statement setting forth its intention to remove him or her.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 8, § 802) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 30.052 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Manager shall be chosen solely on the basis of his or her executive and
administrative abilities, with special reference to the duties of the office as
herein outlined. The Manager need not be a resident of the borough or of the
state at the time of appointment, but during the tenure of office he or she may
reside outside the borough only with the approval of the Council of the
borough. If the Council of the borough fails within a reasonable time, not to
exceed 60 days after the appointment, to approve the Manager’s residence
outside the borough, he or she must immediately become, and during his or her
tenure remain, a resident of the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 8, § 803) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 30.053 BOND.
   Before entering upon his or her duties, the Manager shall give a bond in the
sum established annually by a resolution of the Council of the borough, with a
bonding company as surety, to be approved by the Council of the borough,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties, the premium for
said bond to be paid by the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 8, § 804) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 30.054 MANAGER’S COMPENSATION.
   The salary of the Borough Manager shall be fixed from time to time by the
Borough Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 8, § 805) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 30.055 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the borough
and shall be responsible to the Borough Council as a whole for the proper and
efficient administration of the affairs of the borough placed in his or her
charge. The powers and duties for administration of all borough business shall
be vested in the Manager, unless expressed imposed or conferred by statute or
ordinance upon other borough officers.
   (B)   Subject to recall by ordinance, the powers and duties of the Borough
Manager shall include the following:
      (1)   Supervise and be responsible for the activities of all borough
departments;
      (2)   Recommend the hiring and firing of borough employees. The Manager
may suspend or discharge any employee under his or her supervision; provided,
that persons covered by the civil service provisions of the Borough Code shall
be hired, suspended, or discharged in accordance with such provisions; and,
provided further, that the Manager shall report, at the next meeting thereafter
of the Borough Council, any action taken by authority of this division (B)(2);
      (3)   Recommend the wages and salaries of all personnel under his or her
supervision to the Borough Council;
      (4)   Prepare and submit to the Borough Council, a budget for the next
fiscal year and an explanatory budget message, in such a timely fashion as will
enable the Borough Council to consider and adopt the budget and related tax
ordinances according to the requirements of law. In preparing the budget, the
Manager, or an officer designated by him or her, shall obtain from the head of
each department, agency or board, or any qualified officer thereof, estimates
of revenues and expenditures and such other supporting data as is required. The
Manager shall review such estimates and may revise them before submitting the
budget to the Borough Council;
      (5)   Be responsible for the administration of the budget after its
adoption by the Borough Council;
      (6)   Develop, in conjunction with the preparation of the budget, long-
range fiscal plans for the borough, such plans to be presented annually to the
Borough Council for its review and adoption;
      (7)   Hold such other borough offices and head such borough departments
as the Borough Council may from time to time direct;
      (8)   Attend all meetings of the Borough Council and such committee
meetings, as directed by the Council, with the right to take part in the
discussions;
      (9)   Prepare the agenda for each meeting of the Borough Council and
supply facts pertinent thereto;
      (10)   Keep the Borough Council informed as to the conduct of borough
affairs; submit periodic reports on the condition of the borough finances and
such other reports as the Borough Council requests; and make such
recommendations to the Borough Council as deemed advisable;
      (11)   Submit to the Borough Council, as soon as possible after the close
of the fiscal year, a complete report on the finances and administrative
activities of the borough for the preceding year;
      (12)   In conjunction with the Borough Council, see that the provisions
of all franchises, leases, permits, and privileges granted by the Council are
observed;
      (13)   Employ, by and with the approval of the Borough Council, experts
and consultants to perform work and to advise;
      (14)   Supervise the performance and faithful execution of contracts,
except insofar as such duties are expressly imposed by statute upon some other
borough officer;
      (15)   Be responsible for all accounts payable and receivable;
      (16)   Serve as purchasing officer of the borough, and purchase, in
accordance with the provisions of the Borough Code, all supplies and equipment
for the agencies, boards, departments, and other offices of the borough, with
the exception of the Police Department. The Manager shall keep an account of
all purchases and shall, from time to time or when directed by the Borough
Council, make a full written report thereof. He or she shall also issue rules
and regulations, subject to the approval of Borough Council, governing the
procurement of all borough supplies and equipment;
      (17)   Investigate and dispose of, or designate an officer to investigate
and dispose of, all complaints regarding borough services and personnel, and to
report to the Borough Council thereon. All complaints regarding borough
services shall be referred to the office of Manager; and
      (18)   Enforce the ordinances and regulations of the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 8, § 806) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 30.056 DISABILITY OR ABSENCE OF THE MANAGER.
   If the Manager becomes ill or needs to be absent from the borough, he or she
shall designate qualified members of his or her staff to perform the duties of
Manager during his or her absence or disability. The person(s) so designated
shall not perform these duties for a period longer than two weeks without
approval of the Borough Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 8, § 807) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
PLANS AND POLICIES
§ 30.070 COUNTY HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)   The Bedford County Hazard Mitigation Plan is hereby adopted as the
Official Hazard Mitigation Plan of the borough.
   (B)   The respective officials and agencies identified in the implementation
strategy of the 2017 Bedford County Hazard Mitigation Plan are hereby directed
to implement the recommended activities assigned to them.
(Res. 02-2017, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 30.071 TOBACCO-FREE ZONES.
   The parks and playgrounds areas where children are present such as The
Green, the Fort Bedford Park, The Square, the Memorial Park Cemetery, and the
Fort Bedford Museum in the borough are designated as tobacco-free. Appropriate
signage will be posted designating tobacco-free areas. The community will be
notified of this section.
(Res. 01-2012, passed 3-5-2012)
§ 30.072 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The Council of the borough hereby mandates that the National Incident
Management System be utilized for all incident management in the borough.
(Res. 02-2006, passed 9-5-2006)
§ 30.073 CIVIL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Rules and Regulations, which are in accordance with powers granted by
the civil service section of the Borough Code, §§ 1171 to 1195, enacted by the
General Assembly of the state and in accordance with the authority granted by
the municipal governing body of borough, are hereby adopted by the borough’s
Civil Service Commission.
(Res. 04-01, passed 5-22-2001; Res. 06-01, passed 9-19-2001)
§ 30.074 PROCEDURE TO SELL OF BOROUGH PROPERTY.
   The Council of the borough authorizes the sale of personal property which is
owned by the borough and valued at less than $1,000, utilizing the procedure
enumerated below.
   (A)   The Manager of the borough shall provide to the Property Committee
and/or Street-Equipment Committee of the Council of the borough an itemized
list of personal property he or she desires to be sold.
   (B)   The Property Committee and/or Street-Equipment Committee of the
Council of the borough shall determine that the personal property is no longer
of use to the borough and that the estimated fair market value of each item, or
lots of items, is less than $1,000.
   (C)   The Manager of the borough shall advertise for sale, in a local
newspaper, those items of personal property jointly determined to no longer be
of use to the borough. The advertisement shall state:
      (1)   A description of the personal property to be sold;
      (2)   The dates and times that the personal property will be available
for inspection by prospective buyers;
      (3)   Any and all items so advertised are being sold “as is,” with no
warranty provided by the borough as to condition or functionality;
      (4)   The buyer is responsible for the payment of any and all applicable
sales tax(es);
      (5)   The personal property must be paid for by either a cashier’s check,
made payable to the borough, or by cash;
      (6)   The minimum acceptable bid for any one item, if applicable;
      (7)   The due date for bid submissions;
      (8)   The date on which the sale of the item(s) will be awarded; and
      (9)   The date by which the personal property must be paid for and
removed from the borough.
   (D)   The Manager of the borough and the Property Committee and/or Street-
Equipment Committee of the Council of the borough shall jointly determine the
award of sale of the personal property.
   (E)   The Manager of the borough shall:
      (1)   Notify the successful bidder(s) of the acceptance of their bid(s);
      (2)   Direct that successful bidder(s) deliver payment in the amount(s)
of their bid(s) to the Borough Office; and
      (3)   Direct that successful bidder(s) remove the purchased items of
personal property from the borough.
   (F)   The procedures set forth in divisions (C) to (E) above may be modified
if the Manager of the borough and the Property Committee and/or Street-
Equipment Committee of the Council of the borough jointly agree that another
method of sale is in the best interests of the borough.
(Res. 01-2003, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 30.075 SALARIES, LEAVE, AND VACATION.
   (A)   The Public Works Superintendent and Wastewater Treatment Plant
Superintendent position(s) are exempt position(s). Salaries to be determined by
Council with annual year-end evaluations to be completed.
   (B)   (1)   All non-union, full-time employees will receive the following
sick leave allowance.
 
Time of Service         Paid Sick Leave Allowance
Zero through six months 0 days
Six through 12 months   3 days
Over one year           10 days per year
 
      (2)   He or she will be paid for any unused days during the last pay of
the calendar year (at his or her currently hourly rate within that calendar
year).
   (C)   Vacation time off shall be paid to non-union, full-time employee(s) on
the following basis.
 
Years of Service  Vacation Days
Less than one     0
One through three 7
Four or more      12
 
(Res. 01-2017, passed 1-3-2017)
CHAPTER 31: EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
Fire Department
   
31.01   Recognition of Firemen’s Relief Association
   
31.02   Certification to Auditor General
   
31.03   Annual appropriation
   
31.04   Recognition of Fire Department
   
31.05   Authorized activities
   
31.06   State’s Workmen’s Compensation Act
   
31.07   Junior Firefighter Program
Fire Prevention Officer
   
31.20   Office of Fire Prevention Officer created
   
31.21   Appointment; compensation; powers and duties
   
31.22   Definitions
   
31.23   Inspection
   
31.24   Right of entry
   
31.25   Interference with Fire Prevention Officer
   
31.26   Unsafe conditions
   
31.27   Violations
   
31.28   Correction of violations
Police Department
   
31.40   Police Department established
   
31.41   Subordinate classifications in Police Department
   
31.42   Special police officers during emergencies
   
31.43   Drug task force
Ambulance Service
   
31.55   Designation and agreement
 
   
31.99   Penalty
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.01 RECOGNITION OF FIREMEN’S RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
   (A)   (1)   The following association is hereby recognized as actively
engaged in providing fire protection and/or emergency services in the borough:
Bedford Firemen’s Relief Association.
      (2)   The above named Association has been formed for the benefit of its
members and their families in case of death, sickness, temporary or permanent
disability, or accident suffered in the line of duty.
   (B)   The above named Association of the borough is designated the proper
association to receive such funds as are due and payable to the Borough
Treasurer by the State Treasurer from the tax on premiums from foreign fire
insurance companies.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 4, § 401) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 31.02 CERTIFICATION TO AUDITOR GENERAL.
   The Borough Council shall annually certify to the State Auditor General, the
name(s) of the active associations and the percentage of service they
contribute to the protection of the borough. Such certification shall be on
forms prescribed by the Auditor General.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 4, § 402) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 31.03 ANNUAL APPROPRIATION.
   There is annually appropriated from the Borough Treasury all such sums of
money that may hereafter be paid into the Borough Treasury by the State
Treasurer on account of taxes paid on premiums of foreign fire insurance
companies in pursuance of the Act of December 18, 1984, No. 205, §§ 701 et seq.
as hereafter amended, supplemented, modified, or reenacted by the State General
Assembly. Such monies received by the Borough Treasurer from the State
Treasurer shall be distributed to the duly recognized association(s) within 60
days of receipt. The funds shall be distributed on the basis of the percentage
of service established in the certification to the Auditor General and with
other provisions of the Act.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 4, § 403) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 31.04 RECOGNITION OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The borough hereby recognizes the borough’s Volunteer Fire Department No. 1
as being authorized to fight fires within the borough. No other organizations
dedicated to the fighting of fires are authorized to operate within the
borough, except for those acting under a mutual aid or other agreement approved
by the Council of the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 4, § 404) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 31.05 AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The borough hereby grants authorization to the borough’s Fire
Department to engage in fund raising activities, such as fairs, carnivals,
bingo, banquets, barbecues, donkey baseball, and other similar fund raising
activities to the extent allowed by law and deemed necessary by the officers of
the Fire Department.
   (B)   Authorization is also granted for the Fire Department to participate
in firefighter’s training schools, conventions, meetings, and civic functions
of the type customarily attended by, and participated in, by volunteer fire
company members; provided, that such participation is also authorized by the
appropriate officers of the borough’s Fire Department.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 4, § 411) (Res. 10-88, passed 12-22-1988)
§ 31.06 STATE’S WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION ACT.
   Neither grant of authority set forth in §
31.05 shall be construed as constituting the borough’s Fire Department as an
agent, department, or employee of the borough, except insofar as such effect is
provided under the provisions of the Act of June 2, 1915 (Pub. Law 736, No.
338), known as the “Pennsylvania Workmen’s Compensation Act,” or its
amendments.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 4, § 412) (Res. 10-88, passed 12-22-1988)
§ 31.07 JUNIOR FIREFIGHTER PROGRAM.
   The Council of the borough endorses the borough’s Fire Department No. 1,
Inc.’s creation of a Junior Firefighter Program. The Council of the borough
will, as deemed necessary and feasible, assist the borough’s Fire Department
No. 1, Inc. in its efforts to create and administer a Junior Firefighter
Program.
(Res. 02-2011, passed 3-7-2011)
FIRE PREVENTION OFFICER
§ 31.20 OFFICE OF FIRE PREVENTION OFFICER CREATED.
   The office of Fire Prevention Officer is hereby created in the borough; such
officer to be appointed by the Council of the borough. The officer shall report
to the Borough Manager, except on those matters which he or she is required by
law to report directly to the Borough Council or to local or state police
department(s).
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 101) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 31.21 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The person appointed to the position of Fire Prevention Officer shall be
appointed as soon as practicable after the adoption of this subchapter and
shall serve at the pleasure of the Borough Council. Subsequent appointments
shall be made biennially at the Council’s reorganizational meeting. The
aforesaid appointment for a special term notwithstanding, the Council of the
borough retains the right to remove the Fire Prevention Officer at its
pleasure. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original
appointment was made for the unexpired portion of the term. If for any reason
this office is not separately filled by appointment of, and with approval and
consent of, the Borough Council, the Fire Chief of the borough’s Volunteer Fire
Department No. 1 shall be deemed the ex officio Fire Prevention Officer and
shall have all the powers and duties hereinafter given to or imposed upon the
Fire Prevention Officer. Compensation, if any, shall be fixed from time to time
by the Council of the borough by resolution. The Fire Prevention Officer shall
perform all duties and shall have and exercise all powers prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 102) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 31.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with other persons, has
legal title to any premises. This includes any person who has charge, care, or
control over any premises. This does not include a lessee, a sublessee, or
other person who merely has the right to occupy or possess a premises.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 103) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 31.23 INSPECTION.
   The Fire Inspection Officer has the authority to inspect all properties,
structures, and premises, except single-family dwellings and dwelling units in
two-family and multiple-family dwellings, for the purposes of ascertaining and
causing to be corrected any conditions liable to cause fire, contribute to the
spread of fire, interfere with firefighting operations, endanger life, or any
violation of this subchapter or any ordinance affecting fire safety.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 104) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 31.24 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Fire Prevention Officer is authorized to enter the property, structure,
or premises at any reasonable time to inspect. Prior to entering into an area
not otherwise open to the general public, the Fire Prevention Officer shall
make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or
control of the structure or premises, present proper identification, and
request entry.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 105) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 31.25 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE PREVENTION OFFICER.
   No person shall in any way obstruct or prevent or attempt to obstruct or
prevent the Fire Prevention Officer in the discharge of his or her duties by
denying or attempting to deny him or her access to any property or premises
owned or occupied by such person at any reasonable time for the purposes of
ascertaining and causing to be corrected any conditions liable to cause fire,
contribute to the spread of fire, interfere with firefighting operations,
endanger life, or any violations of the provisions of this subchapter or any
ordinance relating to fire safety. If requested entry is refused or not
obtained, the Fire Prevention Officer shall pursue recourse as provided by law.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 106) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.26 UNSAFE CONDITIONS.
   Whenever the Fire Prevention Officer shall find on any premises or in any
structure hazardous or dangerous conditions as follows, the Fire Prevention
Officer shall have the authority to order such conditions or materials to be
corrected or removed:
   (A)   Dangerous conditions liable to cause or contribute to the spread of a
fire;
   (B)   Conditions which interfere with the efficiency or operation of any
fire protection or suppression equipment; and/or
   (C)   Obstructions which have the potential to interfere with the egress of
occupants or the operation of the Fire Department in case of a fire.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 107) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 31.27 VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever the Fire Prevention Officer observes an apparent or actual
violation of a provision of this subchapter or ordinances relating to fire
safety, the Fire Prevention Officer shall prepare a written notice of violation
describing the condition or conditions deemed to be unsafe and specifying a
time limit for the required corrections to be completed.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 108) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 31.28 CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   The imposition of penalties shall not prevent the Borough Solicitor from
instituting appropriate action to correct, restrain, or abate a violation or
stop an illegal act.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 109) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.40 POLICE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   A Police Department is hereby established in and for the borough. The Chief
of Police shall be the chief executive of the Police Department. He or she
shall, under the direction of the Mayor, be in charge of the police force and
its members in the exercise of their powers, duties, and authority. The Police
Department now in service in the borough shall constitute the Police Department
hereby established.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 5, § 501) (Ord. 319, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 31.41 SUBORDINATE CLASSIFICATIONS IN POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   Subordinate to the Chief of Police in the Police Department the following
classifications are hereby established: Assistant Chief of Police; Sergeant and
patrol officer; or those of such classifications to which Council shall at any
specific time have appointed one or more police officers. The priority of
authority among such subordinate classifications, on a full-time and/or part-
time basis, and the compensation of each, shall be as determined by the Borough
Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 5, § 502) (Ord. 319, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 1-89, passed
2-16-1989)
§ 31.42 SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS DURING EMERGENCIES.
   Nothing herein shall affect the authority of the Mayor to appoint special
police officers during emergencies.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 5, § 503) (Ord. 319, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 31.43 DRUG TASK FORCE.
   (A)   The borough shall participate in the County Drug Task Force activities
in cooperation with the County District Attorney’s Office designed to interdict
the illegal use and trafficking of narcotics and other illegal drugs within its
municipal boundaries as well as within the boundaries of nearby communities.
   (B)   This agreement may include intergovernmental cooperative activities
with adjacent and nearby municipal governments by subsequent agreement as part
of a regional effort to interdict illegal drug activities.
   (C)   The borough shall utilize the services of its police force, both full-
time as well as part-time, under the conditions set forth in the guidelines and
in compliance with the Municipal Police Jurisdiction Act, 42 Pa.C.S.A. § 8953.
   (D)   The borough shall establish, pursuant to the terms of the guidelines
which are attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated as a part
of this section, appropriate procedures to comply with all relevant provisions
of the guidelines and relevant regulations, direction, and guidance from the
County District Attorney’s Office.
   (E)   The term of the borough’s participation in the Drug Task Force shall
commence immediately and may be terminated at any time upon 30 days’ written
notice. The borough’s participation may be terminated immediately in the event
of any change in the guidelines or any judicial determination that the terms
thereof are not enforceable.
   (F)   The purpose and objectives of the Drug Task Force include region-wide
coordination of municipal police activities in an effort to combat illegal
narcotics and drug trafficking.
   (G)   The borough’s participation in the Drug Task Force shall be financed
with funds supplied by the office of the State Attorney General and the County
District Attorney’s Office.
   (H)   The organizational structure necessary to implement the terms of the
guidelines shall be covered by directives, procedures, and guidance from the
County District Attorney’s Office.
   (I)   All property, real or personal, acquired, managed, or disposed of by
the Drug Task Force shall be in accordance with both the terms of the
guidelines as well as the directives, procedures, and guidance of the County
District Attorney’s Office.
   (J)   The municipality shall retain responsibility for the management,
control, and direction of its employees with assistance, financial or
otherwise, from the County District Attorney’s Office and from the office of
the State Attorney General, under the terms of the guidelines.
(Res. 05-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
AMBULANCE SERVICE
§ 31.55 DESIGNATION AND AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The borough hereby designates Bedford Area Ambulance Service
(“Ambulance”) as the provider of ambulance service within the borough.
   (B)   Ambulance agrees to furnish ambulance service to persons located
within the borough, to provide requested assistance to the borough’s Volunteer
Fire Department within the borough and to perform all its obligations hereunder
in a competent and appropriate manner in accordance with existing and future
federal, state, or local laws, rules, or regulations.
   (C)   This agreement shall be for an initial term of one year from the
effective date. Thereafter, it shall remain in full force and effect until
terminated by one party in accordance with the terms of division (D) below.
   (D)   After the initial term, either party shall have the right to terminate
this agreement, without cause, by giving the other party at least 60 days’
advance written notice of termination.
   (E)   Copies of this agreement shall be provided to the parties hereto and
to the County 911 Center.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 9, § 901)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
31.20 to
31.28 or who shall fail to comply with any directive issued pursuant thereto
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not less than $100
nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and
costs, to imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation continues after notice has been served shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 110) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCES
Section
Police Pension
   
32.001   Establishment of plan and fund
   
32.002   Chief Administrative Officer
   
32.003   Trustees
   
32.004   Investment
   
32.005   Acceptance of gifts for fund
   
32.006   Service requirements
   
32.007   Retirement benefits
   
32.008   Vested benefits
   
32.009   Disability
   
32.010   Funding
   
32.011   Refunds
   
32.012   Survivor benefits
   
32.013   Insurance policies
   
32.014   Payments into fund
   
32.015   Actuarial and administrative expenses
   
32.016   Payments not subject to certain legal processes
   
32.017   Fund may be modified
   
32.018   Borough Water Authority pension plan
Municipal Employees Retirement System
   
32.030   Borough elects to join municipal employees retirement system
   
32.031   Optional membership for elected officials; compulsory membership for
per diem employees; persons paid on fee basis ineligible for membership
   
32.032   Prior service credits toward municipal annuity and member’s annuity
   
32.033   Payment for prior service
   
32.034   Municipal employees’ retirement law, as amended, incorporated by
reference
   
32.035   Provisions of § 20.1 of Municipal Employees Retirement Law extended to
borough members
   
32.036   Amendments
Fiscal Affairs
   
32.050   Independent auditor to audit accounts
   
32.051   Annual appointment of independent auditor
Recovery of Attorney Fees
   
32.065   Definitions
   
32.066   Schedule of attorney fees
   
32.067   Assessment of attorney fees
   
32.068   Payment of attorney fees
   
32.069   Enforcement
   
32.070   Amendments
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
110.01
   Professional Service contracts, see
Ch. 114
POLICE PENSION
§ 32.001 ESTABLISHMENT OF PLAN AND FUND.
   There is hereby established, in accordance with the provisions of the Act of
Assembly of the state, approved May 29, 1956, Pub. Law 1804, known as Act No.
600, its amendments and supplements, a police pension plan and fund for the
benefit of all full-time members of the police force of the borough. The
pension plan shall be known as the “Borough of Bedford Police Pension Plan” and
the pension fund shall be known as the “Borough of Bedford Police Pension
Fund,” hereinafter referred to as “the Plan” and “the Fund,” respectively.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 601) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.002 CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   The Council of the borough shall designate a chief administrative officer of
the Police Pension Plan and Fund annually at its reorganization meeting. The
chief administrative officer shall be responsible for the administration,
management, operation, and application of the Plan and Fund including, but not
limited to, those responsibilities placed upon him or her by the Municipal
Pension Plan Funding Standard Recovery Act. In the absence of such designation,
the Secretary of the borough shall automatically serve as the chief
administrative officer of the Police Pension Plan and Fund. The chief
administrative officer shall be subject to such regulations as may from time to
time be established by the Council of the borough regarding the care,
investment, and disposal of any money or property received by the borough in
trust for the benefit of the Police Pension Plan and Fund, not inconsistent
with this subchapter and applicable law.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 602) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.003 TRUSTEES.
   The chief administrative officer, with the advice and consent of the Council
of the borough, is hereby authorized to appoint a trustee or trustees
(hereinafter called “trustee”) and to enter into a trust agreement with said
trustee upon such term or terms as the Council of the borough shall establish,
to invest and re-invest the Fund and make payments out of the Fund in
accordance with the provisions of the Plan and trust agreement.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 603) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.004 INVESTMENT.
   The Council of the borough, or any trustee appointed hereunder, shall
receive from the Borough Treasurer any allocations received by the borough from
the state, from the borough itself, from police employees, and from gifts,
grants, devises, or bequests made pursuant to §
32.005 and shall invest such sums in the manner it deems most beneficial to the
Fund so as to provide retirement and other benefits as shall be required by law
or by this subchapter, or shall be established from time to time by resolution
or ordinance of the Council of the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 604) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.005 ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS FOR FUND.
   The borough shall be authorized to take, by gift, grant, devise, or bequest,
any money or property, real, personal, or mixed, in trust, for the benefit of
the Plan and the Fund and the care, management, investment, and disposal of
such trust fund or property shall be vested in the chief administrative officer
or trustee, whoever is responsible for the management of the Borough Police
Pension Plan and Fund, and the said trust fund shall be governed thereby
subject to such directions not inconsistent therewith as the donors of such
Fund and property may prescribe.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 605) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.006 SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Age and service. All full-time police employees of the borough shall
participate in the Borough Police Pension Plan and Fund from the date of
employment with the borough police force and shall be eligible to retire upon
25 years of service in the borough or upon attaining the age of 50 years,
whichever shall be later. Such members as are retired shall be subject to
service, from time to time, as a police reserve in cases of riot, tumult, or
preservation of the public peace until unfitted for such service, when they may
be finally discharged by reason of age or disability.
   (B)   Military service. Any member of the police force who has been a
regularly appointed employee of the borough for a period of at least six months
and who thereafter shall enter into the military service of the United States
shall have credited to his or her employment record for pension or retirement
benefits all of the time spent by him or her in such military service, if such
employee returns or has heretofore returned to his or her employment within six
months after his or her separation from service. This, however, shall not apply
to any period of voluntary military service in the absence of a national
emergency or state of war.
   (C)   Ineligibility for military service credits. Any member of the police
force shall be eligible to receive service credit for intervening military
service as provided in division (B) above; provided, that he or she is not
entitled to receive, eligible to now or in the future or is receiving
retirement benefits for such service under a retirement system administered and
wholly or partially paid for by any other governmental agency with the
exception of a member eligible to receive or receiving military retirement pay
earned by a combination of active duty and nonactive duty with a reserve or
national guard component of the armed forces, which retirement pay is payable
only upon the attainment of a specified age and period of service under 10
U.S.C. Chapter 67 (relating to retired pay for nonregular service).
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 606) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.007 RETIREMENT BENEFITS.
   (A)   Upon retirement, a police employee shall receive a monthly pension
equal to one-half of his or her average monthly salary for the last 36 months
of employment prior to his or her retirement.
   (B)   The term SALARY as used in this section and in this subchapter shall
mean all compensation for which payroll deductions have been required and
withheld for payment in to the Fund. SALARY shall include wages, holiday pay,
longevity pay, overtime pay, Heart and Lung Act pay, and any other remuneration
earned over the same period. Only accumulated paid leave earned during the
measuring period for calculating a member’s pension benefit (e.g., last 36
months of employment) and paid as a lump sum at retirement shall be included as
part of the paid compensation for calculating the monthly retirement benefit.
Any paid leave used by the member during this period shall be deemed to have
come from the member’s accumulated unused leave as opposed to his or her yearly
allocation. To this end, unused leave earned during the measuring period shall
have been deemed to have replaced the equivalent portion of existing
accumulated paid leave.
   (C)   The borough hereby establishes length of service increments for years
of service beyond 25 years for each completed year of service in excess of 25
years at a rate of $80 per month up to a maximum of $450 per month. Such length
of service increments shall be paid in addition to other monthly pension or
retirement allowances.
   (D)   The Fund hereby provides for a cost of living increase for members of
the police force receiving retirement benefits; provided, however, that such
cost of living increase shall not exceed the percentage increase in the
Consumer Price Index from the year in which the police member has worked; and,
provided further, that the total cost of living increase shall not exceed 30%.
No cost of living increase shall be granted which would impair the actuarial
soundness of the Pension Fund.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 607) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2015-02,
passed 3-2-2015)
§ 32.008 VESTED BENEFITS.
   (A)   A vested benefit as described in this section is hereby authorized,
provided such vested benefit does not impair the actuarial soundness of the
Fund as determined by an approved actuary. For the purposes of this subchapter,
APPROVED ACTUARY means a person who has at least five years of actuarial
experience with public pension plans and who is either enrolled as a member of
the American Academy of Actuaries or enrolled as an actuary pursuant to the
Federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
   (B)   Under the provisions of such benefit, should a police officer, before
completing superannuation retirement age and service requirements, but having
completed 12 years of total service, for any reason cease to be employed as a
full-time police officer by the borough, he or she shall be entitled to vest
his or her retirement benefits by filing with the Council of the borough within
90 days of the date he or she ceases to be a full-time police officer, a
written notice of his or her intention to vest. Upon reaching the date which
would have been his or her superannuation retirement date if he or she had
continued to be employed as a full-time police officer, he or she shall be paid
a partial superannuation retirement allowance determined by applying the
percentage of his or her years of service bears to the years of service which
he or she would have rendered had he or she continued to work until his or her
superannuation retirement date to the gross pension established by §
32.007; using, however, the monthly average salary during the appropriate
period prior to his or her termination of employment. Such pension or
retirement benefits for any month shall be the sum of §
32.007(A) through (C) to the extent necessary to bring total benefits in any
month up to his or her partial superannuation retirement allowance as outlined
herein. It is the intention of this section to provide a vested benefit and to
the extent authorized by Act No. 1979-99.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 608) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.009 DISABILITY.
   If, before a police officer shall have attained retirement age, the
employment of such police officer with the borough shall be terminated by
reason of service-connected disability of such police officer as determined by
a qualified physician designated by the Council of the borough, such police
officer shall be entitled to receive, in lieu of and not in addition to the
normal monthly retirement benefits, a monthly disability pension equal to 50%
of the member’s salary at the time the disability was incurred, less any
benefits provided under the Social Security Act. DISABILITY, as used in this
section, shall be construed to mean total and permanent disability incurred in
service.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 609) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2015-02,
passed 3-2-2015)
§ 32.010 FUNDING.
   The Plan and Fund established by this subchapter shall be funded in the
following order:
   (A)   By payments made by the State Treasurer to the Borough Treasurer from
money received from taxes paid upon premiums by foreign casualty insurance
companies for purposes of pension retirement for police officers to the extent
so designated by the borough from time to time;
   (B)   By monthly charge against each member of the force in an amount equal
to not less than 5% nor more than 8% of his or her compensation. Where
positions covered by the Fund are included in an agreement under the Federal
Social Security Act, the provisions of 53 P.S. § 772 shall apply. If an
actuarial study shows that the condition of the Police Pension Fund is such
that payments into the Fund by members of the force may be reduced below the
percentage hereinbefore prescribed, or eliminated, and that if such payments
are reduced or eliminated, contributions by the borough will not be required to
keep the Fund actuarially sound, the Council of the borough may, on an annual
basis, by ordinance or resolution, reduce or eliminate payments into the Fund
by members of the police force; and
   (C)   When necessary, by annual appropriations made by the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 610) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.011 REFUNDS.
   Any member of the police who terminates employment and does not meet the
vesting requirements after having contributed to the Police Pension Fund
established pursuant to this subchapter shall, immediately upon discontinuance
of his or her employment with the police force, be entitled to a refund of all
such moneys paid by him or her into such Fund, plus all interest earned on such
moneys while in the Police Pension Fund. If such discontinuance is due to
death, such money shall be paid to his or her surviving spouse (as defined
under Act 30), or if no surviving spouse, eligible child(ren) under the age of
18 years, or if attending college, under to attaining the age of 23 years,
unless the member has designated another beneficiary or, in absence thereof, to
his or her estate.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 611) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2015-02,
passed 3-2-2015)
§ 32.012 SURVIVOR BENEFITS.
   (A)   Killed-in-service benefit.
      (1)   Effective with respect to deaths occurring on or after October 9,
2009, the killed-in-service death benefit shall no longer be payable under this
Plan or by the employer. A deceased participant’s surviving spouse or eligible
child who is eligible to receive such benefit due to the qualifying death of
the participant on or after April 17, 2002 and prior to October 9, 2009 shall
continue to receive the benefit as formerly awarded.
      (2)   In the event there are less than three full-time officers and/or
Act 51 no longer applies, pensions for families of members killed-in-service
shall be instituted immediately and calculated at 100% of the member’s salary
at the time of death.
   (B)   Survivor benefit. If a retired or disabled participant who is
receiving a pension benefit dies or if a participant dies after satisfying the
requirements for retirement or disability, whether or not he or she had
previously terminated employment, the participant’s surviving spouse or
eligible child (if any and as further described below) shall receive a benefit
equal to 100% of the retirement benefit that the participant was receiving or
would have been receiving if the participant had been retired on the date of
death. Upon the death of a spouse, or in the case of no surviving spouse, the
benefits shall be paid to the eligible child or children under the age of 18
years, or if attending college, under the age or attaining age 23 years.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 612) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2015-02,
passed 3-2-2015; Ord. 2019-06, passed 11-19-2019)
§ 32.013 INSURANCE POLICIES.
   Such of the foregoing benefits as are provided through insurance policies
shall be subject to any customary conditions or exclusions of such policies.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 613) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.014 PAYMENTS INTO FUND.
   Payments made under the provisions of this subchapter shall be made to the
Police Pension Fund, herein provided for, within 30 days of receipt of any
appropriations thereto.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 614) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.015 ACTUARIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.
   The Council of the borough shall employ an actuary and may fix his or her
compensation. The expenses of the administration of this subchapter, including
the compensation of an actuary and any trustee, shall be paid out of the Police
Pension Fund.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 615) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.016 PAYMENTS NOT SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LEGAL PROCESSES.
   The pension payments herein provided for shall not be subject to attachment,
execution, levy, garnishment, or other legal process and shall be payable only
to the member entitled thereto, and shall not be subject to assignment or
transfer.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 616) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.017 FUND MAY BE MODIFIED.
   The Police Pension Plan and Fund established by this subchapter may be
discontinued or modified according to law by an ordinance duly enacted by the
Council of the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 617) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.018 BOROUGH WATER AUTHORITY PENSION PLAN.
   (A)   Bedford Borough Water Authority (the Authority), established a non-
uniform defined benefit pension plan administered by the state’s Municipal
Retirement System (the System) on or about July 1, 1966. The PERC number for
the defined benefit plan of the Authority is 05-406-6 N1.
   (B)   On or about October 1, 2017, the Authority amended its pension plan by
providing that all employees hired by the Authority on or after October 1, 2017
would be placed into a newly-created cash balance plan. The PERC number for the
cash balance plan of the Authority is 05-406-6 N2.
   (C)   On or about April 30, 2018, the Authority and Bedford Borough (the
borough) entered into a memorandum of understanding providing that the borough
“will hire those Water Authority employees it deems appropriate and assume the
pension and other unfunded obligations of the Water Authority to the extent
required to release it from continued liability.”
   (D)   On or about October 1, 2018, the Authority legally dissolved. As a
part of the dissolution, the Authority filed all necessary and legally-required
paperwork with the Pennsylvania Department of State.
   (E)   On or about October 1, 2018, all active employees of the Authority
became employees of the borough. All Authority employees, including deferred
vested members and retirees, who were in the Authority’s defined benefit
pension plan with PERC number 05-406-N1 will be transferred to the borough’s
defined benefit pension plan with PERC number 05-003-3 N1 effective October 1,
2018. Any and all member and municipal accounts in the pension plan with PERC
number 05-406-N1 will be transferred to the borough’s defined benefit plan with
PERC number 05-003-3 N1 effective October 1, 2018. The borough expressly agrees
to assume any financial responsibility for any benefits that were earned in
pension plans 05-406-N1 and 05-406-6 N2. After said transfer, the Authority’s
pension plans with PERC numbers 05-406-6 N1 and 05-406-6 N2 will be terminated
effective October 2, 2018.
   (F)   As part of this section, the borough expressly agrees that it is
legally and financially responsible for deferred vested employees and any
retirees in the Authority’s pension plan with PERC numbers 05-406-6 N1 and 05-
406-6 N2.
   (G)   As part of this section, the borough agrees that the system shall
administer and provide the benefits set forth in the amended Non-Uniform
Bedford Borough Pension Plan contracts entered into between the state’s
Municipal Retirement Board and the borough effective October 1, 2018 (the
contracts).
   (H)   The borough acknowledges that by passage and adoption of this section,
it officially accepts the contracts and the financial obligations resulting
from the administration of the contracts.
   (I)   (1)   Payment for any obligation established by the adoption of this
section and the contracts shall be made by the borough in accordance with the
Retirement Law and the Municipal Pension Plan Funding Standard and Recovery
Act.
      (2)   The borough hereby assumes all liability for any unfundedness
created due to the benefit structure set forth in the contracts.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-16-2019)
MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM
§ 32.030 BOROUGH ELECTS TO JOIN MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   The borough having placed all of its employees, as far as they are eligible,
under the Federal Social Security Act, hereby elects to join the Municipal
Employees Retirement System, established by the Act of June 4, 1943, Pub. Law
886, as last amended by the Act of August 24, 1963, No. 485, and does hereby
agree to be bound by all the requirements and provisions of the said Act and to
assume all obligations, financial and otherwise, placed upon member
municipalities by said Act.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 621) (Ord. passed 6-6-1966)
§ 32.031 OPTIONAL MEMBERSHIP FOR ELECTED OFFICIALS; COMPULSORY MEMBERSHIP FOR
PER DIEM EMPLOYEES; PERSONS PAID ON FEE BASIS INELIGIBLE FOR MEMBERSHIP.
   Membership for elected officials shall be optional and membership for
employees paid on a per diem basis shall be compulsory. The election by elected
officials and per diem employees to join the system must be made within one
year from the date of this subchapter, or within one year after the official or
employee first enters the service of the borough. Officers and employees paid
wholly on a fee basis shall not be eligible for membership in the system.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 622) (Ord. passed 6-6-1966)
§ 32.032 PRIOR SERVICE CREDITS TOWARD MUNICIPAL ANNUITY AND MEMBER’S ANNUITY.
   Credit for prior service toward the municipal annuity of each original
member shall be for all prior years of service to the borough. The borough does
hereby assume the liability for payment of 100% of the member’s contributions
for all prior years of service toward the member’s annuity for the prior
service of each original member.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 623) (Ord. passed 6-6-1966)
§ 32.033 PAYMENT FOR PRIOR SERVICE.
   Payment for the prior service noted in §
32.032 shall be made by the borough in accordance with § 14 of the Municipal
Employees Retirement Act of 1943, Pub. Law 886, as amended, and may be spread
over a period of 30 years if the borough so chooses and with the consent of the
Municipal Employees Retirement Board.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 624) (Ord. passed 6-6-1966)
§ 32.034 MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES’ RETIREMENT LAW, AS AMENDED, INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE.
   The borough does hereby incorporate the said Municipal Employees Retirement
Law, as last amended by the Act of August 24, 1963, No. 485, as a part of this
subchapter insofar as the said Act, as amended, applies to a member
municipality, having accepted the options set out in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 625) (Ord. passed 6-6-1966)
§ 32.035 PROVISIONS OF § 20.1 OF MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT LAW EXTENDED TO
BOROUGH MEMBERS.
   The borough does hereby elect to extend the provisions of § 20.1 of the
Municipal Employees Retirement Law, Act of June 4, 1943, Pub. Law 886, added by
the Act of August 24, 1963, No. 485, so that contributors to the retirement
system shall have the options and enjoy the protections of the provisions set
forth in subsections (a) and (b) of § 20.1 of the Municipal Employees
Retirement Law, and § 20.1 is hereby incorporated and made a part hereof by
reference thereto.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 626) (Ord. passed 6-6-1966)
§ 32.036 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The borough, having established a pension plan administered by the
state’s Municipal Retirement System (the system), hereby elects to amend its
Municipal Pension Plan administered by the system in accordance with Article IV
of the state’s Municipal Retirement Law, 53 P.S. §§ 881.101 et seq. (Retirement
Law), and does hereby agree to be bound by all the requirements and provisions
of the Retirement Law and the Municipal Pension Plan Funding Standard and
Recovery Act, 53 P.S. §§ 895.101 et seq. and to assume all obligations,
financial and otherwise, placed upon member municipalities.
   (B)   As part of this section, the borough agrees that the system shall
administer and provide the benefits set forth in the amended Municipal Pension
Plan contract entered into between the state’s Municipal Retirement Board and
the borough effective as of the date specified in the adoption agreement (the
contract).
   (C)   The borough acknowledges that by passage and adoption of this section,
the borough officially accepts the contract and the financial obligations
resulting from the administration of the contract.
   (D)   Payment for any obligation established by the adoption of this section
and the contract shall be made by the borough in accordance with the Retirement
Law and the Municipal Pension Plan Funding Standard and Recovery Act. The
borough hereby assumes all liability for any unfundedness created due to the
benefit structure set forth in the contract.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-5-2009; Ord. 2015-04, passed 6-1-2015; Ord. 2017-04,
passed 9-5-2017; Ord. 2017-05, passed 9-5-2017; Ord. 2017-07, passed 12-28-
2017; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-27-2018; Ord. 2019-08, passed 12-19-2019; Ord.
2020-06, passed 12-22-2020; Ord. 2022-01, passed 1-3-2022)
FISCAL AFFAIRS
§ 32.050 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR TO AUDIT ACCOUNTS.
   The audit of the accounts of the borough, beginning with the accounts for
the fiscal year 1971 shall hereafter be made by an independent auditor who
shall be a certified public accountant, or a firm of certified public
accountants, registered in the state.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 7, § 701) (Ord. passed 10-4-1971A)
§ 32.051 ANNUAL APPOINTMENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITOR.
   The independent auditor shall be appointed by resolution of Borough Council
before the close of the fiscal year to make an independent examination of the
accounting records of the borough for such fiscal year in accordance with §
32.069.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 7, § 702) (Ord. passed 10-4-1971A)
RECOVERY OF ATTORNEY FEES
§ 32.065 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The defined terms set forth in § 1 of the Municipal Claims Act, 53
Pa.C.S. § 7101, are incorporated hereby by reference.
   (B)   The term DELINQUENT MUNICIPAL CLAIM shall mean any borough claim that
remains unpaid 30 calendar days after notice of the assessment or imposition of
the borough claim is served on the owner. Service shall be deemed made on the
date notice is deposited in the United States mail.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 10, § 1001) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.066 SCHEDULE OF ATTORNEY FEES.
   The borough does hereby adopt the following schedule of attorney fees to be
assessed by in the connection with the collection of delinquent municipal
claims.
   (A)   Collection letter by Solicitor. Attorney fees at the solicitor’s
hourly rate as approved by the borough.
   (B)   Filing of borough lien claim. Attorney fees at the Solicitor’s hourly
rate as approved by the borough, plus filing fees, notary fees, and any
associated costs and expenses.
   (C)   Other collection services, including negotiation of settlement
agreements, enforcement of borough liens, commencement and prosecution of civil
actions to collect delinquent municipal claims, or other legal work performed
to collect delinquent municipal claims due to the borough. Attorney fees at the
Solicitor’s hourly rate as approved by the borough, plus filing fees, photocopy
costs, fax costs, and any other associated costs and expenses.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 10, § 1002) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.067 ASSESSMENT OF ATTORNEY FEES.
   To ensure compliance with the notice requirements of the 1996 amendment of
the Municipal Claims Act, the Borough Secretary is directed to comply with the
following notice procedures before assessing attorney fees in connection with
the collection of any delinquent account.
   (A)   Except in the case of an emergency, prior to referring any delinquent
municipal claim to the Solicitor for action, the Borough Secretary shall do the
following:
      (1)   At least 30 calendar days prior to assessing or imposing attorney
fees in connection with the collection of a delinquent municipal claim, the
Borough Secretary shall, by United States certified mail, return receipt
requested, postage prepaid, mail to the owner of the property subject to the
claim the notice prescribed by division (A)(4) below;
      (2)   If, within 30 calendar days of mailing the notice in accordance
with division (A)(1) above, the certified mail is refused or unclaimed or the
return receipt is not received, then at least ten calendar days prior to
assessing or imposing attorney fees in connection with the collection of a
delinquent municipal claim, the Borough Secretary shall, by United States
first-class mail, mail to the owner the notice prescribed by division(A)(4)
below;
      (3)   The notice required by divisions (A)(1) and/or (A)(2) above shall
be mailed to the owner’s last known post office address by virtue of the
knowledge and information possessed by the borough and by the County Assessment
Office. It shall be the duty of the Borough Secretary to determine the owner’s
last post office address known to the borough and the County Assessment Office;
and
      (4)   The notice to the owner sent pursuant to divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2)
above shall include the following:
         (a)   A statement of the borough’s intent to impose or assess attorney
fees within 30 calendar days of mailing the notice pursuant to division (A)(1)
above or within ten calendar days of the mailing of the notice pursuant to
division (A)(2) above; and
         (b)   The manner in which the imposition or assessment of attorney
fees may be avoided by payments of the delinquent municipal claim.
   (B)   Form notices shall be prepared by the Borough Secretary in
consultation with the Solicitor.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 10, § 1003) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.068 PAYMENT OF ATTORNEY FEES.
   All attorney fees imposed and assessed pursuant to this subchapter shall be
payable directly to the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 10, § 1004) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.069 ENFORCEMENT.
   Payment of attorney fees assessed by the borough pursuant to this subchapter
shall be enforced by the borough in any manner appropriate under the laws in
effect at the time of the assessment or thereafter applicable.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 10, § 1005) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 32.070 AMENDMENTS.
   The borough reserves the right, from time to time, to adopt modifications
of, supplements to, or amendments of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 1, Pt. 10, § 1006) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
CHAPTER 33: TAXATION
Section
Earned Income Tax
   
33.001   Authorization
   
33.002   Incorporation by reference
   
33.003   Definitions
   
33.004   Imposition of tax
   
33.005   Administration
   
33.006   Exemptions and credits
Realty Transfer Tax
   
33.020   Short title
   
33.021   Authority
   
33.022   Definitions
   
33.023   Imposition of tax; interest
   
33.024   Exempt parties
   
33.025   Excluded transactions
   
33.026   Documents relating to associations or corporations and members,
partners, stockholders, or shareholders thereof
   
33.027   Acquired company
   
33.028   Credits against tax
   
33.029   Extension of lease
   
33.030   Proceeds of judicial sale
   
33.031   Duties of Recorder of Deeds
   
33.032   Statement of value
   
33.033   Civil penalties
   
33.034   Lien
   
33.035   Enforcement
   
33.036   Regulations
   
33.037   Imposition of tax
   
33.038   Administration
   
33.039   Interest
Property Improvement Exemptions
   
33.050   Corporate limits of borough declared deteriorated
   
33.051   Exemption assessment
   
33.052   Procedure
   
33.053   Incorporation of state law
   
33.054   Application
Local Services Tax
   
33.065   Definitions
   
33.066   Levy of tax
   
33.067   Exemption and refunds
   
33.068   Duty of employers to collect
   
33.069   Returns
   
33.070   Dates for determining tax liability and payment
   
33.071   Self-employed individuals
   
33.072   Individuals engaged in more than one occupation
   
33.073   Nonresidents subject to tax
   
33.074   Administration of tax
   
33.075   Suits for collection
   
33.076   Interpretation
Occupation Tax
   
33.090   Authority
   
33.091   Definitions
   
33.092   Imposition of tax
   
33.093   Collection through employers
   
33.094   Direct payment by taxpayers
   
33.095   Nonresident taxpayers
   
33.096   Administration and enforcement
   
33.097   Collection
Failure to Receive Real Estate Tax Notice
   
33.100   Effect of failure to receive real estate tax notice
 
   
33.999   Penalty
EARNED INCOME TAX
§ 33.001 AUTHORIZATION.
   This subchapter is hereby enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the
Local Tax Enabling Act, Pub. Law 1257, known as Act No. 511 of 1965, effective
January 1, 1966, as amended through Act No. 32 of 2008, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et
seq. (known as “the Local Tax Enabling Act” and herein referred to as the
“Act”).
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 33.002 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   The Act (53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 through 6924.901) and its definitions, duties,
directives, rules, regulations, powers, and penalties, all as the same may
hereafter be amended, to the maximum extent allowed by 1 Pa.C.S.A. § 1937, is
hereby adopted by reference as if same had been set forth fully herein.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 33.003 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the below definitions, this section incorporates by
reference those words, phrases, and definitions as listed in the Act (53 P.S.
§§ 6924.101 through 6924.901), as the same may be hereafter amended as
aforesaid.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMICILE. The place where a person lives and has a permanent home and to
which the person has the intention of returning whenever absent. Actual
residence is not necessarily DOMICILE, for DOMICILE is the fixed place of abode
which, in the intention of the taxpayer, is permanent rather than transitory.
DOMICILE is the voluntarily fixed place of habitation of a person, not for a
mere special or limited purpose, but with the present intention of making a
permanent home, until some event occurs to induce the person to adopt some
other permanent home. In the case of a business, DOMICILE is that place
considered as the center of business affairs and the place where its functions
are discharged.
      EARNED INCOME. The compensation as required to be reported to or as
determined by the Department of Revenue under § 303 (72 P.S. § 7303) of the Act
of March 4, 1971 (Pub. Law 6, No. 2), known as the Tax Reform Code of 1971, and
rules and regulations promulgated under that section. Employee business
expenses as reported to or determined by the Department of Revenue under
Article III of the Tax Reform Code of 1971 shall constitute allowable
deductions in determining EARNED INCOME. The term does not include offsets for
business losses. The amount of any housing allowance provided to a member of
the clergy shall not be taxable as EARNED INCOME.
      NET PROFITS. The net income from the operation of a business, other than
a corporation, as required to be reported to or as determined by the Department
of Revenue under § 303 of the Act of March 4, 1971 (Pub. Law 6, No. 2), known
as the Tax Reform Code of 1971, and rules and regulations promulgated under
that section.
      NONRESIDENT. A person or business domiciled outside the political
subdivision levying the tax.
      RESIDENT. A person or business domiciled in the political subdivision
levying the tax.
      TAX COLLECTION COMMITTEE (TCC). The Bedford County Tax Collection
Committee established to govern this tax collection district for the purpose of
income tax collection.
      TAX COLLECTION DISTRICT (TCD). The Bedford County Tax Collection District
as established under § 504 of the Act (53 P.S. § 6924.504).
      TAX OFFICER/TAX COLLECTOR. The agency engaged to administer and collect
earned income and net profits taxes for this tax collection district. Unless
otherwise specifically provided, for purposes of the obligations of an
employer, the term shall mean the tax officer for the tax collection district
within which the employer is located, or, if an employer maintains workplaces
in more than one district, the tax officer for each such district with respect
to employees principally employed therein.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 33.004 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   Resident tax. A tax at the rate of 1.5% is hereby levied on all
earned income and net profits, as defined by the Act, of residents of this
municipality.
      (2)   Nonresident tax. A tax at the rate of 1% is hereby levied on all
earned income and net profits earned by nonresidents for work done or services
performed or rendered in this municipality.
   (B)   All taxes imposed by this subchapter shall remain in effect on a
calendar year basis without annual reenactment unless the rate of tax is
subsequently changed. To the extent this municipality has previously imposed
such a tax, the tax hereby imposed shall be a continuation, without
interruption, of the tax previously imposed.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 33.005 ADMINISTRATION.
   The collection and administration of the tax provided for in this subchapter
shall be performed by the Tax Officer appointed by the Tax Collection
Committee. Said Tax Officer shall receive compensation for services and
expenses as determined by agreement between the TCC and the Tax Officer. The
Tax Officer shall have the powers as provided for by the Local Tax Enabling
Act.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 33.006 EXEMPTIONS AND CREDITS.
   No exemptions or credits based on age or income, or any other conditions are
granted by this subchapter. Nothing in this subchapter is intended to preclude
or inhibit any credit or exemption imposed by act of law or regulation.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 12-5-2011)
REALTY TRANSFER TAX
§ 33.020 SHORT TITLE.
This subchapter shall be known as “the Realty Transfer Tax Ordinance of the
Borough of Bedford.”
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 201) (Ord. 3-88, passed 9-6-1988)
§ 33.021 AUTHORITY.
   A realty transfer tax for general revenue purposes is hereby imposed upon
the transfer of real estate or interest in real estate situated within the
borough, regardless of where the documents making the transfer are made,
executed, or delivered, or where the actual settlements on such transfer took
place as authorized by Article XI-D, “Local Real Estate Transfer Tax,” 72 P.S.
§§ 8101-D et seq.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 202) (Ord. 3-88, passed 9-6-1988)
§ 33.022 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise owned or conducted by two or more persons other than
a private trust or decedent’s estate.
   CORPORATION. A corporation, joint-stock association, business trust, or
banking institution which is organized under the laws of this state, the United
States, or any other state, territory, foreign country, or dependency.
   DOCUMENT. Any deed, instrument or writing which conveys, transfers, demises,
vests, confirms, or evidences any transfer or demise of title to real estate,
but does not include wills, mortgages, deeds of trust or other instruments of
like character given as security for a debt and deeds of release thereof to the
debtor, land contracts whereby the legal title does not pass to the grantee
until the total consideration specified in the contract has been paid or any
cancellation thereof unless the consideration is payable over a period of time
exceeding 30 years, or instruments which solely grant, vest, or confirm a
public utility easement. DOCUMENT shall also include a declaration of
acquisition required to be presented for recording under §
33.021.
   FAMILY FARM CORPORATION. A corporation of which at least 75% of its assets
are devoted to the business of agriculture and at least 75% of each class of
stock of the corporation is continuously owned by members of the same family.
The business of agriculture shall not be deemed to include:
      (1)   Recreational activities such as, but not limited to, hunting,
fishing, camping, skiing, show competition, or racing;
      (2)   The raising, breeding, or training of game animals or game birds,
fish, cats, dogs, or pets or animals intended for use in sporting or
recreational activities;
      (3)   Fur farming;
      (4)   Stockyard and slaughterhouse operations; and
      (5)   Manufacturing or processing operations of any kind.
   MEMBERS OF SAME FAMILY. Any individual, such individual’s brothers and
sisters, the brothers and sisters of such individual’s parents and
grandparents, the ancestors and lineal descendants of any of the foregoing, a
spouse of any of the foregoing, and the estate of any of the foregoing.
Individuals related by the half-blood or legal adoption shall be treated as if
they were related by the whole-blood.
   PERSON. Every natural person, association, or corporation. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a fine or imprisonment, or both, the term
PERSON, as applied to associations, shall include the responsible members or
general partners thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   REAL ESTATE.
      (1)   All lands, tenements, or hereditaments within this Borough of
Bedford including, without limitation, buildings, structures, fixtures, mines,
minerals, oil, gas, quarries, spaces with or without upper or lower boundaries,
trees and other improvements, immovables or interests which by custom, usage,
or law pass with a conveyance of land, but excluding permanently attached
machinery and equipment in an industrial plant;
      (2)   A condominium unit; and
      (3)   A tenant-stockholder’s interest in a cooperative housing
corporation, trust, or association under a proprietary lease or occupancy
agreement.
   REAL ESTATE COMPANY. A corporation or association which is primarily engaged
in the business of holding, selling, or leasing real estate, 90% or more of the
ownership interest in which is held by 35 or fewer persons and which:
      (1)   Derives 60% or more of its annual gross receipts from the ownership
or disposition of real estate; and
      (2)   Holds real estate, the value of which comprises 90% or more of the
value of its entire tangible asset holdings exclusive of tangible assets which
are freely transferable and actively traded on an established market.
   TITLE TO REAL ESTATE.
      (1)   Any interest in real estate which endures for a period of time, the
termination of which is not fixed or ascertained by a specific number of years
including, without limitation, an estate in fee simple, life estate, or
perpetual leasehold.
      (2)   Any interest in real estate enduring for a fixed period of years
but which, either by reason of the length of the term or the grant of a right
to extend the term by renewal or otherwise, consists of a group of rights
approximating those of an estate in fee simple, life estate, or perpetual
leasehold including, without limitation, a leasehold interest or possessory
interest under a lease or occupancy agreement for a term of 30 years or more or
a leasehold interest or possessory interest in real estate in which the lessee
has equity.
   TRANSACTION. The making, executing, delivering, accepting, or presenting for
recording of a document.
   VALUE.
      (1)   In the case of any bona fide sale of real estate at arm’s length
for actual monetary worth, the amount of the actual consideration therefor,
paid or to be paid, including liens or other encumbrances thereon existing
before the transfer and not removed thereby, whether or not the underlying
indebtedness is assumed, and ground rents, or a commensurate part thereof where
such liens or other encumbrances and ground rents also encumber or are charged
against other real estate. Provided, that where such documents shall set forth
a nominal consideration, the VALUE thereof shall be determined from the price
set forth in or actual consideration for the contract of sale.
      (2)   In the case of a gift, sale by execution upon a judgment or upon
the foreclosure of a mortgage by a judicial officer, transactions without
consideration or for consideration less than the actual monetary worth of the
real estate, a taxable lease, an occupancy agreement, a leasehold or possessory
interest, any exchange of properties, or the real estate of an acquired
company, the actual monetary worth of the real estate determined by adjusting
the assessed value of the real estate for local real estate tax purposes for
the common level ratio factor developed by the state’s Department of Revenue
for the state’s realty transfer tax base calculations.
      (3)   In the case of an easement or other interest in real estate, the
VALUE of which is not determinable under divisions (1) or (2) above, the actual
monetary worth of such interest.
      (4)   The actual consideration for or actual monetary worth of any
executory agreement for the construction of buildings, structures, or other
permanent improvements to real estate between the grantor and other persons
existing before the transfer and not removed thereby or between the grantor,
the agent or principle of the grantor or a related corporation, association, or
partnership and the grantee existing before or effective with the transfer.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 203) (Ord. 3-88, passed 9-6-1988; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
§ 33.023 IMPOSITION OF TAX; INTEREST.
   (A)   Every person who makes, executes, delivers, accepts, or presents for
recording any document or in whose behalf any document is made, executed,
delivered, accepted, or presented for recording shall be subject to pay for and
in respect to the transaction, or any part thereof, a tax at the rate of 1% of
the value of the real estate represented by such document, which tax shall be
payable at the earlier of the time the document is presented for recording or
within 30 days of acceptance of such document or within 30 days of becoming an
acquired company.
   (B)   The payment of the tax imposed herein shall be evidenced by the
affixing of an official stamp or writing by the Recorder whereon the date of
the payment of the tax, amount of the tax, and the signature of the collecting
agent shall be set forth.
   (C)   It is the intent of this subchapter that the entire burden of the tax
imposed herein on a person or transfer shall not exceed the limitations
prescribed in the Local Tax Enabling Act of December 31, 1965, Pub. Law 1257,
53 P.S. §§ 6901 et seq., so that if any other political subdivision shall
impose or hereafter shall impose such tax on the same person or transfer than
the tax levied by the borough under the authority of that Act shall during the
time such duplication of the tax exists, except as hereinafter otherwise
provided, be one-half of the rate and such one-half rate shall become effective
without any action on the part of the borough; provided, however, that the
borough and any other political subdivision which impose such tax on the same
person or transfer may agree that, instead of limiting their respective rates
to one-half of the rate herein provided, they will impose respectively
different rates, the total of which shall not exceed the maximum rate permitted
under the Local Tax Enabling Act. If for any reason the tax is not paid when
due, interest at the rate in effect at the time the tax is due shall be added
and collected.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 204) (Ord. 3-88, passed 9-6-1988)
§ 33.024 EXEMPT PARTIES.
   The United States, the state, or any of their instrumentalities, agencies,
or political subdivisions shall be exempt from payment of the tax imposed by
this subchapter. The exemption of such governmental bodies shall not, however,
relieve any other party to a transaction from liability for the tax.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 205) (Ord. 3-88, passed 9-6-1988)
§ 33.025 EXCLUDED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   The tax imposed by §
33.023 shall not be imposed upon:
      (1)   A transfer to the state, or to any of its instrumentalities,
agencies, or political subdivisions, by gift, dedication, or deed in lieu of
condemnation or deed of confirmation in connection with condemnation
proceedings, or a reconveyance by the condemning body of the property condemned
to the owner of record at the time of condemnation, which reconveyance may
include property line adjustments provided said reconveyance is made within one
year from the date of condemnation;
      (2)   A document which the borough is prohibited from taxing under the
Constitution or statutes of the United States;
      (3)   A conveyance to a municipality, township, school district, or
county pursuant to acquisition by the municipality, township, school district,
or county of a tax delinquent property at sheriff sale or tax claim bureau
sale;
      (4)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration which corrects or
confirms a transfer previously recorded, but which does not extend or limit
existing record legal title or interest;
      (5)   A transfer of division in kind for no or nominal actual
consideration of property passed by testate or intestate succession and held by
co-tenants; however, if any of the parties take shares greater in value than
their undivided interest, tax is due on the excess;
      (6)   A transfer between husband and wife, between persons who were
previously husband and wife who have since been divorced, provided the property
or interest therein subject to such transfer was acquired by the husband and
wife or husband or wife prior to the granting of the final decree in divorce,
between parent and child or the spouse of such child, between brother or sister
or spouse of a brother or sister and brother or sister or the spouse of a
brother or sister, and between a grandparent and grandchild or the spouse of
such grandchild, except that a subsequent transfer by the grantee within one
year shall be subject to tax as if the grantor were making such transfer;
      (7)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration of property
passing by testate or intestate succession from a personal representative of a
decedent to the decedent’s devisee or heir;
      (8)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration to a trustee of
an ordinary trust where the transfer of the same property would be exempt if
the transfer was made directly from the grantor to all of the possible
beneficiaries, whether or not such beneficiaries are contingent or specifically
named. No such exemption shall be granted unless the Recorder of Deeds is
presented with a copy of the trust instrument that clearly identifies the
grantor and all possible beneficiaries;
      (9)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from a trustee to
a beneficiary of an ordinary trust;
      (10)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from trustee to
successor trustee;
      (11)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration between
principal and agent or straw party; or from or to an agent or straw party
where, if the agent or straw party were his or her principal, no tax would be
imposed under this subchapter. Where the document by which title is acquired by
a grantee or statement of value fails to set forth that the property was
acquired by the grantee from, or for the benefit of, his or her principal,
there is a rebuttable presumption that the property is the property of the
grantee in his or her individual capacity if the grantee claims an exemption
from taxation under this division (A)(11);
      (12)   A transfer made pursuant to the statutory merger or consolidation
of a corporation or statutory division of a nonprofit corporation, except where
the Department reasonably determines that the primary intent for such merger,
consolidation, or division is avoidance of the tax imposed by this subchapter;
      (13)   A transfer from a corporation or association of real estate held
of record in the name of the corporation or association where the grantee owns
stock of the corporation or an interest in the association in the same
proportion as his or her interest in or ownership of the real estate being
conveyed and where the stock of the corporation or the interest in the
association has been held by the grantee for more than two years;
      (14)   A transfer from a nonprofit industrial development agency or
authority to a grantee of property conveyed by the grantee to that agency or
authority as security for a debt of the grantee or a transfer to a nonprofit
industrial development agency or authority;
      (15)   A transfer from a nonprofit industrial development agency or
authority to a grantee purchasing directly from it, but only if the grantee
shall directly use such real estate for the primary purpose of manufacturing,
fabricating, compounding, processing, publishing, research and development,
transportation, energy conversion, energy production, pollution control,
warehousing, or agriculture; and the agency or authority has the full ownership
interest in the real estate transferred;
      (16)   A transfer by a mortgagor to the holder of a bona fide mortgage in
default in lieu of a foreclosure or a transfer pursuant to a judicial sale in
which the successful bidder is the bona fide holder of a mortgage, unless the
holder assigns the bid to another person;
      (17)   Any transfer between religious organizations or other bodies or
persons holding title for a religious organization if such real estate is not
being or has not been used by such transferor for commercial purposes;
      (18)   A transfer to a conservancy which possesses a tax exempt status
pursuant to § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, (68A Stat. 3, 26
U.S.C. § 501(c)(3)) and which has as its primary purpose preservation of land
for historic, recreational, scenic, agricultural, or open space opportunities;
      (19)   A transfer of real estate devoted to the business of agriculture
to a family farm corporation by a member of the same family which directly owns
at least 75% of each class of the stock thereof;
      (20)   A transfer between members of the same family of an ownership
interest in a real estate company or family farm corporation;
      (21)   A transaction wherein the tax due is $1 or less; and
      (22)   Leases for the production of extraction of coal, oil, natural gas,
or minerals and assignments thereof.
   (B)   In order to exercise any exclusion provided in this section, the true,
full, and complete value of the transfer shall be shown on the statement of
value. A copy of the state’s realty transfer tax statement of value may be
submitted for this purpose. For leases of coal, oil, natural gas, or minerals,
the statement of value may be limited to an explanation of the reason such
document is not subject to tax under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 206) (Ord. 3-88, passed 9-6-1988)
§ 33.026 DOCUMENTS RELATING TO ASSOCIATIONS OR CORPORATIONS AND MEMBERS,
PARTNERS, STOCKHOLDERS, OR SHAREHOLDERS THEREOF.
   Except as otherwise provided in §
33.025, documents which make, confirm, or evidence any transfer or demise of
title to real estate between associations or corporations and the members,
partners, shareholders, or stockholders thereof are fully taxable. For the
purposes of this subchapter, corporations and associations are entities
separate from their members, partners, stockholders, or shareholders.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 207) (Ord. 3-88, passed 9-6-1988)
§ 33.027 ACQUIRED COMPANY.
   (A)   A real estate company is an acquired company upon a change in the
ownership interest in the company, however effected, if the change does not
affect the continuity of the company; and of itself or together with prior
changes has the effect of transferring, directly or indirectly, 90% or more of
the total ownership interest in the company within a period of three years.
   (B)   With respect to real estate acquired after February 16, 1986, a family
farm corporation is an acquired company when, because of voluntary or
involuntary dissolution, it ceases to be a family farm corporation or when,
because of issuance or transfer of stock or because of acquisition or transfer
of assets that are devoted to the business of agriculture, it fails to meet the
minimum requirements of a family farm corporation under this subchapter.
   (C)   Within 30 days after becoming an acquired company, the company shall
present a declaration of acquisition with the recorder of each county in which
it holds real estate for the affixation of documentary stamps and recording.
Such declaration shall set forth the value of real estate holdings of the
acquired company in such county. A copy of the state’s realty transfer tax
declaration of acquisition may be submitted for this purpose.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 208) (Ord. 3-88, passed 9-6-1988)
§ 33.028 CREDITS AGAINST TAX.
   (A)   Where there is a transfer of a residential property by a licensed real
estate broker, which property was transferred to him or her within the
preceding year as consideration for the purpose of other residential property,
a credit for the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to him or
her shall be given to him or her toward the amount of the tax due upon the
transfer.
   (B)   Where there is a transfer by a builder of residential property which
was transferred to the builder within the preceding year as consideration for
the purchase of new, previously unoccupied residential property, a credit for
the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to the builder shall be
given to the builder toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   (C)   Where there is a transfer of real estate which is leased by the
grantor, a credit for the amount of tax paid at the time of the lease shall be
given the grantor toward the tax due upon the transfer.
   (D)   Where there is a conveyance by deed of real estate which was
previously sold under a land contract by the grantor, a credit for the amount
of tax paid at the time of the sale shall be given the grantor toward the tax
due upon the deed.
   (E)   If the tax due upon the transfer is greater than the credit given
under this section, the difference shall be paid. If the credit allowed is
greater than the amount of tax due, no refund or carryover credit shall be
allowed.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 209) (Ord. 3-88, passed 9-6-1988)
§ 33.029 EXTENSION OF LEASE.
   In determining the term of a lease, it shall be presumed that a right or
option to renew or extend a lease will be exercised if the rental charge to the
lessee is fixed or if a method for calculating the rental charge is
established.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 210) (Ord. 3-88, passed 9-6-1988)
§ 33.030 PROCEEDS OF JUDICIAL SALE.
   The tax herein imposed shall be fully paid, and have priority out of the
proceeds of any judicial sale of real estate before any other obligation,
claim, lien, judgment, estate, or costs of the sale and of the writ upon which
the sale is made except the state realty transfer tax and the sheriff, or other
officer, conducting said sale, shall pay the tax herein imposed out of the
first moneys paid to him or her in connection therewith. If the proceeds of the
sale are insufficient to pay the entire tax herein imposed, the purchaser shall
be liable for the remaining tax.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 211) (Ord. 3-88, passed 9-6-1988)
§ 33.031 DUTIES OF RECORDER OF DEEDS.
   (A)   As provided in 16 P.S. § 11011-6, as amended by Act of July 7, 1983
(Pub. Law 40, No. 21), the recorder of deeds shall be the collection agent for
the local realty transfer tax, including any amount payable to the borough
based on a redetermination of the amount of tax due by the state of the state’s
realty transfer tax, without compensation from the borough.
   (B)   In order to ascertain the amount of taxes due when the property is
located in more than one political subdivision, the Recorder shall not accept
for recording such a deed unless it is accompanied by a statement of value
showing what taxes are due each municipality.
   (C)   On or before the tenth of each month, the Recorder shall pay over to
the borough all local realty transfer taxes collected, less 2% for use of the
county, together with a report containing the information as is required by the
state in reporting collections of the state realty transfer tax. The 2%
commission shall be paid to the county.
   (D)   Upon a redetermination of the amount of realty transfer tax due by the
state, the Recorder shall re-record the deed or record the additional realty
transfer tax form only when both the state and local amounts and a re-recording
or recording fee has been tendered.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 212) (Ord. 3-88, passed 9-6-1988)
§ 33.032 STATEMENT OF VALUE.
   Every document lodged with or presented to the Recorder of Deeds for
recording shall set forth therein and as a part of such document the true,
full, and complete value thereof, or shall be accompanied by a statement of
value executed by a responsible person connected with the transaction showing
such connection and setting forth the true, full, and complete value thereof or
the reason, if any, why such document is not subject to tax under this
subchapter. A copy of the state’s realty transfer tax statement of value may be
submitted for this purpose. The provisions of this section shall not apply to
any excludable real estate transfers which are exempt from taxation based on
family relationship. Other documents presented for the affixation of stamps
shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the document and statement of value
executed by a responsible person connected with the transaction showing such
connection and setting forth the true, full, and complete value thereof or the
reason, if any, why such document is not subject to tax under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 213) (Ord. 3-88, passed 9-6-1988)
§ 33.033 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   If any part of any underpayment of tax imposed by this subchapter is
due to fraud, there shall be added to the tax an amount equal to 50% of the
underpayment.
   (B)   In the case of failure to record a declaration required under this
subchapter on the date prescribed therefor, unless it is shown that such
failure is due to reasonable cause, there shall be added to the tax 5% of the
amount of such tax if the failure is for not more than one month, with an
additional 5% for each additional month or fraction thereof during which such
failure continues, not exceeding 50% in the aggregate.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 214) (Ord. 3-88, passed 9-6-1988)
§ 33.034 LIEN.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall become a lien upon the lands,
tenements, or hereditaments, or any interest therein, lying, being situated,
wholly or in part, within the boundaries of the borough, which lands,
tenements, hereditaments, or interest therein, are described in or conveyed by
or transferred by the deed which is the subject of the tax imposed, assessed,
and levied by this subchapter, said lien to begin at the time when the tax
under this subchapter is due and payable, and continue until discharge by
payment, or in accordance with the law, and the Solicitor is authorized to file
a municipal or tax claim in the County Court of Common Pleas, in accordance
with the provisions of the Municipal Claims and Liens Act of 1923, 53 P.S. §§
7101 et seq., its supplements and amendments.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 215) (Ord. 3-88, passed 9-6-1988)
§ 33.035 ENFORCEMENT.
   All taxes imposed by this subchapter, together with interest and penalties
prescribed herein, shall be recoverable as other debts of like character are
recovered.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 216) (Ord. 3-88, passed 9-6-1988)
§ 33.036 REGULATIONS.
   The Council of the borough is charged with enforcement and collection of tax
and is empowered to promulgate and enforce reasonable regulations for
enforcement and collection of the tax. The regulations which have been
promulgated by the state’s Department of Revenue under 72 P.S. §§ 8101-C et
seq. are incorporated into and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 217) (Ord. 3-88, passed 9-6-1988)
§ 33.037 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   The borough adopts the provisions of Article XI-D of the Tax Reform Code of
1971 and imposes a realty transfer tax as authorized under that Article subject
to the rate limitations therein. The tax imposed under this section shall be at
the rate set forth in §
33.023.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-5-2008)
§ 33.038 ADMINISTRATION.
   The tax imposed under §§
33.023 and
33.037 and all applicable interest and penalties shall be administered,
collected, and enforced under the Act of December 31, 1965 (Pub. Law 1257, No.
511), as amended, known as “The Local Tax Enabling Act;” provided, that if the
correct amount of the tax is not paid by the last date prescribed for timely
payment, the borough, pursuant to § 1102-D of the Tax Reform Code of 1971 (72
P.S. § 8102-D), authorizes and directs the Department of Revenue of the state
to determine, collect, and enforce the tax, interest, and penalties.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-5-2008)
§ 33.039 INTEREST.
   Any tax imposed under §§
33.023 and
33.037 that is not paid by the date the tax is due shall bear interest as
prescribed for interest on delinquent municipal claims under the Act of May 16,
1923 (Pub. Law 207, No. 153) (53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq.), as amended, known as
“The Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act.” The interest rate shall be the lesser
of the interest rate imposed upon delinquent state taxes as provided in § 806
of the Act of April 9, 1929 (Pub. Law 343, No. 176) (72 P.S. § 806), as
amended, known as “The Fiscal Code,” or the maximum interest rate permitted
under the Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act for tax claims.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-5-2008)
PROPERTY IMPROVEMENT EXEMPTIONS
§ 33.050 CORPORATE LIMITS OF BOROUGH DECLARED DETERIORATED.
   It is hereby determined and declared that the entire corporate limits of the
borough is a deteriorated area as defined in Act 76 and, for the purposes
thereof, there is hereby exempt from real property taxation the assessed value
of improvements to deteriorated properties in the amounts and in accordance
with the provisions and limitations hereinafter set forth within the boundaries
of the borough in accordance with the Act.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 4, § 401) (Ord. 1-96, passed 8-5-1996; Ord. 04-01,
passed 8-6-2001)
§ 33.051 EXEMPTION ASSESSMENT.
   The exemption from taxes created hereunder shall be limited to the
additional assessment valuation attributable to 100% of the actual costs of
improvements to the deteriorated property for the first two years; 75% of the
actual costs of improvements to the deteriorated property for the third year;
50% of the actual costs of improvements of the deteriorated property for the
fourth year; and 25% of the actual costs of improvements of the deteriorated
property for the fifth year.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 4, § 402) (Ord. 1-96, passed 8-5-1996; Ord. 04-01,
passed 8-6-2001)
§ 33.052 PROCEDURE.
   The procedure for obtaining exemption under this subchapter shall be in
accordance with the provisions of the Act. In addition, any person,
association, or corporation applying for tax exemption pursuant to this
subchapter shall supply the County Assessment Office with a statement
projecting the number of new jobs created or existing jobs retained as a result
of the repair, construction, or reconstruction of a deteriorated property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 24, Pt. 4, § 403) (Ord. 1-96, passed 8-5-1996; Ord. 04-01,
passed 8-6-2001)
§ 33.053 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   The provisions of Act No. 76 of the state’s General Assembly, not herein
enumerated, shall, nevertheless, be incorporated as part of this subchapter by
reference. If any sentence, clause, or section or part of this subchapter is,
for any reason, found to be unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid, such
unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall not affect or impair any
of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, or sections, or parts of this
subchapter. It is hereby declared as the intent of the borough that this
subchapter would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal, or
invalid sentence, clause, section, or any part thereof not been included
herein.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 33.054 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall become effective, within the boundaries of the
borough, immediately upon adoption in accordance with the provisions of the Act
and shall automatically expire and terminate five years following the effective
date hereof; provided, however, that any person, association, or corporation
who has applied for the exemption prior to said expiration date shall be
entitled to a full five-year exemption if the application otherwise qualifies.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 8-6-2001)
LOCAL SERVICES TAX
§ 33.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR. The person, public employee, or private agency designated by the
political subdivision to collect and administer the tax herein imposed.
   DCED. The Department of Community and Economic Development of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   EARNED INCOME. Compensation as this term is defined in § 13 (relating to
earned income taxes) of the Local Tax Enabling Act, the Act of December 31,
1965, Pub. Law 1257, § 13, as amended, 53 P.S. § 6913, as amended.
   EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, limited liability
corporation, limited liability partnership, corporation, governmental body,
agency, or other entity employing one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission, or other compensation basis, including a self-employed person.
   INDIVIDUAL. Any person, male or female, engaged in any occupation, trade, or
profession within the corporate limits of the political subdivision.
   NET PROFITS. The net income from the operation of a business, profession, or
other activity, as this term is defined in § 13 (relating to earned income
taxes) of the Local Tax Enabling Act, the Act of Dec. 31, 1965, Pub. Law 1251,
§ 13, as amended, 53 P.S. § 6913, as amended.
   OCCUPATION. Any trade, profession, business, or undertaking of any type,
kind, or character, including services, domestic or other, earned on or
performed within the corporate limits of the political subdivision for which
compensation is charged or received; whether by means of salary, wages,
commission, or fees for services rendered.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. The area within the corporate limits of the Borough
of Bedford.
   TAX. The local services tax at the rate fixed in §
33.066.
   TAX YEAR. The period from January 1 until December 31 in any year; a
calendar year.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 33.066 LEVY OF TAX.
   (A)   For specific revenue purposes, an annual tax is hereby levied and
assessed, commencing January 1, 2008, upon the privilege of engaging in an
occupation with a primary place of employment within the borough during the tax
year. Each natural person who exercises such privilege for any length of time
during any tax year shall pay the tax for that year in the amount of $52,
assessed on a pro rata basis, in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   This tax may be used solely for the following purposes as the same may
be allocated by the borough from time to time:
      (1)   Emergency services, which shall include emergency medical services,
police services, and/or fire services;
      (2)   Road construction and/or maintenance;
      (3)   Reduction of property taxes; or
      (4)   Property tax relief through implementation of a homestead and
farmstead exclusion in accordance with 53 Pa.C.S. Ch. 85, Subch. F (relating to
homestead property exclusion).
   (C)   The political subdivision shall use no less than 25% of the funds
derived from the tax for emergency services. This tax is in addition to all
other taxes of any kind or nature heretofore levied by the political
subdivision. The tax shall be no more than $52 on each person for each calendar
year, irrespective of the number of political subdivisions within which a
person may be employed.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 33.067 EXEMPTION AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   Exception. Any person whose total earned income and net profits from
all sources within the political subdivision is less than $12,000 for any
calendar year in which the tax is levied is exempt from the payment of the tax
for that calendar year. In addition, the following persons are exempt from
payment of the tax:
      (1)   Any person who has served in any way or armed conflict in which the
United States was engaged and is honorably discharged or released under
honorable circumstances from active service if, as a result of military
service, the person is blind, paraplegic, or a double or quadruple amputee or
has a service-connected disability declared by the United States Veterans’
Administration or its successor to be a total 100% disability; and
      (2)   Any person who serves as a member of a reserve component of the
armed forces and is called to active duty at any time during the taxable year.
For the purposes of this division (A)(2), RESERVE COMPONENT OF THE ARMED FORCES
shall mean the United States Army Reserve, United States Navy Reserve, United
States Marine Corps Reserve, United States Coast Guard Reserve, United States
Air Force Reserve, the state’s Army National Guard, or the state’s Air National
Guard.
   (B)   Procedure to claim exemption.
      (1)   A person seeking to claim an exemption from the local services tax
may annually file an exemption certificate with the borough and with the
person’s employer affirming that the person reasonably expects to receive
earned income and net profits from all sources within the borough of less than
$12,000 in the calendar year for which the exemption certificate is filed. The
borough shall provide a copy of the exemption certificate to the tax collection
officer. The exemption certificate shall have attached to it a copy of all the
employee’s last pay stubs or W-2 forms from employment within the borough for
the year prior to the fiscal year for which the employee is requesting to be
exempted from the tax. Upon receipt of the exemption certificate and until
otherwise instructed by the borough or except as required by division (B)(2)
below, the employer shall not withhold the tax from the person during the
calendar year or the remainder of the calendar year for which the exemption
certificate applies. Employers shall ensure that the exemption certificate
forms are readily available to employees at all times and shall furnish each
new employee with a form at the time of hiring. The exemption certificate form
shall be the uniform form provided by the borough.
      (2)   With respect to a person who claimed an exemption for a given
calendar year from the tax, upon notification to an employer by the person or
by the borough that the person has received earned income and net profits from
all sources within the borough equal to or in excess of $12,000 in that
calendar year or that the person is otherwise ineligible for the tax exemption
for that calendar year, or upon an employer’s payment to the person of earned
income within the municipality in an amount equal to or in excess of $12,000 in
that calendar year, an employer shall withhold the local services tax from the
person under division (B)(3) below.
      (3)   If a person who claimed an exemption for a given calendar year from
the tax becomes subject to the tax for the calendar year under division (B)(2)
above, the employer shall withhold the tax for the remainder of that calendar
year. The employer shall withhold from the person, for the first payroll period
after receipt of the notification under division (B)(2) above, a lump sum equal
to the amount of tax that was not withheld from the person due to the exemption
claimed by the person under this division (B)(3), plus the per payroll amount
due for that first payroll period. The amount of tax withheld per payroll
period for the remaining payroll periods in that calendar year shall be the
same amount withheld for other employees. In the event the employment of a
person subject to withholding of the tax under this division (B) is
subsequently severed in that calendar year, the person shall be liable for any
outstanding balance of tax due, and the borough may pursue collection under
this subchapter.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) above, it is the intent of
this subsection that employers shall not be responsible for investigating
exemption certificates, monitoring tax exemption eligibility, or exempting any
employee from the local services tax.
   (C)   Refunds. The borough, in consultation with the collector and DCED,
shall establish procedures for the processing of refund claims for any tax paid
by any person who is eligible for exemption, which procedures shall be in
accord with provisions of the general municipal law relating to refunds of
overpayments and interest on overpayments. Refunds made within 75 days of a
refund request or 75 days after the last day the employer is required to remit
the tax for the last quarter of the calendar year, whichever is later, shall
not be subject to interest. No refunds shall be made for amounts overpaid in a
calendar year that do not exceed $1. The borough or the collector shall
determine eligibility for exemption and provide refunds to exempt persons.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 33.068 DUTY OF EMPLOYERS TO COLLECT.
   (A)   Each employer within the borough, as well as those employers situated
outside the borough but who engage in business within the borough, is hereby
charged with the duty of collecting the tax from each of his or her employees
engaged by him or her or performing for him or her within the borough and
making a return and payment thereof to the collector. Further, each employer is
hereby authorized to deduct this tax for each employee in his or her employ,
whether said employee is paid by salary, wage, or commission and whether or not
all such services are performed within the borough.
   (B)   A person subject to the tax shall be assessed by the employer a pro
rata share of the tax for each payroll period in which the person is engaging
in an occupation. The pro rata share of the tax assessed on the person for a
payroll period shall be determined by dividing the rate of the tax levied for
the calendar year by the number of payroll periods established by the employer
for the calendar year. For purposes of determining the pro rata share, an
employer shall round down the amount of the tax collected each payroll period
to the nearest one-hundredth of a dollar. Collection of the tax shall be made
on a payroll period basis for each payroll period in which the person is
engaging in an occupation, except as provided in division (D) below. For
purposes of this division (B), COMBINED RATE shall mean the aggregate annual
rate of the tax levied by the school district and the municipality.
   (C)   No person shall be subject to the payment of the local services tax by
more than one political subdivision during each payroll period.
   (D)   In the case of concurrent employment, an employer shall refrain from
withholding the tax if the employee provides a recent pay statement from a
principal employer that includes the name of the employer, the length of the
payroll period, and the amount of the tax withheld and a statement from the
employee that the pay statement is from the employee’s principal employer and
the employee will notify other employers of a change in principal place of
employment within two weeks of its occurrence. The employee’s statement shall
be provided on the form approved by DCED.
   (E)   The tax shall be no more than $52 on each person for each calendar
year, irrespective of the number of political subdivisions within which a
person may be employed. The borough shall provide a taxpayer a receipt of
payment upon request by the taxpayer.
   (F)   No employer shall be held liable for failure to withhold the tax or
for the payment of the withheld tax money to the borough if the failure to
withhold taxes arises from incorrect information submitted by the employee as
to the employee’s place or places of employment, the employee’s principal
office, or where the employee is principally employed. Further, an employer
shall not be liable for payment of the local services tax in an amount
exceeding the amount withheld by the employer if the employer complies with the
provisions of §
33.067(B) and this section and remits the amount so withheld in accordance with
this chapter.
   (G)   Employers shall be required to remit the local services tax 30 days
after the end of each quarter of a calendar year.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 33.069 RETURNS.
   Each employer shall prepare and file a return showing a computation of the
tax on forms to be supplied to the employer by the collector. If an employer
fails to file the return and pay the tax, whether or not the employer makes
collection thereof from the salary, wages, or commissions paid by him or her to
an employee, except as provided hereafter in this subchapter, the employer
shall be responsible for the payment of the tax in full as though the tax had
been originally levied against the employer.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 33.070 DATES FOR DETERMINING TAX LIABILITY AND PAYMENT.
   In each tax year, each employer shall use his or her employment records to
determine the number of employees from whom such tax shall be deducted and paid
over to the collector on or before the thirtieth day following the end of each
calendar quarter of each such tax year.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 33.071 SELF-EMPLOYED INDIVIDUALS.
   Each self-employed individual who performs services of any type or kind or
engages in any occupation or profession within a primary place of employment
within the borough shall be required to comply with this subchapter and pay the
pro rata portion of the tax due to the collector on or before the thirtieth day
following the end of each quarter.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 33.072 INDIVIDUALS ENGAGED IN MORE THAN ONE OCCUPATION.
   (A)   The situs of the tax shall be the place of employment on the first day
the person becomes subject to the tax during each payroll period. In the event
a person is engaged in more than one occupation, that is, concurrent
employment, or an occupation which requires the person working in more than one
political subdivision during a payroll period, the priority of claim to collect
the local services tax shall be in the following order:
      (1)   First, the political subdivision in which a person maintains his or
her principal office or is principally employed;
      (2)   Second, the political subdivision in which the person resides and
works if the tax is levied by that political subdivision; and
      (3)   Third, the political subdivision in which a person is employed and
which imposes the tax nearest in miles to the person’s home.
   (B)   In case of dispute, a tax receipt of the taxing authority for that
calendar year declaring that the taxpayer has made prior payment constitutes
prima facie certification of payment to all other political subdivisions.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 33.073 NONRESIDENTS SUBJECT TO TAX.
   All employers and self-employed individuals residing or having their places
of business outside of the borough but who perform services of any type or kind
or engage in any occupation or profession within the borough do, by virtue
thereof, agree to be bound by and subject themselves to the provisions,
penalties, and regulations promulgated under this subchapter with the same
force and effect as though they were residents of the borough. Further, any
individual engaged in an occupation within the borough and an employee of a
nonresidential employer may, for the purpose of this subchapter, be considered
a self-employed person, and in the event his or her tax is not paid, the
borough shall have the option of proceeding against either the employer or
employee for the collection of this tax as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 33.074 ADMINISTRATION OF TAX.
   (A)   The collector shall be appointed by resolution of the borough. It
shall be the duty of the collector to accept and receive payments of this tax
and to keep a record thereof showing the amount received by him or her from
each employer or self-employed person, together with the date the tax was
received.
   (B)   The collector is hereby charged with the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter and is hereby charged and empowered, subject to
municipal approval, to proscribe, adopt, and promulgate rules and regulations
relating to any matter pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this
subchapter, including provisions for the examination of payroll records of any
employer subject to this subchapter, the examination and correction of any
return made in compliance with this subchapter, and any payment alleged or
found to be incorrect or as to which overpayment is claimed or found to have
occurred. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the collector shall have the
right to appeal consistent with the Local Taxpayers Bill of Rights under Act 50
of 1998.
   (C)   The collector is hereby authorized to examine the books and payroll
records of any employer in order to verify the accuracy of any return made by
an employer or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax due. Each employer
is hereby directed and required to give the collector the means, facilities,
and opportunity for such examination.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 33.075 SUITS FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   In the event that any tax under this subchapter remains due or unpaid
30 days after the due dates above set forth, the collector may sue for the
recovery of any such tax due or unpaid under this subchapter, together with
interest and penalty.
   (B)   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate
of 6% on the amount of such tax shall be calculated beginning with the due date
of the tax and a penalty of 5% shall be added to the flat rate of such tax for
nonpayment thereof. Where suit is brought for the recovery of this tax or other
appropriate remedy undertaken, the individual liable therefor shall, in
addition, be responsible and liable for the costs of collection.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 33.076 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to empower the
borough to levy and collect the tax hereby imposed on any occupation not within
the taxing power of the borough under the Constitution of the United States and
the laws of the state.
   (B)   If the tax hereby imposed under the provisions of this subchapter
shall be held by any court of competent jurisdiction to be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States or of the laws of the state as to any
individual, the decision of the court shall not affect or impair the right to
impose or collect said tax or the validity of the tax so imposed on other
persons or individuals as herein provided.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 12-3-2007)
OCCUPATION TAX
§ 33.090 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted under authority of the Local Tax Enabling Act,
Pub. Law 1257, No. 511, December 31, 1965, 53 P.S. §§ 6901 et seq. as hereafter
amended, supplemented, modified, or reenacted by the state’s General Assembly.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 33.091 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPENSATION. Salaries, wages, commissions, tips, bonuses, fees, gross
receipts, or any other earned income.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, partnership, limited partnership, unincorporated
association, institution, trust, corporation, governmental agency, or any other
body engaged in business or situated in the Borough of Bedford, employing one
or more employees engaged in any occupation.
   OCCUPATION. Any livelihood, job, trade, profession, business, or enterprise
of any kind, including services, domestic or other, for which monetary
compensation is received or charged.
   TAX COLLECTOR. Tax Collector of the Borough of Bedford elected or designated
by the borough to collect or receive the taxes imposed by this subchapter.
   TAXPAYER. Any natural person liable for the tax levied by this subchapter.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 33.092 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   A tax for general revenue purposes, in the amount of $10, is hereby imposed
upon the privilege of engaging in an occupation within the borough, in the year
2004, and in each following calendar year. Each natural person who exercises
such privilege for any length of time in any calendar year, beginning with the
year 2004, shall pay the tax in accordance with the provisions hereof. The
amount of the tax shall be reduced from $10 to $5 for any year in which the
Bedford Area School District also adopts an occupational privilege tax and the
Local Tax Enabling Act limits the total tax to $10.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 33.093 COLLECTION THROUGH EMPLOYERS.
   (A)   Each employer shall register with the tax collector the employer’s
name, address, and other information the tax collector may require within 15
days after the effective date of this subchapter or within 15 days after first
becoming an employer.
   (B)   For each taxpayer employed for any length of time on or after January
1, 2004, each employer shall deduct the tax from compensation payable to the
taxpayer, file a return on a form prescribed by the tax collector, and pay to
said tax collector the full amount of taxes deducted on or before April 30 of
the current tax year. For each taxpayer for whom no prior deduction has been
made, who is employed after the effective date of this subchapter and in any of
the three-month periods ending June 30, September 30, and December 31, of the
tax year, each employer shall deduct the tax from compensation payable to the
taxpayer, file a return on a form prescribed by the tax collector, and pay said
collector the full amount of all taxes deducted, on or before July 31 or
October 31 of the current tax year, or January 31 of the following year,
respectively.
   (C)   Any employer who discontinues business or ceases operation before
December 31 of any year during which this tax is in effect, shall file the
return hereinabove required and pay the tax to the tax collector within 15 days
after discontinuing business or ceasing operations.
   (D)   The failure of any employer to deduct the tax shall not relieve the
employee from the duty to file a return and pay the tax. Any employer who fails
to deduct the tax as required by this section, or who fails to pay such tax to
the collector, shall be liable for such tax in full, as though the tax had
originally been levied against such employer.
   (E)   As to employees who present official receipts evidencing prior payment
of the tax imposed hereby either directly or by collection through employers,
the employer shall not deduct the tax but shall maintain adequate records
concerning such employees.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 33.094 DIRECT PAYMENT BY TAXPAYERS.
   Every taxpayer who is self-employed or whose tax for any other reason is not
collected under §
33.093 shall file a return on a form prescribed by the tax collector and shall
pay the tax directly to said collector. Each such taxpayer who first becomes
subject to the tax after the effective date of this subchapter, and on or
before March 31 of the current tax year, shall file the return and pay the tax
on or before April 30 of the current tax year, and each such taxpayer who first
becomes subject to the tax after March 31 of the current tax year, shall file
the return and pay the tax on or before July 31 or October 31 of the current
tax year, or January 31 of the following year, whichever of such payment dates
first occurs at least 30 days after the taxpayer becomes subject to the tax.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 33.095 NONRESIDENT TAXPAYERS.
   Both residents and nonresident taxpayers shall, by virtue of engaging in an
occupation within the borough, be subject to the tax and the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 33.096 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The tax collector shall collect and receive the taxes, interests, fines, and
penalties imposed by this subchapter, and shall maintain records showing the
amounts received and the dates such amounts were received. The tax collector
shall prescribe and issue all forms necessary for the administration of the tax
and may adopt and enforce regulations relating to any matter pertaining to the
administration of this subchapter. The tax collectors may examine the records
of any employer and/or supposed employer or of any taxpayer in order to
ascertain the tax due or verify the accuracy of any return. Every employer or
supposed employer and every taxpayer or supposed taxpayer shall give the tax
collector all means, facilities, and opportunity for the examinations hereby
authorized.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 33.097 COLLECTION.
   The tax collector shall collect by suit or otherwise, all taxes, interests,
costs, fines, and penalties due under this subchapter and unpaid. If, for any
reason, any tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate of 6% per year on
the amount of unpaid taxes and an additional penalty of 0.5% of the amount of
the unpaid tax, for each month or fraction of month during which the tax
remains unpaid shall be added and collected. Whenever suit is brought for the
recovery of unpaid tax, the taxpayer shall, in addition, be liable for the
costs of collection as well as for interest and penalties. The tax collector
may accept payment under protest of the tax claimed by the borough in any case
where any person disputes the borough’s claim for the tax. If a court of
competent jurisdiction thereafter decides that there has been overpayment to
the tax collector, the tax collector shall refund the amount of the overpayment
to the person who paid under protest. Any action instituted for such judicial
determination shall be instituted within two years of the last day of the
period for which the tax is disputed or claim made. All refunds shall be made
in conformity with the procedure prescribed by the borough.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 10-6-2003)
FAILURE TO RECEIVE REAL ESTATE TAX NOTICE
§ 33.100 EFFECT OF FAILURE TO RECEIVE REAL ESTATE TAX NOTICE.
   (A)   As provided in section 7 of the Local Tax Collection Law, 72 P.S. §
5511.7, except as set forth in division (B) of this section, failure to receive
notice shall not relieve any taxpayer from the payment of any taxes imposed by
any taxing district, and such taxpayer shall be charged with his taxes as
though he had received notice.
   (B)   Waiver of additional charges pursuant to the Act of Jul. 11, 2022,
P.L. 701, No. 57. Pursuant to the Act of Jul. 11, 2022, P.L. 701, No. 57, the
tax collector shall waive additional charges for real estate taxes beginning in
the first tax year after the effective date of the Act of Jul. 11, 2022, P.L.
701, No. 57, if the taxpayer does all of the following:
      (1)   Provides a waiver request of additional charges to the tax
collector in possession of the claim within 12 months of the qualifying event;
      (2)   Attests that a notice was not received;
      (3)   Provides the tax collector in possession of the claim with one of
the following:
         (a)   A copy of the deed showing the date of real property transfer;
         (b)   A copy of the title following the acquisition of a mobile or
manufactured home subject to taxation as real estate showing the date of
issuance or a copy of an executed lease agreement between the owner of a mobile
or manufactured home and the owner of a parcel of land on which the mobile or
manufactured home will be situated showing the date the lease commences; and
         (c)   Pays the face value amount of the tax notice for the real estate
tax with the waiver request.
   (C)   Requests for waiver of additional charges pursuant to this section
shall be made on a form provided by the Pennsylvania Department of Community
and Economic Development, available upon request from the Borough, which form
shall include a space for attestation by the taxpayer.
   (D)   A taxpayer granted a waiver and paying real estate tax as provided in
this division shall not be subject to an action at law or equity for an
additional charge, and any claim existing or lien filed for an additional
charge shall be deemed satisfied.
   (E)   A tax collector that accepts a waiver and payment in good faith in
accordance with this section shall not be personally liable for any amount due
or arising from the real estate tax that is the subject in the waiver.
   (F)   As used in this section, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings given to them in this division unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise:
      ADDITIONAL CHARGE. Any interest, fee, penalty, or charge accruing to and
in excess of the face amount of the real estate tax as provided in the real
estate tax notice.
      QUALIFYING EVENT. For purposes of real property, the date of transfer of
ownership.
   (G)   For purposes of manufactured or mobile homes, the date of transfer of
ownership or the date a lease agreement commences for the original location or
relocation of a mobile or manufactured home on a parcel of land not owned by
the owner of the mobile or manufactured home. The term does not include the
renewal of a lease for the same location.
   (H)   The term TAX COLLECTOR shall mean a tax collector as defined in
section 2 of the Local Tax Collection Law, 72 P.S. § 5511.2, a delinquent tax
collector as provided in section 26a of the Local Tax Collection Law, 72 P.S. §
5511.26a, the tax claim bureau or an alternative collector of taxes as provided
in the Real Estate Tax Sale Law, 72 P.S. § 5860.101, et seq., an employee,
agent or assignee authorized to collect the tax, a purchaser of claim for the
tax or any other person authorized by law or contract to secure collection of,
or take any action at law or in equity against, the person or property of the
taxpayer for the real estate tax or amounts, liens or claims derived from the
real estate tax.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever makes any false or untrue statement on any return required by
§§
33.065 to
33.076, or whoever refuses inspection of the books, records, or accounts in his
or her custody and control setting forth the number of employees subject to
this tax who are in his or her employment, or whoever fails or refuses to file
any return required by §§
33.065 to
33.076, shall be guilty of a violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $600 and costs of prosecution, and, in
default of payment and of such fine and costs, to imprisonment for not more
than 30 days. The action to enforce the penalty herein prescribed may be
instituted against any person in charge of the business of any employer who
shall have failed or who refuses to file a return required by §§
33.065 to
33.076.
   (C)   An employer or taxpayer who makes a false or untrue statement on any
return required by §§
33.090 to
33.097, who refuses inspection of his or her records in his or her custody and
control setting forth his or her employees subject to this tax, who fails or
refuses to file a return required by §§
33.090 to
33.097, or who violates any other provisions of §§
33.090 to
33.097, shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not more
than $600, and in default of payment, to imprisonment for a term not to exceed
30 days.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 10-6-2003; Ord. 2007-03, passed 12-3-2007)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   STORMWATER
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Declaration of policy
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Licensing
   
50.04   Applications
   
50.05   Collection, transportation, and processing
   
50.06   Delivery to designated facility
   
50.07   Emptying of vehicles
   
50.08   Fees charged to haulers
   
50.09   Collections by licensed haulers; preparation of waste
   
50.10   Disposal sites
   
50.11   Accumulation of waste upon private property; disposal of construction
and demolition waste; composting
   
50.12   Remittance of fees and fines
   
50.13   Rules and regulations; fee schedules
   
50.14   Actions
   
50.15   Inspections
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 93
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 95
§ 50.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The Borough Council, recognizing its responsibilities under the state’s
Solid Waste Management Act, 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq., and the state’s
Municipal Waste Planning, Recycling, and Waste Reduction Act, 53 P.S. §§
4000.101 et seq., and pursuant as well to the powers given it under the Borough
Code, particularly 53 P.S. § 46202, hereby determines, declares, and finds as
follows.
   (A)   The closure of municipal waste disposal sites in the Bedford-Fulton-
Huntingdon Counties service area, and the closure or pending closure of
disposal sites in neighboring counties, has created an increasingly difficult
disposal problem for the borough.
   (B)   The borough’s waste haulers must travel increasingly greater distance
at increasing cost to borough residents for proper disposal.
   (C)   The continuation of these conditions indicate that the borough and the
Authority will face a crisis of waste accumulation that threatens the
sanitation, health, and safety of the borough’s residents.
   (D)   Improper and inadequate solid waste practices would create public
health hazards, environmental pollution, and economic loss, would cause
irreparable harm to the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (E)   The provisions of this chapter set forth hereinafter will promote the
public health, safety, and welfare, and eliminate or reduce the public health
hazards, environmental pollution, and economic losses caused by inadequate and
improper solid waste practices.
   (F)   The actions hereafter prescribed are in furtherance of the goals and
policies of the state’s Solid Waste Management Act and the official plan for a
solid waste management system in the Authority service area.
   (G)   The actions hereafter prescribed are in conformity with the existing
official plan of solid waste management adopted for the borough, particularly
as it relates to the eventual development of a solid waste disposal system for
the Authority and a requirement that waste collection be done by independent,
private collectors under license by the municipalities.
   (H)   The actions herein prescribed are in conformity with the planning now
under way by the three county planning officers for revising the official plan
for solid waste management.
   (I)   Accordingly, it is the purpose of the Act to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Provide for the effective implementation of the state’s Solid Waste
Management Act, 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq., and the official plan for solid
waste management of the borough;
      (2)   Provide for the effective collection, transportation, processing,
and interim and final disposal of municipal waste which is generated or present
within the borough;
      (3)   Require licenses for municipal waste collection and transportation;
      (4)   Provide for the collection of municipal waste in an appropriate,
sanitary fashion so as to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and
      (5)   Reduce the costs of municipal waste collection and disposal by
providing for integrated and efficient processing of municipal waste at a
transfer or disposal facility hereinafter described.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 101) (Ord. 2-87, passed 6-1-1987; Ord. 2-2001;
passed 7-2-2001)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   In this chapter, the singular shall include the plural and the
masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter. Other words not defined
herein shall have the meaning set forth in § 103 of the state’s Solid Waste
Management Act.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORITY. The County of Bedford or a municipal authority, agency,
contractor, or other entity designated by the County of Bedford to administer,
implement, and/or enforce the official plan for solid waste management for the
borough.
      BULKY WASTE. Large items of refuse including, but not limited to,
appliances, furniture, large auto parts, trees, branches, and stumps.
      CARTWAY. Paved area of street, avenue, alley, and the like.
      GARBAGE. Municipal waste resulting from animal, grain, fruit, or
vegetable matter.
      HAULER. Any person, firm, co-partnership, association, or corporation who
has been licensed by the Authority to collect, transport, and dispose of refuse
for a fee as herein prescribed.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE.
         (a)   Any garbage, refuse, sludge from an industrial or other
wastewater treatment plant, sludge from a water supply treatment plant, or air
pollution control facility and other discarded material including solid,
liquid, semi-solid, or contained gaseous material resulting from municipal,
commercial, industrial, institutional, mining, or agricultural operations, and
from community activities, or any combination of the above, but does not
include solid or dissolved material in domestic sewage, or solid or dissolved
materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges which are point
sources subject to permits under § 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act, as amended (86 Stat. 880), or source, special nuclear, or by-product
material as defined by the U.S. Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (68 Stat.
923), which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or
infectious characteristics, may:
            1.   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality
or an increase in morbidity in either an individual or total population; or
            2.   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of,
or otherwise managed.
         (b)   The term HAZARDOUS WASTE shall not include coal refuse as
defined in the Act of September 24, 1968 (Pub. Law 1987, No. 394), known as the
“Clean Streams Law.”
      MUNICIPAL WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, industrial lunchroom or office
waste, and other material including solid, liquid, semi-solid, or contained
gaseous material resulting from operation of residential, municipal,
commercial, or institutional establishments and from community activities and
any sludge not meeting the definition of residual or hazardous waste hereunder
from a municipal, commercial, or institutional water supply treatment plant,
wastewater treatment plant, or air pollution control facility.
      MUNICIPALITY. The Borough of Bedford, and its agencies.
      NUISANCE. Any condition, structure, or improvement which shall constitute
a threat to the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of the borough.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association,
institution, cooperative enterprise, or any other legal entity whatsoever which
is recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties. In any provisions of
this chapter prescribing a fine, imprisonment, or penalty, or any combination
of the foregoing, the term PERSON shall include the officers and directors of
any corporation or other legal entity having officers and directors.
      RESIDUAL WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, other discarded material, or other
waste including solid, liquid, semi-solid, or contained gaseous materials
resulting from industrial, mining, and agricultural operations and any sludge
from an industrial, mining, and agricultural water supply treatment facility or
air pollution control facility, provided that it is not hazardous. The term
RESIDUAL WASTE shall not include coal refuse as defined in the Coal Refuse
Disposal Control Act. RESIDUAL WASTE shall not include treatment sludges from
coal mine drainage treatment plants, disposal of which is being carried on
pursuant and in compliance with a valid permit issued pursuant to the Clean
Streams Law.
      REFUSE. All municipal waste except garbage and other decomposable matter.
This category includes, but is not limited to, ashes, bedding, cardboard, cans,
crockery, glass, paper, wood, and yard cleanings.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 102) (Ord. 2-87, passed 6-1-1987; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
§ 50.03 LICENSING.
   No person may haul, collect, or remove municipal waste other than his or her
own within the borough without having a valid license to do so from the
Authority.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 103) (Ord. 2-87, passed 6-1-1987) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications shall be granted provided the applicant is found to meet the
requirements of the Solid Waste Management Act of 1980 (Act 97), other
applicable federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or rules, including this
chapter, and the applicant executes an agreement with the Authority under which
he or she agrees to comply with the provisions of this chapter and the rules
and the regulations promulgated hereunder.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 104) (Ord. 2-87, passed 6-1-1987; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
§ 50.05 COLLECTION, TRANSPORTATION, AND PROCESSING.
   (A)   All municipal waste within the borough, upon collection by the hauler,
will be deemed to be the property of the hauler until delivered to a disposal
facility designated by the Authority.
   (B)   Residential collections shall be made at least once every week.
   (C)   Collections from commercial establishments must be made once every
week and shall be made more often if necessary to control health hazards,
flies, odors, and unsightly appearances.
   (D)   No vehicle used in collecting, transporting, disposing, or removing
municipal waste shall scatter any of the contents on the streets, highways,
alleys, or private property within the borough. Vehicles used to haul municipal
waste must be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and shall meet all
the requirements of the borough and the Department of Environmental Protection.
Any deficiency must be corrected promptly by the hauler. The hauler shall
maintain his or her equipment in such a condition as to be able to maintain the
collection schedule.
   (E)   Trucks and other vehicles used by licensed haulers for collecting,
transporting, disposing, or removing any municipal waste shall meet the
following requirements.
      (1)   All municipal waste shall be enclosed within the confines of the
cargo area, which area shall be watertight.
      (2)   Dump trucks, if constructed with completely metal beds and lacking
additional wooden side boards, such trucks shall be covered with a waterproof
tarp.
      (3)   Dump trucks or pickup trucks on which additional wooden side boards
have been installed shall not have the side boards extending above the legal
height and shall be covered with a waterproof tarp.
      (4)   Passenger vehicles used for transporting municipal waste shall keep
the waste within the confines of the vehicle at all times. Access in the
vehicle to the cargo area shall be kept closed at all times, without the use of
additional aids as ropes, tie-downs, and other similar mechanisms.
      (5)   All tarps as required in this section shall be secured on all four
sides at all times, except during actual loading and unloading.
      (6)   None of divisions (E)(1) to (E)(5) above shall hinder the separate
collection of recyclable materials in special bins, racks, and the like, so
long as the materials are not allowed to scatter or create a nuisance.
   (F)   After collection by a hauler, all municipal waste shall be removed
from the borough within 12 hours of the time it was collected.
   (G)   No municipal waste that has been collected by a hauler (whether
generated within or outside the borough) shall be kept, stored, or maintained
within the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 105) (Ord. 2-87, passed 6-1-1987; Ord. 2-2001;
passed 7-2-2001)
§ 50.06 DELIVERY TO DESIGNATED FACILITY.
   All municipal waste collected as aforesaid shall be delivered exclusively to
a facility as may be designated in writing by the Authority for processing and
ultimate disposal as determined by the Authority. Haulers shall take only
municipal waste to the facility designated by the Authority. No nonconforming
waste including, but not limited to, hazardous or radioactive waste, may be
brought to the facility designated by the Authority; except residual waste may
be brought to the facility if the Authority has given advance written approval.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 106) (Ord. 2-87, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 50.07 EMPTYING OF VEHICLES.
   All vehicles shall be emptied at the designated facility as often as deemed
necessary by the Authority so as to avoid creating a public nuisance as
hereinafter described.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 107) (Ord. 2-87, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 50.08 FEES CHARGED TO HAULERS.
   The fees charged to haulers by the operators of the designated facility
shall be added on a pro rata basis to the rates charged by the haulers to the
persons whose municipal waste is being collected and hauled. All haulers shall
remit as often as directed by the Authority to the operator of the designated
facility the charges for waste deposited.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 108) (Ord. 2-87, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 50.09 COLLECTIONS BY LICENSED HAULERS; PREPARATION OF WASTE.
   (A)   No person shall permit anyone other than a hauler licensed pursuant to
this chapter to collect or haul municipal waste generated by that person;
except a person may haul his or her own waste to a designated facility.
   (B)   Each person within the borough who employs a licensed hauler to
collect municipal waste shall prepare the waste as follows.
      (1)   All waste shall be drained of liquid insofar as practical and shall
be placed in sanitary sealed containers and/or cans made of nonabsorbent
material.
      (2)   Containers shall not exceed 30 gallons in size; cans shall be of
rust-resistant material and shall be furnished and kept clean by the customer
and shall be replaced by such customer when no longer in satisfactory
condition.
      (3)   All refuse which cannot be disposed of in containers shall be
assembled, boxed, or bundled separately in such a way that it can be handled
conveniently and will not be disseminated by wind or otherwise while awaiting
collection.
      (4)   All refuse except bulky waste shall be of units which can be
handled by one person and shall be placed in containers or piled and assembled
in such a way as to facilitate collection.
      (5)   All containers shall be kept on the customers’ property until the
night before scheduled pickup at which time it may be placed on the edge of the
cartway.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 109) (Ord. 2-87, passed 6-1-1987) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 DISPOSAL SITES.
   Unless they have a currently valid disposal permit from the Department of
Environmental Protection, no person, firm, or corporation shall use or permit
to be used any spot or place within the borough as a disposal site for
municipal waste material.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 110) (Ord. 2-87, passed 6-1-1987; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.11 ACCUMULATION OF WASTE UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY; DISPOSAL OF CONSTRUCTION
AND DEMOLITION WASTE; COMPOSTING.
   (A)   No person shall accumulate or permit to accumulate municipal waste
materials upon private property in the borough except in such limited
quantities and for such limited periods of time as shall ensure that no
annoyance, nuisance, or health or fire hazard shall be created thereby, and any
unauthorized accumulation of municipal waste on any premises is hereby declared
to be a nuisance and is prohibited.
   (B)   Disposal of construction and demolition waste shall be in conformance
with the rules and regulations of the Department of Environmental Protection.
Composting shall be permitted to the extent authorized by the regulations of
the Department of Environmental Protection.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 111) (Ord. 2-87, passed 6-1-1987; Ord. 2-2001;
passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12 REMITTANCE OF FEES AND FINES.
   All moneys collected pertaining to this chapter, either by fees or fines,
shall be remitted to the Authority for use in implementing the official solid
waste plan applicable to the county of which the borough is a part.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 113) (Ord. 2-87, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 50.13 RULES AND REGULATIONS; FEE SCHEDULES.
   The Authority is hereby authorized to promulgate rules and regulations and
to issue forms and set fee schedules as necessary to implement this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 114) (Ord. 2-87, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 50.14 ACTIONS.
   Actions taken pursuant to this chapter are subject to the Local Agency Act
to the extent required by law.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 115) (Ord. 2-87, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 50.15 INSPECTIONS.
   Both the borough and the Authority are authorized to conduct inspections,
issue citations and notices, and to take all other necessary and appropriate
action to enforce this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 116) (Ord. 2-87, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation or failure to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter or the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to this chapter, is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance which may be abated by either the
borough or the Authority. All costs incurred by either the borough or the
Authority in abating a nuisance may be recovered from the responsible party.
Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $25 or more than $1,000, plus costs and, in default of payment of said
fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that
a violation of this chapter continues shall constitute a separate offense. The
borough and the Authority, jointly and separately, are authorized to enforce
this chapter and to obtain injunctive relief mandating compliance with the
requirements of this chapter and the regulations promulgated pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 112) (Ord. 2-87, passed 6-1-1987; Ord. 2-2001;
passed 7-2-2001)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Use of public water system required
   
51.03   Building mains and connections
   
51.04   Rules and regulations governing mains and connections to mains
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. The Bedford Borough Water Authority, a municipality authority of
the state.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Bedford, Bedford County, Pennsylvania, a municipal
corporation of the state, acting by and through its Council or, in appropriate
cases, acting by and through its authorized representatives.
   BUILDING MAIN. The extension from the water system of any structure to the
lateral of a main.
   COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property within this borough upon which there is
erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy,
or use by human beings or animals.
   LATERAL. The part of the water system extending from a main to the curb line
or, if there shall be no curb line, to the property line or, if no such lateral
shall be provided, then LATERAL shall mean that portion of, or place in, a main
which is provided for connection of any building main.
   MAIN. Any pipe or conduit constituting a part of the water system used or
usable for water distribution purposes.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any improved property.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, association, society, trust,
corporation, municipality, municipality authority, or other group or entity
   WATER SYSTEM. All facilities, as of any particular time, for supply,
transmission, and distribution of water owned by the Authority.
(Prior Code, Ch. 26, Pt. 1, § 101) (Ord. 3-92, passed 3-2-1992)
§ 51.02 USE OF PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of any improved property abutting upon any street in which
there is a main constituting part of the water system shall connect such
improved property with such main via a lateral and shall use such water system,
in such manner as the Authority may require, within 90 days after notice to
such owner from this borough to make such connection; subject, however, to such
limitations and restrictions as shall be established herein or otherwise shall
be established by this borough, from time to time.
   (B)   The notice by this borough to make a connection to a main, referred to
in division (A) above, shall consist of a copy of this chapter, including any
amendments and/or supplements at the time in effect, or a summary hereof, and a
written or printed document requiring the connection in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and specifying that such connection shall be made
within 90 days after the date such notice is given or served. Such notice may
be given or served at any time after the appropriate lateral is in place that
can deliver water to the particular improved property. Such notice shall be
given to or served upon the owner by personal service or by registered mail to
his or her last known address, or by such other means as shall be permitted by
law.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the borough, with the
consent of the Authority, shall have the right to grant an exemption from the
terms of this section to permit the use of a water well for the sole purpose of
watering or irrigating parks, athletic fields, or playgrounds which are owned
or leased by a municipal subdivision or school district or which are otherwise
primarily used for public recreational purposes.
(Prior Code, Ch. 26, Pt. 1, § 102) (Ord. 3-92, passed 3-2-1992; Ord. 2-99,
passed 5-3-1999)
§ 51.03 BUILDING MAINS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall uncover, shall connect with, shall make any opening
into or shall use, shall alter or shall disturb, in any manner, any lateral or
any other part of the water system without first obtaining a permit, in
writing, from the Authority.
   (B)   Application for a permit required under division (A) above shall be
made by the owner of the improved property served or to be served, or by the
duly authorized agent of such owner.
   (C)   No person shall make or shall cause to be made a connection of any
improved property with a lateral until such person shall have fulfilled each of
the following conditions:
      (1)   Such person shall have notified the Authority of the desire and
intention to connect such improved property to a lateral;
      (2)   Such person shall have applied for and shall have obtained a permit
as required by division (A) above;
      (3)   Such person shall have given the appropriate representative of the
Authority at least 48 hours’ notice of the time when such connection will be
made so that the Authority or this borough may supervise and inspect, or may
cause to be supervised and inspected, the work of connection and necessary
testing; and
      (4)   If applicable, such person shall have furnished satisfactory
evidence to the appropriate representative of the Authority that any tapping,
connection, and/or customer facility fee that may be charged and imposed by the
Authority against the owner of each improved property who connects such
improved property to a lateral has been paid.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, each improved property
shall be connected separately and independently with a lateral through a
building main. Grouping of more than one improved property on one building main
shall not be permitted, except under special circumstances and for good cause
shown, but then only after special permission of the Authority, in writing,
shall have been secured and only subject to such rules, regulations, and
conditions as may be prescribed by the Authority and this borough.
   (E)   All costs and expenses of construction of a building main and all
costs and expenses of connection of a building main to a lateral shall be borne
by the owner of the improved property to be connected; and such owner shall
indemnify and shall save harmless this borough and the Authority from all loss
or damage that may be occasioned, directly or indirectly, as a result of
construction of a building main or of connection of a building main to a
lateral.
   (F)   A building main shall be connected to a lateral at the place
designated by this borough or by the Authority. A smooth, neat joint shall be
made and the connection of a building main to the lateral shall be made secure
and watertight.
   (G)   If the owner of any improved property located within this borough and
abutting upon any street in which there is a main constituting part of the
water system, after 90 days notice from this borough, in accordance with §
51.02(A), shall fail to connect such improved property, as required, this
borough may enter upon such improved property and may construct such connection
and may collect from such owner the costs and expenses thereof in the manner
permitted by law.
(Prior Code, Ch. 26, Pt. 1, § 103) (Ord. 3-92, passed 3-2-1992)
§ 51.04 RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING MAINS AND CONNECTIONS TO MAINS.
   (A)   No building main shall be covered until it has been inspected and
approved by the Authority. If any part of a building main is covered before so
being inspected and approved, it shall be uncovered for inspection at the cost
and expense of the owner of the improved property to be connected to a lateral.
   (B)   Every building main of any improved property shall be maintained in a
sanitary and safe operating condition by the owner of such improved property.
   (C)   Every excavation for a building main shall be guarded adequately with
barricades and lights to protect all persons from damage and injury. Any
street, sidewalk, or other public property disturbed in the course of
installation of a building main shall be restored, at the cost and expense of
the owner of such improved property being connected, in a manner satisfactory
to the Authority and this borough.
   (D)   If any person shall fail or shall refuse, upon receipt of a notice of
this borough or the Authority, in writing, to remedy any unsatisfactory
condition with respect to a building main within 60 days of receipt of such
notice, this borough or the Authority may refuse to permit such person to be
served by the water system until such unsatisfactory condition shall have been
remedied to the satisfaction of this borough and of the Authority.
   (E)   This borough reserves the right to adopt, from time to time,
additional rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary and proper relating
to connections with a lateral and with the water system, which additional rules
and regulations, to the extent appropriate, and shall be construed as part of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 26, Pt. 1, § 104) (Ord. 3-92, passed 3-2-1992) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of said fine and
costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 26, Pt. 1, § 105) (Ord. 3-92, passed 3-2-1992; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
Connection and Uses Generally
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Sewer connections required; time limit for making connection; Authority
for borough to make connection
   
52.03   Tapping permit required
   
52.04   Certain receptacles unlawful where sewer connection required
   
52.05   Time limit for removal of prohibited receptacles
   
52.06   Certain materials not to be discharged into sewer system
   
52.07   Access to premises by borough and Authority personnel
Illegal Connections and Prohibited Conditions
   
52.20   Illegal connections, generally
   
52.21   Definitions
   
52.22   Pre-sale compliance required
   
52.23   Temporary document of certification
   
52.24   Pre-connection compliance required
   
52.25   Reduction of inflow and infiltration
   
52.26   Right of inspection
   
52.27   Failure to eliminate inflow and infiltration
   
52.28   Failure to connect or reconnect
   
52.29   Corrective action plan
   
52.30   Connection to storm water system
   
52.31   Right to enforce
 
   
52.99   Penalty
CONNECTION AND USES GENERALLY
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. The Municipal Authority of the Borough of Bedford, County of
Bedford, Pennsylvania, and its duly authorized representatives and employees.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Bedford, County of Bedford, Pennsylvania, and its
duly authorized representatives and employees.
   BUILDING. Each single-family dwelling unit, multiple dwelling unit, multi-
use unit, store, shop, office, business, institutional, commercial, or
industrial unit contained within any structure, erected and intended for
continuous periodic habitation, occupancy, or use by human beings or animals
and from which structure wastewater or pollutants may be discharged into the
Authority’s POTW.
   CONNECTION. The part of the wastewater system extending from the end of the
service line to the plumbing fixtures in the building.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   PERSON. Includes any person, partnership, firm, organization, and
corporation.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned in this instance by the Municipal
Authority of the borough. This definition includes any sewers that convey
wastewater to the POTW treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers, or
other conveyances not connected to the facility providing treatment. For the
purposes of this subchapter, POTW shall also include any sewers that convey
wastewater to the POTW from persons outside the borough who are, by contract or
agreement with the Municipal Authority of the borough, users of the Municipal
Authority’s POTW.
   SANITARY SEWER MAIN. The part of the POTW which collects wastewater from the
service lines and conveys it to the treatment plant.
   SERVICE LINE. The part of the POTW including the wye, saddle, and pipe from
the sanitary sewer main to the property line (connection).
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried domestic or industrial wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water, and storm water that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or permitted
to enter the POTW.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Pt. 1, § 101) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 52.02 SEWER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED; TIME LIMIT FOR MAKING CONNECTION; AUTHORITY
FOR BOROUGH TO MAKE CONNECTION.
   All owners of property abutting or adjoining any street, lane, avenue,
alley, highway, or public right-of-way in the borough in which there is a
sanitary sewer main owned, operated, or maintained by the Municipal Authority
of the borough are hereby required to and shall connect at their own cost, in
accordance with the regulations and charges of the Authority and the borough,
the buildings erected on their respective properties to such sewer main within
90 days after receiving notice, in writing, by the Secretary of the borough to
make connection and, upon his, her, their, or its failure to make connection
within such period, the borough may and shall make the same and collect the
costs thereof from the owner of such property by municipal claim or in an
action assumpsit. Posting of notice upon the premises for said period shall be
equivalent of written notice.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Pt. 1, § 102) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 52.03 TAPPING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person hereby required to connect to said sanitary sewer main shall make
application for a tapping permit to the Secretary of the Municipal Authority of
the borough or such person as may be designated by the Municipal Authority of
the borough, on forms provided by the Authority and shall pay to the Authority
a tapping fee in accordance with its rent schedule and shall not open any
street, lane, avenue, alley, highway, or public right-of-way, or make any
connection to the sanitary sewer system main until a written tapping permit has
been issued and fee paid.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Pt. 1, § 103) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 52.04 CERTAIN RECEPTACLES UNLAWFUL WHERE SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   From and after passage of this subchapter and 90 days after receiving notice
as provided in §
52.02, it shall be unlawful for any person or property abutting or adjoining
any street, lane, avenue, alley, highway, or public right-of-way in which a
sanitary sewer system is available to erect, construct, or maintain or use any
privy, cesspool, septic tank, or similar receptacle on such premises for
receiving sewage.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Pt. 1, § 104) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
52.99
§ 52.05 TIME LIMIT FOR REMOVAL OF PROHIBITED RECEPTACLES.
   Upon notice from the borough or Authority to persons maintaining or using
privies, cesspools, septic tanks, or similar receptacles in violation of this
subchapter, such persons shall immediately cease such maintenance and use, and
each ten-day period such privies, cesspools, septic tanks, or similar
receptacle so maintained and/or used after receipt of such notice shall be
deemed a separate offense of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Pt. 1, § 105) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
52.99
§ 52.06 CERTAIN MATERIALS NOT TO BE DISCHARGED INTO SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   After ten days’ written notice, or after notice has been posted upon
the premises for said period, it shall be unlawful for any person to discharge
or permit to be discharged into the sewer system any pollutant or wastewater
which will interfere with the operation or performance of the POTW.
   (B)   The pollutant and wastewater discharge parameters are contained in the
rules and regulations as adopted by the Municipal Authority of the borough and
the laws or rules and regulations as enacted or promulgated by the state and
the United States of America.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Pt. 1, § 106) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
52.99
§ 52.07 ACCESS TO PREMISES BY BOROUGH AND AUTHORITY PERSONNEL.
   Agents, servants, or employees of the borough or Authority shall have access
at all reasonable hours of the day to all parts of the premises which discharge
waste into the POTW.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Pt. 1, § 107) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS AND PROHIBITED CONDITIONS
§ 52.20 ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS, GENERALLY.
   (A)   From and after March 7, 2022, it shall be unlawful for any person to
construct, install, maintain, repair, operate, use, or allow an illegal storm
water or surface water connection on real estate that he or she owns. This
prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illegal storm water or
surface water connections made prior to March 7, 2022, regardless of whether
the connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing
at the time of connection.
   (B)   From and after March 7, 2022, it shall be unlawful for any person to
sell or otherwise transfer real estate within the borough on which a building
or improvement exists without first delivering unto the purchaser a certificate
of sewage compliance or temporary certificate of sewage compliance from the
Borough Manager.
   (C)   From and after March 7, 2022, all persons connected to or connecting
to the sanitary sewer system owner and operated by the Municipal Authority of
the Borough of Bedford (MABB) shall be governed by the Rules and Regulations
Governing Sanitary Sewer Services, as adopted and amended from time to time, by
the MABB.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Each single-family dwelling unit, multiple dwelling unit, multiple
use unit, store, shop, office, business, institutional, commercial, or
industrial unit contained within any structure, erected and intended for
continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy, or use by humans or animals, from
which wastewater may be discharged.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of a building s drainage system
which receives the discharge from other drainage pipes inside the walls of a
building and conveys it to the sewer lateral at a point at the building wall.
   CERTIFICATE OF SEWAGE COMPLIANCE. An official statement from the Borough
Manager of the borough or his or her designate stating that there are no know
illegal storm water or surface water connections into the sanitary sewer
connections on the specific property which is being sold, and that the customer
facilities have successfully passed an air pressure test. A CERTIFICATE OF
SEWAGE COMPLIANCE shall remain in effect for a period of ten years.
   CONNECTION STUB. The show section of pipe, including the tapping tee or
saddle, between the sewer main collection line and the customer’s viewport. In
most cases, the CONNECTION STUB will terminate at the customer’s viewport
situated at the customer’s property line. In some cases, due to distance from
the sewer main, the CONNECTION STUB may terminate at a point other than the
customer’s property line, the CONNECTION STUB is considered part of the sewer
main owned and maintained by the Authority.
   CUSTOMER. The individual or individuals, partnership, association, company,
municipality, or any entity whatsoever becoming the contractual applicant or
actually using the sanitary sewer service of the Authority and responsible for
payment therefor, as provided in the Rules and Regulations Governing Sanitary
Sewer Services of the Authority.
   ILLEGAL STORM WATER OR SURFACE WATER CONNECTIONS. The discharge of ground or
surface water or the connection of downspouts, roof drainage, surface areaway
drainage, or foundation or basement drainage into the sanitary sewer system.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons appointed by the borough and/or Authority
to inspect existing or proposed facilities of the sanitary sewer system, sewer
laterals, and building piping and fixtures.
   MUNICIPAL LIEN AND PROPERTY TAX VERIFICATION LETTER. A written letter from
the proper official of the borough concerning municipal liens and property
taxes.
   NO SALE. If a sale has not occurred within the last ten years, property
owners shall be required to have their properties re-tested and re-certified.
   OWNER. Any and all persons vested with title, being legal or equitable, sole
or partial, of a building or other real estate.
   PERSON. Any person, syndicate, associate, partnership, firm, corporation,
institution, agency, Authority, or other entity recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   RULES AND REGULATIONS. The Rules and Regulations Governing Sanitary Sewer
Services, as adopted and amended by the MABB.
   SALE. The sale of property shall apply to any sale and/or any type of
transfer of or ownership of real estate for any urpose whatsoever, including,
but not limited to, transfers within a family, inheritance, corporate
transfers, transfers from joint or ownership to individuals and to or from
financial institutions in cases of foreclosure. It shall apply to a sale,
transfer, or assignment of any interest in real property, except that the
following transactions are exempted:
      (1)   Refinancing of real property without a conveyance of an interest;
      (2)   A transfer from an individual or individuals into an ordinary
grantor trust as that term is commonly accepted;
      (3)   A transfer between spouses or former spouses pursuant to a bona
fide marriage settlement agreement;
      (4)   A transfer arising from a sheriff’s sale where the purchaser is a
mortgage holder or lien creditor. However, a subsequent transfer of the
property from the mortgage holder or lien creditor shall be subject to this
regulation; and
      (5)   A transfer from a record owner to a mortgage holder or lien
creditor pursuant to a deed in lieu of foreclosure. However, a subsequent
transfer of the property from the mortgage holder or lien creditor shall be
subject to this regulation.
   SERVICE CHARGES. The customer facilities fee, connection fee, and tapping
fee (comprised of capacity, collection, special purpose, and reimbursement
fees) imposed by the Authority under Act 57 of 2003, as amended, payable upon
connection of building or property to the sanitary sewer system, and also
refers to regular usage fees, surcharges, and other charges.
   SEWER LATERAL. All piping, including the property line viewport on the
customer’s side of the connection stub. In those cases where, due to distance
from the sewer main, it is necessary to extend a sewer lateral through
neighboring public or private property, the installation and maintenance of the
entire sewer lateral shall be the responsibility of the customer.
   TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF SEWAGE COMPLIANCE. A temporary statement of
certification from the Borough Manager issued pursuant to the terms of §
52.23.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 52.22 PRE-SALE COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person selling or otherwise transferring real estate located
within the borough (hereinafter “the applicant”) shall make application for a
certificate of sewage compliance, on a form furnished by the borough at least
ten days before the date of sale or transfer. The application fee shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the Borough Council.
   (B)   The applicant shall, as prescribed within the Rules and Regulations,
then have a plumber perform an air pressure test of the sewer lateral on the
property to be sold. The plumber shall notify the Authority at least 72 hours
before the test is made so that the Authority may witness the test. The
Authority shall have the right to approve the test as performed and/or to
require that additional tests be made. The Authority shall also have the right
to rely on the results of any internal televising of the sewer lateral
completed by the Authority. In the event that there are no illegal storm or
surface water connections and the sewer lateral is deemed to be in compliance
with these Rules and Regulations, the Authority shall issue a certificate of
sewage compliance upon the payment of any established fee. When an illegal
storm water or surface water connection or malfunctioning drainage system is
discovered by the means of the above-mentioned testing, no certificate of
sewage compliance will be issued until the illegal connections/malfunctioning
drainage system are removed or repaired, and/or the entire sewer lateral is
replaced from the foundation wall to the property line. The system must be
retested. The borough must inspect all work performed and witness all tests.
Failure to have the borough inspect the work may result in the borough
requiring the uncovering of any pipe or other structure to view the repair, at
the cost of the property owner.
   (C)   A certificate of sewage compliance shall expire ten years following
the date of issuance of the certificate of sewage compliance. If any additions
are made to the property within the ten-year period, certification for said
addition shall be required. If a sale has not occurred within ten years of the
last certification, re-testing and re-certification shall be required to
maintain compliance.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.23 TEMPORARY DOCUMENT OF CERTIFICATION.
   A temporary document of certification may be issued at the borough’s sole
discretion when either:
   (A)   The applicant proves that such testing cannot be performed because of
weather conditions, and when such is the case, the applicant shall provide the
borough with security in the amount of $3,000 to guarantee that the appropriate
test will be performed. The applicant will cause to have performed the
appropriate test within 14 days of subsequent written notification from the
borough, which will be given at such time as weather conditions make such
testing possible. In addition, the applicant shall provide a signed written
acknowledgment from the purchaser of the real estate, agreeing to correct, at
the said purchaser’s sole expense, any violations/defects that may be
discovered as the result of subsequent tests. Nothing in this subsection shall
prohibit any purchaser from requiring the applicant to reimburse the purchaser
for any costs incurred; provided, nevertheless, that primary liability shall
run with the land and no such agreement shall affect the borough’s enforcement
powers or excuse the then current owner from performance;
   (B)   When an illegal storm or surface water connection or mal functioning
drainage system has been discovered and the necessary remedial activities to
correct such connection would require a length of time such as to create a
practical hardship for the applicant, the applicant may apply to the borough
for a temporary document of certification which may only be issued when the
applicant provides the borough with all of the following:
      (1)   A bona fide executed contract between the applicant and a
registered, licensed plumber to complete the necessary remedial work is with
the borough listed therein as a third-party beneficiary;
      (2)   Cash security in the amount of said contract as posted with the
borough; and
      (3)   An agreement by the purchaser to be responsible for all cost
overruns related to the remedial work. together with a license to the borough
to enter upon the property to complete work in case of default by the
contractor. The Building Inspector shall determine, by regulation, when such
temporary document of certification shall expire, at which time the security
shall be forfeited, and the borough may use the security to have the necessary
remedial work completed.
   (C)   The borough is anticipating repair or replacement of the sewer main(s)
in the vicinity of the property to be transferred. In such a case, the
applicant may choose to bring the sewer lateral into compliance, as described
in §
52.22, or may apply for a temporary document of certification.
      (1)   If the sewer lateral is brought into compliance and a certificate
of sewage compliance is issued, the purchaser will be responsible for any
additional remedial work that may be required in order to satisfactorily
connect to the new sewer main.
      (2)   If the applicant applies for a temporary document of certification
pending the completion of an anticipated borough project, the applicant shall
provide the borough with security in the amount of $3,000 to guarantee that the
appropriate remedial work and subsequent testing will be performed. In
addition, the applicant shall provide a signed written acknowledgment from the
purchaser of the real estate, agreeing to correct, at the said purchaser’s sole
expense, any violations/defects that may be discovered as the result of
subsequent tests. Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit any purchaser from
requiring the applicant to reimburse the purchaser tor any costs incurred;
provided, nevertheless, that primary liability shall run with the land, and no
such agreement shall affect the borough’s enforcement powers or excuse the then
current owner from performance.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 52.24 PRE-CONNECTION COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall connect or reconnect to the sanitary sewer system without
first complying with the Rules and Regulations of the MABB relative to
application for service, required testing, and payment of any fees.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.25 REDUCTION OF INFLOW AND INFILTRATION.
   All persons now connected to the sanitary sewer system, upon notice received
from the MABB, shall employ any and all measures deemed necessary to bring
building drain and sewer lateral facilities into compliance with the Rules and
Regulations of the MABB.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.26 RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   Duly authorized employees or representatives of the thorough and the
Authority shall have the right to enter on the premises of any person, firm,
corporation, or other entity connected to the system for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, testing, inspection of
connections or fixtures, or for a disconnection of service for enforcement of
these Rules and Regulations, and for other such purposes for the protection of
public health and property and the effective, orderly operation of the sanitary
sewer system. Borough and Authority employees or representatives shall bear
proper credentials and identification and display the same when requested. By
virtue of being connected to and receiving service from the sanitary sewer
system, each person, firm, corporation, or other entity receiving said services
acknowledges and authorizes borough and Authority employees or representatives
to enter upon his, her, or its premises for the aforesaid purposes, including
closed circuit televising (CCTV) of all buried and under slab piping of the
premises and any type of testing, including air pressure, water pressure, and
smoke testing.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 52.27 FAILURE TO ELIMINATE INFLOW AND INFILTRATION.
   (A)   Any owner found to be in violation of the Authority’s Rules and
Regulations by allowing any quantity of inflow and infiltration into the
sanitary sewer system shall be required to bring all buried pipelines into
compliance. In the event the borough identities any illegal connections or
leaking, deteriorating, or poorly constructed private sewer lateral and/or
sanitary sewer service connections, the Borough Manager shall give written
notice of same to the owner that such illegal connections be eliminated and/or
that said connections be repaired, replaced, or rehabilitated, at the owner’s
expense, within six months of the date of the notice.
   (B)   Compliance must be proven at the time of inspection by an air pressure
test, as outlined in the International Plumbing Code § 312. If a portion(s) of
the said system fails to meet compliance standards, additional repairs must be
completed and rested until the entire system has been determined to be in
compliance, all within the original six-month time frame.
   (C)   Failure to bring all buried pipelines into compliance within the six-
month time frame shall be deemed a violation of the Rules and Regulations. In
such circumstances, the borough may take one or more of the following
enforcement actions:
      (1)   The borough and/or Authority may file a civil action in order to
enforce the penalty within §
52.99(B);
      (2)   The borough may apply a surcharge, as determined from time to time
by the Authority, to the customer’s service charge until such time that
required repairs are made;
      (3)   The borough may discontinue water service to the property, and
disconnect the non-compliant sewer lateral from the sewer main; and/or
      (4)   The borough and/or Authority may enter the property to correct the
condition(s) and collect the cost of such correction(s) plus 10% of all costs.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.28 FAILURE TO CONNECT OR RECONNECT.
   (A)   Each owner of any building within the borough and Authority’s service
area located on property abutting any street, alley, or right-of-way in which a
sewer main has been provided by the Authority, and where any pan of a building
wherein wastewater is generated is within 150 feet of the sewer main, at his or
her own expense, shall connect the building to the sanitary sewer system in
accordance with the Rules and Regulations within six months after the date of
official written notice to do so from the borough, unless otherwise approved in
writing by the borough.
   (B)   Each owner of any building within the borough and Authority’s service
area, already connected to the sanitary sewer system and for which a new sewer
main has been provided by the Authority, at his or her own expense, shall
connect the building to the new sanitary sewer system in accordance with the
Rules and Regulations within six months after the date of official written
notice to do so from the borough, unless otherwise approved in writing by the
borough.
   (C)   In the event any owner refuses or neglects to connect within the six-
month period, he or she shall be deemed to be in violation of the authority of
the Rules and Regulations and this subchapter.
   (D)   Failure to connect or reconnect to the sanitary sewer system within
the six-month time frame shall be deemed a violation of the Rules and
Regulations. In such circumstances, the borough may take one or more of the
following enforcement actions:
      (1)   The borough and/or Authority may file a civil action in order to
enforce the penalty in §
52.99(B);
      (2)   The borough may discontinue water service to the property; and/or
      (3)   The borough and/or Authority may enter the property to install a
properly functioning sewer lateral and collect the cost of such correction(s)
plus 10% of all costs.
   (E)   Any owner that fails or neglects to connect to the sanitary sewer
system shall nonetheless be assessed all ongoing service charges that would
otherwise have been payable had the owner connected, as required by the Rules
and Regulations. The payment of service charges shall not relieve the owner of
the requirement to connect.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.29 CORRECTIVE ACTION PLAN.
   If, for any reason, an owner is unable to comply with the Rules and
Regulations and make required repairs or connection within the six-month
period, the owner may submit a corrective action plan to the borough. The plan
shall include a signed contract with a prospective contractor as well as the
specified date of repair. The scope of work must be sufficient, as determined
by the Authority, to accomplish compliance with the Rules and Regulations. The
approval of a corrective action plan will avoid any penalty described above
during the approved term of said corrective action plan, but will not negate
the obligation to pay any and all service charges that would have otherwise
been payable.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 52.30 CONNECTION TO STORM WATER SYSTEM.
   The diversion or direct connection of storm water or surface water to the
borough’s separate storm water collection system is prohibited. In no event is
storm water to be discharged upon or across public or private sidewalks and
public or private streets or discharged onto adjacent property.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.31 RIGHT TO ENFORCE.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall limit, in any fashion whatsoever, the
borough’s right to enforce any ordinance or law of the borough, the county, or
commonwealth of the state. Nothing in this subchapter shall be a defense of any
citation issued by any municipal corporation or the commonwealth pursuant to
any other law of ordinance.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership, firm, organization, or corporation who shall
violate any provision of §§
52.01 to
52.07 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said
fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that
a violation of §§
52.01 to
52.07 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 18, Pt. 1, § 108)
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with any
of the terms or provisions of §§
52.20 to
52.31 (except failure to connect), or of any regulation or requirement pursuant
thereto and authorized thereby shall, upon conviction before any District
Justice, be sentenced to pay a fine of $600 and costs of prosecution, and, in
default of payment thereof, to imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30 days.
Each day that a violation of §§
52.20 to
52.31 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any owner who fails to make a proper connection to the sanitary
sewer system within the time specified after receipt of proper notice or after
obtaining a time extension in writing from the borough, as described in §
52.28(D) shall, upon conviction thereof before a District Magistrate, pay a
fine or penalty of $50 for each day that the violation continues.
(Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
CHAPTER 53: STORMWATER
Section
   
53.01   Statement of findings
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Stormwater management charge
   
53.04   Rate of charge
   
53.05   Collection of charge
   
53.06   Stormwater management system rules and regulations
   
53.07   Charges constitute lien on property
   
53.08   Policies and procedures authorized
   
53.09   Stormwater management system fund
§ 53.01 STATEMENT OF FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Borough of Bedford incurs costs to maintain an extensive public
stormwater system. The borough's stormwater system includes underground pipes,
conduits, inlets, outfalls, culverts, catch basins, reservoirs and lake, flood
control structures, gutters, ditches, channels, public best management
practices, public streets, curbs, conveyances, appurtenances and drains
(collectively the STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM).
   (B)   Inadequate management of accelerated stormwater runoff throughout a
watershed increases flood flows and velocities, contributes to erosion and
sedimentation, overwhelms the carrying capacity of existing streams and storm
sewers, greatly increases the cost of public facilities to convey and manage
stormwater, undermines floodplain management and flood mitigation efforts in
upstream and downstream communities, reduces groundwater recharge and threatens
public health and safety.
   (C)   A comprehensive program of stormwater management is fundamental to the
public health, safety, welfare and the protection of the residents of the
Borough of Bedford, their property, resources and the environment in order to
control items such as flooding, erosion and pollution.
   (D)   Impervious surface is a primary characteristic of a property's
generation of stormwater and usage of the stormwater management system.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words and terms used in this chapter and not given specific definition
shall be defined as set forth in applicable statutes of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania or ordinances of the Borough of Bedford, if any, and shall
otherwise be given their ordinary and common meaning.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall be
defined as set forth below:
      AUTHORITY. Municipal authority of the Borough of Bedford.
      DEVELOPED PARCEL. A parcel altered from a natural state that contains
impervious surface equal to or greater than 400 square feet. Excludes parcel
adjoining a single-household detached, owned by the same owner, on which the
only development is an impervious surface(s) that is an appurtenant residential
use that would customarily have been created on the adjoining single-household
detached parcel had the adjoining lot not existed and been owned by the same
owner, i.e., a garage, driveway, shed, pool, patio, etc. Also excluded is a
parcel which is exempt from real estate taxation pursuant to the laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A surface that prevents or retards the infiltration
of water into the ground in a manner that such water entered the ground under
natural conditions pre-existent to development. Impervious surface (or area)
includes, but is not limited to: roofs, additional outdoor living spaces,
patios, garages, storage sheds and similar structures, parking or driveway area
(including pavement, concrete, pavers, brick, compacted aggregate), and any
private streets and sidewalks. Any travel areas proposed to initially be gravel
or crushed stone shall be assumed to be impervious surfaces.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, individual, partnership, trust,
company, association, government agency, society or group owning real property
in the Borough of Bedford.
      STORMWATER. Water from a rain or snowfall event that flows across the
land and eventually into rivers, creeks, lakes, ditches and canals resulting in
debris, sediment, pollutants, bacteria and nutrients from sidewalks, streets,
parking lots, and other impervious surfaces washing into gutters, through storm
drains, and eventually flowing into creeks and rivers.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. The system of collection and conveyance,
including underground pipes, conduits, mains, inlets, culverts, catch basins,
gutters, ditches, manholes, outfalls, reservoirs and lake, flood control
structures, stormwater best management practices, channels, detention ponds,
public streets, curbs, drains and all devices, appliances, appurtenances and
facilities appurtenant thereto used for collecting, conducting, pumping,
conveying, detaining, discharging and/or treating stormwater.
      UNIT. Impervious surface of a developed parcel equaling 5,000 square
feet.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 53.03 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT CHARGE.
   There is hereby imposed a charge on each developed parcel in the Borough of
Bedford. The proceeds of the charge shall be used exclusively for the borough
stormwater management system.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 53.04 RATE OF CHARGE.
   The stormwater management charge for the year 2025 is hereby set at $144 per
unit or portion thereof on a developed parcel in the Borough of Bedford
existing on January 1, 2025. The charge shall remain in effect for subsequent
years unless modified by resolution of the Borough Council prior to the
end of a calendar year. Any parcel becoming a developed parcel after January 1
of any year or increasing in number of units shall be subject to a pro-rated
stormwater management charge for that year.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 53.05 COLLECTION OF CHARGE.
   The authority is hereby directed to collect the stormwater charge quarterly
or as it otherwise collects charges for water and wastewater services.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 53.06 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The authority shall adopt, by resolution, rules and regulations governing
the stormwater management system. Said rules and regulations shall include
right of inspection, rules relative to connection, maintenance and repair,
billing, payments and penalties.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 53.07 CHARGES CONSTITUTE LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   In accordance with the Municipal Claims Act, 53 P.S. §§ 7101, et seq., as
amended, all rates and charges, penalties, interest, collection fees, lien
filing and satisfaction fees and other charges imposed for failure to pay
promptly shall constitute a lien upon and against the subject property and its
owner from the date of their imposition and assessment.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 53.08 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The authority may by resolution adopt such policies and procedures as
it deems appropriate to ensure collection of rates and charges assessed and
imposed pursuant to this chapter. Without limitation, collection procedures may
include referral of delinquent accounts to a collection agency; filing of
liens; municipal lien proceedings to collect filed liens; and any and all other
measures or combination thereof which the authority may deem appropriate.
   (B)   All costs of such collection procedures, including but not limited to
fees for filing, perpetuation and satisfaction of liens, collection fees,
attorney's fees, court costs, litigation expense, charges for service of
documents, shall upon being incurred by the authority be imposed as a charge
for nonpayment and added to the balance due.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 53.09 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FUND.
   The funds received from the collection of the charges authorized by this
chapter shall be deposited into an authority storm water management system
fund, a fund dedicated to the operation, administration, maintenance, repair
and improvement of the storm water management system.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 12-17-2024)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
70.01   Definitions and interpretation
   
70.02   Manner of adopting permanent traffic and parking regulations
   
70.03   Provisions to be continuation of existing regulations
   
70.04   Temporary and emergency regulations
   
70.05   Experimental regulations
   
70.06   Traffic on streets closed or restricted for construction, maintenance,
or special events
   
70.07   Use of streets by processions and assemblages
   
70.08   Authority of police officers
   
70.09   Authorization for use of speed timing devices
Use of Streets
   
70.20   Operation of motor vehicles restricted on public lands
   
70.21   Truck traffic restricted on certain streets
Snow and Ice Emergency and Removal
   
70.35   Definitions
   
70.36   Declaration of winter weather emergency
   
70.37   Unattended vehicles prohibited during emergency
   
70.38   Ticketing of vehicles parked unlawfully; effect of payment within 48
hours
Idling Vehicles
   
70.50   Definitions
   
70.51   Idoling regulations
   
70.52   Responsibility for compliance
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Traffic schedules, see
Ch. 73
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Words and phrases, when used in this chapter, except for sections or
parts to which different or additional definitions apply, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in the Vehicle Code, the Act of June 17, 1976, Pub.
Law 162, No. 81, as amended, except that, in this chapter the word STREET may
be used interchangeably with the word HIGHWAY, and shall have the same meaning
as the word HIGHWAY as defined in the Vehicle Code.
   (B)   The term LEGAL HOLIDAYS, as used in this chapter, shall mean and
include: New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King’s Birthday, Presidents Day,
Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Day,
Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
   (C)   In this chapter, the singular shall include the plural, the plural
shall include the singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine.
   (D)   Although the streets in the borough run generally in a northeast-
southwest and a northwest-southeast direction, for the purposes of this
chapter, Juliana Street and the streets running parallel or generally parallel
to Juliana Street shall be deemed to run in a north-south direction, and Pitt
Street and the streets parallel or generally parallel to Pitt Street shall be
deemed to run in an east-west direction.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 101) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 70.02 MANNER OF ADOPTING PERMANENT TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS.
   All traffic and parking regulations of a permanent nature shall be enacted
as ordinances, as parts of ordinances, as amendments to ordinances, or as
amendments to this chapter, except where the law specifically authorizes less
formal action.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 102) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 70.03 PROVISIONS TO BE CONTINUATION OF EXISTING REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter, so far as they are the same as those of
ordinances and regulations in force immediately before the enactment of this
chapter, are intended as a continuation of those earlier ordinances and
regulations, and not as new enactments. Nothing in this chapter shall affect
any act done or liability incurred, or any suit or prosecution pending or to be
instituted under any of those repealed or superseded ordinances or regulations.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 103) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 70.04 TEMPORARY AND EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The authorized representative of the borough shall have the following
powers to regulate traffic and parking temporarily and in time of emergency:
      (1)   In the case of fire, flood, storm, or other emergency, to establish
temporary traffic and/or parking regulations; and
      (2)   In the case of emergency or to facilitate public works, or in the
conduct of parades, processions, or public events, to restrict or prohibit
traffic and/or parking in limited areas for periods of not more than 72 hours.
   (B)   Such temporary and emergency regulations shall be enforced by the
Police Department in the same manner as permanent regulations.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 104) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
70.99
§ 70.05 EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   The Borough Council may, from time to time by resolution, designate places
upon and along the highways in the borough where, for a period of not more than
90 days, specific traffic and/or parking regulations, prohibitions, and
restrictions shall be in force and effect, and shall designate such locations
by proper signs and markings. Such regulations, prohibitions, and restrictions
shall be effective as if they had been specified in this chapter. No person
shall operate and no person shall move, remove, destroy, or deface any sign or
marking erected, posted, or made by authority of this section.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 105) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
70.99
§ 70.06 TRAFFIC ON STREETS CLOSED OR RESTRICTED FOR CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE,
OR SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   The Borough Council shall have authority to close any street or
specific part of a street to vehicular traffic, and to place barriers or
station police officers at each end of the closed portion while construction or
maintenance work is under way or a special event is being conducted on the
closed portion. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle upon any
such closed portion.
   (B)   The Borough Council shall have authority to establish a restricted
traffic area upon any street where construction or maintenance work is under
way and to station flaggers at each end of the restricted portion. It shall be
unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle upon any such restricted traffic
area at any time when the flagger is displaying a sign directing that vehicle
to stop, or is signaling that vehicle, by a flag or other device, not to
proceed.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 106) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
70.99
§ 70.07 USE OF STREETS BY PROCESSIONS AND ASSEMBLAGES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ASSEMBLAGE. A gathering of people without vehicles which interferes with
the movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on any street.
      PROCESSION. A group of individuals, vehicles, animals, and/or objects
moving along a street in a way that interferes with the normal movement of
traffic. A PROCESSION shall not include a funeral caravan or military convoy.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or participate in any
assemblage unless the person organizing or conducting the assemblage first
obtains permission from the Parade Committee and the Council of the borough.
Application for permission shall be made at least 30 days in advance of the day
on which the assemblage is proposed to be held. The application shall state the
place where and when the assemblage is to be formed, the route of the
assemblage, the place and when the assemblage is to be dispersed, and any other
information deemed to be pertinent. It shall be unlawful for any person to hold
or participate in any assemblage unless permission has been granted, or at any
time other than that authorized by the Parade Committee or the Council of the
borough.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or participate in any
procession unless the person organizing or conducting the procession first
obtains permission from the Parade Committee and the Council of the borough.
Application for permission shall be made at least 30 days in advance of the day
which the procession is proposed to be held. The application shall state the
place where and when the procession is to be formed, the route of the
procession, the place and when the procession is to be dispersed, and any other
information deemed to be pertinent. It shall be unlawful for any person to hold
or to participate in any procession unless permission has been granted, or at
any time or place other than that authorized by the Parade Committee or the
Council of the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 107) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
70.99
§ 70.08 AUTHORITY OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   The police officers of the borough are hereby authorized to direct traffic
on the highways of the borough and at intersections thereof and to otherwise
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 108) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 70.09 AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF SPEED TIMING DEVICES.
   (A)   The borough’s Police Department is hereby authorized to use all speed
timing devices for the determination of speed of a motor vehicle as are
approved or will be approved by the state’s Department of Transportation, in
accordance with 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 3368.
   (B)   This section authorizes the use of said devices upon all highways
within the borough, be they borough, county, or state highways, and does also
hereby elect to exercise all powers granted to “local authorities” under the
state’s Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6101 et seq., (1977), as hereafter
amended, supplemented, modified, or reenacted by the state’s General Assembly.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 109) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
USE OF STREETS
§ 70.20 OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES RESTRICTED ON PUBLIC LANDS.
   No motor vehicle, including a motorcycle, pedalcycle, or minibike, shall be
operated on any property owned by the borough or any other public agency or
instrumentality within the borough without the permission of the property owner
and a permit from the Chief of Police of the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 2, § 208) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
70.99
§ 70.21 TRUCK TRAFFIC RESTRICTED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle other than a
passenger car on any of the following streets or parts of streets.
 
Street         Between
Juliana Street King Street and Broad Street
 
   (B)   Provided, nothing in this section shall prohibit any person from
driving an emergency vehicle on any of those streets or parts of streets, or
from driving on any of those streets or parts of streets a truck or other
commercial vehicle making local deliveries to or pickups from premises located
along that street or part of a street.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 3, § 302) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
70.99
SNOW AND ICE EMERGENCY AND REMOVAL
§ 70.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SNOW. Any precipitation depositing any accumulation on the street, including
snow, sleet, hail, ice, and freezing rain.
   STREET. Any street, highway, avenue, drive, lane, road, or way in the
borough used by a vehicle.
   VEHICLE. Any self-propelled motorized vehicle licensed to travel upon the
streets in the borough.
   WINTER WEATHER EMERGENCY. State of street conditions that are hazardous and
dangerous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic, as so declared by the Borough
Manager or such person designated by the Borough Manager.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 7, § 701) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2006-01,
passed 4-3-2006)
§ 70.36 DECLARATION OF WINTER WEATHER EMERGENCY.
   A winter weather emergency is hereby declared to exist in the borough
whenever snow falls so that, in the opinion of the Borough Manager or such
person designated by the Borough Manager, the street conditions are hazardous
and dangerous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic because of accumulations of
snow and/or ice. The Borough Manager or such person designated by the Borough
Manager shall have the authority to declare a winter weather emergency, notice
of which shall immediately be issued to the local radio and news services. In
either instance, a winter weather emergency is presumed to exist from 11:00
p.m. on the day of the accumulation of the snow and/or ice until 7:00 a.m. of
the following day or for such period of time as designated by the Borough
Manager or such person designated by the Borough Manager.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 7, § 702) (Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 70.37 UNATTENDED VEHICLES PROHIBITED DURING EMERGENCY.
   During such time as a winter weather emergency is in effect, it shall be a
violation of this subchapter for any person, firm, organization, or entity to
park, allow to remain parked, abandon, or leave unattended any vehicle on any
street, its adjacent right-of-way, and municipal parking lots within the
boundaries of the borough. This prohibition shall not apply to any parking
areas which have been specifically depicted by the Borough Manager or such
person designated by the Borough Manager as winter weather emergency parking
areas, provided all terms of the special depiction are complied with.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 7, § 703) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2006-01,
passed 4-3-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.38 TICKETING OF VEHICLES PARKED UNLAWFULLY; EFFECT OF PAYMENT WITHIN 48
HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the police officers and traffic attendants of
the borough, acting in accordance with the directions of the Chief of Police,
to report:
      (1)   The number of each parking space, when available, of the vehicle
occupying the parking space that is, or has been, parked in violation of any
provision of this subchapter;
      (2)   The date and hour of such violation;
      (3)   The license number of the vehicle; and
      (4)   Any other facts, the knowledge of which is necessary for a thorough
understanding of the circumstances attending the violation.
   (B)   The police officers or traffic attendants making the report shall also
place or attach to the vehicle a notice to the owner or driver of the vehicle
that the vehicle was parked in violation of §
70.37 and instructing the owner or driver that if he or she will report to the
office of the Chief of Police and pay, for the use of the borough, the sum of
$20, or will enclose the $20 within the envelope provided and either place the
envelope in any of the special parking fine boxes installed at various
locations within the borough or mail the said envelope to the Borough Office
within 48 hours after the time of the notice, that the act will save the
violator from prosecution and from payment of the fine prescribed in §
70.99 of this subchapter. The continuation of such violation of §
70.37 for each successive 24 hour time period shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 7, § 704) (Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-
04, passed 7-2-2012) Penalty, see §
70.99
IDLING VEHICLES
§ 70.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY SERVICE VEHICLES. Any specially equipped motor vehicle operated by
an ambulance, emergency management, fire or police department, agency, service,
or association.
   IDLE. The operation of the engine of a motor vehicle at a time when the
motor vehicle is not being moved regardless of whether the transmission of the
motor vehicle is in park or in gear and regardless of whether the accelerator
is fully engaged, partially engaged, or fully released.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for transporting
persons or property including, but not limited to, trucks, truck tractors,
motor homes, buses, vans, and passenger cars.
   PERSON. Any individual, natural person, association, partnership, firm,
corporation, institution, agency, authority, instrumentality of federal, state,
or local government, or other legal entity.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 70.51 IDOLING REGULATIONS.
   No person shall permit, cause, suffer, or allow the engine of a motor
vehicle to idle within the borough, whether on public or private property, for
a period of time in excess of two consecutive minutes, except under the
following conditions:
   (A)   The engine may be idled for a period of up to five minutes within any
60-minute period when the ambient temperature is less than 32°F (0°C);
   (B)   The engine may be idled for a period of up to 20 minutes within any
60-minute period when the ambient temperature is less than 20°F (-7°C);
   (C)   The engine may be idled for a period of up to 20 minutes within any
60-minute period for buses equipped with air conditioning and non-openable
windows when the ambient temperature is greater than 75°F;
   (D)   Where the physical configuration of a school requires a queue of buses
for the sequential discharge or pickup of students, and the queue of buses is
actively engaged in the discharge of students or awaiting the pickup of
students;
   (E)   When stopped at an official traffic-control device or signal;
   (F)   When stopped at the direction of a uniformed police officer or other
person authorized to direct traffic by the Vehicle Code;
   (G)   When the motor vehicle is being used in connection with the
construction, repair, or maintenance of a public street, public utility, or
public works project; and/or
   (H)   When the motor vehicle is an emergency service vehicle.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.52 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPLIANCE.
   The owner of a motor vehicle and the person or persons in control of the
motor vehicle shall each be responsible for compliance with the terms of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall operate or park a vehicle or tractor in violation
of §
70.04, or who shall move, remove, destroy, injure, or deface any sign or
marking erected, posted, or made to give notice of any such regulation, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be subject to the penalty set forth in the law or
elsewhere in this chapter for a violation of such nature, and, in case of a
violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the law or elsewhere in
this chapter, to a fine of not more than $25 together with costs of
prosecution.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 104)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
70.05 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to the penalty set forth in
the law or elsewhere in this chapter for a violation of such nature, and in
case of a violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the law or
elsewhere in this chapter, to a fine of not more than $25 together with costs
of prosecution; provided, the purpose of §
70.05 is to allow for the test and experimental determination of the
feasibility and desirability of permanent changes in the ordinances of the
borough relative to traffic and parking.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 105)
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §
70.06 shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 106)
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of §
70.07 shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 107)
   (F)   Any person who violates §
70.20 shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 2, § 208)
   (G)   Any person who violates any provision of §
70.21 shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 3, § 302)
   (H)   Any person who violates §
70.37 and who fails to pay the fine set forth in §
70.38 within 48 hours of the violation shall be cited and, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 plus costs of prosecution.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 7, § 705)
   (I)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
70.50 to
70.52 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $50 nor more than $1,000 plus costs, and in default of payment of said
fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Vehicles to be parked within marked spaces
   
71.02   Parking of trucks, buses, and certain other vehicles prohibited in
certain locations
   
71.03   Standing or parking on roadway for loading or unloading
   
71.04   Reserved parking spaces for handicapped may be provided
   
71.05   Ticketing of vehicles parked unlawfully; effect of payment within 48
hours
   
71.06   Exceptions
Off-Street Unmetered Parking
   
71.20   Reserved parking spaces for handicapped may be provided
   
71.21   Unlawful to park overtime or when lot closed
   
71.22   Unmetered lots for certain types of vehicles
   
71.23   Manner of parking
   
71.24   Ticketing of vehicles parked unlawfully; effect of payment within 48
hours
   
71.25   Exceptions
Removal and Impoundment of Illegally Parked Vehicles
   
71.40   Applicability and scope
   
71.41   Authority to remove and impound
   
71.42   Designation of approved storage garages; bonding; towing and storage
   
71.43   Payment of towing and storage charges
   
71.44   Reclamation cost
   
71.45   Records of vehicles removed and impounded
   
71.46   Restrictions upon removal of vehicles
   
71.47   Reports and disposition of unclaimed vehicles
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking schedules, see
Ch. 74
   Traffic regulations, see
Ch. 70
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 VEHICLES TO BE PARKED WITHIN MARKED SPACES.
   (A)   Wherever a space is marked off on any street, avenue, drive, lane,
road, or way for the parking of an individual vehicle, every vehicle parked
there shall be parked wholly within the lines bounding that space, and it shall
be a violation of this subchapter for any person to park a vehicle or allow it
to remain parked otherwise.
   (B)   All vehicles parked on any street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or way,
whether parking spaces are marked or not, shall be parked only in the direction
of the permitted traffic flow for that side of the street, avenue, drive, lane,
road, or way, and it shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person to
park a vehicle or allow it to remain parked otherwise. This shall not apply to
the southern side of Penn Street between West Street and Limestone Avenue where
perpendicular parking is permitted.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle at any time: which in any way
will block the intersection of any street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or way or
the entrance or exit of any street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or way; within
the painted line area adjacent to any fire hydrant or within 15 feet of any
fire hydrant if no painted line area exists, whichever is greater; within the
painted line area marking the permissible distance to park from any
intersection; in any area where erected signs or painted lines indicate a “No
Parking” area; which in any way will block any public sidewalk, private or
public driveway, or access way to a parking lot, parking facility, or other
facility of the borough and it shall be a violation of this subchapter for any
person to park a vehicle or allow it to remain parked in any manner herein
described.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 401) (Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006) Penalty, see
§
71.99
§ 71.02 PARKING OF TRUCKS, BUSES, AND CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES PROHIBITED IN
CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or allow to remain
parked, on any of the streets or parts of streets within the borough any
prohibited vehicle as defined in division (B) below.
   (B)   As used in this section, a PROHIBITED VEHICLE shall mean any truck,
truck tractor, trailer, semitrailer, bus, full trailer, motor home,
recreational trailer, house trailer, implement of husbandry, or combination as
those terms are further defined in the state’s Vehicle Code. As used in this
section, a prohibited vehicle shall not include a pick-up truck or any
emergency vehicle.
   (C)   This section shall not prohibit the momentary parking of a prohibited
vehicle for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading
property; provided, that such parking is done in a manner and location where
nonprohibited vehicles would otherwise be permitted to park.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 403) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
71.99
§ 71.03 STANDING OR PARKING ON ROADWAY FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park a vehicle (other
than a pedalcycle) on the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the
edge or curb of any street.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 406) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
71.99
§ 71.04 RESERVED PARKING SPACES FOR HANDICAPPED MAY BE PROVIDED.
   The Borough Council, at its discretion, may provide, at convenient and
suitable locations, reserved parking spaces for handicapped and shall
designated those spaces by appropriate signs. It shall be unlawful and a
violation of this subchapter, for any reason, to park in any such reserved
parking space any vehicle unless that vehicle bears or displays either: a
handicapped registration plate; a handicapped parking placard; a disabled
veteran registration plate; or a disabled veteran placard; provided, all
provisions, requirements, and restrictions contained in other sections of this
subchapter shall apply to vehicles lawfully parked in reserved parking spaces
for handicapped.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 407) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
71.99
§ 71.05 TICKETING OF VEHICLES PARKED UNLAWFULLY; EFFECT OF PAYMENT WITHIN 48
HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the police officers and traffic attendants of
the borough, acting in accordance with the directions of the Chief of Police,
to report:
      (1)   The number of each parking space, when available, of the vehicle
occupying the parking space that is, or has been, parked in violation of any
provision of this subchapter;
      (2)   The date and hour of such violation;
      (3)   The license number of the vehicle; and
      (4)   Any other facts, the knowledge of which is necessary for a thorough
understanding of the circumstances attending the violation.
   (B)   The police officers or traffic attendants making the report shall also
place on or attach to the vehicle a notice to the owner or driver of the
vehicle that the vehicle was:
      (1)   Parked in violation of a “non-handicapped” related provision of
this subchapter and instructing the owner or driver that if he or she will pay
the sum of $20 to the borough, for the use of the borough, by enclosing $20 in
the envelope provided and either hand delivering the said envelope to the
Borough Office or mailing the said envelope to the Borough Office, within 48
hours after the time of the notice, that the act will save the violator from
prosecution and from payment of the fine prescribed in §
71.99; or
      (2)   Parked in violation of a “handicapped” related provision of this
section and instructing the owner or driver that if he or she will pay the sum
of $50 to the borough, for the use of the borough, by enclosing $50 in the
envelope provided and either hand-delivering the said envelope to the Borough
Office or mailing the said envelope to the Borough Office, within 48 hours
after the time of the notice, that the act will save the violator from
prosecution and from payment of the fine prescribed in §
71.99.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 408) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2012-04,
passed 7-2-2012)
§ 71.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   By resolution, the Borough Council may temporarily suspend, in whole or in
part, the parking regulations set forth in this subchapter during such days and
hours as may be designated by it.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 410) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
OFF-STREET UNMETERED PARKING
§ 71.20 RESERVED PARKING SPACES FOR HANDICAPPED MAY BE PROVIDED.
   (A)   The Borough Council, at its discretion, may provide, at convenient and
suitable locations in one or more of the unmetered parking lots, reserved
parking spaces for handicapped, and shall designate those spaces by appropriate
signs.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful, and a violation of this subchapter, for
any person to park in any such reserved parking space, any vehicle unless that
vehicle bears or displays either:
         (a)   A handicapped registration plate;
         (b)   A handicapped parking placard;
         (c)    A disabled veteran registration plate; or
         (d)   A disabled veteran placard.
      (2)   Provided, all provisions, requirements, and restrictions contained
in the other sections of this subchapter shall apply to vehicles lawfully
parked in reserved parking spaces for handicapped.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 5, § 502) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
71.99
§ 71.21 UNLAWFUL TO PARK OVERTIME OR WHEN LOT CLOSED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle or to allow a vehicle
to remain parked in any unmetered parking lot:
   (A)   For longer than the maximum parking time prescribed by
Ch. 74 Schd. IV; and/or
   (B)   At any time when the lot is not in operation and is closed to public
use.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 5, § 503) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
71.99
§ 71.22 UNMETERED LOTS FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   The unmetered parking lots established by Ch. 74 Schd. IV shall be for the
use of passenger cars, passenger vans, and pickup trucks only, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to park any other kind or class of vehicle in any such
lot.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 5, § 504) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
71.99
§ 71.23 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   Every vehicle parked in an unmetered parking lot shall be parked
wholly within the lines bounding or marking the individual parking space
assigned to that vehicle, and shall be parked headed into the parking space.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person:
      (1)   To park a vehicle otherwise than as required by this section; or
      (2)   To park a vehicle elsewhere than in an individual parking space,
the prohibited areas, including, but not limited to, the access and exit
driveways and turning and maneuvering spaces.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 5, § 505) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
71.99
§ 71.24 TICKETING OF VEHICLES PARKED UNLAWFULLY; EFFECT OF PAYMENT WITHIN 48
HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the police officers and traffic attendants of
the borough, acting in accordance with the directions of the Chief of Police,
to report:
      (1)   The number of each parking space, when available, of the vehicle
occupying the parking space that is, or has been, parked in violation of any of
the provisions of this subchapter;
      (2)   The date and hour of such violation;
      (3)   The license number of the vehicle; and
      (4)   Any other facts, the knowledge of which is necessary for a thorough
understanding of the circumstances attending the violation.
   (B)   The police officers or traffic attendants making the report shall also
place or attach to the vehicle a notice to the owner or driver of the vehicle
that the vehicle was parked in violation of this subchapter and instructing the
owner or driver that if he or she will report to the office of the Chief of
Police and pay, for the use of the borough, the sum of $15, or will place $15
enclosed within the envelope provided in any of the special parking fine boxes
installed at various locations within the borough within 48 hours after the
time of the notice, that act will save the violator from prosecution and from
payment of the fine prescribed in §
71.99.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 5, § 507) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Ticketing of vehicles parked unlawfully; effect of payment within 48 hours,
see §
71.05
§ 71.25 EXCEPTIONS.
   By resolution, the Borough Council may temporarily suspend, in whole or in
part, the parking regulations set forth in this subchapter during such days and
hours as may be designated by them.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 5, § 509) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
REMOVAL AND IMPOUNDMENT OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES
§ 71.40 APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE.
   (A)   This subchapter is enacted under authority of § 6109 (a-22) of the
Vehicle Code and gives authority to the borough to remove and impound those
vehicles which are parked in violation of parking regulations of this chapter.
   (B)   Vehicles which have been abandoned (as defined by the Vehicle Code) or
which are parked in such a manner as to interfere with traffic or pose a hazard
to others, may be towed under the provisions of the state’s Vehicle Code.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 6, § 601) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 71.41 AUTHORITY TO REMOVE AND IMPOUND.
   The borough shall have authority to remove and impound, or to order the
removal and impounding, of any vehicle parked overtime or otherwise illegally,
provided that the circumstances of its parking were within the conditions
stated in §
71.40; provided, no such vehicle shall be removed or impounded except in strict
adherence to the provisions of this subchapter or the provisions of the state’s
Vehicle Code.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 6, § 602) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 71.42 DESIGNATION OF APPROVED STORAGE GARAGES; BONDING; TOWING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Removal and impounding of vehicles under this subchapter shall be done
only by “approved storage garages” that shall be designated from time to time
by the Borough Council. Every such garage shall submit evidence to the Borough
Council that it is bonded or has acquired liability insurance in an amount
satisfactory to the Borough Council as sufficient to indemnify owners of
impounded vehicles against loss or damage to those vehicles while in the
custody of the garage keeper for the purpose of towing or storage.
   (B)   The approved storage garage shall submit to the Borough Council its
schedule of charges for towing and storage of vehicles under this subchapter,
and, when the schedule is approved by Borough Council, those charges shall be
adhered to by the approved storage garage; no different schedule of charges
shall be demanded of or collected from any person whose vehicle is removed or
impounded under this subchapter by any approved storage garage. The Borough
Council shall delete from its list of approved storage garages any garage that
makes any unapproved charge in connection with any vehicle removed or impounded
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 6, § 603) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 71.43 PAYMENT OF TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
   The payment of towing and storage charges shall not relieve the owner or
driver of any vehicle from liability for any fine or penalty for the violation
of the provision of this subchapter for which the vehicle was removed or
impounded.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 6, § 604) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 71.44 RECLAMATION COST.
   In order to reclaim his or her vehicle, the owner shall pay towing and
storage costs, plus a $25 fee, of which $10 shall be transferred to the state’s
Department of Transportation by the garage to which the vehicle was taken.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 6, § 605) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 71.45 RECORDS OF VEHICLES REMOVED AND IMPOUNDED.
   The borough shall cause a record to be kept of all vehicles impounded under
this subchapter and shall be able at all reasonable times to furnish the owners
or the agents of the owners of those vehicles with information as to the place
of storage of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 6, § 606) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 71.46 RESTRICTIONS UPON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall be removed under the authority of this subchapter or the
Vehicle Code if, at the time of the intended removal, the owner or the person
for the time being in charge of the vehicle is present and expresses a
willingness and intention to remove the vehicle immediately.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 6, § 607) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 71.47 REPORTS AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   (A)   If after a period of 15 days the vehicle in storage remains unclaimed,
a report shall be filed with PennDOT in accordance with § 7311 of the Vehicle
Code, by the person having legal custody of the vehicle.
   (B)   If the vehicle has not been claimed after 30 days, the vehicle may be
transferred to a licensed salvor who will then be responsible for filing the
proper reports and disposing of the vehicle in accordance with the provisions
of
Chapter 73 of the state’s Motor Vehicle Code (75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq., as
amended).
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 6, § 609) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any “handicapped” related provision of
§§
71.01 to
71.06 and fails to pay the fine set forth in §
71.05(B) within 48 hours of the violation, shall be cited and, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $75 nor more than $200 plus
costs.
      (2)   Any person who violates any “non-handicapped” related provision of
§§
71.01 to
71.06 and who fails to pay the fine set forth in §
71.05(B) within 48 hours of the violation, shall be cited and, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 plus costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 409)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any “handicapped” related provision of
§§
71.20 to
71.25 and fails to pay the fine set forth in §
71.24(B) within 48 hours of the violation, shall be cited and, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $75 nor more than $200 plus
costs.
      (2)   Any person who violates any “non-handicapped” related provision of
§§
71.20 to
71.25 and who fails to pay the fine set forth in §
71.24(B) within 48 hours of the violation, shall be cited and, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 plus costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 5, § 508)
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
71.40 to
71.47 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of $50
together with all costs of disposing of the vehicle under provisions of the
Vehicle Code, 75 P.S. §§ 7301 et seq. (1977), as hereafter amended,
supplemented, modified, or reenacted by the state’s General Assembly.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 6, § 608)
(Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2013-01, passed 7-1-2013)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Riding of pedalcycles on sidewalks along certain streets prohibited
   
72.02   Restrictions on use of pushcarts
   
72.03   Skates, skateboards, coasters, sleds, and other toy vehicles
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 RIDING OF PEDALCYCLES ON SIDEWALKS ALONG CERTAIN STREETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a pedalcycle on the sidewalks
along the following portions of the streets in the borough.
 
Street         Side Between
Juliana Street Both Fort Park entrance and John Street
Penn Street    Both Juliana Street and Richard Street
Pitt Street    Both Bedford Street and Thomas Street
Richard Street Both Raystown Bridge and Vondersmith Avenue
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 8, § 801) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
72.99
§ 72.02 RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF PUSHCARTS.
   (A)   The word PUSHCART, as used in this section, shall mean a vehicle,
including a pedalcycle, propelled solely by human power and used, or intended
for use, for the display, exhibit, or sale of goods, wares, or merchandise.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to propel a pushcart upon any
sidewalk in any business district except as necessary to move the pushcart to a
location from which it is to be loaded or unloaded or from which goods, wares,
or merchandise are to be sold or dispensed under permit from the Borough
Council as provided in division (C) below.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a pushcart upon any
sidewalk except for the purpose of selling or dispensing from that pushcart
goods, wares, or merchandise to passersby under permit from the Borough
Council. Every such permit shall be issued to the person making application for
the permit, upon payment of a fee, which shall be for the use of the borough,
set by the Borough Council pursuant to a resolution.
      (2)   The permit shall be granted to the applicant, upon payment of the
fee, and upon his or her signing an agreement with the Borough Council that he
or she shall be bound by the conditions imposed by Borough Council and made a
part of the permit, dealing with the following matters:
         (a)   Restricting or limiting the parking of the pushcart to one or
more stated locations upon the sidewalk and to stated days and hours at each
location;
         (b)   Stating requirements to be adhered to in connection with the
disposal of garbage and refuse resulting from the operations carried on; and
         (c)   Requiring that there be no violation of any law, ordinance, or
regulation pertaining to health, sanitation, and the handling of food or drink.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 8, § 802) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
72.99
§ 72.03 SKATES, SKATEBOARDS, COASTERS, SLEDS, AND OTHER TOY VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride on a sled upon any
sidewalk or upon any roadway in the borough; provided, nothing in this division
(D) shall prevent a pedestrian from pulling a sled, with or without a rider,
upon a sidewalk or, in case no sidewalk exists, upon a roadway.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in roller skating,
skateboarding, or to ride upon or propel any coaster or other toy vehicle upon
any sidewalk or street in the business district, except that nothing in this
division (B) shall prevent a pedestrian from pulling a coaster or other toy
vehicle, with or without a rider, upon any sidewalk or street.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 8, § 803) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
72.01 shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $5 and costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 8, § 801)
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
72.02, or any condition of any permit granted under §
72.02, shall be guilty of a summary offense and, upon conviction, shall be
sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 8, § 802)
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §
72.03 shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $5 and costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 8, § 803)
(Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Traffic signals
      
III.   One-way streets
      
IV.   Turning at certain intersections prohibited
      
V.   Through highways established
      
VI.   Stop intersections established
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Maximum speed limits established on certain streets.
      (1)   Maximum speed limits are established on portions of specified
streets, as follows, and it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a
vehicle, on any part of a street where a maximum speed limit applies, at a
higher speed than the maximum prescribed for that part of the street.
Street Between Speed Limit
Street             Between                                        Speed Limit
Anderson Street    John Street and Penn Street                    25 mph
Blackburn Avenue   Green Lane and southern borough line           25 mph
Davidson Street    Pitt Street and Raystown Branch of the Juniata 25 mph
                   River
Fort Bedford Drive Juliana Street and Thomas Street               25 mph
Green Lane         Blackburn Avenue and King Street               25 mph
John Street        Anderson Street and West Street                25 mph
Juliana Street     Broad Street and Fort Bedford Drive            25 mph
Limestone Avenue   Borough line and Penn Street                   25 mph
Watson Street      Grant Street and Meadowbrook Terrace           25 mph
 
      (2)   Any person who violates any provision of this division (A) shall,
upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $35. Any person exceeding the
maximum speed limit by more than five mph shall pay an additional fine of $2
per mile for each mile in excess of five mph over the maximum speed limit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 2, § 201)
   (B)   Maximum speed limits established in parks.
      (1)   A speed of 15 mph is established on all streets and roadways in the
public parks maintained and operated by the borough as follows.
 
Park              Street             Location               Maximum Speed Limit
Fort Bedford Park Fort Bedford Drive Juliana Street to West 15 mph
                                     Street
Fort Bedford Park Juliana Street     Pitt Street to Fort    15 mph
                                     Bedford Drive
Fort Bedford Park Thomas Street      Pitt Street to Fort    15 mph
                                     Bedford Drive
Fort Bedford Park West Street        Pitt Street to Fort    15 mph
                                     Bedford Drive
 
      (2)   Any person who violates any provision of this division (B) shall,
upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $35. Any person exceeding the
maximum speed limit by more than five mph shall pay an additional fine of $2
per mile for each mile in excess of five mph over the maximum speed limit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 2, § 202)
(Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
SCHEDULE II. TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   At the following locations, traffic signals as indicated below shall
be erected (or are ratified if previously erected), and traffic at those
locations shall be directed by those signals.
 
Location                          Type of Signal
Penn Street and Juliana Street    Traffic control lights
Penn Street and Richard Street    Traffic control lights
Pitt Street and Juliana Street    Traffic control lights
Pitt Street and Richard Street    Traffic control lights
Richard Street and Sunnyside Road Traffic control lights
 
   (B)   Any driver of a vehicle who disobeys the directions of any traffic
signal shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 2, § 203) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The following are established as one-way streets, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle on any one-way street other than in
the direction established for traffic on that street.
Street From To Direction of Travel
Street             From               To                    Direction of Travel
Cameron Avenue     Central Way        West Penn Street Ext. Southwestbound
Central Way        Juliana Street     Lafayette Avenue      Eastbound
Central Way        West Street        Cameron Avenue        Northwestbound
Fort Bedford Drive    North West   North Thomas          Eastbound
                   Street          Street   
Huntingdon Avenue  Vondersmith Avenue Penn Street           Northbound
Lafayette Avenue   West Pitt Street   Penn Street           Southbound
Limestone Avenue   West Penn Street   West Street           Northeastbound
                   Ext.
North West Street  West Pitt Street   Fort Bedford Drive    Northbound
West Penn Street   Cameron Avenue     Limestone Avenue      Southeastbound
Ext.
 
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this schedule shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 2, § 204) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2010-04,
passed 9-7-2010; Ord. 2022-02, passed 1-18-2022)
SCHEDULE IV. TURNING AT CERTAIN INTERSECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, of the type
indicated, traveling upon the first-named street at any of the following
intersections, in the direction or directions indicated in each case, to make a
left turn and/or a right turn into the second-named street, as indicated, at
any time when such a turn is prohibited by this schedule.
 
Vehicles       Direction of Not to Make Into        When    Type of Vehicle
Traveling on   Travel       Turn                            Applicable To
Richard Street South        Left        Pitt Street Anytime All
 
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this schedule shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 2, § 205) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
SCHEDULE V. THROUGH HIGHWAYS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The following highways are established as through highways, thus
authorizing stop or yield signs to be erected facing traffic approaching every
intersection with the through highway except for those intersections with
traffic signals, or with exceptions or modifications as indicated below. Every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop or yield sign authorized by this section
shall stop the vehicle or yield right-of-way as required by § 3323(b) or 3323
(c) of the Vehicle Code, as the case may be, and shall not proceed into or
across the through highway until he or she has followed all applicable
requirements of that section of the law:
 
Highway        Between
Juliana Street Pitt Street and Broad Street
Penn Street    East borough line and West Street
Pitt Street    East borough line and west borough line
Richard Street North borough line and south borough line
 
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this schedule shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 2, § 206) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
SCHEDULE VI. STOP INTERSECTIONS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The following intersections (in addition to intersections with the
through highways established by Schedule V above) are established as stop
intersections, and official stop signs shall be erected (or are ratified if
previously erected) in such a position as to face traffic approaching the
second-named street (the intersecting or through street) on the first-named
street (the stop street) in the direction or directions indicated for that
intersection. Every driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection on the
first named or stop street, in the direction indicated in each case, shall stop
the vehicle as required by § 3323(b) of the Vehicle Code, and shall not proceed
into or across the second-named or intersecting or through street until he or
she has followed all applicable requirements of that section of the law.
Stop Street Through Street Direction of Travel
Stop Street          Through Street                  Direction of Travel
Allegheny Avenue     Thomas Street                   Westbound
Anderson Street      John Street                     Southbound
Apple Avenue         Watson Street                   Northeastbound
Barclay Drive        Echo Vale Drive                 Eastbound
Barclay Drive        Fyan Lane                       Southwestbound
Barclay Drive        Jefferson Road                  Northeastbound
Bedford Street       John Street                     Northbound and southbound
Bedford Street       Simpson Street                  Northbound
Bedford Street       Simpson Street                  Southbound
Bedford Street       Watson Street                   Northbound and southbound
Cambria Avenue       Bedford Street                  Eastbound
Central Way          Anderson Street                 Eastbound
Central Way          Bedford Street                  Eastbound and westbound
Central Way          Cumberland Road                 Northwestbound and
                                                     southeastbound
Central Way          East Street                     Eastbound and westbound
Central Way          Huntingdon Avenue               Eastbound
Central Way          Huntingdon Avenue               Westbound
Central Way          Lafayette Avenue                Eastbound and westbound
Central Way          Thomas Street                   Eastbound and westbound
Central Way          West Street                     Westbound
Central Way          Wood Street                     Eastbound and westbound
Chamberlain Street   Spring Street                   Northeastbound and
                                                     southwestbound
Concord Drive        Forbes Road                     Westbound
Concord Drive        Simpson Street                  Southbound
Court Street         Watson Street                   Southwestbound
Crestview Avenue     Blackburn Avenue                Northwestbound
East Street          John Street                     Southbound
East Street          Watson Street                   Northbound
Echo Vale Drive      Barclay Drive                   Northeastbound
Echo Vale Drive      Fvan Lane                       Southwestbound
Forbes Road          Barclay Street                  Southbound
Forbes Road          Oakwood Drive                   Northwestbound
Fyan Lane            Green Lane                      Southeastbound
George Street        North Street                    Southbound
Grant Street         Butler Avenue                   Northbound
Green Lane           Lafayette Avenue                Northeastbound
Grove Lane           Bedford Street                  Westbound
Hall Street          Blackburn Avenue                Southwestbound
Hall Street          Fyan Lane                       Northeastbound
Hammer Street        Barclay Street                  Northbound
Hammer Street        King Street                     Southbound
Hibbs Drive          Crestview Avenue                Northeastbound
Hibbs Drive          Crestview Avenue                Northeast
Huntingdon Avenue    Central Way                     Southbound
Huntingdon Avenue    Indiana Avenue                  Northbound and southbound
Huntingdon Avenue    Mann Street                     Northbound and southbound
Huntingdon Avenue    North Street                    Northbound
Huntingdon Avenue    Railroad Street                 Southbound
Huntingdon Avenue    Simpson Street                  Northbound and southbound
Huntingdon Avenue    Somerset Avenue                 Northbound and southbound
Indiana Avenue       Huntingdon Avenue               Eastbound and westbound
Indiana Avenue       Lafayette Avenue                Westbound
Jefferson Avenue     Butler Avenue                   Northbound
John Street          Anderson Street                 Westbound
John Street          Bedford Street                  Eastbound and westbound
John Street          West Street                     Westbound
Juliana Street       Mann Street                     Northbound and southbound
Juliana Street       North Street                    Northbound
Juliana Street       Railroad Street                 Southbound
King Street          Barclay Drive                   Northwestbound
Lafayette Avenue     Barclay Street                  Northbound and southbound
Lafayette Avenue     Central Way                     Southbound
Lafayette Avenue     King Street                     Northbound and southbound
Lafayette Avenue     Simpson Street                  Northbound and southbound
Lafayette Avenue     Vondersmith Avenue              Northbound
Lafayette Avenue     Walnut Street                   Southbound
Lafayette Avenue     Watson Street                   Northbound
Limestone Avenue     West Street                     Northeastbound
Lincoln Drive        Forbes Road                     Southwestbound
Lincoln Drive        Union Street                    Northeastbound
Mann Street          Railroad Street                 Westbound
Penn Street Extended Cumberland Road                 Northwestbound
Preston Street       Blackburn Avenue                Southwestbound
Preston Street       Fyan Lane                       Northeastbound and
                                                     southwestbound
Preston Street       King Street                     Northeastbound
Ritchey Avenue       Bedford Street                  Westbound
Simpson Street       Forbes Road                     Westbound
Smithfield Street    Watson Street                   Northeastbound
Somerset Avenue      Huntingdon Avenue               Eastbound and westbound
Somerset Avenue      Lafayette Avenue                Westbound
Spring Street        Davidson Street                 Southeastbound
Thomas Street        Barclay Street                  Northbound and southbound
Thomas Street        John Street                     Southbound
Thomas Street        King Street                     Southbound
Thomas Street        Mann Street                     Northbound and southbound
Thomas Street        North Street                    Northbound
Thomas Street        Railroad Street                 Southbound
Thomas Street        Simpson Street                  Northbound
Union Street         Grant Street                    Eastbound
Union Street         Jefferson Avenue                Westbound
Vondersmith Avenue   Anderson Street                 Eastbound and westbound
Vondersmith Avenue   Bedford Street                  Eastbound and westbound
Vondersmith Avenue   East Street                     Eastbound and westbound
Vondersmith Avenue   Huntingdon Avenue               Eastbound and westbound
Vondersmith Avenue   Juliana Street                  Eastbound and westbound
Vondersmith Avenue   Lafayette Avenue                Eastbound
Vondersmith Avenue   Richard Street                  Eastbound and westbound
Vondersmith Avenue   Thomas Street                   Eastbound and westbound
Vondersmith Avenue   West Street                     Eastbound and westbound
Vondersmith Avenue   Wood Street                     Eastbound and westbound
Walnut Street        Green Lane                      Westbound
Watson Street        Bedford Street                  Eastbound and westbound
Watson Street        Watson Street                   Southwestbound
Watson Street        Watson Street/Smithfield Street Northwestbound and
                                                     southeastbound
Wilson Drive         Watson Street                   Southwestbound
Wood Street          John Street                     Southbound
 
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this schedule shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 2, § 207) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2006-01,
passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-1-2010; Ord. 2010-04, passed 9-7-2010)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibited
      
II.   Parking time limited
      
III.   Special purpose parking zones established
      
IV.   Unmetered parking lots
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Parking shall be prohibited at all times in the following locations:
Street Side Location
Street             Side  Location
Central Way        Both  Between Anderson Street and Chamberlain Street
Clarion Avenue     Both  Between Davidson Street and Forrest Avenue
Davidson Street    West  Between the Raystown Branch of the Juniata River and
                         Pitt Street
East Street        East  Between driveway entrance to 222 Ritchey Avenue and
                         Watson Street
Erie Avenue        Both  Between Mann Street and Railroad Street
Fort Bedford Drive North Between Juliana Street and West Street
Grant Street       Both  Between Butler Avenue and Watson Street
Huntingdon Avenue  Both  Between John Street and the Raystown Branch of the
                         Juniata River
                         Between the driveway of 230 West John Street and a
John Street        North point 44 feet west of the driveway of 230 West John
                         Street
                         Between a point 18 feet west of the driveway of 233
John Street        South West John Street and a point 18 feet east of the
                         driveway of 233 West John Street
Juliana Street     East  Between John Street and a point 55 feet north of John
                         Street
Lafayette Avenue   Both  Between Butler Avenue and the Raystown Branch of the
                         Juniata River
Limestone Avenue   Both  Between borough line and Penn Street
Limestone Avenue   Both  Between the borough line and Penn Street
Penn Street        North Between a point 50 feet east of Richard Street and a
                         point 35 feet west of Richard Street
Penn Street        North Between West Street and Limestone Avenue
Pitt Street        North Between a point 120 feet east of Fulton Avenue and
                         Fulton Avenue
Pitt Street        North Between Richard Street and the first parking space
                         west of Richard Street
Pitt Street        North In front of 434 and 444 West Pitt Street
Pitt Street        North Between a point 120 feet east of Chamberlain Street
                         and a point 426 feet east of Fulton Avenue
Pitt Street        North Between a point 160 feet east of Juliana Street and
                         Juliana Street
Pitt Street        North Between a point 46 feet east of Thomas Street and a
                         point 46 feet west of Thomas Street
Pitt Street        North Between a point 140 feet east of Davidson Street and
                         Davidson Street
Pitt Street        North Between a point 46 feet east of West Street and a
                         point 96 feet west of West Street
Pitt Street        South Between Anderson Street and a point 246 feet west of
                         Anderson Street
Pitt Street        South Between the western borough line and a point 62 feet
                         east of the eastbound exit of the Route 220 bypass
Pitt Street        South Between the first parking space immediately west of
                         Richard Street and Richard Street
Pitt Street        South Between a point 40 feet west of Thomas Street and the
                         first parking space east of Thomas Street
Pitt Street        South Between a point 258 feet west of Cumberland Road and a
                         point 60 feet east of Cumberland Road.
Pitt Street        South Between a point 250 feet east of the eastbound exit of
                         the Route 220 bypass and Chamberlain Street
                         Between the first parking space immediately south of
Richard Street     East  the Raystown Branch of the Juniata River and the
                         northern borough line
Richard Street     East  Between Vondersmith Avenue and a point 39 feet north
                         of Vondersmith Avenue
Richard Street     East  Between a point 50 feet south of Watson Street and a
                         point 76 feet north of Cambria Avenue
Richard Street     East  Between a point 87 feet south of Penn Street and Penn
                         Street
Richard Street     East  Between a point 118 feet north of Cambria Avenue and a
                         point 90 feet north of John Street
Richard Street     East  Between Penn Street and the private driveway south of
                         133 South Richard Street
Richard Street     East  Between Pitt Street and the first parking space north
                         of Pitt Street
Richard Street     East  Between the first parking space immediately south of
                         Pitt Street and Pitt Street
Richard Street     East  Between Vondersmith Avenue and a point 29 feet south
                         of Vondersmith Avenue
Richard Street     West  Between a point 90 feet north of John Street and a
                         point 140 feet south of John Street
Richard Street     West  Between a point 50 feet north of Cambria Avenue and a
                         point 36 feet south of Cambria Avenue
Richard Street     West  Between a point 59 feet south of Penn Street and the
                         private driveway of the Motel Town House
Richard Street     West  Between Railroad Street and a point 37 feet south of
                         Penn Street
Richard Street     West  Between Vondersmith Avenue and a point 29 feet south
                         of Vondersmith Avenue
Richard Street     West  Between North Street and a point 76 feet south of
                         North Street
Richard Street     West  Between Vondersmith Avenue and a point 29 feet north
                         of Vondersmith Avenue
Richard Street     West  Between a point 134 feet north of Watson Street and a
                         point 50 feet south of Watson Street
Vondersmith Avenue Both  Between Bedford Street and Richard Street
Vondersmith Avenue North Between Thomas Street and West Street
Watson Street      North Between the Meadowbrook Terrace Bridge and the
                         entrance to the Bedford High School parking lot
                         Between the western end of the bridge over Shobers Run
Watson Street      North and the entrance to/exit from the Bedford High School
                         Parking Lot
Watson Street      North Between the entrance to/exit from the Bedford High
                         School football field and Bedford Street
                         Between a point 80 feet west of the western end of the
Watson Street      South bridge over Shobers Run and the western end of the
                         bridge over Shobers Run
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 402) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2006-01,
passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2006-03, passed 12-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING TIME LIMITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle or allow it to remain parked for longer than
the specified time limit on the days and/or between the hours listed in any of
the below locations. Excepting parking spaces designated with 15 minute time
limits, no person shall park a vehicle or allow the same to remain parked on
any one block of any street, containing the locations listed below, on any one
day for more than the specified time.
Street Side Location Days Time
Street  Side  Location     Days                                                      Time
              Between John
Bedford Both  Street and   8:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. Sept. 1 through May 31 except     2
Street        Vondersmith  holidays                                                  hrs.
              Avenue
              Between John
Bedford Both  Street and   8:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. Sept. 1 through May 31 except     2
Street        Cambria      holidays                                                  hrs.
              Avenue
              Between John
Bedford West  Street and   Sept. 1 through May 31 except holidays 8:00 a.m. – 4:00 2
Street        Cambria      p.m.                                                      hrs.
              Avenue
              Handicapped
              parking
              space,
              second
              parking
              space
E. Pitt -     immediately  Sunday to Saturday                                        1
Street        west of                                                                hr.
              Huntingdon
              Avenue in
              front of
              Hotel
              Pennsylvania
              Apartments
              Between
John    North Richard      8:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. Sept. 1 through May 31 except     2
Street        Street and   holidays                                                  hrs.
              East Street
              Between a
              point 48
              feet west of
John          Richard      Monday through Friday except holidays 9:00 a.m. – 6:00  2
Street  South Street and a p.m.                                                      hrs.
              point 104
              feet west of
              Richard
              Street
              Between
              Richard
              Street and
John    South the entrance 8:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. Sept. 1 through May 31 except     2
Street        to the       holidays                                                  hrs.
              Bedford High
              School
              parking lot
              Between John
Juliana       Street and   Monday through Friday except holidays 9:00 a.m. – 6:00  2
Street  Both  the entrance p.m.                                                      hrs.
              to Fort
              Bedford Park
              First space
Juliana       immediately                                                            15
Street  East  north of     Sunday through Saturday                                   min.
              Central Way
              Avenue
              First space
Juliana West  immediately  Sunday through Saturday                                   15
Street        south of                                                               min.
              Penn Street
              First space
Juliana       immediately                                                            15
Street  West  north of     Sunday through Saturday                                   min.
              Central Way
              Avenue
              Between
Penn          Richard      Monday through Friday except holidays 9:00 a.m. – 6:00  2
Street  Both  Street and   p.m.                                                      hrs.
              Thomas
              Street
              First and
              second
Penn          spaces                                                                 15
Street  South immediately  Sunday through Saturday                                   min.
              west of
              Huntingdon
              Avenue
              First space
Penn          immediately                                                            15
Street  North west of      Sunday through Saturday                                   min.
              Huntingdon
              Avenue
              Between
Pitt          Bedford      Monday through Friday except holidays 9:00 a.m. – 6:00  2
Street  Both  Street and   p.m.                                                      hrs.
              Thomas
              Street
              First space
Pitt          immediately                                                            15
Street  North west of      Sunday through Saturday                                   min.
              Juliana
              Street
              Between a
              point 426
              feet east of
Pitt          Fulton                                                                 0
Street  North Avenue and a Monday through Saturday except holidays                   hrs.
              point 120
              feet east of
              Fulton
              Avenue
              First space
Pitt          immediately                                                            15
Street  South east of      Sunday through Saturday                                   min.
              Richard
              Street
              First space
Pitt          immediately                                                            15
Street  South west of      Sunday through Saturday                                   min.
              Huntingdon
              Avenue
              First space
Pitt          immediately                                                            15
Street  South east of      Sunday through Saturday                                   min.
              Lafayette
              Avenue
              Between a
              point 62
              feet east of
              the
              eastbound
              exit of the
              southbound
Pitt          Route 220                                                              0
Street  South bypass and a Monday through Saturday except holidays                   hrs.
              point 250
              feet east of
              the
              eastbound
              exit of the
              southbound
              Route 220
              bypass
              First space
Pitt          immediately                                                            15
Street  South east of      Sunday through Saturday                                   min.
              Juliana
              Street
              Between the
              northern
              property
              line of the
              Catholic
              Church and
Richard       the last     Monday through Friday except holidays 9:00 a.m. – 6:00  2
Street  East  private      p.m.                                                      hrs.
              driveway
              south of the
              bridge over
              the Raystown
              Branch of
              the Juniata
              River
              First space
Richard       immediately                                                            15
Street  East  north of     Sunday through Saturday                                   min.
              Central Way
              Avenue
              Two spaces
              between a
              point 76
              feet north
              of Cambria
              Avenue and a
Richard East  point 118    Sunday through Saturday                                   15
Street        feet north                                                             min.
              of Cambria
              Avenue, in
              front of N/
              F United
              Telephone
              Co. building
              First space
Richard       closest to                                                             2
Street  South 133 S.       Monday through Friday                                     hrs.
              Richard
              Street
              Between
Watson        Bedford      Sept. 1 through May 31 except holidays 8:00 a.m. – 4:00 2
Street  North Street and   p.m.                                                      hrs.
              Richard
              Street
              Between
Wood    West  Vondersmith  Monday through Friday except holidays 9:00 a.m. – 6:00  2
Street        Avenue and   p.m.                                                      hrs.
              John Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 404) (Ord. 2012-05, passed 9-4-2012; Ord. 2018-
01, passed 3-5-2018; Ord. 2019-04, passed 7-1-2019; Ord. 2022-04, passed 10-3-
2022; Ord. 2023-02, passed - -2023)  Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE III. SPECIAL PURPOSE PARKING ZONES ESTABLISHED.
   The following are established as special purpose parking zones, and it shall
be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle or to allow it to remain parked,
in any such zone, except as specifically provided for that zone.
Street Side Location Authorized Purpose or Vehicle
Street   Side  Location                                                                  Authorized Purpose or Vehicle
Anderson East  First space immediately south of driveway at 118 Anderson Street          Handicapped
Street
Anderson East  First space immediately north of driveway at 118 Anderson Street          Handicapped
Street
East     East  One space located between 60 feet and 80 feet north of Central Way Avenue Loading and unloading only 7:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Mon. through Fri.; 9:00 a.m.
Street                                                                                   – 12:00 p.m. Sat.
East     West  Three spaces immediately north of Central Way Avenue                      Loading and unloading only 7:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Mon. through Fri.; 9:00 a.m.
Street                                                                                   – 12:00 p.m. Sat.
Fort
Bedford  South End of Purple Heart Trail                                                 Purple heart recipient or disabled veteran only
Drive
John     North First space immediately east of Juliana Street                            Handicapped
Street
John     South First space immediately west of the “No Parking Zone” in front of the Handicapped
Street         Bedford High School gymnasium
John     South First space immediately east of the “No Parking Zone” in front of the Handicapped
Street         Bedford High School gymnasium
John     South First space east of high school cafeteria entrance                        Handicapped
Street
John     South First space west of high school cafeteria entrance                        Handicapped
Street
                                                                                         School bus loading and unloading only between 7:00 a.m. – 8:30 a.m. and 2:30
John     South From Bedford Street eastward to the entrance to the Bedford High School   p.m. - 3:30 p.m. Mon. through Fri. from August 15 to June 1 of each year;
Street         parking lot                                                               adjusted accordingly in the event of school opening delays or early dismissals
                                                                                         as announced by the Bedford area school district
Juliana  West  Second space south of Penn Street                                         Handicapped
Street
Juliana  West  First space South of Penn Street                                          Purple heart recipient or disabled veteran only
Street
Penn     North Between a point 250 feet east of West Street and West Street              Official business
Street
Penn     North Fourth space immediately west of Lafayette Avenue                         Handicapped
Street
Penn     North First space immediately east of Huntingdon Avenue                         Handicapped
Street
Penn     North First two spaces East of Lafayette Avenue (Lutheran Church)               Loading and unloading only 7:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday
Street
Pitt     South Second space west of Huntingdon Avenue in front of the Hotel Pennsylvania Handicapped
Street         Apartments
Pitt     South First space immediately west of Huntingdon Avenue in front of the Hotel   Loading and unloading - no trucks
Street         Pennsylvania Apartments
Pitt     South First space immediately west of Juliana Street                            Police Dept.
Street
Pitt     South First space immediately west of Lafayette Avenue                          Handicapped
Street
Richard  East  Fort Bedford Inn - one space between a point 61 feet north of Vondersmith Loading and unloading
Street         Avenue and a point 100 feet north of Vondersmith Avenue
Richard  East  First space south of Pitt Street                                          Handicapped
Street
Richard  East  First space immediately north of Pitt Street                              Handicapped
Street
Richard  South First space south of two existing parking spaces close to 133 S. Richard  Handicapped
Street         Street
Richard  South First space south of two existing parking spaces close to 133 S. Richard  Handicapped
Street         Street
Thomas   East  First space immediately north of Central Way Avenue                       Loading and unloading
Street
Watson   South Dr. Cullen’s office - first space east of Juliana Street                Doctor’s patients’ vehicles
Street
Watson   South Dr. Seitz’s office - two spaces in front of 224 East Watson Street      Doctor’s patients’ vehicles
Street
West
Pitt     South Space closest to 227 West Pitt Street                                     Handicapped
Street
West     East  Space adjacent to rear entrance of the AME Zion Church                    Handicapped
Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 405) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2006-01,
passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2007-02, passed 5-7-2007; Ord. 2009-02, passed 7-6-2009;
Ord. 2010-06, passed 12-27-2010; Ord. 2011-02, passed 7-5-2011; Ord. 2012-04,
passed 7-2-2012; Ord. 2013-01, passed 7-1-2013; Ord. 2015-03, passed 3-2-2015;
Ord. 2016-01, passed 8-1-2016; Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-5-2018; Ord. 2020-03,
passed 12-7-2020; Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-19-2021; Ord. 2023-02, passed - -
2023; Ord. 2023-05, passed 12-4-2023; Ord. 2024-05, passed 12-17-2024; Ord.
2025-02, passed 9-2-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE IV. UNMETERED PARKING LOTS.
   No person shall park a vehicle or allow it to remain parked on any one day
in the below parking lot for longer than the specified time limit on the days
and between the hours listed.
 
Parking Lot      Location          Days Enforced  Hours of           Time Limit
                                                  Enforcement
Central Business Central Way and   Monday through 9:00 a.m. – 6:00
District         Huntingdon Avenue Friday except  p.m.               4 hours
                                   holidays
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Pt. 5, § 501) (Ord. 2012-05, passed 9-4-2012) Penalty, see
§
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
96.   BLASTING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Conditions for Keeping Animals
   
90.01   Definitions and interpretation
   
90.02   Unlawful to keep certain animals
   
90.03   Unlawful to keep wild animals; exception
   
90.04   Conditions for keeping domestic animals
   
90.05   Conditions for keeping household pets
   
90.06   Running at large prohibited
Cleaning up after Animals
   
90.20   Animal defecation on public and private property restricted
   
90.21   Disposal of animal feces
   
90.22   Exceptions
Animal Noise Disturbances
   
90.35   Intent and purpose
   
90.36   Noise disturbance
   
90.37   Exceptions
Waterfowl Regulations
   
90.50   Definitions
   
90.51   Prohibited acts
   
90.52   Introduction or drop-off of waterfowl
   
90.53   Enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 93
   Parks and recreation, see
Ch. 94
   Property maintenance, see
Ch. 92
CONDITIONS FOR KEEPING ANIMALS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In this subchapter, the singular shall include the plural, the plural
shall include the singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine and
the neuter.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANIMAL. Any domestic animal or fowl, any wild animal, or any household
pet.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal as hereinafter defined as a household pet or
a small animal.
      HOUSEHOLD PET. Any dog, cat, or other domestic animal normally and
ordinarily kept in or permitted to be at large in the dwelling of its owner.
      LARGE ANIMAL. Any animal of the bovine, equine, emu, goat, llama,
ostrich, sheep, or swine family.
      PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, association, firm, or
corporation.
      RUNNING AT LARGE. An animal being upon any public street, avenue, way,
court, drive, alley, park, or any other public land, or upon any property of
another person other than the owner, and not being accompanied by and under the
control of the owner or any other person having custody of said animal.
      SMALL ANIMAL. Any domestic animal such as a rabbit, hare, guinea pig,
rat, mouse, hamster, or chinchilla; or any domestic foul such as a chicken,
turkey, goose, duck, or pigeon (excepting homing pigeons); or any dog or cat
not otherwise defined above as a household pet.
      WILD ANIMAL. Any animal, bird, fowl, or reptile not normally or
ordinarily domesticated; not normally or ordinarily raised in this area and
climate as livestock or for work or breeding purposes; or not normally or
ordinarily kept as a household pet.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Pt. 1, § 101) (Ord. 320, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 90.02 UNLAWFUL TO KEEP CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep any large animals, poisonous reptiles, or other
types of poisonous animals, poisonous spiders, poisonous insects, or snakes
exceeding three feet in length.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Pt. 1, § 102) (Ord. 320, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 UNLAWFUL TO KEEP WILD ANIMALS; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any wild animal at any place
within the borough, except where the same shall be permitted under the zoning
ordinance (
Chapter 154), in a park, zoological garden, or similar establishment for
exhibit to the public or to any portion thereof.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Pt. 1, § 103) (Ord. 320, passed 6-4-1973) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 CONDITIONS FOR KEEPING DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any domestic animals, except
household pets, except as provided in this section.
   (A)   Small animals shall be kept confined in quarters no part of which
shall be closer than 25 feet from the exterior limits of any dwelling of any
person other than the owner of such animals.
   (B)   (1)   The keeper of every such domestic animal shall confine the same
in an enclosure sufficient to prevent such animal from running at large, and
such enclosure shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all
times.
      (2)   Such enclosure shall be of a size conducive to good sanitation
practices and adequate and sanitary drainage facilities shall be provided.
   (C)   Every keeper of a domestic animal shall cause the litter and droppings
therefrom to be collected daily in a container or receptacle of such a type
that, when closed, it shall be rat-proof and fly-tight, and after every such
collection shall cause such container or receptacle to be kept closed. At least
twice a week, every such keeper shall cause all litter and droppings so
collected to be disposed of in such manner as not to permit the presence of fly
larvae.
   (D)   Every keeper of a domestic animal shall cause all feed provided
therefor to be stored and kept in a rat-proof and fly-tight building, box,
container, or receptacle.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Pt. 1, § 104) (Ord. 320, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 CONDITIONS FOR KEEPING HOUSEHOLD PETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any household pet, except as
provided in this section.
   (A)   If any such pet shall be kept in a dwelling owned or occupied by its
owner, such owner shall be required to follow such procedures and practices, as
to the number of such pets to be kept there, and as to sanitation, to ensure
that no public nuisance shall be created or maintained and no threat to the
health of persons living elsewhere than in such dwelling shall be created.
   (B)   If any such pet shall be kept in an enclosure outside such dwelling,
the provisions of §
90.04, insofar as the same apply to small animals, shall be applicable to the
keeping of such household pet.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Pt. 1, § 105) (Ord. 320, passed 6-4-1973) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal or animals to fail to
prevent such animal or animals from running at large in the borough.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
CLEANING UP AFTER ANIMALS
§ 90.20 ANIMAL DEFECATION ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY RESTRICTED.
   No person, having possession, custody, or control of any animal, shall
knowingly or negligently permit any dog or other animal to defecate upon any
gutter, street, driveway, alley, curb, or sidewalk in the borough, or upon the
floors or stairways of any building or place frequented by the public or upon
the outside walls, walkways, driveways, alleys, curbs, or stairways of any
building abutting on a public street or park, or upon the grounds of any public
park, cemetery, or public area, or upon any private property except as provided
in §
90.22.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Pt. 2, § 201) (Ord. 7-89, passed 11-6-1989) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 DISPOSAL OF ANIMAL FECES.
   Any person having possession, custody, or control of any dog or other animal
which defecates in any public or private area prohibited in §
90.20 shall be required to immediately remove any feces from such surface and
either: carry same away for disposal in a toilet; or place same in a non-
leaking container for deposit in a trash or litter receptacle.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Pt. 2, § 202) (Ord. 7-89, passed 11-6-1989) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of §§
90.20 and
90.21 shall not apply to the following: private property which is owned or
leased by the person having possession, custody, or control of the animal; or a
guide dog accompanying any blind person or a dog used to assist any other
physically handicapped person.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Pt. 2, § 203) (Ord. 7-89, passed 11-6-1989)
ANIMAL NOISE DISTURBANCES
§ 90.35 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The Borough Council, finding that excessive levels of sound are detrimental
to the physical, mental, and social well-being of the people as well as to
their comfort, living conditions, general welfare, and safety, and being
therefor a public health and welfare hazard, hereby declares it to be necessary
to provide for the greater control and more effective regulation of excessive
sound and the sources of excessive sound within the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Pt. 3, § 301) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 90.36 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   It shall be illegal within the borough for any person or persons to own,
possess, harbor, or control any animal or bird which makes any noise
continuously and/or incessantly for a period of ten minutes or makes such noise
intermittently for one-half hour or more to the disturbance of any person any
time of the day or night regardless of whether the animal or bird is physically
situated in or upon private property, said noise being a nuisance; provided,
that at the time the animal or bird is making such noise, no person is
trespassing or threatening to trespass upon private property in or upon which
the animal or bird is situated, nor is there any other legitimate cause which
justifiably provoked the animal or bird.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Pt. 3, § 302) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 90.37 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not be deemed to prohibit or otherwise declare
unlawful any agricultural operations protected from nuisance suits by Act of
June 10, 1982, Pub. Law 454, No. 133, §§ 1 et seq., 3 P.S. §§ 951 et seq.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Pt. 3, § 303) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
WATERFOWL REGULATIONS
§ 90.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOROUGH PROPERTY. Property owned by or under the control, care, or
maintenance of the borough, including, but not limited to, Fort Bedford Park,
the Public Square, the Green, other parks, as well as public streets, alleys,
sidewalks, and parking lots.
   FEED or FEEDING. Includes the provision or dissemination of food or any
substance likely to be eaten by waterfowl, in any manner in the vicinity of
waterfowl, or placing, scattering, or depositing such food or substances so as
to lure, attract, or entice such waterfowl.
   WATERFOWL. Includes those species of birds commonly known as swans, geese,
or ducks.
   WATERWAYS. A general term referring to lakes, ponds, streams, creeks, and
storm water basins.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-4-2008)
§ 90.51 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to feed waterfowl on borough property or
any public waterways within the borough.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-4-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.52 INTRODUCTION OR DROP-OFF OF WATERFOWL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to introduce any waterfowl onto any
borough property or public waterways within the borough.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-4-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.53 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter shall be enforced by the borough’s Police Department.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-4-2008)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating ant provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision
of §§
90.01 to
90.05 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $20 nor more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment no to exceed 30 days.
      (2)   Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Pt. 1, § 106)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
90.20 to
90.22 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $20, nor more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Pt. 2, § 204)
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
90.35 to
90.37 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $20 nor more than $600 and, in default of payment, to imprisonment for a
term not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Pt. 3, § 304)
   (E)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
90.50 to
90.53 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $30 nor more than $300 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day’s
violation of any provision of §§
90.50 to
90.53 shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 320, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 7-89, passed 11-6-1989; Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-
2-2001; Ord. 2008-01, passed 2-4-2008)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Open Burning
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Regulations
   
91.03   Exceptions
   
91.04   Enforcement
External Burning Devices
   
91.15   Definition
   
91.16   Prohibition
   
91.17   Grandfather clause
   
91.18   Permitting and regulation of grandfathered devices
 
   
91.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FURNACE. An enclosed device specifically designed for burning any material
for the production of heat.
   OPEN FIRE. A fire in which any material is burned in the out-of-doors in the
open or in a receptacle other than a furnace.
   PERSONS. Any person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Pt. 2, § 201) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 91.02 REGULATIONS.
   Burning in a safe and unoffensive manner shall be allowed between the hours
of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. provided:
   (A)   There shall be no burning on the streets, curbs, gutters, or
sidewalks;
   (B)   If in a container, a fire must be at least 15 feet from a structure;
if on an open pile, a fire must be at least 50 feet from a structure;
   (C)   No garbage, inorganic material, including plastics or animal feces,
are to be burned;
   (D)   The Fire Prevention Officer may ban burning when deemed necessary and
order any unsafe fire extinguished; and
   (E)   Open burning of trees, logs, brush, stumps, leaves, and grass
clippings is allowed only in accordance with the following provisions:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (E)(4) below, open burning of trees,
tree limbs, logs, brush, stumps, leaves, or grass or shrubbery clippings shall
only be conducted on the first and third Wednesday and the second and fourth
Saturday of each month. On those designated days, open burning of the specified
items shall be permitted from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., subject to the other terms of
this subchapter;
      (2)   All allowed open burning shall be conducted in a safe manner, when
wind and weather conditions minimize adverse effects and do not create a
visibility hazard on roadways. Open burning shall be conducted in conformance
with state and local fire protection regulations;
      (3)   Except for fires permitted under (E)(4) below, open burning shall
be conducted only on the property on which the materials being burned were
generated;
      (4)   Outdoor campfires and small bonfires for cooking, ceremonies, or
recreation are allowed, provided they do not cause a public nuisance; and
      (5)   Open burning shall be constantly attended and supervised by a
competent person of at least 18 years of age until the fire is extinguished and
is cold. The person shall have readily available for such use fire
extinguishing equipment as may be necessary for the total control of the fire.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Pt. 2, § 202) (Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-7-2017) Penalty, see
§
91.99
§ 91.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   Open fires may be set in the performance of an official duty of any public
officer if the fire is necessary for:
   (A)   The prevention of a fire hazard which cannot be abated by other means;
and
   (B)   The protection of public health.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Pt. 2, § 203) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 91.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Council of the borough shall appoint a Fire Prevention Officer who shall
have the authority to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Pt. 2, § 204) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
EXTERNAL BURNING DEVICES
§ 91.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXTERNAL FUEL BURNING DEVICE. Any equipment, device, or apparatus which is
installed, affixed, or situated outdoors and not situated within a building
intended for habitation by humans which is used for the primary purpose of
combustion of fuel to produce heat for energy as a heating system, or component
thereof, which provides heat or hot water to the principal structure, to a
structure used for human or animal habitation or occupancy, or to any accessory
uses or structures, including, but not limited to residences, businesses,
garages, warehouses, greenhouses, swimming pools, or spas.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 91.16 PROHIBITION.
   All future external fuel burning devices are hereby prohibited within the
borough.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 9-2-2008) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 GRANDFATHER CLAUSE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not be construed to be retroactive and shall not
require the removal of any external fuel burning device in existence and
installed within the borough at the effective date of this subchapter.
   (B)   All external fuel burning devices which are subject to this
grandfather clause, however, shall be further subject to the provisions of §
91.18.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 91.18 PERMITTING AND REGULATION OF GRANDFATHERED DEVICES.
   (A)   The owner of an external fuel burning device which is grandfathered
pursuant to §
91.17 shall obtain a permit for the device from the Borough Office within 60
days after the effective date of this subchapter.
   (B)   The permit shall allow continued use of the external fuel burning
devices subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   It shall be used in a manner that complies with all manufacturer’s
specifications;
      (2)   It shall not be used to burn green, wet, decaying, treated, or
painted wood; manure; leaves; rubbish; garbage; plastic; rubber; or any
material not recommended for burning by the manufacturer of the external fuel
burning device;
      (3)   Firewood or other sources of fuel recommended by the manufacturer
of the external fuel burning device, which are being stockpiled for the purpose
of being burned in the external fuel burning device, shall be neatly stacked
and stored under a waterproof cover;
      (4)   It shall be used in a manner so as to assure that smoke, fumes, or
odors are not dispensed to other properties or public streets;
      (5)   It shall not be moved without written approval from the borough
unless it is being permanently removed from the borough;
      (6)   It shall be cleaned and maintained to assure that it is in proper
operating condition. In the event the device is damaged more than 50% or it is
physically deteriorated or decayed, it must be torn down and removed from the
property;
      (7)   Ashes and waste shall be disposed of promptly, in a lawful manner,
and shall not be permitted to accumulate on the property;
      (8)   It shall only be utilized for the sole purpose of furnishing heat
and/or hot water to a structure during the period October 1 through April 30
and shall not be operated for any reason any other time of the year; and
      (9)   Acceptance of a permit shall be deemed consent by the property
owner for any authorized officer, agent, or representative of the borough to
enter the property for the purpose of inspecting the external fuel burning
device to assure compliance with the terms of the permit.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
91.01 to
91.04 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not less than
$100 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, Ch. 7, Pt. 2, § 205)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
91.15 through
91.18 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000 and, in default of payment of said fine, to imprisonment for a term
not to exceed 90 days. Every day that a violation of §§
91.15 to
91.18 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2008-06, passed 9-2-2008)
CHAPTER 92: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
Grass and Weeds Maintenance
   
92.001   Grass, weeds, and certain other vegetation not permitted under certain
circumstances
   
92.002   Grass, weeds, and certain other vegetation a nuisance under certain
circumstances
   
92.003   Responsibility for removing, trimming, or cutting grass, weeds, and
other vegetation
   
92.004   Notice to remove, trim, or cut
   
92.005   Authority for borough to remove, trim, or cut grass, weeds, and other
vegetation
   
92.006   Penalty added to unpaid charges; filing of lien
Disposal of Yard Waste
   
92.020   Findings
   
92.021   Regulations regarding grass clippings
   
92.022   Enforcement
Trees
   
92.035   Short title
   
92.036   Definitions
   
92.037   Establishment of Shade Tree Commission
   
92.038   General considerations
   
92.039   Specifications for selection, planting, and maintenance of public
trees
   
92.040   Appeals
   
92.041   Emergencies
Building Maintenance
   
92.055   Short title
   
92.056   Preface
   
92.057   Definitions
   
92.058   Application
   
92.059   Buildings and structures
   
92.060   Yards, lots, parking areas, and other open areas
   
92.061   Motor vehicle nuisances
   
92.062   Storage of nuisances prohibited
   
92.063   Infestation, prevention, and correction
   
92.064   Miscellaneous provisions
   
92.065   Responsibilities of occupants
   
92.066   Responsibilities of owners
   
92.067   Inspection
   
92.068   Authority to remedy violations
   
92.069   Owners severally responsible
   
92.070   Remedies not mutually exclusive
 
   
92.999   Penalty
GRASS AND WEEDS MAINTENANCE
§ 92.001 GRASS, WEEDS, AND CERTAIN OTHER VEGETATION NOT PERMITTED UNDER CERTAIN
CIRCUMSTANCES.
   No person, firm, or corporation owning or occupying any property within the
borough shall permit any grass or weeds or any vegetation whatsoever, exclusive
of trees, not edible or planted for some useful or ornamental purpose, to grow
or remain upon such premises so as to exceed a height of six inches, to throw
off any unpleasant or noxious odor, to conceal any filthy deposit, or to create
or produce pollen.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 1, § 101) (Ord. passed 8-6-1962) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.002 GRASS, WEEDS, AND CERTAIN OTHER VEGETATION A NUISANCE UNDER CERTAIN
CIRCUMSTANCES.
   Any grass, weeds, or other vegetation growing upon any premises in the
borough in violation of any of the provisions of §
92.001 is hereby declared to be unlawful and is declared to be a nuisance and
detrimental to the health, safety, cleanliness, and comfort of the inhabitants
of the borough and the same is hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 1, § 102) (Ord. passed 8-6-1962) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.003 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVING, TRIMMING, OR CUTTING GRASS, WEEDS, AND
OTHER VEGETATION.
   The owner of any premises as to vacant premises, or premises occupied by the
owner, and the occupant thereof, in case of premises occupied by other than the
owner thereof, shall remove, trim, or cut all grass, weeds, or other vegetation
growing or remaining upon such premises in violation of the provisions of §
92.001.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 1, § 103) (Ord. passed 8-6-1962)
§ 92.004 NOTICE TO REMOVE, TRIM, OR CUT.
   The Borough Council, or any officer or employee of the borough designated
thereby for the purpose, is hereby authorized to give notice, by personal
service or by United States mail, to the owner or occupant, as the case may be,
of any premises whereon grass, weeds, or other vegetation is growing or
remaining in violation of the provisions of §
92.001, directing and requiring such occupant to remove, trim, or cut grass,
weeds, or vegetation so as to conform to the requirements of this subchapter
within five days after issuance of such notice. Whenever it shall appear to be
impracticable to give notice as above provided, either because the owner or
occupant cannot readily be found or because a search for the owner or occupant
would entail unreasonable delay, the Council of the borough or any officer or
employee of the borough designated thereby for that purpose, may give notice by
posting conspicuously on the property where such nuisance exits, a notice or
order directing and requiring that such nuisance be abated within five days.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 1, § 104) (Ord. passed 8-6-1962; Ord. 2-2001, passed
7-2-2001)
§ 92.005 AUTHORITY FOR BOROUGH TO REMOVE, TRIM, OR CUT GRASS, WEEDS, AND OTHER
VEGETATION.
   In case any person, firm, or corporation shall neglect, fail, or refuse to
comply with the notice provided in §
92.004, within the period stated therein, the borough authorities may cause
such grass, weeds, or vegetation to be removed, trimmed, or cut. There is
hereby imposed a charge of $50 plus the actual cost involved for each time the
borough shall cause such grass, weeds, or vegetation to be removed, trimmed, or
cut; and the owner or occupant, as the case may be, of the premises shall be
billed after the same has been completed.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 1, § 105) (Ord. passed 8-6-1962; Ord. 2-2001, passed
7-2-2001)
§ 92.006 PENALTY ADDED TO UNPAID CHARGES; FILING OF LIEN.
   Should any bill or bills for the removing, trimming, or cutting of grass,
weeds, or vegetation be unpaid, a penalty of 10% shall be added to such bill or
bills and a lien shall be filed against the premises in the same manner as
other municipal claims are filed. In addition, attorney’s fees shall be
assessed and collected in accordance with the procedure therefor established by
the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 1, § 106) (Ord. passed 8-6-1962; Ord. 2-2001, passed
7-2-2001)
DISPOSAL OF YARD WASTE
§ 92.020 FINDINGS.
   The Borough Council makes the following findings:
   (A)   The deposit and accumulation of grass clippings, leaves, and other
yard waste upon and into the streets of the borough have created a public
problem by increasing the amount of waste and debris in the streets creating a
safety hazard, making the borough less visually attractive, and increasing
pollution and run-off into the borough’s storm sewers;
   (B)   A significant portion of the run-off and debris in the streets results
from persons intentionally dumping or placing grass clippings, leaves, and yard
waste in the borough streets;
   (C)   The current ordinances and procedures have failed to abate the dumping
of waste into the streets; and
   (D)   A new ordinance is required to remediate the problems identified
herein.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019)
§ 92.021 REGULATIONS REGARDING GRASS CLIPPINGS.
   (A)   Unlawful actions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly cause grass
clippings, leaves, or other debris or waste produced in conjunction with yard
maintenance or gardening to be deposited onto the sidewalks, streets, alleys,
and public roads of the borough.
      (2)   A property owner is responsible to ensure that any persons who cut
their grass or maintain their yard abide by this subchapter.
      (3)   Any grass, leaves, or other debris or waste which inadvertently is
deposited onto the streets or alleys of the borough shall be removed within one
hour.
   (B)   Exception. It shall not be an offense to deposit leaves onto a street
or alley during the period of time designated by the borough for fall leaf
pick-up, provided the leaves are placed in a neatly compacted manner along the
curb or edge of the street or alley.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.022 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This subchapter may be enforced by the Police Department or Code
Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   There shall be a presumption that grass clippings, leaves, or yard
waste immediately adjacent to a property were caused to be placed there by the
property owner. This is a rebuttable presumption.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019)
TREES
§ 92.035 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as “the Municipal Shade Tree
Ordinance of the Borough of Bedford, County of Bedford, Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.”
(Prior Code, Ch. 25, Pt. 1, § 101) (Ord. 2-90, passed 6-4-1990)
§ 92.036 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural include the singular, and words in the singular include the plural.
The word “shall” is mandatory and not merely directory.
   LARGE TREES. Those expected to attain a height in excess of 45 feet at
maturity.
   MEDIUM TREES. Those expected to attain a height of 30 feet to 45 feet at
maturity.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Borough of Bedford, County of Bedford, Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
   PARK. Public parks.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY LINE. The outer edge of a street or highway right-of-way.
   PUBLIC AREAS. All streets and parks as well as all other property owned by
the Borough of Bedford which are located in the Borough of Bedford, County of
Bedford.
   PUBLIC TREES. All shade and ornamental trees now or hereafter growing on any
public areas or where otherwise indicated.
   SHADE TREE COMMISSION (COMMISSION). The body under whose jurisdiction all
public trees fall.
   SMALL TREES. Those expected to attain a height of 20 feet to 30 feet at
maturity.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width of every public way or right-of-way when
any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for
purposes of vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   STREET TREES. All shade and ornamental trees now or hereafter growing on any
public street.
   TREELAWN. The part of a street or highway, not covered by sidewalk or other
paving, lying between the property line and that portion of the street or
highway usually used for vehicular traffic.
   TREE TOPPING. The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three
inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to remove the
normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
(Prior Code, Ch. 25, Pt. 1, § 102) (Ord. 2-90, passed 6-4-1990)
§ 92.037 ESTABLISHMENT OF SHADE TREE COMMISSION.
   (A)   There shall be created a commission to be known and designated as the
“Shade Tree Commission.” The Commission shall consist of three members, all of
whom shall be residents of the borough. All will serve without compensation.
One member shall serve for three years, one for four years, and one for five
years.
      (1)   On the expiration of the term of any Commissioner, a successor
shall be appointed by the Borough Council to serve for a term of five years.
      (2)   Vacancies in the office of Commissioner shall be filled by the
Borough Council for the unexpired term.
      (3)   At the discretion of the Borough Council, members of Borough
Council and/or the Borough Manager may act as ex officio members of the
Commission.
   (B)   The general powers of the Commission shall be as follows: the
Commission shall have exclusive custody and control of the public trees in the
borough, and is authorized to plant, remove, maintain, and protect public trees
within the borough.
   (C)   The duties of the Commission shall include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   To study the problems and determine the needs of the borough in
connection with its tree planting program;
      (2)   To recommend to the proper authority the type and kind of trees to
be planted upon such public areas as is designated;
      (3)   To assist the properly constituted officials of the borough as well
as the Borough Council and citizens of the borough, in the dissemination of
news and information regarding the selection, planting, and maintenance of
trees within the corporate limits, whether the same be on private or public
property, and to make such recommendation from time to time to the Borough
Council as to desirable legislation concerning the tree program and activities
for the borough; and
      (4)   To provide regular and special meetings at which the subject of
trees, insofar as it relates to the borough, may be discussed by the members of
the Commission, officers, and personnel of the borough and its several
divisions and all others interested in the tree program.
   (D)   Within a reasonable time after the appointment of said Commission and
the approval of the members thereof, upon call of the Borough Council, said
Commission shall meet and organize by the election of a Chairperson. The said
Commission shall then provide for the adoption of rules and procedures and for
the holding of regular and special meetings as said Commission shall deem
advisable and necessary in order to perform the duties set forth.
(Prior Code, Ch. 25, Pt. 1, § 103) (Ord. 2-90, passed 6-4-1990)
§ 92.038 GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Permits required.
      (1)   No person shall plant, spray, fertilize, preserve, prune, remove,
cut, or otherwise disturb any public tree without first filing an application
and procuring a permit from the Commission. The person receiving the permit
shall abide by the specifications contained in this subchapter.
      (2)   Application for permits must be made at the office of the
Commission not less than 48 hours in advance of the time the work is to be
done.
      (3)   The Commission shall issue the permit provided for herein if, in
its judgment, the proposed work is desirable and the proposed method and
workmanship thereof are of a satisfactory nature. Any permit granted shall
contain a definite date of expiration and the work shall be completed in the
time allowed on the permit and in the manner as therein described. Any permit
shall be void if its terms are violated.
      (4)   Notice of completion shall be given within five days to the
Commission for its inspection.
   (B)   Planting.
      (1)   The application required herein shall state the number of trees to
be set out; the location, grade, species, cultivar, or variety of each tree;
the method of planting; and such other information as the Commission shall find
reasonably necessary to make a fair determination of whether a permit should be
issued.
      (2)   Whenever any tree shall be planted or set out in conflict with the
provisions of this section, the Commission shall so notify the property owner
either personally or by certified mail and may direct the property owner to
remove the same. If the property owner shall fail to remove the same within
five days of the date of the notice, it shall be lawful for the Commission to
remove or cause removal of the same, and the cost thereof plus 10% shall be
assessed to the owner as provided by law in the case of special assessments or
municipal claims.
   (C)   Maintenance at property owner’s request.
      (1)   The application required herein shall state the number of trees to
be sprayed, fertilized, pruned, or otherwise preserved; the kind of treatment
to be administered; the composition of the spray material to be applied; and
such other information as the Commission shall find reasonably necessary to
make a fair determination of whether a permit should be issued.
      (2)   No concrete or other material which could create a hazard when
cutting or trimming a tree may be utilized to repair a wound in said tree.
   (D)   Removal, replanting, and replacement.
      (1)   Wherever it is necessary to remove a tree or trees from a treelawn
in connection with the paving of sidewalk or the paving or widening of the
portion of a street or highway used for vehicular traffic by the borough, the
borough shall replant such trees or replace them. Provided that conditions
prevent planting on treelawns, this requirement will be satisfied if any
equivalent number of trees of the same size at maturity and species as provided
for in this subchapter are planted in an attractive manner on the adjoining
property.
      (2)   (a)   No person or property owner shall remove a tree from the
treelawn for the purpose of construction, or for any other reason, without
first filing an application and procuring a permit from the Commission, and
without replacing the removed tree or trees.
         (b)   Such replacement shall meet the standards of size, species, and
placement as provided for in a permit. The person or property owner shall bear
the cost of removal and replacement of all trees removed.
   (E)   Hazardous, obstructing, and/or diseased trees.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of any person or persons owning or occupying
real property bordering on any street upon which property there may be trees
located within or projecting within said street, to prune such trees in such
manner that they will not contain hazardous limbs, obstruct, or shade the
street lights, obstruct the passage of pedestrians on sidewalks, obstruct
vision of traffic signs, or obstruct view of any street or alley intersection.
The minimum clearance of any overhanging portion thereof shall be ten feet over
sidewalks and 16 feet over all streets.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of any person or persons owning or occupying
real property bordering on any street upon which property there may be trees
located within or projecting within said street to remove such hazardous trees.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of any person or persons owning or occupying
real property in the borough upon which property there may be trees to remove
said trees or parts thereof should they, in the opinion of the Commission,
constitute a potential threat to other trees within the borough due to their
harboring of insects or disease.
   (F)   Notice to prune/remove. Should any person or persons owning real
property within the borough fail to prune/remove trees as herein above
provided, the Commission shall order such person or persons, within 30 days
after receipt of written notice, to so prune/remove such trees.
   (G)   Order required. The order required herein shall be served by mailing a
copy of the order to the last known address of the property owner, by certified
mail.
   (H)   Failure to comply. When a person to whom an order is directed shall
fail to comply within the specified time, it shall be lawful for the borough to
prune/remove such trees, and the cost thereof plus 10% shall be assessed to the
property owner for each time that the borough or its agents must conduct the
work.
   (I)   Abuse or mutilation of public trees.
      (1)   Unless specifically authorized by the Commission, no person shall
intentionally damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any tree; attach any
rope, wire, nails, advertising posters, or other contrivance to any tree; allow
any gaseous, liquid, or solid substance which is harmful to such trees to come
in contact with them; or set fire or permit any fire to burn when such fire or
the heat thereof will injure any portion of any tree.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to top any public
tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under
utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical, may be exempted from this division (I)(2) at the determination of
the Commission.
   (J)   Interference with Shade Tree Commission. No person shall hinder,
prevent, delay, or interfere with the Commission or any of their assistants
while engaged in carrying out the execution or enforcement of this subchapter,
regulations, and the like; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be
construed as an attempt to prohibit the pursuit of any remedy, legal or
equitable, in any court of competent jurisdiction for the protection of
property rights by the owner of any property within the borough.
   (K)   Protection of trees.
      (1)   All public trees near any excavation or construction of any
building, structure, or street work shall be guarded with a good substantial
fence, frame, or box not less than four feet high and eight feet square, or at
a distance in feet from the tree equal to the diameter of the trunk in inches
D.B.H., whichever is greater, and all building material, dirt, or other debris
shall be kept outside the barrier.
      (2)   No person shall excavate any ditches, tunnels, trenches, or lay any
drive within a radius of 15 feet from any public tree without first obtaining a
written permit from the Commission.
   (L)   Placing materials on public property. No person shall deposit, place,
store, or maintain upon any public area of the borough, any stone, brick, sand,
concrete, or other materials which may impede the free passage of water, air,
and fertilizer to the roots of any tree growing therein, except by written
permit of the Commission.
(Prior Code, Ch. 25, Pt. 1, § 104) (Ord. 2-90, passed 6-4-1990) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.039 SPECIFICATIONS FOR SELECTION, PLANTING, AND MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC
TREES.
   (A)   Requirement for trees. Street trees shall be required wherever a
proposed subdivision shall average three or more lots per gross acre, or where
the proposed subdivision is adjacent to any existing or recorded development
having street trees.
   (B)   Shade Tree Commission review. The Commission shall review all
development and redevelopment plans meeting the above criteria to assure the
planting of the proper trees.
   (C)   Installation and completion of improvements (of which public trees are
one). Before starting any construction or installation of improvements, the
developer shall notify the borough of his or her intention to initiate such
work. The developer’s plans or the individual lot owner’s building permit
should list the proposed tree types and planting sites. The borough shall
authorize the Commission to monitor and inspect the installation of
improvements during their construction.
   (D)   Materials.
      (1)   Acquisition of trees. Only trees grown in nurseries and trained as
street trees shall be procured for public tree planting. Trees should be true
to form and typical of the species.
      (2)   Preferred tree species.
         (a)   Street trees within the same block shall be of varied species,
except to achieve a special effect as approved by the Commission.
         (b)   All plant material used shall be selected from the following
plant list. If the property owner or developer is confronted with an unforeseen
problem pertaining to tree species, the Commission shall be consulted for
advice and recommendations.
Small Trees Under 30 Feet
Amur Maple
“Centurion” Crabapple
“Columnar” Sargent Cherry
Crimson Cloud Hawthorn
“Cumulus” Serviceberry
“Dancer” Ornamental Pear
“Fastigiata” European Hornbeam
Globe Norway Maple
Hedge Maple (Do not plant between curb and sidewalk)
“Ivory Silk” Japanese Tree Lilac
Kousa Dogwood
“Madonna” Crabapple
“Spring Snow” Crabapple
“Sugar Tyme” Crabapple
“Summer Snow” Japanese Tree Lilac
Medium Trees 30 - 45 Feet
American Hornbeam
Amur Corktree
“Aristocrat” Callery Pear
“Autumn Blaze” Callery Pear
“Bradford” Callery Pear
“Chanticleer” Callery Pear
Golden Rain Tree
“Imperial” Thornless Honeylocust
“Redspire” Callery Pear
Ruby Red Horsechestnut
Yellowwood
Large Trees Over 45 Feet (Parks Only)
“All Seasons” Sugar Hackberry
American Linden/Basswood
“Autumn Applause” White Ash
Black Gum
“Champaign County” White Ash
Chinese Elm
Dawn Redwood
English Oak
“Glenleven” Littleleaf Linden
Green Ash (Cultivar variety)
“Greenspire” Littleleaf Linden
Kentucky Coffee Tree
“Lakeview” Ginkgo
“Legend” American Linden
London Planetree
October Glory Red Maple
“Patmore” Green Ash
“Princeton Sentry” Ginkgo
Rosehill White Ash
“Shademaster” Honeylocust
“Shawnee Brave” Bald Cypress
Shumard Oak
Silver Linden
“Skyline” Honeylocust
Sugar Maple
Turkish Hazel or Turkish Filbert
Zelkova
 
         (c)   The use of any tree other than those listed above shall require
the prior approval of the Commission.
         (d)   Not all trees on this list are suitable for all situations.
Suitability shall be determined by the Commission. Additionally, as new
varieties are developed and existing ones improved, this list may be amended.
      (3)   Tree specifications.
         (a)   Each tree shall be at least eight feet in height and have a
diameter of at least one and one- half inches measured at a height of six
inches above the finished ground level.
         (b)   Plant material shall be balled and burlapped with native soil in
which the material had been growing (no manufactured balls).
         (c)   The relationship between tree caliper, tree height, and diameter
of the root ball shall be as follows.
 
Caliper               Height Range  Minimum Ball Diameter
1-1/2 to 1-3/4 inches 8 to 10 feet  20 inches
1-3/4 to 2 inches     10 to 12 feet 22 inches
2 to 2-1/2 inches     12 to 14 feet 24 inches
Trees with larger caliper trunks shall have ball diameters in proportion to
their size and in accordance with accepted nursery practices.
 
   (E)   Planting methods.
      (1)   Planting locations.
         (a)   The actual location of each individual tree shall be determined
considering views, proximity of utility poles, overhead and guy wires,
driveways, and subsurface utility installations.
         (b)   Trees shall be planted at least 30 feet from street
intersections; at least 15 feet from driveways, alleys, and utility poles.
         (c)   Spacing of trees should be determined by the Commission
according to local conditions, the species, cultivars, or varieties used, their
mature height, spread, and form. Generally, all small-sized trees shall be
planted a minimum of 25 feet on center; all medium-sized trees shall be planted
a minimum of 35 feet on center; and all large-sized trees shall be planted a
minimum of 45 feet on center. Whenever possible, street trees shall be planted
alternately along each side of all streets of the development. Trees shall be
spaced without regard to property lines.
         (d)   The cross-sectional location of street trees shall be as follows
(as a guide).
            1.   No overhead utility wires. Trees shall be located within
right-of-way, on center between the curb and sidewalk.
            2.   Utility wires overhead. Trees shall be located between the
sidewalk and building setback line, and at least five feet from the sidewalk.
      (2)   Planting specification.
         (a)   Except where waived by the Commission, trees within the same
block shall be planted at the same time. Balled and burlapped material may be
planted during any period of the year when the soil is frost-free and friable.
         (b)   Tree pits shall be at least ten inches wider in diameter than
the diameter of the root ball. Unless building debris is encountered, the hole
shall be excavated to a depth no greater than to permit the top of the ball to
be level with the rim of the hole. All encountered debris should be removed to
a minimum depth of 30 inches.
         (c)   As different trees require different soil conditions, it may be
necessary to add materials such as fertilizers, sand, and the like, to the
existing soil prior to planting. The Commission should consult with experts
such as those from the cooperative extension service.
         (d)   The burlap and twine covering the upper half of the ball shall
be rolled back or cut away after the plant has been set.
         (e)   Trees shall be staked with no less than two-inch by two-inch
stakes driven two and one- half to three feet into the ground. Two stakes shall
be required for trees less than two inches in caliper and three for trees
greater than two inches in caliper. The trunk shall be protected by placing a
short piece of three-fourths inch diameter, two ply, reinforced hose around the
guy wire where it comes in contact with the tree (see figure A). All stakes
shall be of the same height or uniform appearance and support.
         (f)   The planting hole shall be backfilled to three-fourths full with
soil, followed by ten gallons of water. When the water has been absorbed, the
hole shall be filled with topsoil and tamped lightly to finished grade.
         (g)   Upon completion of the transplanting operation, a wood chip or
bark mulch, two inches deep, shall be placed over the planting area.
         (h)   All unused soil or other debris resulting from the planting or
plant material shall be removed from the project area.
   (F)   Period of establishment.
      (1)   Maintenance.
         (a)   Plant maintenance shall begin immediately after each plant is
satisfactorily installed and shall continue until final inspection by the
Commission.
         (b)   Plant maintenance shall include, but need not be limited to,
replacing mulch that has been displaced by erosion or other means, maintaining
stakes and guys as originally installed, watering when needed or directed, and
performing any other work required to keep the plants in healthy condition. An
adequate moisture supply is estimated to be the equivalent of one inch of water
per week, delivered at weekly intervals in the form of rain, or augmented as
required by periodic watering.
         (c)   The developer shall remove and replace all dead, defective, and
rejected plants as occur during this period.
         (d)   Remove guy wire(s) and stakes one year after planting.
      (2)   Guarantee. In addition to other standard provisions, the
developer’s improvement bond shall also provide for the following:
         (a)   Maintenance necessary during establishment period; and
         (b)   Replacement in kind, or with a substitute acceptable to the
Commission, of all plant material which is not a healthy growing condition,
which has died back, or is beyond normal pruning limits.
(Prior Code, Ch. 25, Pt. 1, § 105) (Ord. 2-90, passed 6-4-1990)
§ 92.040 APPEALS.
   Any person or persons aggrieved by any decision of the Commission made
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter may file a written appeal with
the Council of the borough within ten days after the notice of the decision has
been made or, if no decision has been made by the Commission, within 20 days
from the date that the matter was submitted to the Commission. Failure of said
person or persons to file said appeal within the period herein provided shall
preclude an appeal from said decision.
(Prior Code, Ch. 25, Pt. 1, § 106) (Ord. 2-90, passed 6-4-1990)
§ 92.041 EMERGENCIES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent any person from taking any action
which would otherwise be prohibited by this subchapter if such actions are
immediately necessary to prevent imminent death, serious bodily harm, or
property damage. This section shall be an affirmative defense to any violation
of this subchapter and any person relying thereon shall have the burden to
establish, by preponderance of the evidence, that the actions were immediately
necessary to prevent imminent death, serious bodily harm, or serious property
damage and that reasonable efforts were made under the circumstances to contact
the Commission or the Borough Manager prior to taking the action.
(Prior Code, Ch. 25, Pt. 1, § 108) (Ord. 2-90, passed 6-4-1990)
BUILDING MAINTENANCE
§ 92.055 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as “the Bedford Borough Property
Maintenance Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 201) (Ord. 2-94, passed 9-11-1994)
§ 92.056 PREFACE.
   Recognizing the need within the borough to establish certain minimum health
and safety requirements for buildings, structures, or properties, this
subchapter hereby establishes standards which the borough considers to be fair
and essential in meeting those minimum requirements.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 202) (Ord. 2-94, passed 9-11-1994)
§ 92.057 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A roofed structure, enclosed by one or more walls, for the
shelter, housing, storage, or enclosure of persons, goods, materials,
equipment, or animals.
   COURT. An open and unoccupied space on a lot enclosed on at least three
sides by the walls of a building.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. All buildings or structures which have any or all of the
following defects shall be deemed dangerous buildings:
      (1)   Those whose interior walls or other vertical structure members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity falls outside the middle third of its base;
      (2)   Those which, exclusive of the foundation, show damage or
deterioration to 33% of the supporting member or members, or damage or
deterioration to 50% of the nonsupporting enclosing or outside walls or
covering;
      (3)   Those which have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or
roofs or in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength
to be reasonably safe for the purpose used;
      (4)   Those which have been damaged by fire, wind, or other causes so as
to be dangerous to life, safety, or the general health and welfare of the
occupants or the public;
      (5)   Those which are so damaged, dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
unsanitary, vermin infested, or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities
essential to decent living that they are unfit for human habitation or are
likely to cause sickness or disease so as to work injury to the health, safety,
or general welfare of the occupants or the public;
      (6)   Those which have parts thereof which are so attached that they may
fall and work injury to the health, safety, or general welfare of the occupants
or the public, or cause damage to public property;
      (7)   Those which lack illumination, ventilation, or sanitation
facilities or, because of another condition, are unsafe, unsanitary, or
otherwise dangerous to the health, safety, or general welfare of the occupants
or the public;
      (8)   Those which, because of their location, are unsanitary or otherwise
dangerous to the health, safety, or general welfare of the occupants or the
public; and
      (9)   Those existing in violation of any provision of the codes or other
ordinances of the borough.
   GARBAGE. All animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   INFESTATION. The presence of insects, rodents, vermin, and/or other pests.
   LESSEE. Owner for the purpose of this subchapter, when the lessor holds the
lessee responsible for maintenance and repairs.
   LOT. Plot, tracts, premises, or parcel of land, with or without improvements
thereto.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any type of mechanical device, propelled by a motor, in which
persons or property may be transported upon public streets or highways, and
including trailers or semitrailers pulled thereby.
   NUISANCE. Any condition, structure, or improvement which shall constitute a
danger or potential danger to the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of
the borough.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, jointly and severally, firm, corporation, or
other entity which, either by conveyance or inheritance or otherwise, is vested
with the title to a lot and/or improvements thereto or who retains the
exclusive control of such a lot and/or improvements thereto in his or her
capacity as a legal representative, such as an administrator, trustee,
executor, and the like.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or
other legal entity.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes, including garbage, rubbish, ashes, dead animals,
and market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, including garbage,
refuse, glass, metal, paper, wood, rags, cartons, boxes, rubber, leather, tin
cans, bottles, mineral matter, crockery, lumber, wire, pipe, broken stone or
cement, tree branches, plant growth, building materials, plumbing or electrical
materials, furniture, or scrap iron.
   UNOCCUPIED HAZARD. Any building, or part thereof, or human-made structure
which remains unoccupied for a period of more than six months, with either
doors, windows, or other openings broken, removed, boarded, or sealed up, or
any building under construction upon which little or no construction work has
been performed for a period of more than six months.
   YARD. Any open space on the same lot with a building and, for the most part,
unobstructed from the ground up.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 203) (Ord. 2-94, passed 9-11-1994; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
§ 92.058 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall supplement local laws, ordinances,
or regulations existing in the borough or those of the state. Where a provision
of this subchapter is found to be in conflict with any provision of a local
law, ordinance, code, or regulation or those of the state, the provisions which
are more restrictive or which establish the higher standard shall prevail.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 204) (Ord. 2-94, passed 9-11-1994)
§ 92.059 BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, or lessee of any building or
structure to fail to take steps and perform such maintenance thereto, as may be
required from time to time, to ensure the property is safe, sound, sanitary,
and secure and does not present a health and/or safety hazard to surrounding
properties and to the general populace.
   (A)   Protective treatment. All exterior surfaces, including, but not
limited to, doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies,
decks, and fences shall be maintained in good condition. Exterior wood
surfaces, other than decay-resistant woods, shall be protected from the
elements and decay by painting or other protective covering or treatment.
Peeling, flaking, and chipped paint shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted.
All siding and masonry joints as well as those between the building envelope
and the perimeter of windows, doors, and skylights shall be maintained weather-
resistant and water-tight. All metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion
shall be coated to inhibit such rust and corrosion and all surfaces with rust
or corrosion shall be stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust and
corrosion. Oxidation stains shall be removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces
designed for stabilization by oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
   (B)   Structural members. All structural members shall be maintained free
from deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead
and live loads.
   (C)   Foundation walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and
free from open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to
prevent the entry of rodents and other pests.
   (D)   Exterior walls. All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks,
and loose or rotting materials; and maintained weather-proof and properly
surface coated where required to prevent deterioration.
   (E)   Roofs and drainage. The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight, and
not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure.
Roof drains, gutters, and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and
free from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged into the sanitary
sewer system or in a manner that creates a public nuisance.
   (F)   Decorative features. All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta
trim, wall facings, and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good
repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
   (G)   Overhang extensions. All overhang extensions including, but not
limited to, canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes,
and exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored
so as to be kept in a sound condition. When required, all exposed surfaces of
metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by
periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar
surface treatment.
   (H)   Stairways, decks, porches, and balconies. Every exterior stairway,
deck, porch, and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be
maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage, and
capable of supporting the imposed loads.
   (I)   Chimneys and towers. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and
similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in
good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
   (J)   Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
   (K)   Window, skylight, and door frames.
      (1)   Windows and the like. Every window, skylight, door, and frame shall
be kept in sound condition, good repair, and weather-tight.
      (2)   Glazing. All glazing materials shall be maintained free from cracks
and holes.
   (L)   Doors. All exterior doors, door assemblies, and hardware shall be
maintained in good condition. Locks at all entrances to dwelling units, rooming
units, and guestrooms shall tightly secure the door.
   (M)   Basement hatchways. Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rodents, rain, and surface drainage water.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 205) (Ord. 2012-3, passed 5-7-2012) Penalty, see
§
92.999
§ 92.060 YARDS, LOTS, PARKING AREAS, AND OTHER OPEN AREAS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, or lessee to permit:
      (1)   Fences and/or minor structures to be constructed and maintained so
as to present a safety or health hazard to persons and/or property;
      (2)   The development or accumulation of hazards, rodent harborage, and/
or infestation upon yards, courts, or lots;
      (3)   Objectionable materials to accumulate and to be blown about the
surrounding neighborhood; or
      (4)   The accumulation of heavy undergrowth and/or vegetation which would
impair the health and/or safety of the neighborhood; nor shall they permit any
trees, plants, or shrubbery, or any portion thereof, to grow on their property
and which constitute a safety hazard to pedestrian and/or vehicular traffic.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, or lessee to permit
rubbish to be stored, maintained, or accumulated upon any yard, lot, parking
area, or other private grounds or in or upon any porch, carport, breezeway, or
unenclosed garage or areas open to the public view of such person, owner, or
lessee within the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 206) (Ord. 2-94, passed 9-11-1994) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.061 MOTOR VEHICLE NUISANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, or lessee to maintain a
motor vehicle nuisance upon the private property of such person, owner, or
lessee, or upon the public streets, alleys, or ways, within the borough, except
as provided in divisions (B) and (C) below. A motor vehicle nuisance shall
include any motor vehicle which does not bear a current license and
registration sticker and a current inspection sticker or is unable to move
under its own power or which has any of the following physical defects:
      (1)   Broken windshields, mirrors, or other glass, with sharp edges;
      (2)   One or more flat or open tires;
      (3)   Missing doors, windows, hood, trunk, or other body parts;
      (4)   Any body parts with sharp edges including holes resulting from
rust;
      (5)   Missing tires resulting in unsafe suspension of the motor vehicle;
      (6)   Broken headlamps or taillamps with sharp edges;
      (7)   Disassembled chassis parts apart from the motor vehicle stored in a
disorderly fashion or loose in or on the vehicle;
      (8)   Protruding sharp objects from the chassis;
      (9)   Broken vehicle frame suspended from the ground in an unstable
manner;
      (10)   Leaking or damaged oil pan or gas tank;
      (11)   Exposed battery containing acid;
      (12)   Inoperable locking mechanism for doors or trunk;
      (13)   Open or damaged floor boards including trunk and fire-wall;
      (14)   Damaged bumpers pulled away from the perimeter of vehicle;
      (15)   Broken grill with protruding edges;
      (16)   Loose or damaged metal trim and clips;
      (17)   Broken communication equipment antennas;
      (18)   Suspended or unstable supports; and
      (19)   Such other defects which could threaten the health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of the borough.
   (B)   Any person, owner, or lessee who has one or more motor vehicle
nuisances may store such vehicle(s) in the borough only within a garage or
other completely enclosed building.
   (C)   Any person, owner, or lessee lawfully engaged in the business of
repairing or temporarily storing motor vehicles may store a motor vehicle
nuisance on the private property of such person, owner, or lessee, provided
that the storage of any one particular motor vehicle nuisance shall not exceed
60 days, and further providing, that such business is located within the C-
1 Commercial District - Central, the C-2 Commercial District - Highway, or the
Commercial/Manufacturing/Residential District as defined in
Chapter 154 or is in another zoning district as a lawful nonconforming use
pursuant to
154.006.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 207) (Ord. 2-94, passed 9-11-1994; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2006- 01, passed 4-3-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.062 STORAGE OF NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, or lessee to store or
maintain or permit to be stored or maintained any abandoned, unused, stripped,
damaged, and generally unusable appliances, machinery or equipment, or
construction materials on private property, except as provided in division (B)
below. Such storage shall constitute an additional violation if any of the
following conditions exist:
      (1)   Broken glass or metal parts with sharp or protruding edges;
      (2)   Storage in any manner which would allow the equipment, machinery,
material, or any parts thereof to easily shift, tilt, or fall from its original
storage position; or
      (3)   Containers of any liquid or material of a hazardous or potentially
hazardous nature including, but not limited to, gasoline, oil, battery acids,
refrigeration agents, and poisons.
   (B)   Storage of such items as listed in division (A) above on private
property shall be permitted only within a garage or other completely enclosed
building.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 208) (Ord. 2-94, passed 9-11-1994) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.063 INFESTATION, PREVENTION, AND CORRECTION.
   (A)   Grounds, buildings, and structures shall be maintained free of insect,
vermin, and rodent harborage and infestation.
   (B)   Adequate sanitary facilities and methods shall be used for the
collection, storage, handling, and disposal of garbage and refuse. All
containers and devices intended for the storage of garbage and refuse shall be
kept on the customer’s property, either within the confines of the side or rear
yards or within a building, until the night before scheduled pickup, at which
time they may be placed on the edge of the sidewalk or street.
   (C)   Where there exists rodent and vermin infestation, corrective measures
shall be undertaken by the property owner and/or occupant to alleviate the
existing problem(s), to include screening, extermination, and/or garbage and
refuse control. Methods employed for extermination shall conform with generally
accepted practices.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 209) (Ord. 2-94, passed 9-11-1994; Ord. 2006-01,
passed 4-3-2006)
§ 92.064 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, or lessee to permit any
refrigerator, freezer, and/or other similar storage chest to be discarded,
abandoned, or stored in any place or location without first completely removing
any and all locking devices and/or doors.
   (B)   A nuisance is hereby also declared to be any other use of property or
course of conduct, irrespective of actual trespass against others, that
produces a material annoyance, inconvenience, discomfort, or hurt to the life,
health, or well-being of the community. It shall be unlawful for any person,
owner, or lessee to commit any nuisance as hereinabove defined within the
borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 210) (Ord. 2-94, passed 9-11-1994) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.065 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OCCUPANTS.
   Any occupant of a premises shall be responsible for compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter with respect to the maintenance of that part of
the premises which he or she occupies and/or controls.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 211) (Ord. 2-94, passed 9-11-1994)
§ 92.066 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS.
   Any owner of premises shall comply with the provisions of this subchapter as
well as occupants, regardless of any agreements between owners and occupants as
to which party shall assume such responsibility.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 212) (Ord. 2-94, passed 9-11-1994)
§ 92.067 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The borough may, or may cause, through an authorized representative of
the borough, entry onto the premises for the purpose of inspection of any and
all premises, properties, buildings, and/or structures located within the
borough for ascertaining the existence of violations. In those matters where
the nature of an alleged violation is such that an inspection of the interior
of a building or structure is necessitated, prior arrangements must be made
with the owner, or his or her agent, to secure access thereto.
   (B)   Whenever the borough or its authorized representative find that an
emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health
it may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of
such emergency and requiring that such action be taken as is necessary to meet
the emergency. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this subchapter, such an
order shall be effective immediately. Any person, firm, or corporation to whom
such an order is directed shall comply therewith immediately but, upon petition
to the borough or its authorized representative, shall be afforded a hearing as
soon as possible. After such hearing, depending upon the findings as to whether
the provisions of this subchapter have been complied with, the borough or its
authorized representative shall continue such order in effect or modify it or
revoke it. The cost of abating such emergency shall be collected in the same
manner as provided herein for other cases.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 213) (Ord. 2-94, passed 9-11-1994; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
§ 92.068 AUTHORITY TO REMEDY VIOLATIONS.
   The borough shall have the authority to take measures to correct the
conditions which are a violation of this subchapter and collect the cost of
such corrections plus 10% of all costs. The borough, in such event and pursuant
to its statutory or otherwise authorized police powers, shall have the right
and power to enter upon the offending premises to accomplish the foregoing.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 214) (Ord. 2-94, passed 9-11-1994)
§ 92.069 OWNERS SEVERALLY RESPONSIBLE.
   If the premises are owned by more than one owner, each owner shall severally
be subject to prosecution for the violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 216) (Ord. 2-94, passed 9-11-1994)
§ 92.070 REMEDIES NOT MUTUALLY EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided herein for the enforcement of this subchapter, or any
remedy provided by law, shall not be deemed mutually exclusive; rather they may
be employed simultaneously or consecutively, at the option of the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 217) (Ord. 2-94, passed 9-11-1994)
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
92.001 to
92.006 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $20 nor more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of §§
92.001 to
92.006 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 1, § 107)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
92.020 to
92.022 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $20 nor more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
92.035 to
92.041 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of said fine and
costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of §§
92.035 to
92.041 continues shall constitute a separate offense. The penalties provided by
this section shall be cumulative with any and all other remedies provided in §§
92.035 to
92.041. In addition, the borough may institute injunctive or other appropriate
actions or proceedings at law or in equity for the enforcement of §§
92.035 to
92.041.
(Prior Code, Ch. 25, Pt. 1, § 107)
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
92.055 to
92.070 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said
fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that
a violation of §§
92.055 to
92.070 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 215)
(Ord. passed 8-6-1962; Ord. 2-90, passed 6-4-1990; Ord. 2-94, passed 9-11-1994;
Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2- 2001; Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
Maximum Sound Levels
   
93.01   Purpose and scope
   
93.02   Application
   
93.03   Exemptions
   
93.04   Definitions
   
93.05   Enforcement
   
93.06   Noise limitations
 
   
93.99   Penalty
MAXIMUM SOUND LEVELS
§ 93.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   It is the purpose and scope of this subchapter to regulate sound levels that
vehicles, appliances, and equipment shall be allowed to produce and also to
provide for the prohibition of other kinds of prohibited noises. These
regulations and prohibitions are intended to protect the physical, mental, and
social well-being of the residents of the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 3, § 301) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 93.02 APPLICATION.
   (A)   All types of vehicles, appliances, and equipment, whether privately or
publicly owned;
   (B)   To sounds of any duration; and
   (C)   To both owner and operator of vehicles, appliances, equipment,
devices, animals, or any other object creating noises.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 3, § 302) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 93.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exemptions include:
   (A)   Police, fire, ambulance, and other governmental emergency vehicles or
pieces of equipment;
   (B)   Back-up alarm devices on trucks and other equipment when installed and
operated in accordance with Society of Automotive Engineers recommended
practice J944, “Criteria for Back-Up Alarm Devices;”
   (C)   Governmental warning devices (i.e., civil defense or fire siren); and
   (D)   School, civic, marching, or similar bands when practicing on school
property, performing at school functions, or other functions approved by the
Council of the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 3, § 303) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 93.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EQUIPMENT. Any devices or combination of devices to accomplish a desired
end, such as chainsaw, bulldozer, and the like.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with other persons, has
legal title to any premises, vehicle, or other equipment. This includes any
person who has charge, care, or control over any premises, vehicle, or piece of
equipment.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 3, § 304) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 93.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any emission of noise from any source in excess of the limitation
established in or pursuant to this subchapter, herein described, shall be
deemed and is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be abated, in
addition to administrative proceedings, fines, and penalties herein provided.
Such abatement may be made by any police officer or other person duly
designated by Borough Council, or may be made by order of the County Court of
Common Pleas on complaint or petition filed on behalf of the borough.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to impair any cause of
action, or legal remedy therefor, of any person or the public for injury or
damage arising from the emission or release into the atmosphere or ground from
any source whatever of noise in such place or manner or at such levels which
may give rise to such cause of action.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 3, § 305) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 93.06 NOISE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   General. No person shall make, permit, or cause to be made, any
excessive noise of any kind by crying, calling, or shouting, or by means of any
whistle, rattle, bell, gong, clapper, hammer, drum, horn, hand organ,
mechanically operated piano, other musical instrument, wind instrument,
mechanical device, radio, phonograph, or sound amplifying or other similar
electronic device, unless said person has obtained a special permit from the
borough as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   Musical instruments. No person shall use or perform on any hand organ
or other musical instrument or device, for pay or in expectation of payment, in
any public way or public open space of the borough before 6:00 a.m. or after 6:
00 p.m. of the day, unless said person has obtained a special permit from the
borough.
   (C)   Noise from premises. No person owning or in possession or control of
any building or premises shall use the same, permit the use of the same, or
rent the same to be used for any business or employment or residential use, or
for any purpose of pleasure or recreation if such use shall, by noise emitted
therefrom or by the boisterous nature, disturb or destroy the peace of the
neighborhood.
   (D)   Equipment noise. It shall be unlawful for any person to use any pile
driver, shovel, hammer, derrick, hoist, tractor, roller, or other mechanical
equipment operated by fuel or electric power, from 9:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. of
the following day, except for emergency work on public improvements, work of
public utilities, or municipal services. Commercial trash collection shall be
unlawful from 9:00 p.m. to 4:00 a.m. of the following day.
   (E)   Noise in handling refuse cans. No person shall make any unnecessary
noise in the handling of ash, trash or garbage cans, dumpsters, or other trash
or garbage receptacles, either in loading or unloading, whether full or empty.
   (F)   Noise in the vicinity of hospitals, schools, and churches. No person
shall make any unnecessary noise in the vicinity of any hospital, or church
during the hours of public worship, or school during school hours.
   (G)   Unlawful to keep noisy animals. No person shall keep or permit to be
kept, harbor, or otherwise maintain any animal which shall disturb the quiet of
any public street or other public place or of any neighborhood. Provided,
however, that a NOISY ANIMAL shall be defined as one or more animals which
makes noises habitually, so as to constitute annoyance to a person of ordinary
sensibilities.
   (H)   Noise by peddlers. No peddler or other person who plies a trade or
calling of any nature on the streets of the borough shall use any horn, bell,
or other sound instrument to make any noise tending to disturb the peace and
quiet of the neighborhood for the purpose of directing attention to his or her
wares, trade, or calling.
   (I)   Use of horns and other devices on vehicles. No person, operating any
vehicle other than the police, fire, public service, or ambulance operators,
shall sound any horn, bell, gong, siren, or whistle, except for the ordinary
horn installed on such vehicle by the manufacturer, or sound any horn, except
when reasonably necessary to prevent accidents or to otherwise comply with the
law of motor vehicles.
   (J)   Use of radios, stereos, or similar devices in vehicles. No person
shall use any radio, stereo, communications equipment, or similar device from
or within a vehicle unless the volume of the sound, music, or noise emitted
thereby is kept at a level which is not audible at a distance of 15 feet or
more from the vehicle.
   (K)   Exception. The operational performance standards established by this
subchapter shall not apply to any public performance being conducted in
accordance with the provisions of a special permit obtained from the borough
for the conduct thereof.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 3, § 306) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2017-02,
passed 2-6-2017) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
93.01 to
93.06 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $20 nor more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of §§
93.01 to
93.06 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10, Pt. 3, § 307) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Rules and Regulations
   
94.01   Rules and regulations for conduct in parks and public squares
Heritage Trail Regulations
   
94.15   Short title
   
94.16   Definition
   
94.17   Use of the Heritage Trail
   
94.18   Intergovernmental agreement
   
94.19   Enforcement
 
   
94.99   Penalty
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 94.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR CONDUCT IN PARKS AND PUBLIC SQUARES.
   Rules and regulations are hereby established for the management and
protection of: Fort Bedford Park, bounded on the west by West Street and on the
east by Richard Street; the Green; the Memorial Park Cemetery; and the public
square, hereinafter collectively referred to as “the parks.”
   (A)   The parks shall be open daily for public use between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 10:30 p.m. After 10:30 p.m. it shall be unlawful to loaf, loiter, or
congregate in the parks or to wilfully make any loud, boisterous, or unseemly
noise or disturbance to the annoyance of peaceable residents nearby or the
traveling public.
   (B)   No person shall injure, deface, remove, cut, or damage any of the
trees, plants, shrubs, buildings, structures, fixtures, benches, or any other
property of the borough located within the parks.
   (C)   No person shall conduct himself or herself in the parks so as to annoy
any other person using the parks.
   (D)   No person shall set up any booth, table, or stand for the sale of any
article whatsoever within the limits of the parks, without the consent of the
Borough Secretary, who shall have the authority to refuse such consent.
   (E)   No person shall dispose of any waste, litter, garbage, or other refuse
in the parks except in receptacles designated for the respective purposes.
   (F)   In addition to the times set forth in division (A) above, the banks of
the Raystown branch of the Juniata River shall be open at all times for persons
while actively engaged in fishing.
   (G)   The times set forth in division (A) above, shall not apply to events
specifically authorized by action of the Council of the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16, Pt. 1, § 101) (Ord. passed 10-4-1971B; Ord. 2-2001, passed
7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
94.99
HERITAGE TRAIL REGULATIONS
§ 94.15 SHORT TITLE.
    This subchapter shall be known as the "Shuster Way Heritage Trail
Ordinance".
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 12-7-2015; Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 94.16 DEFINITION.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Wherever used in said subchapter, shall be held and construed to
mean and include natural persons of either sex, firms, co-partnerships and
corporations, and all other associations of natural persons, whether acting by
themselves or through a servant or employee.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 12-7-2015; Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 94.17 USE OF THE HERITAGE TRAIL.
    The following rules and regulations shall apply to all persons using the
portion of the Shuster Way Heritage Trail located within Bedford Borough:
   (A)   Trail hours: open dawn to dusk; closed dusk to dawn;
   (B)   Dial 911 for emergencies;
   (C)   Parking.
      (1)   No overnight parking;
      (2)   Park only in designated areas; and
      (3)   Parking only for trail users;
   (D)   No motorized vehicles; except for wheelchairs, scooters, and permitted
e-bikes (must weigh 100 pounds or less; have a motor that produces no more than
750 watts or less; and have fully functional pedals);
   (E)   Speed limit not to exceed 15 mph;
   (F)   Pedestrians have right-of-way;
   (G)   Users must leash pets and remove pet waste;
   (H)   Users must stay on the designated trail;
   (I)   Users must travel at speed appropriate to conditions and other users;
   (J)   Users must give audible signals when passing;
   (K)   Users must not fish from, jump from, or climb on structures;
   (L)   Alcohol and psychoactive substances are prohibited;
   (M)   Littering is prohibited;
   (N)   Graffiti or otherwise marking objects prohibited;
   (O)   Open campfires and camping are prohibited;
   (P)   Report trail maintenance concerns to Bedford Township Office (814-623-
8296), or Bedford Borough Office (814-623-8192);
   (Q)   Events involving more than 20 people require prior approval from the
Bedford Joint Municipal Authority and Bedford Borough; and
   (R)   Additional information available at www.shusterheritagetrail.com.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 12-7-2015; Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 94.18 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT.
    The intergovernmental cooperation agreement with Bedford Township, attached
to the ordinance codified herein, is hereby approved and the officers of the
borough are authorized to execute the same.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 12-7-2015; Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 94.19 ENFORCEMENT.
    Bedford Borough Police Department is hereby authorized to enforce the
regulations for use of the Shuster Way Heritage Trail. It shall be the duty of
Bedford Borough Police Department to investigate and prosecute any violation of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 12-7-2015; Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §
94.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16, Pt. 1, § 102)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any of the regulations set forth in §
94.17 above while using or in connection with use of the portion of the Shuster
Way Heritage Trail located within Bedford Borough shall be guilty of a summary
offense and shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$600 payable to Bedford Borough, plus attorney's fees and expenses incurred by
the borough in connection therewith, or in default of payment of such fines,
costs, and expenses, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. The
borough's Solicitor is hereby authorized to handle prosecution of any such
matter without seeking prior written consent of the district attorney. The
borough hereby reserves the ability to exercise all other legal remedies
available to it, whether in law, in equity, or otherwise to enforce §§
94.15 to
94.19. In the event that any such remedy is exercised, the borough shall be
entitled to recover all attorney's fees and expenses incurred by it in
connection with such exercise of additional remedies.
      (2)   Each day's continuance of anything prohibited by §§
94.15 to
94.19 shall be a separate offense hereunder.
(Ord. passed 10-4-1971B; Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2015-04, passed 12-
7-2015; Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-5-2024)
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Sidewalk and Curb Construction, Reconstruction, and Repair
   
95.001   Definitions
   
95.002   Sidewalks required
   
95.003   Sidewalk specifications
   
95.004   Sidewalk defects
   
95.005   Notice to construct, repair, or reconstruct
   
95.006   Borough authorized to do work
   
95.007   Inspection of construction, reconstruction, or repairs
   
95.008   Prior approval
   
95.009   Inspection of sidewalks
Sidewalk Obstructions and Uses
   
95.020   Definition
   
95.021   Restrictions on sidewalk display of merchandise
Snow Removal from Sidewalks
   
95.035   Responsibility for removal of snow and ice; time limit
   
95.036   Authority for borough to remove snow and ice and collect costs
Removal of Material from Streets
   
95.050   Removal of material from streets, alleys, and public grounds
prohibited
   
95.051   Exceptions
Placement of Snow on Streets
   
95.065   Definitions
   
95.066   Unlawful to deposit snow onto streets
Befouling of Streets
   
95.080   Proper operation of vehicles
   
95.081   Befouling of streets unlawful
 
   
95.999   Penalty
SIDEWALK AND CURB CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION, AND REPAIR
§ 95.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Bedford, Bedford County, Pennsylvania.
   BOROUGH COUNCIL. The Council of the Borough of Bedford; the Property
Committee of the Borough Council; the Borough Manager; or any other committee
of the Borough Council or any other agent of the Borough Council authorized by
Borough Council to act on its behalf with regard to the rights or duties set
forth in this subchapter.
   CONSTRUCT. The building or laying or construction of a new sidewalk on areas
of land where none previously existed.
   REPAIR; RECONSTRUCT. The restoration or repair of a sidewalk, curb, gutter,
or drain which has previously been in existence and shall be deemed to include
patching, the relaying or reconstruction of certain parts thereof, or any other
measures necessary to make the said sidewalks, curbs, gutters, and drains safe
and in good condition and within the provisions of this subchapter.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a public right-of-way located between the curb line
or the edge of a street or avenue and the adjacent property line which has been
improved by the use of concrete, asphalt, brick or a similar material that is
intended for use by pedestrians.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 201) (Ord. 5-95, passed 9-5-1995; Ord. 2006-01,
passed 4-3-2006)
§ 95.002 SIDEWALKS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All existing sidewalks and curbs along streets, alleys, public ways,
or state highways within the borough shall be maintained for the use of
pedestrians at the expense of the owners of the abutting properties and shall
be kept in good repair and safe condition.
   (B)   Sidewalks and curbs shall be constructed and maintained for the use of
pedestrians at the expense of the owners of the abutting properties along such
streets, alleys, public ways, or state highways within the borough as
determined by Borough Council. Such sidewalks and curbs shall be kept in good
repair and safe condition.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 202) (Ord. 5-95, passed 9-5-1995)
§ 95.003 SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS.
   Sidewalks and curbs shall be constructed, repaired, or reconstructed
according to the following specifications and using the following materials
only.
   (A)   Sidewalks and curbs shall be of concrete construction. Sidewalks shall
be built as a series of independent sections, not more than six feet in length,
not less than four feet in width, and not less than four inches in depth.
   (B)   Sidewalks and curbs shall be constructed, repaired, or reconstructed
in accordance with the grade and lines established by the Borough Council and/
or the state’s Department of Transportation.
   (C)   Sidewalks shall be located to match adjoining sidewalks when
practicable.
   (D)   Sidewalks may be constructed or reconstructed of paving bricks of a
durable and substantial nature set firmly on a sand and crushed stone base or
in a mortar grout only upon special written approval of Borough Council and
only upon compliance with such additional specifications as Council may
establish.
   (E)   The owners of properties located at the intersection of borough
streets, alleys, public ways, or state highways shall construct sidewalks and
curbs with necessary curb cuts so that the same are handicapped accessible and
in conformance with the provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
or any similar federal or state law or regulation.
   (F)   Borough Council shall have the right to grant a variance with regard
to any of the specifications set forth in this subchapter when necessary due to
unusual or unique circumstances of a property. Requests for variances shall be
in writing and grant of a variance and any necessary terms and conditions of
variance shall be in writing. In the event a sidewalk is not constructed,
repaired, or reconstructed in accordance with the terms of the variance within
six months of the date the variance is granted, the variance shall expire.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 203) (Ord. 5-95, passed 9-5-1995; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
§ 95.004 SIDEWALK DEFECTS.
   Sidewalks shall be deemed defective if one or more of the following exist:
   (A)   A crack within a slab or a joint between two adjoining slabs has
separated to a distance of one inch or greater in width at any location;
   (B)   An uneven surface which shall include:
      (1)   A vertical offset due to a crack, a gap between slabs, or
otherwise, of one inch or more at any location;
      (2)   Any other indentation, rises, or other conditions of any type which
prevent the surface of the sidewalk from being smooth and flat; and/or
      (3)   The presence or any grass, moss, dirt, or other organic material on
the sidewalk or within the joint between two adjoining slabs.
   (C)   Crumbling, flaking, or chipping of the surface of the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 204) (Ord. 5-95, passed 9-5-1995)
§ 95.005 NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT, REPAIR, OR RECONSTRUCT.
   (A)   Borough Council shall give written notice to construct a sidewalk or
curb to the property owner by certified mail, personal service, or as otherwise
provided by law. The property owner shall have one year within which to comply
with the notice.
   (B)   Borough Council shall give written notice to repair or reconstruct a
defective sidewalk or curb to the property owner by certified mail, personal
service, or as otherwise provided by law. Except as provided in division (C)
below, the property owner shall have 60 days to comply with the notice.
   (C)   Where, in the opinion of Borough Council, a dangerous condition exists
that can be repaired by an expenditure of $500 or less, the borough shall
notify the owner to make the repairs within 48 hours. Such notice shall be
served on the owner personally or by certified mail. If the owner cannot be
served within the county, notice may be served on the agent of the owner of the
property or the party in possession of the property or, if there is no agent or
party in possession, the notice may be served by posting the same upon the
premises. If the condition is not remedied within 48 hours, the borough may do
the work or cause the work to be done with the actual cost to be collected from
the property owner by municipal claim or civil action. The certificate of the
Borough Council shall be conclusive evidence of the existence of the emergency
justifying the repair.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 205) (Ord. 5-95, passed 9-5-1995)
§ 95.006 BOROUGH AUTHORIZED TO DO WORK.
   Upon failure of a property owner to comply with any notice given pursuant to
this subchapter, the borough shall have the right to do the work or cause the
work to be done at the cost of the property owner and may collect the cost
thereof, and 10% additional, together with all charges and expenses and file a
municipal claim therefor or collect the same by civil action.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 206) (Ord. 5-95, passed 9-5-1995)
§ 95.007 INSPECTION OF CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION, OR REPAIRS.
   (A)   Borough Council shall have the right to inspect any construction,
reconstruction, or repair to a sidewalk or curb to determine whether
construction specifications are being observed. Borough Council shall have the
right to issue stop work orders for noncompliance and to require removal and
reconstruction of noncomplying sidewalks and curbs.
   (B)   Failure of the Borough Council to inspect construction,
reconstruction, or repair shall not be deemed to be a waiver of its right to
enforce this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 207) (Ord. 5-95, passed 9-5-1995)
§ 95.008 PRIOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   Property owners shall have the option of submitting written plans to
the Borough Council for approval prior to construction in the event that the
property owner has any question about the specification or other interpretation
of requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Prior approval from the Borough Council shall be in writing and shall
address any issues raised by the property owner. In the event a sidewalk or
curb is not constructed, repaired, or reconstructed in accordance with the
terms of the prior approval within six months, the prior approval shall expire.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 208) (Ord. 5-95, passed 9-5-1995)
§ 95.009 INSPECTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Borough Council may, at its discretion, inspect any sidewalk or curb
within the borough as part of a periodic inspection or at the request of any
person.
   (B)   Borough Council shall be notified of any transfer of title in property
which abuts any street, alley, public way, or state highway within the borough.
Upon receipt of such notice, Borough Council shall inspect the property and any
existing sidewalks and curbs and either issue a written certification of
compliance with the terms of this subchapter or a notice to construct, repair,
or reconstruct in accordance with §
95.005. Such notice to the borough of transfer of title or interest shall be
given as follows.
      (1)   At least ten days prior to the transfer by deed the borough shall
receive notice of the proposed transfer.
      (2)   Both the transferor and the transferee shall be responsible for
notifying the borough of the proposed transfer of title. Notice given by either
the transferor, the transferee, or by the authorized agent of either shall
satisfy the requirements of this section.
      (3)   In the event that property is owned by two or more persons as joint
tenants with a right of survivorship, the death of a joint tenant shall trigger
the notice requirement. The surviving tenant or tenants shall notify the
borough within 30 days of the death of the joint tenant.
      (4)   In the event that property is subject to a life estate, the death
of the life tenant shall trigger the notice requirement. The owner or owners of
the remainder interest shall notify the borough within 30 days after the death
of the life tenant.
      (5)   In the event that the sole owner of the property shall die, such
death shall trigger the notice requirement. The executor, administrator, or
other personal representative of the estate or the intestate or testamentary
heirs shall notify the borough within 30 days after the death of the owner of
the property.
      (6)   In the event that the property is owned by a trust, the trustee and
beneficiaries shall notify the borough within 30 days after the death or other
termination or transfer of the interest of a beneficiary who has possession of
the property or who is the recipient of at least 50% of the income from the
trust.
      (7)   In the event that the owner of a property is a corporation, the
directors, officers, and shareholders of the corporation shall notify the
borough within 30 days after the transfer of ownership of stock in the
corporation which, when added with any other transfers of stock within a 12-
month period, constitutes a transfer of 50% or more of the issued and
outstanding shares of the corporation.
      (8)   In the event that the owner of a property is a partnership, whether
general or limited, the partners shall notify the borough within 30 days after
any change of partnership interest, which when added with any other change of
partnership interest within a 12-month period, constitutes a transfer of 50% or
more of the ownership of the partnership.
   (C)   Upon application for a building permit for any property which abuts
any street, alley, public way, or state highway within the borough, Borough
Council shall inspect the property and any existing sidewalks or curbs and
either issue a written certification of compliance with the terms of this
subchapter or notice to construct, repair, or reconstruct in accordance with §
95.005.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 209) (Ord. 5-95, passed 9-5-1995)
SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS AND USES
§ 95.020 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any natural person, association, partnership, firm, or corporation.
The singular shall include the plural and the masculine shall include the
feminine and the neuter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 211) (Ord. passed 10-5-1964A)
§ 95.021 RESTRICTIONS ON SIDEWALK DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE.
   (A)   No person, except as hereinafter provided, shall place, set up,
exhibit, or display, upon any of the sidewalks in the borough, any goods,
wares, or merchandise; nor shall any person set up and/or operate upon any such
sidewalks, any implements or fixtures used in connection with the display and/
or sale of goods, wares, or merchandise without prior written approval of
Borough Council.
   (B)   A minimum of four feet of unblocked sidewalk shall be maintained.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 212) (Ord. passed 10-5-1964A; Ord. 2-2001, passed
7-2-2001)
SNOW REMOVAL FROM SIDEWALKS
§ 95.035 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE; TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   The owner, occupant, or tenant of every property fronting upon or
alongside any sidewalk in the borough is hereby required to remove or cause to
be removed from all of the sidewalks in front of or along side such property
all snow and ice thereon fallen or formed, so as to leave a cleared path the
full width of the sidewalk or at least 36 inches in width, whichever is less.
   (B)   Snow and ice shall be removed from sidewalks within 24 hours after the
cessation of any fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain or the formation of any
ice.
   (C)   In the event the owner, occupant, or tenant makes reasonable efforts
to comply with the requirements of division (A) above but the snow and/or ice
fallen or formed on a sidewalk has become so hard that it can not be removed
without the likelihood of damage to the sidewalk, the person charged with its
removal shall, within the time mentioned in division (A) above, cause enough
sand or other abrasive material to be put on the sidewalk on a periodic basis
so as to make travel reasonably safe; and shall, as soon thereafter as weather
permits, cause to be cleared a path on the said sidewalk at least 36 inches in
width or the full width of the sidewalk, whichever is less.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 221) (Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006) Penalty, see
§
95.999
§ 95.036 AUTHORITY FOR BOROUGH TO REMOVE SNOW AND ICE AND COLLECT COSTS.
   In any case where the owner, occupant, or tenant, as aforesaid, shall fail,
neglect, or refuse to comply with the provisions of §
95.035 as to removal of snow and/or ice, within the time limit prescribed
therein, the borough authorities may proceed immediately to clear all snow and/
or ice from the sidewalk of such delinquent, and to collect the expenses
thereof, with an additional amount of 10% thereof, from such owner, occupant,
or tenant, as the case may be, which may be in addition to any fine or penalty
imposed under §
95.999.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 222) (Ord. 329, passed 6-4-1973)
REMOVAL OF MATERIAL FROM STREETS
§ 95.050 REMOVAL OF MATERIAL FROM STREETS, ALLEYS, AND PUBLIC GROUNDS
PROHIBITED.
   No person or persons shall take any earth, stone, or other material from any
of the streets, alleys, or public grounds in the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 3, § 301) (Ord. 324, passed 6-4-1973) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.051 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to normal activities in connection with the
construction, maintenance, and repair of streets, alleys, sidewalks, and public
grounds, and the structures and fixtures thereon or therein, or incidental
results of work done thereon or therein upon permit from or by authority of the
borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 3, § 302) (Ord. 324, passed 6-4-1973)
PLACEMENT OF SNOW ON STREETS
§ 95.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Bedford.
   PENNDOT. The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (PennDOT).
   PERSON. Person, firm, corporation, institution, or partnership.
   SNOW. Any frozen precipitation, including snow, sleet, hail, and freezing
rain.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 4, § 401) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 95.066 UNLAWFUL TO DEPOSIT SNOW ONTO STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to shovel, plow, deposit, or relocate
from a sidewalk, driveway, parking lot, private roadway, or private property,
any snow onto any borough or PennDOT maintained highway, street, avenue, lane,
or roadway.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 4, § 402) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
95.999
BEFOULING OF STREETS
§ 95.080 PROPER OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle transporting or carrying soil, sand, stone, dirt, debris,
refuse, litter, vegetation, or other substance of any kind, including liquids
and chemicals, over highways, streets, avenues, lanes, or roadways shall be so
operated as to prevent said materials from being scattered, spilled, dumped,
dropped, or blown from the vehicle or from the wheels, tires, or undercarriage
thereof.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 5, § 501) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 95.081 BEFOULING OF STREETS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to scatter, spill, dump, drop, or permit to be
scattered, spilled, dumped, dropped, or blown, any soil, sand, stone, dirt,
debris, refuse, litter, vegetation, or other substance of any kind, including
liquids and chemicals, from any vehicle or from the wheels, tires, or
undercarriage thereof, upon any highways, streets, avenues, lanes, or roadways.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 5, § 502) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see
§
95.999
§ 95.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
95.001 to
95.009 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said
fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that
a violation of §§
95.001 to
95.009 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 210)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
95.020 and
95.021 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $20 nor more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of §§
95.020 and
95.021 shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 213)
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
95.035 and
95.036 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $20 nor more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Such fine and costs
of prosecution may be in addition to any expenses and additional amounts
imposed or provided in §
95.036.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 223)
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
95.050 and
95.051 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $20 nor more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days; provided, that a
violator has been penalized, after hearing, as herein provided, shall not
preclude the borough or other injured party from taking proper legal action to
recover damages resulting from such violation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 3, § 303)
   (F)   Any person, firm, corporation, institution, or partnership who shall
violate any provision of §§
95.065 and
95.066 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said
fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that
a violation of §§
95.065 and
95.066 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 4, § 403)
   (G)   Any person, firm, corporation, institution, or partnership who shall
violate any provision of §§
95.080 and
95.081 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said
fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that
a violation of §§
95.080 and
95.081 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 5, § 503)
(Ord. passed 10-5-1964A; Ord. 324, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 329, passed 6-4-1973;
Ord. 5-95, passed 9-5- 1995; Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
CHAPTER 96: BLASTING
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Prohibition
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is intended to promote and protect the public health, safety
and welfare of the citizens of the Borough of Bedford from the ill effects of
blasting, including, but not limited to, the potential harm to individuals as
well as private and public property and utilities.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLASTING OPERATION. The use of explosives in the blasting of stone, rock,
ore or any other natural formation, or in any construction or demolition work.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or other substance intended for the
purpose of producing an explosion, or that contains oxidizing and combustible
units or other ingredients in such proportions or quantities that ignition by
detonation may produce an explosion, capable of causing injury to persons or
damage to property.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 96.03 PROHIBITION.
   The use of explosives in a blasting operation is prohibited on any property,
public or private, within the Borough of Bedford.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate §
96.03 shall be guilty of a summary offense and upon conviction thereof, be
sentenced to pay a fine of $1,000 dollars and in default of payment of said
fine, to imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 12-2-2024)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      
113.   FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
114.   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES CONTRACTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Miscellaneous Fees
   
110.01   Licenses, permits, and fees
Yard Sales
   
110.15   Title
   
110.16   Purpose
   
110.17   Definitions
   
110.18   Permit required
   
110.19   Permit limitations
   
110.20   Permit fees
   
110.21   Permits to be posted
   
110.22   Signs
   
110.23   Permittees
   
110.24   Source of merchandise
   
110.25   Removal of merchandise
   
110.26   Exceptions
   
110.27   Enforcement
Storage of Building Materials or Dumpsters on Streets and Sidewalks
   
110.40   Definitions
   
110.41   Permit requirements for storage of building materials
   
110.42   Permit requirements for dumpsters
   
110.43   Permit terms
   
110.44   Responsibility for obtaining permits
Housing Regulations
   
110.55   Duty to file list of tenants
 
   
110.99   Penalty
MISCELLANEOUS FEES
§ 110.01 LICENSES, PERMITS, AND FEES.
Subject Fees
Subject                                 Fees
Floodplain building permit
Estimated costs
$0 to $500                              $0
$500 and up                             $5
Licenses, permits, and general business regulations
Event permit/license\
Each transient retail vendor during an  $10 per day
event
Event sponsor                           No fee
Street closures requested for non-
parade event / parade event, apart from
the Fall Foliage Festival and Downtown  $150 per event
Bedford, Inc. events
Barricade fee (non-refundable)
Temporary food sales permit
Per week or part thereof                $150
Per month or part thereof               $300
Per year or part thereof                $450
Transient retail business permit
Per week or part thereof                $300
Per month or part thereof               $600
Per year or part thereof                $750
Yard sale permit                        $0
Storage of building materials or         
placement of dumpsters
Permit fees for storage of building
materials or placement of dumpsters on
the street and/or sidewalk by initial
issuance or extension are hereby
established as follows:
1-7 days                                $25
Over 7 days                             $5 per day
Any permit issued for the same location
within 30 days of a prior permit shall
be deemed to be a continuation of the
prior permit for the purpose of
calculating the permit fee.
Sign
Off-lot directional sign                $10
Permit                                  $10
Street and sidewalk
Excavations
Issuance fee                            $30
Six-month extension                     $10
Subdivision
Minor subdivision
Preliminary plan/final plan (a combined $50
submission)
Professional review fee                 Based on actual cost incurred
Major subdivision
Preliminary plan                        $150 + $10 per lot
Professional review fee                 Based on actual cost incurred
Zoning
Certificate of nonconformance           $50
Change or amendment in zoning ordinance $400
or map
Statement of classification or          $25
compliance
Zoning Hearing Board certificate        $200
                                        $25 per first $1,000 in construction
Zoning permit                           costs and $1 per each additional $1,000
                                        in construction costs
Zoning permit (temporary)               $25
 
(Res. 09-2012, passed 7-2-2012; Res. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019; Res. 2021-01,
passed 7-6-2021; Res. 2025-09, passed - -2025)
YARD SALES
§ 110.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as “the Yard Sale Permit
Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 201) (Ord. 3-91, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 110.16 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is designed to regulate the term, frequency, and conditions
of sales of personal property from a lot or parcel within the borough,
excepting businesses participating in “sidewalk sales.”
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 202) (Ord. 3-91, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 110.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MUNICIPALITY. Include all lots or parcels located within the geographical
boundaries of the Borough of Bedford.
   PERSONS. Include the terms individuals, partnerships, family groups,
voluntary associations, businesses, and corporations.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. Include any or all police officers employed by the
Borough of Bedford.
   YARD SALE. Include the terms “basement sale,” “attic sale,” “garage sale,”
“porch sale,” “neighborhood sale,” and similar terms and shall mean the sale
from a lot or parcel in the Borough of Bedford, excepting businesses
participating in “sidewalk sales,” of any items of tangible personal property
including, by way of example and without limitation, clothing, household
effects, tools, garden implements, toys, recreation equipment, small
appliances, books, and furniture, if the sale is advertised by publication or
by posting of signs or any other method or the public is invited to attend the
sale.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 203) (Ord. 3-91, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 110.18 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before a yard sale shall be conducted within the borough, the owner or
occupant of the lot or parcel upon which said sale shall be held shall obtain a
permit from the Borough Secretary.
   (B)   In addition to any other information which may be required by the
Borough Secretary, the permit shall contain the name(s) of the owner(s) or
occupant(s) of the lot or parcel upon which the sale is to be held as well as
the name(s) of all persons contributing merchandise to the sale and the
beginning and termination dates of the sale.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 204) (Ord. 3-91, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 110.19 PERMIT LIMITATIONS.
   No more than two permits shall be issued within any calendar year for any
lot or parcel to any permittee or to any contributor to a yard sale. At least
60 days must elapse between yard sales on any lot or parcel covered by any
permit. Each yard sale shall be limited to three consecutive days of operation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 205) (Ord. 3-91, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 110.20 PERMIT FEES.
   No permit shall be issued pursuant to this subchapter until there has been
paid to the borough a permit fee in an amount established from time to time by
resolution of the Council of the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 206) (Ord. 3-91, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 110.21 PERMITS TO BE POSTED.
   (A)   All permits for yard sales issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be
posted on the premises on which the sale is to be conducted for the entire
duration of said sale.
   (B)   The permit is to be clearly visible to anyone attending said sale.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 207) (Ord. 3-91, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 110.22 SIGNS.
   (A)   The permittee(s) may erect four free standing signs indicating the
location of the yard sale and directions to the site of the sale. The proposed
location for erection of these signs must be listed on the “yard sale permit.”
   (B)   No signs shall be posted on utility poles or trees located within the
right-of-way of any street. No signs shall be posted on private property
without the consent and approval of the owner.
   (C)   The permittee(s) shall remove all signs within 24 hours within the
termination of the yard sale.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 208) (Ord. 3-91, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 110.23 PERMITTEES.
   (A)   A yard sale permit will be issued only to property owners or
occupants.
   (B)   Joint sales may be held with other property owners or occupants of the
same neighborhood, provided all other persons participating in said sale are
listed on the permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 209) (Ord. 3-91, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 110.24 SOURCE OF MERCHANDISE.
   No merchandise of any nature shall be offered for sale, displayed, or sold
at any yard sale, except merchandise owned by persons listed on the permit for
said sale.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 210) (Ord. 3-91, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 110.25 REMOVAL OF MERCHANDISE.
   The permittee(s) shall remove all merchandise of any nature from view of the
general public within 24 hours of the termination of the yard sale.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 211) (Ord. 3-91, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 110.26 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter requiring a permit shall not apply to any
person selling from any lot or parcel eight or fewer items of tangible personal
property owned by said person. Said person must, however, abide by the
aforementioned regulations relating to signage.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 212) (Ord. 3-91, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 110.27 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be enforced by the Police Department of the
borough and it shall be its duty to investigate and prosecute any violation of
this subchapter.
   (B)   If, after investigation, a violation is found to exist, the Police
Department of the borough shall prosecute a complaint before a district
magistrate pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 213) (Ord. 3-91, passed 12-2-1991)
STORAGE OF BUILDING MATERIALS OR DUMPSTERS ON STREETS
AND SIDEWALKS
§ 110.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DUMPSTER. Any container, receptacle, or vessel used or intended to be used
for the collection, storage, or removal of trash, rubbish, garbage,
construction materials, or demolition debris. The word DUMPSTER shall include a
pick-up truck or other truck used or intended to be used for the purposes set
forth above unless the same shall be lawfully occupying a parking space and
removed and emptied on a daily basis.
   PERSON. Include any natural person, partnership, association, firm, or
corporation. The singular shall include the plural, and the masculine shall
include the feminine and the neuter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 3, § 301) (Ord. 3-97, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 110.41 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS FOR STORAGE OF BUILDING MATERIALS.
   Under special circumstances, where there shall be no other practicable means
for temporary storage, a permit may be granted by the borough for the storage
of building materials upon a limited portion of the street and/or sidewalk
abutting the property upon which such building materials are to be used. Such
permit shall be issued for a fee, fixed pursuant to resolution.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 3, § 302) (Ord. 3-97, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 110.42 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS FOR DUMPSTERS.
   A permit may be granted by the borough for the placement of a dumpster upon
a limited portion of the street and/or sidewalk abutting the property upon
which construction and/or demolition are occurring. Such permits may be granted
only under special circumstances in which there shall be no practicable
location for the same on private property. Such permit shall be issued for a
fee, fixed pursuant to resolution.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 3, § 303) (Ord. 3-97, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 110.43 PERMIT TERMS.
   A permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be issued upon the
following conditions, which shall be strictly adhered to by the holder thereof.
   (A)   Such permit shall be valid for a limited time, not in excess of 15
days, which shall be determined by the borough on the basis of the scope of the
work being undertaken and the inconvenience to the public involved, and such
time limit shall be stated on the permit. Under special circumstances, a permit
may be extended beyond the original time limit with approval of the borough for
a fee, fixed pursuant to resolution.
   (B)   The building material or dumpster shall occupy only such portion of
the street and/or sidewalk specified in the permit.
   (C)   Such building material or dumpster shall be placed so as not to
interfere with drainage of any street or sidewalk, or with access to any fire
hydrant.
   (D)   Such building material shall be arranged in a regular, neat, compact
form so as to occupy a minimum of space and present the least risk of falling,
sliding, or scattering.
   (E)   The holder of such permit shall be liable for all damages, losses,
costs, or expenses that are or may be considered by reason of the placing or
storage of such material or dumpster upon the street or sidewalk.
   (F)   The holder of such permit shall be responsible for placing barriers,
guards, and warning lights in the vicinity of or around such material or
dumpster so as to prevent injury to persons or property.
   (G)   On or before the date of expiration of such permit, all such material
or the dumpster shall be removed from the street and/or sidewalk and the street
and/or sidewalk shall be restored to the condition in which it was immediately
prior to such storage, in default of which the same shall be deemed abandoned
property and the borough may cause the same to be removed with the expense of
such removal plus 10% payable by the holder of such permit and collected in any
manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 3, § 304) (Ord. 3-97, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 110.44 RESPONSIBILITY FOR OBTAINING PERMITS.
   It shall be the joint responsibility of the property owner, the contractor,
or subcontractors using the building materials or dumpster and the supplier of
the building materials or dumpster to ensure that a valid permit required by §§
110.41 and
110.42 is obtained and that all permit terms are fulfilled.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 3, § 305) (Ord. 3-97, passed 11-3-1997)
HOUSING REGULATIONS
§ 110.55 DUTY TO FILE LIST OF TENANTS.
   It shall be the duty of every landlord maintaining rental property within
the borough and every owner of multiple-family dwelling units within the
borough to certify to the Borough Secretary the following information:
   (A)   A list of all tenants and lessees, as well as their addresses, on or
before September 30 of every year;
   (B)   The name, current address, and new address (if known) of any tenant or
lessee who is vacating his or her current address at least two days prior to
the date of vacation; and
   (C)   The name and address of any tenant or lessee moving into their
facility within two days after the date of occupancy.
(Prior Code, Ch. 11, Pt. 1, § 101) (Ord. 2-85, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
110.15 to
110.27 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $20 nor more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of §§
110.15 to
110.27 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 214)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
110.40 to
110.44 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of §§
110.40 to
110.44 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 3, § 306)
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §
110.55 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $20 nor more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, Ch. 11, Pt. 1, § 102)
(Ord. 2-85, passed 7-1-1985; Ord. 3-91, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 3-97, passed 11-
3-1997; Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required; conditions of issuance; fee
   
111.03   Exceptions
   
111.04   License application
   
111.05   Issuance of license; custody; display and exhibit
   
111.06   Prohibited acts
   
111.07   Supervision; records and reports
   
111.08   Denial, suspension, and revocation of license; appeal
   
111.09   Farmers’ market
   
111.10   Event licensing
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The singular shall include the plural; the plural shall include the
singular; and the masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EVENT. A planned, organized gathering of individuals occurring at a fixed
location entirely on private property within the borough at which transient
retail business is conducted. A sidewalk within the public right-of-way shall
not be deemed to be private property for the purpose of this chapter.
      LEGAL HOLIDAY. New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Jr.’s Birthday,
Presidents Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day,
Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
      PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, association, corporation, or
other legal entity.
      SPONSOR. Any person who or which initiates, organizes, promotes, permits,
conducts, or causes to be advertised an event.
      TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESS.
         (a)   Engaging in peddling, soliciting, or taking orders, either by
sample or otherwise, for any goods, wares, or merchandise upon any street,
alley, sidewalk, or public ground, or from house to house, within the borough.
         (b)   Selling, soliciting, or taking orders for any goods, wares, or
merchandise from a fixed location within the borough, on a temporary basis,
which shall include, but not be limited to, such activities conducted at the
time of special occasions or celebrations, for seasonal purposes, or for yearly
holidays.
         (c)   Engaging in selling or providing services from house to house
within the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 1, § 101) (Ord. 326, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2021- 01, passed 7-6-2021)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; CONDITIONS OF ISSUANCE; FEE.
   No person shall engage in any transient retail business within the borough
without first having obtained from the authorized representative of the borough
a license, for which a fee, which shall be for the use of the borough, shall be
charged, said fee to be in such amount as established, from time to time, by
resolution of the Borough Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 1, § 102) (Ord. 326, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No license fee shall be charged:
      (1)   To farmers selling their own produce on dates specified in §
111.09(D)(3);
      (2)   For the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, donated by the
owners thereof, the proceeds whereof are to be applied to any charitable or
philanthropic purpose;
      (3)   To any manufacturer or producer in the sale of bread and bakery
products, meat and meat products, or milk and milk products on dates specified
in §
111.09(D)(3);
      (4)   To children under the age of 18 years who take orders for and
deliver newspapers, greeting cards, candy, bakery products and the like, or who
represent the Boy Scouts or Girl Scouts or similar organizations;
      (5)   To the seeking or taking of orders by insurance agents or brokers
licensed under the insurance laws of the state;
      (6)   To a person who has complied with the provisions of the
Solicitation of Funds for Charitable Purposes Act, 10 P.S. §§ 162.1 et seq., as
hereafter amended, supplemented, modified, or reenacted by the state’s General
Assembly; and/or
      (7)   For taking orders for merchandise, by sample, from dealers or
merchants for individuals or companies who pay a license or business privilege
tax at their chief place of business.
   (B)   (1)   But all persons exempted hereby from the payment of the license
fee shall be required to register with the authorized representative of the
borough and obtain a license without fee; provided, any person dealing in one
or more of the above mentioned exempted categories, and dealing with other
goods, wares, or merchandise not so exempted, shall be subject to the payment
of the license fee fixed by this section for his or her activities in
connection with the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise not in such exempted
categories.
      (2)   Provided, further, the authorized representative of the borough may
similarly exempt from payment of the license fee, but not from registering with
him or her, persons working without compensation and selling goods, wares, or
merchandise for the sole benefit of a nonprofit corporation. Provided, further,
every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be issued on an
individual basis to any person or persons engaging in such business; every
individual shall obtain a separate license, issued to him or her in his or her
name, and the license fee hereby imposed shall be applicable to every such
individual license, except that a representative of a charitable organization
may obtain licenses for the applicants.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 1, § 103) (Ord. 326, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 2008- 04, passed 7-7-2008)
§ 111.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person desiring a license under this chapter shall first make
application to the authorized representative of the borough for such license.
He or she shall, when making such application, exhibit a valid license from any
state or county officer, if such license is also required.
   (B)   The applicant shall state:
      (1)   His or her criminal record, if any;
      (2)   Name and address of the person by whom he or she is employed;
      (3)   Type of goods, wares, and merchandise he or she wishes to deal with
in such transient retail business;
      (4)   Length of time for which license is to be issued; and
      (5)   Type and license number of the vehicle to be used, if any.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 1, § 104) (Ord. 326, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
§ 111.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; CUSTODY; DISPLAY AND EXHIBIT.
   Upon receipt of such application and the prescribed fee, the authorized
representative of the borough, if he or she shall find such application in
order, shall issue the license required under this chapter. Such license shall
contain the information required to be given on the application therefor. Every
license holder shall carry such license upon his or her person if engaged in
transient retail business from house to house or upon any of the streets,
alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds, or shall display such license at the
location where he or she shall engage in such business if doing so at a fixed
location. He or she shall exhibit such license, upon request, to all police
officers, borough officials, and citizens or residents of the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 1, § 105) (Ord. 326, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
§ 111.06 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person in any transient retail business shall:
   (A)   Sell any product or type of product not mentioned in his or her
license;
   (B)   Hawk or cry his or her wares upon any of the streets, alleys,
sidewalks, or public grounds in the borough;
   (C)   When operating from a vehicle, stop or park such vehicle upon any of
the streets or alleys in the borough for longer than necessary in order to sell
therefrom to persons residing or working in the immediate vicinity;
   (D)   Park a vehicle upon any of the streets or alleys in the borough for
the purpose of sorting, rearranging, or cleaning any of his or her goods,
wares, or merchandise or of disposing of any carton, wrapping material or
stock, wares, or foodstuffs which have become unsalable through handling, age,
or otherwise; or
   (E)   Engage in any business activity, except by prior appointment, at any
time on a Sunday or legal holiday or at any time before 9:00 a.m. or after 6:00
p.m. on any day of the week other than a Sunday or legal holiday.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 1, § 106) (Ord. 326, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 SUPERVISION; RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The authorized representative of the borough shall supervise the activities
of all persons holding licenses under this chapter. He or she shall keep a
record of all licenses issued hereunder and shall make a report thereof each
month to the Borough Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 1, § 107) (Ord. 326, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
§ 111.08 DENIAL, SUSPENSION, AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL.
   The authorized representative of the borough is hereby authorized to deny,
suspend, or revoke any license issued under this chapter when he or she deems
such denial, suspension, or revocation to be beneficial to the public health,
safety, or morals, or for violation of any provision of this chapter, or for
giving false information upon any application for a license hereunder. Appeals
from any suspension, revocation, or denial of a license may be made to the
Borough Council at any time within ten days after such suspension, revocation,
or denial and a hearing shall be held within 30 days of the petition for
appeal. No part of a license fee shall be refunded to any person whose license
shall have been suspended or revoked.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 1, § 108) (Ord. 326, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
§ 111.09 FARMERS’ MARKET.
   (A)   Borough Council shall have the right to authorize a non-profit
organization or community-based organization (the “sponsor”) to conduct a
farmers’ market upon the streets, parks, or other public areas in the borough
at such dates, times, and locations as Council deems appropriate and subject to
such additional terms and conditions as Council deems appropriate.
   (B)   As used herein, the term FARMERS’ MARKET shall mean the sale of
fruits, vegetables, other produce, bread and bakery products, meat and meat
products, dairy products, or other food items and plants which are grown or
produced primarily by the vendor and which are intended primarily for home
consumption or use.
   (C)   Vendors who obtain a permit from the sponsor of the farmers’ market
shall not be required to obtain a transient retail business license for sales
conducted at the authorized farmers’ market.
   (D)   The sale of items included within the definition of farmers’ market
items under division (B) above by persons who have not received a permit from
the sponsor of the farmers’ market shall be subject to the following
restrictions:
      (1)   On days on which the farmers’ market is in operation, no license
shall be issued for the sale of such items outside of the farmers’ market;
      (2)   On days on which the farmers’ market is not in operation, but which
are seven days or less prior to a farmers’ market day, or seven days or less
after a farmers’ market day, a license may be issued provided a license fee is
paid in the amount established, from time to time, by resolution of Borough
Council; and
      (3)   On days on which the farmers’ market is not in operation and which
are more than seven days prior to a farmers’ market and more than seven days
after a farmers’ market, a license may be issued without license fee pursuant
to the terms of §
111.03.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 7-7-2008)
§ 111.10 EVENT LICENSING.
   (A)   Event exception. The provisions of §§
111.02 through
111.07 apply to an event.
   (B)   Sponsor permit. No person shall be a sponsor of an event within the
borough without first obtaining, from an authorized representative of the
borough, an event permit.
   (C)   Permit application.
      (1)   A sponsor requesting an event permit shall make application
therefor, in writing, to the Borough Office. Such application shall be
accompanied by such fees, as required by the schedule of fees, established by
and amended from time to time by resolution of Borough Council. Such
application shall set forth and include the following information:
         (a)   The name, business name, and address of the sponsor and the
property owner, if different than the sponsor, and of each person to be
licensed to engage in transient retail business at the event;
         (b)   Contact information, including the phone number and e-mail
address of the sponsor and the property owner, if different than the applicant,
and of each person to be licensed to engage in transient retail business at the
event;
         (c)   Types of goods to be sold and proposed hours of operation;
         (d)   Written consent of the property owner, if different than the
applicant; and
         (e)   Such other information as may be required from time to time by
the borough.
      (2)   No action shall be taken on any application for an event permit
under this section until the application has been completed in its entirety and
the fees, as required by a schedule of fees, established and amended from time
to time by resolution of the Borough Council, have been paid in full.
   (D)   Specific standards. The following regulations shall apply to all
events.
      (1)   Events shall only be conducted on private property situate in
zoning districts that permit retail sales of goods.
      (2)   Events shall only be permitted from dusk to dawn. The specific
hours shall be designated on the permit as determined by the borough based on
the time of year.
      (3)   The sponsor shall provide access to restroom facilities situate on
the same property as the event which shall be open to customers at all times
that goods are being sold.
      (4)   The sponsor shall provide adequate trash or garbage receptacles on
the same property as the event.
      (5)   The sponsor and all persons conducting transient retail business
shall comply with all federal and state laws and regulations and all borough
ordinances, including, but not limited to, sign, noise, and health and safety
ordinances.
      (6)   The permit shall be publicly displayed at the event site at all
times.
   (E)   Permit duration. Event permits shall be issued on a daily basis. No
event permits shall be issued for the weekends of the Fall Foliage Festival
without the approval of Borough Council.
   (F)   Event license. No person shall engage in any transient retail business
within the borough during an event without first having been included on an
event permit obtained by an event sponsor.
   (G)   Denial, suspension, appeal, and penalties. The provisions of §§
111.08 and
111.99 shall apply to event permits and event licenses.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 7-6-2021) Penalty, see §
111.99
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees, see §
110.01
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $20 nor more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of this chapter continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 13, Pt. 1, § 109) (Ord. 326, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
CHAPTER 112: RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
Temporary Food Sales
   
112.01   Scope
   
112.02   Definition
   
112.03   Permit required
   
112.04   Permit application
   
112.05   Specific standards
   
112.06   Indemnification of the borough; insurance
   
112.07   Permit duration
   
112.08   Denial, suspension, and revocation of permit appeal
Bed and Breakfast Establishments
   
112.20   Scope
   
112.21   Permit required
   
112.22   Permit application
   
112.23   Specific standards
   
112.24   Permit duration
   
112.25   Denial, suspension, and revocation of permit appeal
 
   
112.99   Penalty
TEMPORARY FOOD SALES
§ 112.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all persons engaged
in the business of cooking, preparing, or distributing food or beverage on
private property in the borough on a temporary basis.
   (B)   Temporary food sales shall not be permitted on public streets, parks,
or other borough property unless part of an event authorized by Borough Council
or without the express permission of Borough Council.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TEMPORARY FOOD SALES. Engaging in the cooking, preparation, sale, or
distribution of ready-to-eat food or beverage, for individual portion service,
to the general public directly from a food truck, trailer, push cart, tent,
booth, or other temporary facility.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 112.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, operate, or conduct
temporary food sales in the borough without first applying for and securing a
permit therefor, as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person who shall desire a temporary food sales permit shall make
application therefor in writing to the Borough Office. Such application shall
be accompanied by such application fee, as required by a schedule of fees,
established by and amended from time to time by resolution of Borough Council.
Such application shall set forth and include the following information:
      (1)   The name, business name, and address of the applicant and the
property owner, if different than the applicant;
      (2)   Contact information, including phone number and e-mail address of
the applicant and the property owner, if different than the applicant;
      (3)   If a vehicle is to be used, vehicle information, including business
license number, truck make and model, and license plate number;
      (4)   Temporary food sales information, including types of goods to be
sold and proposed hours of operation;
      (5)   Copy of the state health certificate under the Retail Food Facility
Safety Act, 3 Pa.C.S.A. § 5701-5714, or other applicable statutes;
      (6)   Written consent of the property owner, if different than the
applicant; and
      (7)   Such other information as may be required from time to time by the
borough.
   (B)   No action shall be taken on any application for a permit under this
section until the application has been completed in its entirety and the
application fee, as required by a schedule of fees, established and amended
from time to time by resolution of the Borough Council, has been paid in full.
There shall be no proration of fees under this division (B).
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 112.05 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all temporary food sales.
   (A)   Temporary food sales shall only be conducted from private property
situated in the C-1, C-2, or CMR zoning districts.
   (B)   Temporary food sales shall only be permitted on Monday through
Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. and on Sunday from 12:00 noon to 10:00
p.m.
   (C)   The permittee shall provide access to restroom facilities situated on
the same property as the temporary food sales which shall be open to customers
at all times that food or beverages are being sold.
   (D)   The permittee shall provide adequate trash or garbage receptacles on
the same property as the temporary food sales.
   (E)   The permittee shall comply with all federal, state laws and
regulations and all borough ordinances, including, but not limited to, sign,
noise, and health and safety ordinances.
   (F)   The permit shall be publicly displayed at the temporary food sales
site at all times.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 5-7-2018) (Ord. 2019-01, passed 3-4-2019) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 INDEMNIFICATION OF THE BOROUGH; INSURANCE.
   (A)   The permittee of the temporary food sales shall well and truly save,
indemnify, defend, and keep harmless the borough, its officers, elected
officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all actions, suits,
demands, payments, judgments, costs, and charges caused by any reason due to
the existence of the temporary food sales and all damages to persons or
property resulting from or in any manner caused by the presence, location, use,
operation, installation, maintenance, replacement, or removal of such temporary
food sales, or by the acts or omissions of the employees or agents of the
permittee.
   (B)   The permittee of the temporary food sales must obtain and maintain a
general liability insurance policy in a minimum amount of $1,000,000 for bodily
injury or death. All insurance policies shall be issued by companies qualified
to do business in the state.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 112.07 PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits may be issued on a weekly, monthly, or annual basis. The permittee,
however, shall specifically reserve dates of operation within the time period
of the permit. Obtaining a permit does not guarantee the right to conduct
temporary food sales on a specific date within the permit period until such
date is approved by the borough office. No more than three temporary food sales
operations shall be conducted in the borough on any one date. Borough Council
may waive this limitation in the event of special events. The permittee shall
operate on the reserved dates. Failure to conduct temporary food sales on a
reserved date without just cause may result in a suspension or revocation of
the permit.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 DENIAL, SUSPENSION, AND REVOCATION OF PERMIT APPEAL.
   (A)   The authorized representative of the borough is hereby authorized to
deny, suspend, or revoke any permit under this subchapter when he or she or she
deems such denial, suspension, or revocation to be beneficial to the public
health, safety, or morals, or for violation of any provision of this
subchapter, or for giving false information upon any application for a period
hereunder.
   (B)   (1)   Appeals from any suspension, revocation, or denial of a permit
may be made to the Borough Council at any time within ten days after such
suspension, revocation, or denial and a hearing shall be held within 30 days of
the petition for appeal.
      (2)   No part of a permit fee shall be refunded to any person whose
permit shall have been suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 5-7-2018)
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 112.20 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to bed and breakfast
establishments as defined in §
154.004.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-22-2020)
§ 112.21 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, operate, or conduct a bed
and breakfast in the borough without first applying for and securing a permit
therefor, as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-22-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.22 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Any person who shall desire a bed and breakfast permit shall make
application therefor in writing to the Borough Office. Such application shall
set forth and include the following information:
   (A)   The name, business name, and address of the applicant and the property
owner, if different from the applicant;
   (B)   Contact information, including phone number and e-mail address of the
applicant, business manager, and property owner if different than the
applicant;
   (C)   Number of rooms available for lodging;
   (D)   Written consent of the property owner, if different than the
applicant; and
   (E)   Such other information as may be required from time to time by the
borough.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-22-2020)
§ 112.23 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   The following regulations shall apply to bed and breakfast establishments
located in the R-1, R-2, or R-2T Districts.
   (A)   Guests shall not be permitted to stay at the property for more than 14
consecutive days.
   (B)   When guests are present at the bed and breakfast, there shall either
be:
      (1)   A manager of the bed and breakfast physically staying on the
premises; or
      (2)   An owner of the property residing and physically present within ten
miles of the premises.
   (C)   As used herein, the term MANAGER shall mean a person authorized by the
owner of the property to operate the bed and breakfast. A manager shall have
authority to check guests in and out, to perform or authorize maintenance on
the property, to have keys and access to the property, and to carry out the
duties generally associated with running a bed and breakfast.
   (D)   Owner occupied dwelling units with five or fewer guestrooms are
permissible occupancies if they meet the following requirements: emergency
lighting, smoke detectors and fire extinguishers must be provided in all
locations required by the International Building Code. Units with greater than
five guestrooms must comply with the requirements for non-owner-occupied
lodging houses.
   (E)   Non-owner-occupied lodging houses require handicapped accessibility,
egress, fire suppression (automatic sprinkler system), and other life safety
features such as emergency lighting, smoke detectors, carbon monoxide
detectors, fire extinguishers, and the like.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-22-2020; Ord. 2023-03, passed - -2023)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.24 PERMIT DURATION.
   Once issued, a permit shall remain in effect until terminated by the
applicant, terminated under the terms of this section, or suspended or revoked
by the borough. A permit shall automatically terminate when any information
contained in the application shall change unless the permit holder submits an
amended application prior to such change.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-22-2020)
§ 112.25 DENIAL, SUSPENSION, AND REVOCATION OF PERMIT APPEAL.
   The authorized representative of the borough is hereby authorized to deny,
suspend, or revoke any permit under this subchapter when he or she deems such
denial, suspension, or revocation to be beneficial to the public health,
safety, or morals (including violations of federal, state, or local laws,
regulations, or ordinances by the permit holder, owner of the property,
manager, or guests), or for violation of any provision of this subchapter, or
for giving false information upon any application hereunder. Appeals from any
suspension, revocation, or denial of a permit may be made to the Borough
Council at any time within ten days after such suspension, revocation, or
denial, and a hearing shall be held within 30 days of the petition for appeal.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-22-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
Cross-reference:
   Event permit and event licence fees, see §
110.01
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of this chapter continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 5-7-2018; Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-22-2020)
CHAPTER 113: FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Use of fire insurance proceeds
   
113.02   Limits of liability
   
113.03   Insurance company rights reserved
   
113.04   Agreements with property owners
   
113.05   Construction
   
113.06   Notification of state’s Department of Community and Economic
Development
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 USE OF FIRE INSURANCE PROCEEDS.
   (A)   No insurance company, association, or exchange (hereinafter “insurer”)
doing business in the state shall pay a claim of a named insured for fire
damage to a structure located within the borough where the amount recoverable
for the fire loss to the structure under all policies exceeds $7,500, unless
the insurer is furnished by the Borough Treasurer with a certificate pursuant
to 40 P.S. § 638 (the “Act”) and unless there is compliance with the procedures
set forth in the Act.
   (B)   (1)   Where there are delinquent taxes, assessments, penalties, or
user charges against the property (“municipal claims”), or there are expenses
which the borough has incurred as a cost for the removal, repair or securing of
a building or other structure on the property (collectively “municipal
expenses”), the Treasurer of the borough shall immediately render a bill for
such work, if he or she has not already done so. Upon written request of the
named insured specifying the tax description of the property, the name and
address of the insurer and the date of receipt by the insurer of a loss report
of the claim, the Treasurer shall furnish a certificate within 14 working days
after the request, to the insurer, either:
         (a)   Stating that there are no unpaid municipal claims or municipal
expenses against the property; or
         (b)   Specifying the nature and amount of such claims or expenses,
accompanied by a bill for such amounts.
      (2)   Taxes, assessments, penalties, and user charges shall be deemed
delinquent for this purpose if a lien could have been filed for such claims
under applicable law. Upon receipt of a certificate and bill pursuant to
division (A) above, the insurer shall transfer to the Treasurer an amount from
the insurance proceeds sufficient to pay such sums prior to making payment to
the named insured, subject to the provisions of division (C) below.
   (C)   When all municipal claims and municipal expenses have been paid
pursuant to division (B) above, or where the Treasurer has issued a certificate
described in division (B)(1)(a) above indicating that there are no municipal
claims or municipal expenses against the property, the insurer shall pay the
claim of the named insured; provided, however, that if the loss agreed upon by
the named insured and the insurer equals or exceeds 60% of the aggregate limits
of liability on all fire policies covering the building or structure, the
following procedures must be followed.
      (1)   The insurer shall transfer from the insurance proceeds to the
Treasurer, in the aggregate, $2,000 for each $15,000 of such claim or fraction
thereof.
      (2)   If at the time a loss report is submitted by the insured, such
insured has submitted to the insurer, with a copy to the borough, a
contractor’s signed estimate of the cost of removing, repairing, or securing
the building or other structure in an amount less than the amount calculated
under the foregoing transfer formula, the insurer shall transfer to the
Treasurer from the insurance proceeds the amount specified in the estimate. If
there is more than one insurer, the transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata
basis by all insurers insuring the building or other structure.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the above-described portion of the insurance
proceeds, the Treasurer shall do the following:
         (a)   Place the proceeds in a separate fund to be used solely as
security against the total municipal expenses anticipated by the borough to be
required in removing, repairing, or securing the building or structure as
required by this chapter. Such costs shall include, without limitation, any
engineering, legal, or administrative costs incurred by the borough in
connection with such removal, repair, or securing or any proceedings related
thereto;
         (b)   Mail to the named insured, at the address received from the
insurer, a notice the proceeds have been received by the borough and that the
procedures under this division (C)(3) shall be followed;
         (c)   After the transfer, the named insured may submit to the borough
a contractor’s signed estimate of the cost of removing, repairing, or securing
the building or other structure, in which event the Treasurer shall, if such
estimate is deemed by the Treasurer to be reasonable, return to the insured the
amount of the funds transferred to the borough in excess of that required to
pay the municipal expenses; provided, the borough has not commenced to remove,
repair, or secure the building or other structure, in which case the borough
will complete the work;
         (d)   Pay to the Treasurer, for reimbursement to the borough General
Fund, the amount of the municipal expenses paid by the borough; and
         (e)   Pay the remaining balance in the fund (without interest) to the
named insured upon receipt of a certificate issued by the Borough Manager that
the repair, removal, or securing of the building or other structure has been
completed in accordance with all applicable codes and regulations of the
borough.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ability of the
borough to recover any deficiency in the amount of municipal claims or
municipal expenses recovered pursuant to this chapter, or to insurance
proceeds, by an action at law or in equity to enforce the codes of the borough.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 113.02 LIMITS OF LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to make insurance company,
association, or exchange liable for any amount in excess of proceeds payable
under its insurance policy or for any other act performed pursuant to this
chapter or to make this borough, any borough official, a municipality, or
public official an insured under a policy of insurance or to create an
obligation to pay delinquent property taxes or unpaid removal liens or expenses
other than as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 113.03 INSURANCE COMPANY RIGHTS RESERVED.
   An insurance company, association, or exchange making payment of policy
proceeds under this chapter for delinquent taxes or structure removal liens or
removal expenses incurred by the borough shall have a full benefit of such
payment including all rights of subrogation and of assignment.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 113.04 AGREEMENTS WITH PROPERTY OWNERS.
   The Borough Manager or Borough Council shall be authorized to enter into an
agreement with the named insured which provides for a disposition of the
insurance proceeds in a manner other than as provided in this chapter. Such an
agreement shall not be deemed as a waiver of any of the rights of the borough
to file subsequent municipal liens or claims, or to proceed against the named
insured or property owner at law or in equity.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 113.05 CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter shall be liberally construed to accomplish its purpose to deter
the commission of arson and related crimes, to discourage the abandonment of
property, and to prevent urban blight and deterioration.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 113.06 NOTIFICATION OF STATE’S DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
   The Secretary of the borough shall transmit a certified copy of this chapter
promptly to the state’s Department of Community and Economic Development.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any owner of property, any named insured, or insurer who violates the
provisions of this chapter or who shall fail to comply with any of the
requirements hereof shall be sentenced, upon conviction thereof, to a fine of
not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and
costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day on which an
offense shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 10-3-2005)
CHAPTER 114: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES CONTRACTS
Section
   
114.01   Request for proposal (RFP) application(s) including disclosures
   
114.02   Advertisement
   
114.03   Review
   
114.04   Personnel
   
114.05   Conflict of interest
   
114.06   Public information
   
114.07   Notification and posting of proceedings
   
114.08   Increase
§ 114.01 REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP) APPLICATION(S) INCLUDING DISCLOSURES.
   Applications will be drafted at the time services are needed. The
applications will address the applicant’s qualifications, experience,
expertise, and compensation to be charged. An Act 44 Compliant Disclosure Form
will be included as part of the application. The award of a professional
services contract is not subject to a requirement that the lowest bid be
accepted.
(Res. 01-2016, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 114.02 ADVERTISEMENT.
   (A)   The municipality shall advertise the availability of a request for
proposal for a professional services contract to potential participants or
candidates in a timely and efficient manner.
   (B)   An advertisement of such will include the following:
      (1)   The services that are the subject of the proposed contract;
      (2)   Specifications relating to the services;
      (3)   Procedures to compete for the contract; and
      (4)   Required disclosures and additional information desired.
(Res. 01-2016, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 114.03 REVIEW.
   (A)   The evaluation process will involve several steps. The municipality
will evaluate the initial responses to the RFP. The municipality will determine
a list of finalists, interview finalists if desired, and make a final decision.
   (B)   The criteria to be used in the evaluation process may differ depending
on the type of professional services requested, but all will include the
following:
      (1)   The applicant’s qualifications, experience, and expertise related
to state municipal pension systems;
      (2)   The applicant’s knowledge of Act 205 and other state municipal
pension legislation;
      (3)   The applicant’s approach to managing risk and research
capabilities;
      (4)   The quoted fee(s) associated with the desired services(s) sought;
      (5)   The applicant’s availability to meet with the municipal pension
system’s representatives for periodic reviews;
      (6)   The recommendations by other municipal pension system’s
representatives for periodic reviews; and
      (7)   The ultimate confidence of the municipality as represented by the
vote to accept the applicant in contract.
(Res. 01-2016, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 114.04 PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Prior to entering into a professional services contract, the
contractor shall disclose the names and titles of each individual who will be
providing professional services to the municipal pension system, including
advisors or subcontractors of the contractor.
   (B)   Please note, existing service providers shall submit annual Act 44
related disclosures. Disclosures will include all of the following:
      (1)   Whether the individual is a current or former official or employee
of the municipality;
      (2)   Whether the individual is a current or former registered federal or
state lobbyist;
      (3)   A description of the responsibilities of each individual with
regard to the services provision of the contract; and
      (4)   The resume of an individual listed in the aforementioned
disclosures shall be provided to the municipality upon request.
(Res. 01-2016, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 114.05 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   All RFP proceedings shall include a minimum restriction of one year on
the:
      (1)   Participation by a former employee of a contractor or potential
contractor in the review of a proposal or negotiation of a contract with that
contractor; and
      (2)   Participation by a former employee of the municipality in the
submission of a proposal or the performance of a contract.
   (B)   Additionally, all RFP proceedings shall include disqualification for:
      (1)   Any individual or entity that currently holds a professional
services contract, which responds to, applies for, or otherwise solicits, a
professional services contract, that has conveyed a gift having more than a
nominal value to any municipal official or employee of this municipality since
December 17, 2009; or
      (2)   Any individual or entity that currently holds a professional
services contract, which responds to, applies for, or otherwise solicits, a
political services contract, that has made a political contribution to any
parties, candidates, or current office holders of or for this municipality
since December 17, 2009.
   (C)   Furthermore, all RFP proceedings shall include the following:
      (1)   A person or an affiliated entity that enters into a professional
services contract with a municipal pension system may not have a direct
financial, commercial, or business relationship with any official of the
municipal pension system or the municipality which controls the municipal
pension system unless the municipal pension system consents in writing to the
relationship following full disclosure; and
      (2)   If a person that enters into, or has applied for, submitted an
offer or bid for, responded to a RFP on, or otherwise solicited a contract with
a municipal pension system or an officer, director, or employee of a municipal
pension system is aware, or reasonably should be aware, of an apparent,
potential, or actual conflict of interest, the person shall disclose the
conflict and promptly eliminate the conflict.
(Res. 01-2016, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 114.06 PUBLIC INFORMATION.
   Following the award of a professional services contract, all applications
and disclosure forms shall be made public except for proprietary information or
other information protected by law.
(Res. 01-2016, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 114.07 NOTIFICATION AND POSTING OF PROCEEDINGS.
   Following the decision by the municipality of a finalist, the relevant
factors that resulted in the selection for award of the professional services
contract must be summarized in a written statement and included or attached to
the documents awarding the contract. Within ten days of the selection for award
of the professional services contract, the original application, the RFP
summary of proceedings and selection statement, and all disclosure forms must
be transmitted to all unsuccessful applicants and posted on the municipal
pension system’s website, if a website is maintained, at least seven days prior
to the execution of the professional services contract.
(Res. 01-2016, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 114.08 INCREASE.
   A professional services contract shall not be amended to increase the cost
of the contract by more than 10% or $10,000, whichever is greater, unless the
increase and a written justification for the increase are public and posted on
the municipal pension system’s website, if a website is maintained, at least
seven days prior to the effective date of the amendment.
(Res. 01-2016, passed 3-7-2016)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW
      
131.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
132.   MISDEMEANORS
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW
Section
   
130.01   Short title
   
130.02   Purposes and findings
   
130.03   Definitions
   
130.04   Curfew for minors
   
130.05   Parental responsibility
   
130.06   Exceptions
   
130.07   Enforcement
   
130.08   Construction
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “the curfew ordinance.”
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 1, § 101) (Ord. 2-86, passed 7-7-1986)
§ 130.02 PURPOSES AND FINDINGS.
   This is an updating of the borough curfew ordinance of August 1, 1966. It
prescribes, in accordance with prevailing community standards, regulations for
the conduct of minors on streets and in other public places at night, all for
the good of minors, furtherance of parental responsibility, and the public
good, safety, and welfare.
   (A)   Council finds that the curfew meets a very real local need, has been
over the years a significant factor in minimizing juvenile delinquency, and
should be updated and amplified in light of the borough’s local situation.
   (B)   The community sense of the proper time for cessation of outdoor
activities by minors on streets and other public places is reflected in the
curfew hours declared by this chapter which takes into consideration also the
danger hours for nocturnal crime and for accumulations of minors with potential
risks incident to their immaturity.
   (C)   Parental responsibility for the whereabouts of their children is the
norm; legal sanctions to enforce such responsibility have had a demonstrated
effectiveness over the years; as parental control increases, likelihood of
juvenile delinquency decreases, and there is a continuing need for nocturnal
curfew for minors which has achieved, and will continue to achieve under local
conditions, the purposes hereinbefore stated.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 1, § 102) (Ord. 2-86, passed 7-7-1986)
§ 130.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include singular and words in the singular include the
plural. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Bedford, Bedford County, Pennsylvania, with
administrative offices at 244 West Penn Street, Bedford, Pennsylvania 15522.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
   PARENT. Any person having legal custody or control of a minor as a natural
or adoptive parent, as a legal guardian, as a person who stands in loco
parentis, or as a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of
court.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 1, § 103) (Ord. 2-86, passed 7-7-1986)
§ 130.04 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   Except as provided in §
130.06 hereof, it shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to
be, or remain in or upon any of the streets, alleys, parks, or other public
places in the borough between the hours of 11:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 1, § 104) (Ord. 2-86, passed 7-7-1986) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in §
130.06, it shall be unlawful for any parent, as defined in this chapter, to
knowingly permit, or by inefficient control to allow, any minor to be or remain
in or upon any of the streets, alleys, parks, or other public places in the
borough between the hours of 11:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
      (2)   The term KNOWINGLY includes knowledge which a parent should
reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that
parent’s legal custody or control.
   (B)   It is intended to continue to keep neglectful or careless parents up
to a reasonable community standard of parental responsibility through an
objective test. It shall be no defense that a parent was completely indifferent
to the activities or conduct or whereabouts of such minor.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 1, § 105) (Ord. 2-86, passed 7-7-1986) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   In the following exceptional cases, a minor shall not be considered in
violation of this chapter:
      (1)   When accompanied by a parent of such minor;
      (2)   When going to or returning home from such minor’s place of gainful
employment; provided, that such minor uses a direct route and proceeds with
reasonable diligence;
      (3)   When going to or returning home from attendance at a school of
instruction, a function sponsored by a religious or civic organization, or a
school athletic event; provided that such minor uses a direct route and
proceeds with reasonable diligence;
      (4)   When an emergency arises making it a reasonably necessity that a
minor be on or in the borough streets, alleys, parks or other public places;
provided that the minor shall have in his or her possession a note signed by
such minor’s parent stating the nature of the emergency, the place to which the
minor is to go, the time and date such note was issued and the time required
therefor or such minor’s parent shall have communicated in advance to the
borough police station personnel fact establishing such emergency, the place to
which the minor is to go, and the time required therefor;
      (5)   When authorized by special permit from the Mayor, carried on the
person of the minor thus authorized, as follows: when reasonably necessary
nighttime activities of a minor may be inadequately provided for by other
provisions of this chapter, recourse may be had to the Mayor for a special
permit. Upon the Mayor’s finding of reasonable necessity, the Mayor may grant a
permit in writing for the use by such minor of such streets or other public
places at such hours as in the Mayor’s opinion may reasonably be necessary; or
      (6)   When authorized, by regulation issued by the Mayor, in other
similar cases of reasonable necessity, adopted to necessary nighttime
activities of more minors than can readily be dealt with on an individual
special permit basis. Such regulation shall define the activity, the scope of
the use of streets or other public places permitted, the period of time
involved, and a statement that the regulation is reasonably necessary and is
consistent with the purposes of the this chapter.
   (B)   Each of the foregoing exceptions shall constitute a defense to a
prosecution under §§
130.04 and
130.05; provided, however, that the burden of proof shall be on the person or
persons claiming such exception.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 1, § 106) (Ord. 2-86, passed 7-7-1986)
§ 130.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any police officer, constable, truant officer, or special officer duly
appointed by the Borough Council or Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to
take into custody any minor in prima facie violation of the this chapter. In
the absence of convincing evidence of age, such officer shall use his or her
best judgment in determining the age of the minor.
   (B)   Such officer shall notify a parent of the minor that the minor has
been taken into custody. The officer, in his or her discretion, may deliver to
a parent thereof a minor whose identity and address may be readily ascertained
or are known; take the minor to the borough police station and advise a parent
to come and take charge of the minor; release the minor to the juvenile
authorities; or make other appropriate arrangements to return the minor to a
parent.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 1, § 107) (Ord. 2-86, passed 7-7-1986)
§ 130.08 CONSTRUCTION.
   Severability is intended throughout and within the provisions of the this
chapter. If any provision or part thereof is held to be invalid, the validity
of this chapter in any and all other respects shall not be affected thereby.
Borough Council does not intend a result that is absurd, impossible of
execution or unreasonable. It is intended that this chapter be held
inapplicable in such cases, if any, where its application would be
unconstitutional. A constitutional construction is intended and shall be given.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 1, § 109) (Ord. 2-86, passed 7-7-1986)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person convicted of violating §§
130.04 or
130.05 shall be sentenced to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $600
plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Any person under the age of 18 years who
fails or refuses to pay such fine and costs shall be subject to further
proceedings under the Juvenile Act, 42 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6301 et seq.
      (2)   The penalties herein provided shall be in addition to any action
filed pursuant to the Juvenile Act, 42 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6301 et seq., before the
Juvenile Court for the treatment, supervision, and rehabilitation of such
minor.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 1, § 108) (Ord. 2-86, passed 7-7-1986; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
CHAPTER 131: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
131.01   Legislative findings
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Prohibited activities
   
131.04   Construction
   
131.05   Exception
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
   It is hereby found by the Borough Council that the consumption of alcoholic
beverages on or in public streets, sidewalks, parks, alleys, or other public
places constitutes a public nuisance and threatens the public health, safety,
and welfare. The purpose of this chapter is to promote public safety and
convenience, prevent accidents, reduce littering, preserve the character of the
borough, and promote the general peace, good order, comfort, and welfare of the
borough inhabitants.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 2, § 201) (Ord. 3-86, passed 9-8-1986)
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Any liquor, spirituous, vinous, or fermented beverage,
or combination of liquors and mixed liquors a part of which is spirituous,
vinous, fermented, or otherwise alcoholic. The term includes any beer, lager
beer, ale, porter, or similar fermented beverage by whatsoever name such
beverage may be called.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Bedford, County of Bedford, Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, with its administrative office at 244 West Penn Street, Bedford,
Pennsylvania.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 2, § 202) (Ord. 3-86, passed 9-8-1986)
§ 131.03 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether inside or outside of a
motor vehicle, to consume an alcoholic beverage or portion thereof on or in any
public street, sidewalk, park, alley, or other public place within the borough.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether inside or outside of a
motor vehicle, to transport, possess, or have physical control over an
alcoholic beverage in an open bottle, can, glass, or other container on or in
any public street, sidewalk, park, alley, or other public place within the
borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 2, § 203) (Ord. 3-86, passed 9-8-1986) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 CONSTRUCTION.
   Severability is intended throughout and within the provisions of this
chapter. If any provision or part thereof is held to be invalid, the validity
of this chapter in any and all other respects shall not be affected hereby. The
borough does not intend a result that is absurd, impossible of execution, or
unreasonable. It is intended that this chapter be held inapplicable in such
cases, if any, where its application would be unconstitutional. A
constitutional construction is intended and shall be given. Specifically, this
chapter does not intend to prohibit the consumption or possession of alcoholic
beverages on any premises licensed by the state’s Liquor Control Board.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 2, § 205) (Ord. 3-86, passed 9-8-1986)
§ 131.05 EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The terms of this chapter shall not apply to a person over the age of
21 years who consumes, possesses, or has physical control over an alcoholic
beverage within the geographical confines of an event, during the authorized
hours of the event, and which was purchased or otherwise lawfully obtained from
the sponsor of the event or a licensee authorized by the sponsor of the event.
   (B)   An EVENT as used in this chapter shall mean an event specifically
approved by a prior duly adopted motion of Borough Council which specifically
includes the following:
      (1)   The name of the sponsor;
      (2)   The geographical confines of the event;
      (3)   The date and times of the event; and
      (4)   Such other conditions or limitations as may be imposed by Borough
Council.
   (C)   Any person asserting the terms of this section as a defense to a
citation issued pursuant to §
130.03 shall have the burden to establish compliance with the terms of this
section.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 3-2-2015)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate §
131.03 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $20 nor more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 2, § 204) (Ord. 3-86, passed 9-8-1986; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
CHAPTER 132: MISDEMEANORS
Section
Discharge of Firearms
   
132.01   Discharge of firearms prohibited
   
132.02   Use of air rifles, bow and arrows, or similar devices restricted
   
132.03   Exceptions
Protection of Public Property
   
132.15   Definition and interpretation
   
132.16   Tampering with public property
   
132.17   Tampering with stakes, posts, and monuments prohibited
   
132.18   Tampering with warning lamps, signs, or barricades prohibited
   
132.19   Removal of material from streets, alleys, or public grounds prohibited
   
132.20   Deposit of harmful substances on public grounds
   
132.21   Exceptions
Conduct Within Designated Areas During Festivals
   
132.35   Intent and purpose
   
132.36   Definitions
   
132.37   Prohibited conduct
   
132.38   Exceptions
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
132.50   Throwing of snowballs, stones, or other missiles
 
   
132.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 93
   Parks and recreation, see
Ch. 94
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 95
DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS
§ 132.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   Except in necessary defense of person and property and except as provided in
§
132.03, it shall be unlawful for any person to use, fire, or discharge any gun
or other firearm within the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 3, § 301) (Ord. 322, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 USE OF AIR RIFLES, BOW AND ARROWS, OR SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any air rifle, air pistol,
spring gun, BB gun, bow and arrow, or any similar device, or any implement that
is not a firearm but which impels a pellet of any kind with a force that can be
reasonably expected to cause bodily harm, at any place within the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 3, § 302) (Ord. 322, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any law enforcement officers when used in
the discharge of their official duties.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 3, § 303) (Ord. 322, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
PROTECTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY
§ 132.15 DEFINITION AND INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association,
firm, or other legal entity. The singular shall include the plural; the plural
shall include the singular; and the masculine shall include the feminine and
the neuter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 5, § 501) (Ord. 324, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
§ 132.16 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall destroy, injure, tamper with, or deface any public property
of the borough, or any grass, walk, lamp, ornamental work, building, or street
light on or in any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds in the
borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 5, § 502) (Ord. 324, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.17 TAMPERING WITH STAKES, POSTS, AND MONUMENTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall in any manner interfere or meddle with, or pull, drive,
change, alter, or destroy any stake, post, monument, or other marking, made,
placed, or set, or hereafter made, placed, or set, or caused to be done by the
authorities of the borough, to evidence the location, elevation, line, grade,
corner, or angle of any public street, alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter, drain or
other public work, or thing.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 5, § 503) (Ord. 324, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.18 TAMPERING WITH WARNING LAMPS, SIGNS, OR BARRICADES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall destroy, remove, deface, obliterate, or cover up any lamp,
sign, or barricade erected as a warning of danger by the authorities of the
borough or by any person doing work by permission of the authorities of the
borough on any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or bridges in the borough or
on any public grounds of the borough, within or without the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 5, § 504) (Ord. 324, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.19 REMOVAL OF MATERIAL FROM STREETS, ALLEYS, OR PUBLIC GROUNDS
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall take any earth, stone, or other material, excepting litter,
from any street, avenue, or public ground in the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 5, § 505) (Ord. 324, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.20 DEPOSIT OF HARMFUL SUBSTANCES ON PUBLIC GROUNDS.
   No person shall pour, throw, or deposit any harmful or destructive substance
or matter on any street, alley, sidewalk, or public grounds in the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 5, § 506) (Ord. 324, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.21 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to normal activities in connection with
construction, maintenance, and repair of streets, alleys, sidewalks, and public
grounds and the structures and fixtures located thereon or therein, or to
incidental results of work done thereon or therein upon permit from or by
authority of the borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 5, § 507) (Ord. 324, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
CONDUCT WITHIN DESIGNATED AREAS DURING FESTIVALS
§ 132.35 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The Council of the borough, finding that certain conduct on public streets,
alleys, sidewalks, or parks during periods of festivals is detrimental to the
physical, mental, and social well-being of the people as well as to their
comfort, general welfare, and safety, hereby provides for greater control and
more effective regulation of such conduct during festivals or special events.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 6, § 601) (Ord. 2-98, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 132.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMALS. Any domestic animal or fowl, any wild animal, or any household pet.
This term, however, shall not include a guide dog used by a visually impaired
person or a dog used to assist any other physically handicapped person.
   DESIGNATED AREA. The location or area of a festival, as approved by Borough
Council, which may include public streets, alleys, ways, parks, or sidewalks.
This term shall also include other public property such as county or school
buildings, lands or facilities, and private properties; provided, that the
appropriate public entity or private owner has authorized its use by the
festival.
   FESTIVALS. Any event involving the congregating of people on the public
streets, alleys, ways, parks, or sidewalks for a common purpose specifically
including, but not limited to, the Fall Foliage Festival; provided that the
date and location of such event is approved by prior action of Borough Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 6, § 602) (Ord. 2-98, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 132.37 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any of the following in the
designated area during a festival:
   (A)   Possess, carry, or control any animal or permit any animal to run at
large;
   (B)   Use any bicycle, moped, or other pedalcycle; and/or
   (C)   Use any skateboard, roller blades, roller skates, or similar items.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 6, § 603) (Ord. 2-98, passed 6-1-1998) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.38 EXCEPTIONS.
   The activities described in §
132.37 shall not be deemed to be unlawful if done by a person having specific
authorization from the Borough Council or the approved sponsor of the festival.
Any person claiming such an exception shall have the burden of proving such
specific authorization.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 6, § 604) (Ord. 2-98, passed 6-1-1998)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 132.50 THROWING OF SNOWBALLS, STONES, OR OTHER MISSILES.
   The throwing, kicking, or knocking of any snowballs, stones, or any other
missile upon or into any of the public streets, alleys, or sidewalks in the
borough is hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 4, § 401) (Ord. 323, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
132.01 to
132.03 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $20 nor more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of §§
132.01 to
132.03 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 3, § 304)
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
132.15 to
132.21 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $20 nor more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of §§
132.15 to
132.21 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 5, § 508)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
132.35 to
132.38 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of $15 for a
first offense.
      (2)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
132.35 to
132.38 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of $50 for a
second or subsequent offense.
      (3)   Any person who shall fail to immediately cease any conduct declared
unlawful by §§
132.35 to
132.38 after verbal or written warning from any police officer, member of
Borough Council, representative of the festival sponsor, or private security
officer shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not to
exceed $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 6, § 605)
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §
132.50 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $20 nor more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, Ch. 6, Pt. 4, § 402)
(Ord. 322, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 323, passed 6-4-1973; Ord. 324, passed 6-4-
1973; Ord. 2-98, passed 6-1- 1998; Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING AND SIGN REGULATIONS
      
151.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
152.   FLOOD PREVENTION
      
153.   SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING AND SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Codes adopted
   
150.02   Administration and enforcement
   
150.03   Board of Appeals
   
150.04   Prior codes still active
   
150.05   Fees for administration
Dangerous Structures and Buildings
   
150.20   Definitions
   
150.21   Dangerous buildings declared nuisances
   
150.22   Standards for repair, vacation, or demolition
   
150.23   Duties of the authorized representative of the borough
   
150.24   Hearings
   
150.25   Removal of notice prohibited
   
150.26   Emergency cases
   
150.27   Abatement by borough
Signs and Billboards
   
150.40   Definitions
   
150.41   Application
   
150.42   Computations
   
150.43   Illumination
   
150.44   Permits required
   
150.45   Design, construction, and maintenance
   
150.46   Signs in the public right-of-way
   
150.47   Signs exempt from regulation
   
150.48   Signs prohibited
   
150.49   General permit procedures for a permanent sign
   
150.50   Temporary sign permits
   
150.51   Portable sign permits
   
150.52   Time of compliance; nonconforming signs
   
150.53   Unsafe signs; notice to repair, reconstruct, or remove
   
150.54   Borough authorized to do work
   
150.55   Inspection of signs
   
150.56   Insurance
   
150.57   Violations
   
150.58   Permitted signs by type and zoning district
   
150.59   Maximum total sign area per lot by zoning district
   
150.60   Number, dimensions, and location of individual signs by zoning
district
   
150.61   Permitted sign characteristics by zoning district
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The municipality hereby elects to administer and enforce the
provisions of the state’s Construction Code Act, Act 45 of 1999, 35 P.S. §§
7210.101 to 7210.1103, as amended from time to time, and its regulations.
   (B)   The Uniform Construction Code, contained in 34 Pa. Code, Chapters 401
to 405, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated herein
by reference as the Municipal Building Code.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 150.02 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Administration and enforcement of the Code within this municipality
shall be undertaken by ordinance of this municipality under the
Intergovernmental Cooperation Act and agreement with various participating
municipalities in the county for the joint administration and enforcement of
this Act through an intermunicipal agreement.
   (B)   (1)   The borough hereby appoints Pennsylvania Municipal Code
Alliance, Inc. as the third party agency responsible for the administration and
enforcement of the Uniform Construction Code, as adopted and as may be amended
by the ordinances of this municipality, and to serve as the Building Code
Official in the borough.
      (2)   Any fees charged for building permits or for other services related
to the administration and enforcement of the Uniform Construction Code shall be
in accordance with a schedule of fees established by Pennsylvania Municipal
Code Alliance, Inc. from time to time and provided to the borough.
      (3)   The borough may request, from time to time, that Pennsylvania
Municipal Code Alliance, Inc. provide other services to the borough.
      (4)   Pennsylvania Municipal Code Alliance, Inc., shall at all times when
providing services to the borough, maintain a valid certification with the
state’s Department of Labor and maintain error and omissions insurance in an
amount of at least $1,000,000.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 6-7-2004; Res. 04-2015, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 150.03 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   A Board of Appeals shall be established by action of the various
participating municipalities in the county for the joint administration and
enforcement of this Act through an intermunicipal agreement, including this
municipality, in conformity with the requirements of the relevant provisions of
the Code, as amended from time to time, and for the purposes set forth herein.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 150.04 PRIOR CODES STILL ACTIVE.
   (A)   All building code ordinances or portions of ordinances which were
adopted by this municipality on or before July 1, 1999, and which equal or
exceed the requirements of the Code shall continue in full force and effect
until such time as such provisions fail to equal or exceed the minimum
requirements of the Code, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   All Building Code ordinances or portions of ordinances which are in
effect as of the effective date of this subchapter and whose requirements are
less than the minimum requirements of the Code are hereby amended to conform
with the comparable provisions of the Code.
   (C)   All relevant ordinances, regulations, and policies of this
municipality not governed by the Code shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 150.05 FEES FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   Fees assessable for the administration and enforcement undertaken pursuant
to this subchapter and the Code shall be established by ordinance, if required
by law, and/or resolution by the various participating municipalities in the
county for the joint administration and enforcement of this Act through an
intermunicipal agreement, including this municipality, and amended from time to
time thereafter, as needed by subsequent ordinance or resolution.
(Ord. 01-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
DANGEROUS STRUCTURES AND BUILDINGS
§ 150.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. An independent structure having a roof supported by columns or
walls resting on its own foundation and includes dwelling, garage, barn,
stable, shed, greenhouse, mobile home, plant, factory, warehouse, school, or
similar structure.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. All buildings or structures which have any or all of the
following defects shall be deemed dangerous buildings:
      (1)   Those whose interior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity falls outside of the middle third of its base;
      (2)   Those which, exclusive of the foundation, show damage or
deterioration to 33% of the supporting member or members, or damage or
deterioration to 50% of the nonsupporting enclosing or outside walls or
covering;
      (3)   Those which have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or
roofs or in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength
to be reasonably safe for the purpose used;
      (4)   Those which have been damaged by fire, wind, or other causes so as
to be dangerous to life, safety, or the general health and welfare of the
occupants or the public;
      (5)   Those which are so damaged, dilapidated, unsafe, unsanitary, vermin
infested, or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to decent
living that they are unfit for human habitation, or are likely to cause
sickness or disease so as to work injury to the health, safety, or general
welfare of the occupants or the public;
      (6)   Those which have parts thereof which are so attached that they may
fall and work injury to the health, safety, or general welfare of the occupants
or the public, or cause damage to the public’s property;
      (7)   Those which lack illumination, ventilation, or sanitation
facilities or because of another condition are unsafe, unsanitary, or dangerous
to the health, safety, or general welfare of the occupants or the public;
      (8)   Those which, because of their location, are unsanitary or otherwise
dangerous to the health, safety, or general welfare of the occupants or the
public; and/or
      (9)   Those existing in violation of any provision of the codes or other
ordinances of the borough.
   DWELLING.
      (1)   Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants.
      (2)   Whenever the words DWELLING, DWELLING UNIT, or PREMISES are used in
this subchapter, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the
words “or any part thereof.”
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living or sleeping by human occupants.
   EXTERMINATION. Control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other pests
by eliminating their harborage places, removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food, poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping, or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   INFESTATION. Presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects, rodents,
or other pests.
   OWNER. Person who, alone or jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have legal title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; and
      (2)   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, as owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator,
administratrix, or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any such person thus
representing the actual OWNER shall be bound to comply with the provisions of
this subchapter and with rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the
same extent as if he or she were the OWNER.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association, or partnership or
other legal entity.
   PROPERTY. A piece, parcel, lot, or tract of land.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage,
including residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, and other combustible
material, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree
branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass, crockery,
and dust.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed or ascertainable
location on the ground or in water, whether or not affixed to the ground or
anchored in the water, including buildings, walls, fences, platforms, docks,
wharves, billboards, signs, and walks.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Pt. 1, § 101) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 150.21 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS DECLARED NUISANCES.
   All dangerous buildings within the terms of §
150.20 are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be repaired,
vacated, or demolished as herein provided.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Pt. 1, § 102) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 150.22 STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION, OR DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed in substance by the authorized
representative of the borough in ordering repair, vacation, or demolition.
   (A)   If the dangerous building can reasonably be repaired so that it will
no longer exist in violation of the terms of this subchapter, it shall be
ordered to be repaired.
   (B)   If the dangerous building is in such condition as to make it dangerous
to the health, safety, or general welfare of its occupants or the public, and
is so placarded, it shall be ordered to be vacated within such length of time,
not exceeding 30 days, as is reasonable.
   (C)   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been placarded as unfit for
human habitation shall again be used for human habitation until written
approval is secured from, and such placard is removed by, the authorized
representative of the borough. The authorized representative shall remove such
placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the placarding action were
based have been eliminated.
   (D)   If a dangerous building is 50% or more damaged or decayed or
deteriorated from its original condition; if a dangerous building cannot be
repaired so that it will no longer exist in violation of the terms of this
subchapter; or if a dangerous building is a fire hazard existing or erected in
violation of the terms of this subchapter or any ordinance of the borough or
statute of the state, it shall be ordered to be demolished; provided, the cost
of repairs to rectify or remove the conditions constituting the nuisance exceed
50% of the market value of the building at the time demolition is proposed.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Pt. 1, § 103) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 150.23 DUTIES OF THE AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE BOROUGH.
   (A)   The authorized representative of the borough shall inspect, on a
regular basis, dwellings, buildings, and structures to determine whether any
conditions exist which render such premises dangerous buildings within the
terms of §
150.20.
   (B)   Whenever an inspection discloses that a dwelling, building, or
structure has become a public nuisance, the authorized representative of the
borough shall issue a written notice to the person or persons responsible
therefor. The notice:
      (1)   Shall be in writing;
      (2)   Shall include a statement of the reasons it is being issued;
      (3)   Shall state a reasonable time to rectify the conditions
constituting the nuisance or to remove and demolish the dwelling, building, or
structure;
      (4)   Shall be served upon the owner or his or her agent, or the
occupant, as the case may require.
         (a)   Except in emergency cases and where the owner, occupant, lessee,
or mortgagee is absent from the borough, all notices shall be deemed to be
properly served upon the owner, occupant, or other person having an interest in
the dangerous building, if a copy thereof is served upon him or her personally
or if a copy thereof is posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure
affected by the notice; or if he or she is served with such notice by any other
method authorized or required under the laws of the state.
         (b)   Except emergency cases, in all other cases where the owner,
occupant, lessee, or mortgagee is absent from the borough, all notices or
orders provided for herein shall be sent by registered mail to the owner,
occupant, and all other persons having an interest in said building, as shown
by the records of the County Recorder of Deeds, to the last known address of
each, and a copy of such notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
dangerous building to which it relates. Such mailing and posting shall be
deemed adequate service.
      (5)   May contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will
effect compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and with the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   (C)   Appear at all hearings conducted by the Borough Council and testify as
to the condition of dangerous buildings.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Pt. 1, § 104) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 150.24 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection
with the enforcement of any provision of this subchapter, may request and shall
be granted a hearing on the matter before the Borough Council; provided, that
such person shall file with the Borough Secretary a written petition requesting
such hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the grounds therefor within
ten days after the day the notice was served. Upon receipt of such petition,
the Borough Secretary shall set a time and place for such hearing and shall
give the petitioner written notice thereof. At such hearing the petitioner
shall be given an opportunity to be heard and to show why such notice should be
modified or withdrawn. The hearing shall be commenced not later than 30 days
after the day on which the petition was filed.
   (B)   After such hearing the Borough Council shall sustain, modify, or
withdraw the notice. If the Council sustains or modifies such notice, it shall
be deemed to be an order. Any notice served pursuant to this subchapter shall
automatically become an order if a written petition for a hearing is not filed
with the Borough Secretary within ten days after such notice is served.
   (C)   Any aggrieved party may appeal the final order to the Court of Common
Pleas in accordance with the provisions of the Judicial Code, 42 Pa.C.S.A. §§
101 et seq.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Pt. 1, § 105) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.25 REMOVAL OF NOTICE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall remove or deface the notice of dangerous building, except as
provided in §
150.22(C).
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Pt. 1, § 106) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 150.26 EMERGENCY CASES.
   Whenever the authorized representative of the borough finds that an
emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health,
he or she may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence
of such an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as is necessary to
meet the emergency. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this subchapter,
such order shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such order is
directed shall comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the
authorized representative of the borough shall be afforded a hearing as soon as
possible. After such hearing, depending upon the findings as to whether the
provisions of this subchapter have been complied with, the authorized
representative shall continue such order in effect or modify or revoke it. The
costs of such emergency repair, vacation, or demolition of such dangerous
building shall be collected in the same manner as provided herein for other
cases.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Pt. 1, § 107) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 150.27 ABATEMENT BY BOROUGH.
   If the owner, occupant, mortgagee, or lessee fails to comply with the order
of the authorized representative of the borough within the time specified in
the notice issued by him or her and no petition for a hearing is filed within
ten days thereafter, or following a hearing by the Borough Council where the
order is sustained thereby, the authorized representative of the borough shall
cause such building or structure to be repaired, vacated, or demolished, as
determined by the Borough Council in accordance with the standards hereinbefore
provided. The borough may collect the cost of such repair, vacation, or
demolition together with a penalty of 10% of such cost, in the manner provided
by law, or the borough may seek injunctive relief in a court of competent
jurisdiction pursuant to the Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Pt. 1, § 108) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
§ 150.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign that uses movement or intermittent flashes of light
or change of lighting to depict action or create a special effect or scene.
   BANNER. Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string,
usually in series.
   BEACON. Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or
directed at one or more points not on the same lot as the light source; also,
any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Bedford, Bedford County, Pennsylvania.
   BOROUGH COUNCIL. The Council of the Borough of Bedford; the Sign Committee
of the Borough Council; the Borough Manager; the Zoning Officer; or any other
committee of the Borough Council or any other agent of the Borough Council
authorized by the Borough Council to act on its behalf with regard to the
rights or duties set forth in this subchapter.
   BUILDING MARKER. Any sign indicating the name of a building and date and
incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into a wood or
masonry surface or made of bronze or other permanent material.
   BUILDING SIGN. Any sign attached to any part of a building, as contrasted to
a freestanding sign.
   CANOPY SIGN. Any sign that is a part of or attached to an awning, canopy, or
other fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door, entrance,
window, or outdoor service area. A marquee is not a CANOPY.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters, or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or
the surface of the sign. A sign on which the message changes more than eight
times per day shall be considered an animated sign and not a CHANGEABLE COPY
SIGN for purposes of this subchapter. A sign on which the only copy that
changes is an electronic or mechanical indications of time or temperature shall
be considered a “time and temperature” portion of a sign and not CHANGEABLE
COPY SIGN for purposes of this subchapter.
   COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any message or symbol intended to advertise goods,
wares, or services, and the like.
   DOOR OPENING. Any opening in the exterior wall of a building that enables
physical access, by humans, animals, or objects, to the interior of the
building. A DOOR OPENING may or may not also allow outside light to enter the
interior part of a building.
   FLAG. Any fabric or similar material or bunting containing distinctive
colors, patterns, or characters used as a symbol of a government, a political
subdivision, or other governmental entity. A permit is not required for a FLAG.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign supported by structures or supports that are
placed on, or anchored in, the ground and that are independent from any
building or other structure.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A business of commercial activity administered or conducted
as an accessory use which is clearly secondary to the use as a residential
property. The business or commercial activity must satisfy the following
requirements:
      (1)   Is clearly incidental, accessory, and subordinate to the property’s
residential use;
      (2)   The business activity shall be compatible with the residential use
of the property and surrounding residential uses;
      (3)   The business shall employ no employees other than family members
residing in the dwelling thereon;
      (4)   There shall be no display or sale of retail goods and no
stockpiling or inventory of a substantial nature;
      (5)   There shall be no outside appearance of a business use, including,
but not limited to, parking;
      (6)   Creates no greater traffic volumes or parking demands than would
normally be expected in its neighborhood in the borough;
      (7)   The business activity may not use any equipment or process which
creates noise, vibrations, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical or electronic
interference, including interference with radio or television reception, which
is detectable in the neighborhood;
      (8)   The business activity may not generate any solid waste or sewage
discharge, in volume or type, which is not normally associated with residential
use in the neighborhood;
      (9)   Is not a nursery school, dancing school, exercise or health center,
day care center, funeral homes, mortuary, eating or drinking establishment,
animal kennel, animal hospital, veterinarian office, boarding house, medical or
dental clinic, transportation vehicle repair or rental facility, theater, or
other commercial recreation facility; and
      (10)   The business may not involve any illegal activity.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose
secondary to the use of the lot on which it is located, such as “no parking,”
“entrance,” “loading zone,” “telephone,” and other similar directives. No sign
with a commercial message legible from a position off the lot on which the sign
is located shall be considered INCIDENTAL.
   MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or
extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building, generally
designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
   MARQUEE SIGN. Any sign attached to, in any manner, or made a part of a
marquee.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign that does not conform to the requirements of
this subchapter.
   PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, or flag of any institution or business, which
is fastened to a pole that is attached to a building. Government, political
subdivision, or other governmental entity flags shall not be considered
PENNANTS and shall not require permitting.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs
converted to A or T-frames; menu and sandwich board signs; and signs attached
to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way,
unless said vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day operations of the
business.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. The building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is located. Storage buildings, garages, and other clearly
accessory uses shall not be considered PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign affixed to a building or wall in such a manner
that its leading edge extends more than six inches beyond the surface of such
building or wall.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected and constructed as an integral or essentially
integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, such that no part of
the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof and such that
no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a space of more
than six inches.
   SETBACK. The distance from the property line to the nearest part of the
applicable building, structure, or sign, measured perpendicularly to the
property line.
   SUSPENDED SIGN. A sign that is suspended from the underside of a horizontal
plane surface and is supported by such surface; also referred to as SHINGLE-
TYPE SIGN.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign that is used only temporarily and is not
permanently mounted.
   WALL SIGN. Any sign attached parallel to, but within six inches of, a wall,
painted on the wall surface of, or erected and confined within the limits of an
outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by such wall or
building, and which displays only one sign surface.
   WINDOW OPENING. Any opening in the exterior wall of a building or a door
that allows outside light to enter the interior part of a building or any
exterior wall of a building made of a transparent material.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any sign, pictures, symbol, or combination thereof, designed to
communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale, or
service, that is placed inside a window or upon the window panes, or glass, and
is visible from the exterior of the window.
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004; Ord. 2014-01, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 150.41 APPLICATION.
   (A)   A sign may be erected, placed, established, painted, created, or
maintained in the borough only in conformance with the standards, procedures,
exemptions, and other requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   The effect of this subchapter as more specifically set forth herein,
is:
      (1)   To establish a permit system to allow a variety of types of signs
in commercial and residential zones, subject to the standards and the permit
procedures of this subchapter;
      (2)   To allow certain signs that are small, unobtrusive, and incidental
to the principal use of the respective lots on which they are located, subject
to the substantive requirements of this subchapter but without a requirement
for permits;
      (3)   To prohibit all signs not expressly permitted by this subchapter;
and
      (4)   To provide for the enforcement of the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Signs located with a Historic District shall also be subject to the
provisions of §
154.098(E)(4).
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 150.42 COMPUTATIONS.
   The following principles shall control the computation of sign area and sign
height.
   (A)   Computation of area of individual sign. The area of a sign face (which
is also the sign area of a wall sign or other sign with only one face) shall be
computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle, or
combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing,
representation, emblem, or other display, together with any material or color
forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop of the structure against which it is
placed, but not including any supporting framework, bracing, or decorative
fence or wall when such fence or wall otherwise meets the zoning part
regulations and is clearly incidental to the display itself.
   (B)   Computation of area of multi-faced signs. The sign area for a sign
with more than one face shall be computed by adding together the area of all
sign faces visible from any one point. When two identical sign faces are placed
back-to-back, so that both faces cannot be viewed from any point at the same
time, and when such sign faces are part of the same sign structure and are not
more than 42 inches apart, the sign area shall be computed by the measurement
of one of the faces.
   (C)   Computation of height. The height of a sign shall be computed as the
distance from the base of the sign, including any supporting structure, at
normal grade to the top of the highest attached component of the sign. Normal
grade shall be construed to be the lower of existing grade prior to
construction or the newly established grade after construction, exclusive of
any filing, berming, mounding, or excavating solely for the purpose of locating
the sign. In cases in which the normal grade cannot reasonably be determined,
sign height shall be computed on the assumption that the elevation of the
normal grade at the base of the sign is equal to the elevation of the nearest
point of the crown of a public street or the grade of the land at the principal
entrance to the principal structure on the lot, whichever is lower.
   (D)   Computation of maximum total permitted sign area per lot. The
permitted sum of the area of all individual signs per lot shall be computed by
applying the formula contained in §
150.59 to the lot frontage, building frontage, or wall area, as appropriate,
for the zoning district in which the lot is located. Lots fronting on two or
more streets are allowed the permitted sign area for each street frontage.
However, the total sign area that is oriented toward a particular street may
not exceed the portion of the lot’s total sign area allocation that is derived
from the lot, building, or wall area frontage on that street.
   (E)   Signs allowed on private property with and without permits. Signs
shall be allowed on private property in the borough in accordance with, and
only in accordance with, §
150.58. If the letter “A” appears for a sign type in a column, such sign is
allowed without prior permit approval in the zoning districts represented by
that column. If the letter “S” appears for a sign type in a column, such sign
is allowed only with prior permit approval in the zoning districts represented
by that column. Special conditions may apply in some cases. If the letter “N”
appears for sign type in a column, such a sign is not allowed in the zoning
districts represented by that column under any circumstances. A sign designated
by an “S” or an “A” in §
150.58 shall be allowed only if:
      (1)   The sum of the area of all building and freestanding signs on the
lot conforms with the maximum permitted sign area as determined by the formula
for the zoning district in which the lot is located as specified in §
150.59;
      (2)   The size, location, and number of signs on the lot conform to the
requirements of Tables C and D, which establish permitted sign dimensions by
sign type, and with any additional limitations listed in §
150.58; and
      (3)   The characteristics of the sign conform to the limitations of Table
D, Permitted Sign Characteristics, and with any additional limitations on
characteristics listed in §
150.58.
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 150.43 ILLUMINATION.
   (A)   Illuminated signs shall be designed and placed so as not to interfere
with, distract, or blind operators of motor vehicles or to create glare on
adjacent properties.
   (B)   Signs may be illuminated either directly or indirectly in accordance
with the regulations for the Zoning District in which they are located.
      (1)   Directly illuminated sign. A sign designed to give forth artificial
light directly (or through a transparent or artificial material) from a source
of light internal to the sign, including exposed lamp signs.
      (2)   Indirectly illuminated sign. A sign with a light or lights external
to the sign, such that the light shines on or illuminates the sign and in such
way that no direct rays therefrom are visible elsewhere on the property.
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 150.44 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   If a sign requiring a permit under the provisions of this subchapter
is to be placed, constructed, erected, or modified on a lot, the owner of the
lot shall secure a sign permit prior to the construction, placement, erection,
or modification of a sign in accordance with the requirements of §
150.49(E).
   (B)   No signs shall be erected in the public right-of-way except in
accordance with §
150.46.
   (C)   No sign permit of any kind shall be issued for an existing or proposed
sign unless such sign is consistent with the requirements of this subchapter
(including those protecting existing signs).
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 150.45 DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, AND MAINTENANCE.
   All signs shall be designed, constructed, and maintained in accordance with
the following standards.
Except for flags, pennants, temporary signs, and window signs conforming in all
respects with the requirements of this subchapter, all signs shall be
constructed of permanent materials and shall be permanently attached to the
ground, building, or another structure by direct attachment to a rigid wall,
frame, or structure.
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 150.46 SIGNS IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No signs shall be allowed in the public right-of-way, except for the
following.
   (A)   Permanent signs. Permanent signs, including:
      (1)   Public signs erected by or on behalf of a governmental body to post
legal notices, identify public property, convey public information, and direct
or regulate pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
      (2)   Informational signs of a public utility regarding its poles, lines,
pipes, or facilities; and
      (3)   Awning, projecting, and suspended signs projecting over a public
right-of-way in conformity with the conditions of §
150.58.
   (B)   Temporary freestanding signs. Signs for special events, only as
specifically approved by Borough Council.
   (C)   Emergency signs. Emergency warning signs erected by a governmental
agency, a public utility company, or a contractor doing authorized or permitted
work within a public right-of-way.
   (D)   Flags.
      (1)   However, any flag attached to the side of a building or structure
and overhanging any public sidewalk or walkway shall be secured in a holder
with the bottom of said flag situated at least six and one-half feet above the
ground/sidewalk surface and positioned so as to not obstruct the view of any
vehicle operator.
      (2)   However, any flag attached to the side of a building or structure
and overhanging a roadway shall be secured in a holder with the bottom of said
flag and/or holder situated at least 14 feet above the roadway surface.
   (E)   Other signs forfeited. Any sign installed or placed on public
property, except in conformance with the requirements of this section, shall be
forfeited to the public and subject to confiscation. In addition to other
remedies hereunder, the borough shall have the right to recover from the owner
or person placing such a sign the full costs of removal and disposal of such
sign.
   (F)   Portable signs.
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004; Ord. 2014-01, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 150.47 SIGNS EXEMPT FROM REGULATION.
   The following signs shall be exempt from regulation under this subchapter.
   (A)   Flags.
      (1)    Excepting that any flag attached to the side of a building or
structure and overhanging any public sidewalk or walkway shall be secured in a
holder with the bottom of said flag situated at least six and one-half feet
above the ground/sidewalk surface and positioned so as to not obstruct the view
of any vehicle operator.
      (2)   Excepting that any flag attached to the side of a building or
structure and overhanging a roadway shall be secured in a holder with the
bottom of said flag and/or holder situated at least 14 feet above the roadway
surface.
   (B)   Warning signs. Any public notice or warning required by a valid and
applicable federal, state, or local law, regulation, or ordinance.
   (C)   Signs inside buildings. Any sign inside a building, not attached to a
window, window frame, window opening, door, door frame, or door opening, which
is not legible from a distance of more than ten feet beyond the lot line of the
lot or parcel on which such sign is located.
   (D)   Art. Works of art that do not include a commercial message.
   (E)   Decorations. Holiday lights and decorations with no commercial
message.
   (F)   Traffic signs. Traffic control signs on private property, such as
stop, yield, and similar signs, the face of which meets Department of
Transportation standards and which contain no commercial message of any sort.
   (G)   Campaign/political signs.
      (1)   Excepting that campaign/political signs shall be erected only on
private property (behind the sidewalk, ten feet behind the curb or edge of
roadway).
      (2)   Shall not create a traffic hazard by obstructing the visibility of
a vehicle operator or a pedestrian.
      (3)   Shall be removed within 72 hours following the closing of the polls
for both the primary and national elections.
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 150.48 SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All signs not expressly permitted under this subchapter or exempt from
regulation hereunder in accordance with the previous section are prohibited in
the borough.
   (B)   Such signs include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Beacons;
      (2)   Animated signs;
      (3)   Strings of lights not permanently mounted to a rigid background,
except those exempted under the previous section;
      (4)   Inflatable signs and tethered balloons; and
      (5)   Window signs that obstruct any portion of the window opening or
door opening, except signs made of paper, cardboard, or vinyl letter/appliques
that are affixed to the interior surface of the window glass or signs painted
directly on windows.
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004; Ord. 2014-01, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 150.49 GENERAL PERMIT PROCEDURES FOR A PERMANENT SIGN.
   The following procedures shall govern the application for, and issuance of,
all permanent sign permits under this subchapter.
   (A)   Applications. All applications for permanent sign permits of any kind
shall be submitted to the Zoning Officer on an application form or in
accordance with application specifications published by the borough.
   (B)   Fees. Each application for a permanent sign permit shall be
accompanied by the applicable fees, which shall be established by the governing
body of the borough from time to time by resolution.
   (C)   Completeness. Within seven days of receiving an application for a
permanent sign permit, the Zoning Officer shall review it for completeness. If
the Zoning Officer finds that it is complete, the application shall then be
processed. If the Zoning Officer finds that it is incomplete, the Zoning
Officer shall, within such seven-day period, send to the applicant a notice of
the specific ways in which the application is deficient, with appropriate
references to the applicable sections of this subchapter.
   (D)   Action. Within seven days of the submission of a complete application
for a permanent sign permit, the Zoning Officer shall either:
      (1)   Forward the complete application to the Historical Architectural
Review Board (HARB) for review for compliance with applicable provisions of §
154.098(E)(4) at the HARB’s next regularly scheduled meeting, if the property
is located in the Historic District;
      (2)   Issue the permanent sign permit, if the sign(s) that is the subject
of the application conforms in every respect with the requirements of this
subchapter; or
      (3)   Reject the permanent sign permit if the sign(s) that is the subject
of the application fails in any way to conform to the requirements of this
subchapter. In case of a rejection, the Zoning Officer shall specify in the
rejection the section or sections of the subchapter or applicable plan with
which the sign(s) is inconsistent.
   (E)   (1)   Permit to construct or modify permanent signs. Signs identified
as “S” on §
150.58 shall be erected, installed, or created only in accordance with a duly
issued and valid sign construction permit from the Zoning Officer. Such permits
shall be issued only in accordance with the following requirements and
procedures.
      (2)   Permit for new permanent sign or permanent sign modification. An
application for construction, creation, or installation of a new permanent sign
or for modification of an existing permanent sign shall be accompanied by
detailed drawings to show the dimensions, design, structure, and location of
each particular sign. One application and permit may include multiple signs on
the same lot.
   (F)   Lapse of sign permanent permit. A sign permit shall lapse if the
business activity on the premises is discontinued for a period of 180 days or
more.
   (G)   Assignment of permanent sign permits. A current and valid permanent
sign permit shall be freely assignable to a successor as owner of the property.
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 150.50 TEMPORARY SIGN PERMITS.
   Temporary signs, which shall include any or all types of poster, placard,
bill, sticker, banner, pennant, or other advertising device for any person,
firm, for-profit corporation, community organization, church, nonprofit
corporation, charitable organization or institution, shall be allowed only upon
the issuance of a temporary sign permit, which shall be subject to the
following requirements.
   (A)   In the case of all the above types of temporary signs, excepting those
commonly termed “yard sale,” application is made at least seven days in advance
of proposed erection and permission is granted by Borough Council Sign
Committee.
      (1)   Application. The application shall show the number, plans, and
specifications, including dimensions, material, details of construction, and
the erection site(s) of the proposed sign(s).
         (a)   A pennant attached to the side of a building or structure and
overhanging any public sidewalk or walkway shall be secured in a holder with
the bottom of said pennant situated at least six and one-half feet above the
ground/sidewalk surface and positioned so as to not obstruct the view of any
vehicle operator.
         (b)   A pennant attached to the side of a building or structure and
overhanging a roadway shall be secured in a holder with the bottom of said
pennant and/or holder situated at least 14 feet above the roadway surface.
      (2)   Maximum sign size.
         (a)   Community organization, church, nonprofit corporation,
charitable organization or institution: as determined by Borough Council Sign
Committee.
         (b)   All other entities: 25 square feet in aggregated area.
         (c)   Pennants: 15 square feet per side.
      (3)   Maximum time allotted for display.
         (a)   Community organization, church, nonprofit corporation,
charitable organization or institution: 60 days.
         (b)   All other entities: 30 days.
         (c)   Informational pennants: displayed only during business hours.
      (4)   Reapplication. Minimum elapsed time between reapplication for
permission to erect signs.
         (a)   Community organization, church, nonprofit corporation,
charitable organization or institution: 60 days.
         (b)   All other entities: 180 days.
      (5)   Insurance. No permit to erect or maintain any temporary sign shall
be issued to a person, firm, corporation, or institution until the owner of the
sign shall certify on the permit application that the said owner will obtain
and will continue to maintain a policy of public liability insurance, which
policy shall be in the minimum limits of $100,000 for bodily injury to one
person or $300,000 for bodily injury to more than one person and to the extent
to $50,000 for damage to personal property resulting from the negligent
construction, erection, or maintenance of any such sign for the period of time
that the sign is erected.
      (6)   Permit fee deposit. A $10 fee deposit shall be included with the
application. The deposit shall be returned to the applicant if the application
is rejected or if the application is approved and the sign(s) are removed by
the applicant on or before the expiration date of the permit.
   (B)   In the case of the type of signs commonly termed “yard sale,”
application is made to and permission is granted by the Zoning Officer or his
or her designee.
      (1)   The application shall show the number, dimensions, material, and
erection site(s) of the proposed sign(s). Signs must be erected on private
property (behind the sidewalk, ten feet behind the curb or edge of roadway).
      (2)   Maximum sign size: four square feet per sign.
      (3)   Maximum time allotted for display: three days.
      (4)   Maximum number of signs: four.
      (5)   A $10 per sign fee deposit shall be included with the application.
The deposit shall be returned to the applicant if the application is rejected
or if the application is approved and the sign(s) are legally erected and then
removed by the applicant on or before the expiration date of the permit.
   (C)   A temporary sign shall be allowed only in districts with a letter “S”
for “Temporary Signs” in §
150.58 and subject to all of the requirements for temporary signs as noted
herein.
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 150.51 PORTABLE SIGN PERMITS.
   Portable signs shall be allowed only upon the issuance of a portable sign
permit, which shall be subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   Portable sign permits are required for portable signs existing at the
time of adoption of this section, and any future portable signs.
   (B)   Portable signs are those which meet the definition in §
150.20.
   (C)   Portable signs shall not stand more than 40 inches off the ground or
sidewalk, shall not have a width greater than 24 inches, shall have wood or
simulated wood grain frame, and shall be secured or weighted to prevent
accidental falling onto or into public walkways.
   (D)   Portable signs shall not have illumination or electrical parts, nor
shall they have other attachments to them such as balloons, flags, banners, or
other similar attachments.
   (E)   Portable signs shall be placed on the building side of a public
sidewalk and allow a minimum of six feet between the sign and the curb, and
shall be placed in such a way as not to be an obstacle to passing pedestrians.
   (F)   Portable signs shall only contain content related to the business in
the building which it adjoins.
   (G)   No business shall have more than one portable sign, except a business
located on a corner that has an entrance on each adjoining street may place a
sign near the entrance fronting each street.
   (H)   Portable signs must have Borough Manager or Borough Sign Committee
approval.
   (I)   Portable signs shall be displayed only during business hours and shall
be moved from public view during non-business hours.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 150.52 TIME OF COMPLIANCE; NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the owner of any lot or other premises
on which exists a sign that does not conform to the requirements of this
subchapter shall be obligated to remove such sign or bring it into conformity
with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   Nonconforming existing signs, permits, and terms.
      (1)   A sign that would be permitted under this subchapter only with a
sign permit, but which was in existence on December 6, 2004, and which was
constructed in accordance with the parts and other applicable laws in effect on
the date of its construction, but which by reason of its size, height,
location, design, or construction is not in conformance with the requirements
of this subchapter shall be issued a nonconforming sign permit. Such permit
shall allow the sign(s) subject to such permit, which were made nonconforming
by the adoption of this subchapter, to remain in place and be maintained,
provided that no action is taken which increases the degree or extent of the
nonconformity.
      (2)   Such signs are also subject to the provisions of §
150.56(A). However, any nonconforming sign shall:
         (a)   Either be eliminated or made to conform to the requirements of
this subchapter when any proposed change, repair, or maintenance would
constitute an expense of more than 25% of the lesser of the original value or
replacement value of the sign; and
         (b)   Either be eliminated or made to conform to the requirements of
this subchapter when any of the provisions of §
150.55 apply.
   (B)   Lapse of nonconforming sign permit. A nonconforming sign permit shall
lapse and become void under the same circumstances as those under which any
other sign permit may lapse and become void.
   (C)   Sign removal required. A sign that was constructed, painted,
installed, or maintained in conformance with a permit under this subchapter but
for which the permit has lapsed or not been renewed, or for which the time
allowed for the continuance of a nonconforming sign has expired, shall be
forthwith removed without notice or action from the borough.
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 150.53 UNSAFE SIGNS; NOTICE TO REPAIR, RECONSTRUCT, OR REMOVE.
   (A)   Borough Council shall give written notice to repair, reconstruct, or
remove a defective sign to the owner of the sign and the owner of the property
by certified mail, personal service, or as otherwise provided by law. Except as
provided in division (B) below, the owner of the sign and/or the owner of the
property shall have ten days to comply with the notice.
   (B)   Where, in the opinion of Borough Council, a dangerous condition is
certified to exist, that can be repaired by an expenditure of $250 or less,
Borough Council shall notify the owner of the sign and the owner of the
property to make the repairs within 48 hours. Such notice shall be served on
the owner of the sign and the owner of the property personally or by certified
mail. If the owner of the sign and the owner of the property cannot be served
within the county, notice may be served on the agent(s) of the owner of the
sign or the owner of the property or the party in possession of the property
or, if there is no agent or party in possession, the notice may be served by
posting the same upon the premises. If the condition is not remedied within 48
hours, Borough Council shall cause the sign to be removed with the actual cost
to be collected from the owner of the sign or the owner of the property by
municipal claim or civil action. The certification of the Borough Council shall
be conclusive evidence of the existence of the emergency justifying the
removal.
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 150.54 BOROUGH AUTHORIZED TO DO WORK.
   Upon failure of the owner of the sign or owner of the property to comply
with any notice given pursuant to this subchapter, Borough Council shall have
the right to do the work or cause the work to be done at the cost of the owner
of the sign or the owner of the property, and may collect the cost thereof and
10% additional together with all charges and expenses and file a municipal
claim therefor or collect the same by civil action.
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 150.55 INSPECTION OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Borough Council may, at its discretion, inspect any sign within the
borough as part of a periodic inspection or at the request of any person.
   (B)   (1)   Borough Council shall be notified of any transfer of title in
property, change in use at any property upon which a sign has been erected,
change in ownership of any business or refinancing of a mortgage or business
loan within the borough.
      (2)   Upon receipt of such notice, Borough Council shall cause the
property and any existing signs to be inspected and either issue a written
certification of compliance with the terms of this subchapter or issue a notice
to construct, repair, or reconstruct any signs so that they shall be in
accordance with this subchapter. Such notice to Borough Council of transfer of
title, change in use, business interest, or refinancing of any mortgage shall
be given as follows.
      (1)   At least ten days prior to the transfer of title in property,
change in use at any property, change in ownership of any business, or
refinancing of a mortgage/loan on any property or business, the Borough Council
shall receive notice of the proposed transfer of title in property, change in
use at any property, change in ownership of any business, or refinancing of a
mortgage/loan on any property or business.
      (2)   (a)   Both the transferor and the transferee or the business owner
and prospective business owner or the owner and the lending institution shall
be responsible for notifying the Borough Council of the proposed transfer of
title in property, change in use at any property, change in ownership of any
business, or refinancing of a mortgage/loan on any property or on any business.
         (b)   Notice given by the transferor, the transferee, the business
owner, the prospective business owner, the lending institution, or by the
authorized agent of any of these shall satisfy the requirements of this
section.
      (3)   In the event that property or business is owned by two or more
persons as joint tenants/business owners with a right of survivorship, the
death of a joint tenant/business owner shall trigger the notice requirement.
The surviving tenant, tenants, business owner, or business owners shall notify
the borough within 30 days of the death of the joint tenant/business owner.
      (4)   In the event that property is subject to a life estate, the death
of the life tenant shall trigger the notice requirement. The owner or owners of
the remainder interest shall notify the borough within 30 days after the death
of the life tenant.
      (5)   In the event that the sole owner of the property or business shall
die, such death shall trigger the notice requirement. The executor,
administrator, or other personal representative of the estate or the intestate
or testamentary heirs shall notify the borough within 30 days after the death
of the owner of the property or business.
      (6)   In the event that the property or business is owned by a trust, the
trustee and beneficiaries shall notify the borough within 30 days after the
death or other termination or transfer of the interest of a beneficiary who has
possession of the property or business or who is the recipient of at least 50%
of the income from the trust.
      (7)   In the event that the owner of a property or business is a
corporation, the directors, officers, and shareholders of the corporation shall
notify the borough within 30 days after the transfer of ownership of stock in
the corporation which, when added with any other transfers of stock within a
12-month period, constitutes a transfer of 50% or more of the issued and
outstanding shares of the corporation.
      (8)   In the event that the owner of a property or sign is a partnership,
whether general or limited, the partners shall notify the borough within 30
days after any change of partnership interest, which when added with any other
change of partnership interest within a 12-month period, constitutes a transfer
of 50% or more of the ownership of the partnership.
   (C)   Upon application for a building permit for any property within the
borough, Borough Council shall inspect the property and any existing signs and
either issue a written certification of compliance with the terms of this
subchapter or notice to repair or reconstruct in accordance with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 150.56 INSURANCE.
   (A)   No permit to erect or maintain any sign shall be issued to a person,
firm, corporation, or institution until the owner of the sign shall certify on
the permit application that the said owner will obtain and will continue to
maintain a policy of public liability insurance, which policy shall be in the
minimum limits of $100,000 for bodily injury to one person or $300,000 for
bodily injury to more than one person and to the extent to $50,000 for damage
to personal property resulting from the negligent construction, erection, or
maintenance of any such sign.
   (B)   If such insurance coverage shall be terminated, for whatever reason,
the sign so erected or maintained and intended to be covered by such insurance
shall at once become an unlawful sign and shall be immediately removed at the
owner’s expense. If the Zoning Officer shall learn that insurance covering the
sign shall have been terminated, for whatever reason, the Zoning Officer shall
notify the owner or lessee of the premises where the sign is located, by
certified or registered mail or by personal service, at once to renew the
insurance or cause the sign to be removed. If the order is not complied with
within ten days after being served by certified or registered mail or after
being personally served, the Zoning Officer, or such person designated by the
Zoning Officer, shall cause the sign to be removed at the expense of the owner
or lessee of the premises. Failure to maintain the required insurance coverage
on the sign shall be a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 150.57 VIOLATIONS.
   Any of the following shall be a violation of this subchapter and shall be
subject to the enforcement/remedies and penalties set forth in §
150.99:
   (A)   To install, create, erect, or maintain any sign in a way that is
inconsistent with any requirement stated in this subchapter governing such sign
or the lot on which the sign is located;
   (B)   To install, create, erect, or maintain any sign in a way that is
inconsistent with any permit governing such sign or the lot on which the sign
is located;
   (C)   To install, create, erect, or maintain any sign requiring a permit
without such a permit;
   (D)   To fail to remove any sign that is installed, created, erected, or
maintained in violation of this subchapter, or for which the sign permit has
lapsed;
   (E)   To fail to comply with §
150.53;
   (F)   To continue any such violation. Each such day of a continued violation
shall be considered a separate violation when applying the penalty portions of
this subchapter; and
   (G)   Each sign installed, created, erected, or maintained in violation of
this subchapter shall be considered a separate violation when applying the
penalty portion of this subchapter.
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.58 PERMITTED SIGNS BY TYPE AND ZONING DISTRICT.
Table A - Permitted Signs by Type and Zoning District
Sign Type R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 C-1 C-2 CMR
Table A - Permitted Signs by Type and Zoning District
Sign Type              R-1  R-2  R-3  R-4  C-1 C-2 CMR
Freestanding
Banner (a)(h)(i)       N    N    N    N    S   S   S
Incidental (e)         A    A    A    A    A   A   A
Pennant (a)(h)(i)      N    N    N    N    S   S   S
Temporary (k)          S    S    S    S    S   S   S
Building
Banner (a)(h)(i)       S    S    S    S    S   S   S
Building marker (d)    A    A    A    A    A   A   A
Canopy (b)             N    N    N    S    S   S   S
Identification (c)     A    A    A    A    A   A   A
Incidental (e)         A    A    A    A    A   A   A
Marquee                N    N    N    N    S   S   S
Pennant (a)(h)(i)      N    N    N    N    S   S   S
Portable               N    N    S    S    S   S   S
Projecting             N    N    N    N    S   S   S
Roof                   N    N    N    N    S   S   S
Roof integral          N    N    N    N    S   S   S
Suspended (b)          S    S    S    S    S   S   S
Temporary (f)          S    S    S    S    S   S   S
Wall(b)                S    S    S    S    S   S   S
Window                 A(b) A(b) A(b) S(b) S   S   S
Miscellaneous
Campaign/political (j) A    A    A    A    A   A   A
Flag (g)               A    A    A    A    A   A   A
A = Allowed without a sign permit but must comply with the provisions of
this subchapter.
S = Allowed only a with sign permit.
N = Not allowed.
(a)   No commercial message allowed on sign, except for a commercial
message drawing attention to an activity legally offered on the premises.
(b)   For commercial type uses per Chapter 154, only the name of the
business may be placed on the sign. In areas zoned for residential use,
only one type of the following may be erected: canopy; suspended; wall; or
window.
(c)   Only address and name of residential occupant allowed on sign.
(d)   May include only building name, date of construction, or historical
date on historic site; must be cut or etched into wood, bronze, or similar
substantial material.
(e)    No commercial message or business identification of any kind allowed
on sign.
(f)   The conditions of §
150.50 apply.
(g)   Flags of the United States, the state, the city, foreign nations
having diplomatic relations with the United States, and any other flag
adopted or sanctioned by an elected legislative body of competent
jurisdiction shall not require a permit. These flags must be flown in
accordance with protocol established by the Congress of the United States
for the Stars and Stripes. Any flag not meeting any one of these conditions
shall be considered a pennant sign and shall be subject to regulation as
such.
(h)   Permitted on the same terms as a temporary sign, in accordance with §
150.50, except that it may be freestanding.
(i)   Churches, libraries, public or private schools or other religious,
charitable, nonprofit, or educational institutions, or public parks or
playgrounds in any zoning district may have a banner or pennant.
(j)   Campaign/political signs may be erected and maintained in compliance
with §
150.47(G).
(k)   Temporary freestanding signs. Signs for special events, only as
specifically approved by Borough Council.
On the tables in this subchapter, the headings have the
following meanings
On the tables in this subchapter, the headings have the
following meanings
C-1 Central Commercial
C-2 Highway Commercial
CMR Commercial/Manufacturing/Residential
R-1 Residential - Single-Family
R-2 Residential - Single-Family
R-3 Residential - Multi-Family
R-4 Residential and Business/Professional Offices
 
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004; Ord. 2014-01, passed 10-6-2014)
§ 150.59 MAXIMUM TOTAL SIGN AREA PER LOT BY ZONING DISTRICT.
   The maximum total area of all signs on a lot except incidental, building
marker, and identification signs shall not exceed the lesser of the following.
 
Table B - Maximum Total Sign Area per Lot by Zoning District
                                       R-1 R-2  R-3  R-4  C-1    C-2    CMR
Maximum total square feet              6   6(b) 6(b) 6(b) 100(a) 150(a) 200(a)
Square feet of signage per linear foot NA  NA   NA   NA   1      1      1
of street frontage
(a)   Lots fronting on two or more streets are allowed the permitted signage
for each street frontage, but signage cannot be accumulated and used on one
street in excess of that allowed for lots fronting on only one street.
(b)   Businesses, excepting home occupations, existing at the time of adoption
of this subchapter and business/professional offices legally authorized to
operate in the R-4 Residential and Business/Professional Offices District may
have approved signs to a maximum total of 25 square feet.
 
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 150.60 NUMBER, DIMENSIONS, AND LOCATION OF INDIVIDUAL SIGNS BY ZONING
DISTRICT.
   Individual signs shall not exceed the applicable maximum number, dimensions,
or setbacks shown on this table and §
150.61.
Table C - Number, Dimensions, and Location of Individual Signs by Zoning
District
Sign Type R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 C-1 C-2 CMR
Table C - Number, Dimensions, and Location of Individual Signs by Zoning
District
Sign Type            R-1    R-2    R-3    R-4    C-1       C-2       CMR
Freestanding*
Area (sq. ft.)       1.5(c) 1.5(c) 1.5(c) 1.5(c) 25        25        25
Height (ft.)         4(c)   4(c)   4(c)   4(c)   15        35        35
Setback (ft.) (a)    5(c)   5(c)   5(c)   5(c)   10        10        10
Number permitted per
feet of street       1(c)   1(c)   1(c)   1(c)   1 per 601 per 601 per 60’
frontage (b)
Building
Area (max. sq. ft.)  6      6(d)   6(d)   6(d)   50        50        50
Suspended
Area (max. sq. ft.)  3      3      3      3(e)   6         6         6
* All signs within the Historic District shall comply with the sign
regulations which are applicable in the underlying zoning district, unless
excepted under the provisions of §
154.098(E)(4).
(a)   In addition to the setback requirements on this table, signs shall be
located such that there is at every street intersection a clear view between
heights of three feet and ten feet in a triangle formed by the corner and
points on the curb 30 feet from the intersection or entranceway.
(b)   Lots fronting on two or more streets are allowed the permitted signage
for each street frontage, but signage cannot be accumulated and used on one
street in excess of that allowed for lots fronting on only one street.
(c)   Only incidental type signs allowed.
(d)   Businesses, excepting home occupations, existing at the time of adoption
of this subchapter and business/professional offices legally authorized to
operate in the R-4 Residential and Business/Professional Offices District may
have approved signs to a maximum total of 25 square feet.
(e)   Businesses, excepting home occupations, existing at the time of adoption
of this subchapter and business/professional offices legally authorized to
operate in the R-4 Residential and Business/Professional Offices District may
have approved signs to a maximum total of six square feet.
 
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 150.61 PERMITTED SIGN CHARACTERISTICS BY ZONING DISTRICT.
Table D - Permitted Sign Characteristics by Zoning District
 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 C-1 C-2 CMR
Table D - Permitted Sign Characteristics by Zoning District
                          R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 C-1 C-2 CMR
Changeable (a) copy       N   N   N   N   S   S   S
Illumination (b) internal N   N   N   N   S   S   S
Illumination (b) external N   N   N   N   S   S   S
Neon                      N   N   N   N   S   S   S
N = Not allowed.
S = Allowed only with a sign permit.
(a)   Churches, libraries, public or private schools, or other religious
charitable, nonprofit, or educational institutions, or public parks or
playgrounds in any zoning district may have a changeable copy sign
providing the sign complies with the zoning district size regulations.
(b)   Churches, libraries, public or private schools, or other religious
charitable, nonprofit, or educational institutions, or public parks or
playgrounds in any zoning district may have changeable copy signs providing
they comply with lighting standards as set forth in §
150.43.
 
(Ord. 04-2004, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
150.20 to
150.27 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $100 and not exceeding $1,000 and, in default of payment of said fine and
costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation continues beyond the date fixed for compliance shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 4, Pt. 1, § 109)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
150.40 to
150.61 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said
fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that
a violation of §§
150.40 to
150.61 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   The remedies and penalties as set forth in the Code, as amended, for
violations of the Code are adopted by §§
150.01 through
150.05 and incorporated herein by reference as if set forth at length. Such
remedies and penalties may be enforced and applied on this municipality’s
behalf through joint administration with the participating municipalities as
mentioned above under the intermunicipal agreement, including, but not limited
to, through prosecution by the Solicitor for the participating municipalities
(without need for prior consent of the District Attorney to do so) before a
District Justice in the same manner provided for the enforcement of summary
offenses under the state’s rules of criminal procedure. When any individual,
firm, corporation, or other entity so prosecuted and convicted defaults on
payment of the applicable fine as determined by the District Justice, such
individual or the managing officers of any firm or corporation shall be
imprisoned in the county prison for a period not to exceed ten days. Each day
or portion thereof during which any violation of this subchapter continues
shall constitute a separate offense and/or violation, and the person, firm,
corporation, or other entity in violation thereof shall be liable for the
penalty imposed, plus court cost and reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by
this municipality and/or by the joint administration of the participating
municipalities in the enforcement proceedings. Likewise, each section of this
chapter which is violated shall constitute a separate offense and/or violation,
and the person in violation thereof shall be liable for the penalty imposed,
plus court cost and reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by this municipality
and/or by the joint administration of the participating municipalities in the
enforcement proceedings. In addition to the above penalties, all other actions
are hereby reserved including an action in equity for the proper enforcement of
this subchapter, which may be prosecuted through joint administration and
enforcement by the participating municipalities through their Solicitor. The
imposition of a fine or penalty for any violation of or non-compliance with
this subchapter shall in no way be considered expressed or implied permission
for such violation to continue; and all such persons violating this subchapter
shall be required to correct or remedy such violations and non-compliances
immediately upon notification by this municipality and/or the agents, servants,
employees, or authorized representatives of the participating municipalities
joining together as mentioned above to enforce and administer the Code.
(Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001; Ord. 01-2004, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 04-2004,
passed 12-6-2004)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Street Excavations
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Purpose and application
   
151.03   Issuance of permits
   
151.04   General conditions
   
151.05   Special conditions; subsurface operations
   
151.06   Record examination
 
   
151.99   Penalty
STREET EXCAVATIONS
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADJACENT AREA. The area surrounding the immediate area of the permitted work
which can reasonably be assumed to have been affected by the permitted work.
   BACKFILL. Material used to replace or the act of replacing material removed
during construction.
   BASE COURSE. The layer or layers of specified or selected material or
designed thickness placed on a subgrade to support a surface course.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Bedford.
   BRIDGE. A structure including supports, erected over a depression or an
obstruction, as water, highway, or railway, and having a track or passageway
for carrying traffic or other moving loads and having an opening measured along
the center of the roadway of more than 20 feet between supports.
   EMERGENCY. A an unforeseen occurrence or combination of circumstances which
calls for immediate action or remedy.
   EQUIPMENT. All machinery and equipment, together with the necessary supplies
for upkeep and maintenance, and also tools and apparatus necessary for the
proper construction and completion of the work.
   FLEXIBLE BASE PAVEMENT. A pavement structure which maintains intimate
contact with and distributes loads to the subgrade and depends on aggregate
interlock, particle friction, and cohesion for stability.
   HIGHWAY. A highway or bridge on the system of borough highways and bridges,
including the entire width between right-of-way lines.
   IMPROVED AREA. The area within the right-of-way which has been constructed
for highway purposes, including roadbed, pavement, shoulders, slope, sidewalks,
drainage facilities, and any other appurtenances.
   INSPECTOR. The borough’s authorized representative assigned to inspect
permit operations.
   PAVEMENT. The combination of subbase, base course, and surface course placed
on a subgrade to support the traffic load and distribute it to the roadbed.
   PERMIT. A highway occupancy permit issued by the borough office pursuant to
these regulations.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, copartnership, association, corporation,
or political subdivision.
   PLANS. Drawings which show the location, character, and dimensions of the
proposed occupancy and related highway features, including layouts, profiles,
cross sections, and other details.
   PRIVATE STATUS. The status of a utility’s facilities, which are situated
within public right-of-way by agreement with the borough, after the borough
condemned the utility’s easement and did not provide a substitute right-of-way.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area which has been acquired by the borough for highway
purposes.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the sidewalk or shoulder.
   SHOULDER. The portion of the roadway, contiguous to the traffic lanes, for
accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use, and for lateral support
of base and surface courses and pavements.
   SUBBASE. The layers of specified or selected material of designed thickness
placed on a subgrade to support a base course.
   SUBGRADE. The top surface of a roadbed upon which the pavement structure and
shoulders including curbs are constructed.
   SURFACE COURSE. One or more layers of a pavement structure designed to
accommodate the traffic load, the top layer of which resists skidding, traffic
abrasion, and the disintegrating effects of climate. The top layer is sometimes
called “wearing course.”
   UTILITY. A person owning a utility facility, including any wholly owned or
controlled subsidiary.
   UTILITY FACILITY or FACILITY. All privately, publicly, or cooperative owned
lines, facilities, and systems for producing, transmitting, or distributing
communications, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil, crude products,
water, steam, waste, storm water, and other similar commodities, including fire
and police signal systems and street lighting systems, which directly or
indirectly serve the public or any part thereof.
   VEHICLE. Every device which is or may be moved or drawn upon a highway.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 1, § 101) (Ord. 3-87, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   It is in the public interest to regulate the location and construction of
utility facilities and other structures within the borough’s highway right-of-
way for the purpose of security, economy of maintenance, preservation of proper
drainage, and safe convenient passage of traffic. Nothing contained herein is
intended to relax existing safety requirements.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 1, § 102) (Ord. 3-87, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 151.03 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit requirement. It shall be unlawful for any person to make any
opening or excavation within the limits of any of the borough’s rights-of-way
without first having made application to the Borough Office located at 244 West
Penn Street, Bedford, PA, 15522. Such application shall state the location and
approximate area of the proposed opening or excavation, shall stipulate the
time when the work of making such opening or excavation shall be done, shall
state any other information as may be required by the borough, and shall
contain an agreement on the part of the applicant that the work will be done in
full compliance with the ordinances of the borough and the laws and regulations
of the state.
   (B)   General rule. Upon application duly made, in accordance with this
subchapter, a permit will be issued by the borough, subject to this subchapter
and the conditions contained on the permit and its attachments and supplements.
The permit will be the applicant’s authority to proceed with the work.
   (C)   Scheduled work. Permits for scheduled work shall be applied for at
least 30 working days prior to the actual date for start of construction.
   (D)   Emergency work. Emergency repairs involving the placing of facilities
or opening of the surface within the right-of-way may be performed prior to
obtaining a permit provided the following procedure is adhered to:
      (1)   The utility facility owner shall immediately notify the borough
office, by telephone, when the necessity for any emergency repair occurs
between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Emergency
work occurring at other times shall be reported to the Borough Office on the
following work day; and
      (2)   A permit shall be applied for, within three days of the date
repairs began, to confirm and set forth, in detail, any work performed.
   (E)   Qualifications for permits. Permits will be issued only to the utility
or entity that will own and operate the facility after its installation.
Permits will not be issued to any person to install a facility or structure if
the person will not own and operate the facility or structure after its
installation. Permits will not be issued to contractors or subcontractors of
the utility, nor to persons being serviced by the facility.
   (F)   Requesting permit time extension. A permit is valid for a six-month
period or multiples thereof as specified on the permit. If the permittee has
not completed all authorized work by the completion date specified on the
permit, an application shall be submitted requesting a time extension on the
permit. If approved, a supplement will be issued by the borough office.
   (G)   Work completion notification. The borough office shall be notified
when all permitted work has been completed in order that an inspection can be
made.
   (H)   Permit issuance fees. Issuance fees are used to defray costs incurred
by the borough in reviewing and processing the application and plan(s),
including the preliminary review of the site location identified in the
application, and issuing and processing the permit. Fees are to be submitted
with the application form in an amount established from time to time by
resolution of the Borough Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 1, § 103) (Ord. 3-87, passed 8-3-1987; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit conditions. The following conditions shall apply to permits
issued under this subchapter.
      (1)   The permit shall be binding upon the permittee, its agents,
contractors, successors, and assigns.
      (2)   The permittee shall be responsible for causing compliance with all
terms and conditions of the permit by its agents, contractors, and successors.
      (3)   The permit shall be maintained as a permanent record and remain in
effect, subject to the permit conditions and this subchapter, as long as the
permittee’s facilities authorized by the permit occupy the right-of-way.
      (4)   Responsibility for compliance with the terms of the permit cannot
be assigned or transferred by the permittee without first obtaining approval
from the borough. In the event a permit is assigned or transferred without
first obtaining approval from the borough, the assignment or transfer shall be
null and void. Any facility installed under the authority of said permit shall
be subject to removal at the expense of the applicant to which the permit was
issued and/or its assignees.
      (5)   The permittee shall be principally liable to the borough for any
failure to comply with the permit and this subchapter. The principal liability
of the permittee to the borough shall not preclude the permittee from any
subsequent action against its contractor, subcontractor, materialmen, engineer,
architect, or the like arising from the project. This provision shall not be
deemed a waiver of any rights the borough may have against any third party for
any damages or liability arising from the project.
      (6)   The permittee shall be the only party in interest in any action
against the borough involving disputes arising from the permit.
   (B)   Work to conform to borough standards. The work shall be done at such
time and in such a manner as shall be consistent with the safety of the public
and shall conform to all requirements and standards of the borough. If at any
time it shall be found by the borough that the work is not being done or has
not been properly performed, the permittee, upon being notified in writing by
the borough, shall immediately take the necessary steps at its own expense to
place the work in condition to conform to such requirements or standards. In
case any dispute arises between the permittee and the borough’s inspector, the
borough’s inspector shall have the authority to suspend work until the question
at issue can be referred to and be decided by the Borough Office.
   (C)   Permittee responsibilities.
      (1)   The permittee shall pay all costs and expenses incident to, or
arising from, the project, including the prescribed fees for same, the cost of
making and maintaining temporary restoration of the disturbed areas, and making
permanent restoration.
      (2)   In the event of failure or neglect by the permittee to perform and
comply with the permit or these regulations, the borough may immediately revoke
and annul the permit and order, and direct the permittee to remove any or all
structures, equipment, or property belonging to the permittee and/or its
contractors from the legal limits of the right-of-way and to restore the right-
of-way to its former condition. In the event the borough determines that such
structures, equipment, or property pose a threat to the public safety and the
permittee fails to remove the same after notice from the borough to do so, the
borough or its attorneys, or any attorney of any court of record, shall be
authorized to appear for the permittee, and to enter an amicable action to
ejectment and confess judgment against the permittee; and the attorney shall be
authorized to issue forthwith a writ of possession with a clause of fieri
facias for costs, without leave of court.
      (3)   If work is stopped on a project for any reason, other than at the
end of any normal work day, and any ditch or trench, in the opinion of the
borough, remains open for an unreasonable period, the permittee, if so
directed, shall refill the ditch or trench and work shall not be resumed until
the permittee is prepared to proceed immediately with the work to its
completion. In the event the permittee fails to refill the ditch or trench or
proceed until completion of the work upon notice from the borough to do so, the
borough may perform the necessary and required work and shall be reimbursed for
the costs by the permittee within 30 days after receipt of the borough invoice.
      (4)   If the permittee, after making an opening in the surface to place
or repair a facility or for any other purpose, fails to restore any portion of
the right-of-way to conform with this section and §
151.05, upon notice from the borough to do so, the borough reserves the right
to do the work and the permittee shall reimburse the borough for the costs
within 30 days after receipt of the borough’s invoice.
   (D)   Altering drainage prohibited. Unless specifically authorized by the
permit, the permittee shall not:
      (1)   Alter the existing drainage pattern or the existing flow of
drainage water;
      (2)   Direct additional drainage of surface water toward, onto or into,
or in any way affect the highway right-of-way or highway facilities;
      (3)   This permit does not authorize the permittee to direct, divert, or
otherwise drain surface waters over the property of any other property owner;
      (4)   The permit does not in any way relieve the permittee from acquiring
the consent, permission, or other authorization from any property owner which
may be adversely affected by drainage alterations; and
      (5)   The permittee is responsible for any damage caused to any property
owners as a result of work done under the permit.
   (E)   Equipment damaging highway.
      (1)   To protect the pavement and shoulders, all equipment shall have
rubber wheels or runners and shall have rubber, wood, or similar protective
pads between the outriggers and the surface unless otherwise authorized by the
permit.
      (2)   In the event that other than rubber equipped machinery is
authorized for use, the pavement and shoulders shall be protected by the use of
matting, wood, or other suitable protective material having a minimum thickness
of four inches, unless the permit requires the permittee to repave the roadway
full width.
      (3)   If the equipment damages the pavement or shoulder, the permittee
shall restore the pavement or shoulders to their former condition, at the
permittee’s expense.
   (F)   Traffic protection and maintenance. Maintenance and protection of
traffic shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the
borough.
      (1)   The permittee shall provide and maintain all necessary precautions
to prevent injury or damage to persons and property. A traffic control plan
shall be submitted to and approved by the borough before detouring any traffic.
      (2)   Warning signs shall be placed in advance of the actual operation in
such a manner as to be visible to the traveling public and substantial
barricades with adequate illumination shall be provided and maintained for any
open trench or hole in the improved area.
      (3)   Designated employees shall be assigned by the permittee to direct
one-lane traffic.
   (G)   Indemnification. The permittee shall fully indemnify and save harmless
and defend the borough of and from all liability for damages or injury
occurring to any person or persons or property through or in consequence of any
act or omission of any contractor, agent, servant, employee, or person engaged
or employed in, about, or upon the work, by, at the instance, or with the
approval or consent of the permittee; from any failure of the permittee or any
such person to comply with the permit or these regulations; and, for a period
of two years after completion of the permitted work, from the failure of the
highway in the immediate area of the work performed under the permit where
there is no similar failure of the highway beyond the area adjacent to the area
of the permitted work.
   (H)   Insurance. The permittee shall, upon request, submit to the borough a
certificate or certificates of insurance for public liability and property
damage, in form and amount satisfactory to the borough, to cover any loss that
may be incurred for or on account of any matter, cause, or thing arising out of
the construction, reconstruction, repair, relocation, or installation of the
permitted structures or facilities.
   (I)   Blasting. No pre-drilling or blasting shall be permitted within the
right-of-way unless authorized by the permit.
      (1)   If the permittee proposes to blast, the permittee shall make,
execute, and deliver a bond to the borough in an amount determined by the
borough with surety by a company duly registered and authorized to do business
in the state, conditioned that the borough will be saved harmless from any
damages whatsoever to the improved area for a period of one year from the date
of the completion of the last work covered by the permit.
      (2)   When blasting is anticipated within 100 feet of any bridge, box, or
culvert, a detailed plan of excavating, shoring, blasting, and backfilling
procedures shall be submitted, with the application, to the borough for review
and approval.
      (3)   No blasting shall be permitted if within 25 feet of the nearest
part of a bridge, box, or culvert.
      (4)   Only controlled blasting shall be permitted within the improved
area.
   (J)   Maintaining structure or facility. As long as the permittee operates
and leaves in place any structures or facilities in, upon, or along the right-
of-way, the permittee shall maintain and keep them in good order and repair.
   (K)   Damaged structure or facility to be repaired. If at any time the
structure or facility shall become damaged from any cause whatsoever, the
permittee shall have it removed, repaired, or otherwise made safe immediately
upon notification from the borough.
   (L)   Damage to highway.
      (1)   If there is a failure of the highway, including slope or any other
appurtenance thereto, in the immediate area of the permitted work within two
years after the completion of the permitted work and there is no similar
failure of the highway beyond the area adjacent to the area of the permitted
work, the permittee shall have absolute responsibility to make all temporary
and permanent restoration including restoration of the adjacent area if it has
also failed.
      (2)   If the permitted work is the proximate cause of damage to the
highway, including slope or any other appurtenance thereto, beyond the adjacent
area, the permittee shall be responsible for all remedial work and shall make
all temporary and permanent restoration.
      (3)   Where the permittee has the responsibility to restore the highway,
including slope or any other appurtenance thereto, under any of the above
divisions, the permittee shall have the duty to restore the improved area in
accordance with the permit. If the permittee fails to restore the improved area
properly, the borough shall have the authority to do the work at the
permittee’s expense. The permittee shall reimburse the borough for the costs
within 30 days after receipt of the borough’s invoice.
   (M)   Future highway changes. If at any time in the future the highway is
altered for public convenience or necessity, the permittee shall at its own
cost and expense, change or relocate all or any part of the structures or
facilities authorized by the permit which interfere with such highway
alterations or which is inconsistent with the purpose of the highway
alterations.
   (N)   Approval by inspector. Approval by the borough’s inspector of all or
part of any permitted work shall not constitute acknowledgment that the work
was performed in accordance with the permit, nor shall such approval of the
inspector act as a release of the permittee or waiver by the borough of its
right to seek performance or restitution from the permittee.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 1, § 104) (Ord. 3-87, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 151.05 SPECIAL CONDITIONS; SUBSURFACE OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Trench openings.
      (1)   No trench opening shall be made for a distance of more than 200
feet at any one time, unless authorized by the permit. In addition, no more
than 40 feet of trench shall be left open on the edge of a highway at the end
of any work day, unless authorized by the permit.
      (2)   No highway shall be blocked to through traffic unless authorized by
the permit.
   (B)   Disposition of material.
      (1)   The permittee shall keep the improved area free of all material
which may be deposited by vehicles traveling upon or entering into the highway
during the performance of work authorized by the permit.
      (2)   The permittee shall be responsible for controlling dust conditions
created by its own operations.
      (3)   All excess material and material that is not suitable for backfill
shall be removed and disposed of outside the right-of-way as the work
progresses.
      (4)   All retained suitable material shall be placed or stored on the
side of the operation farthest from traffic, unless otherwise authorized by the
permit, and in such a manner that there will be no interference with the flow
of water in any gutter, drain, pipe, culvert, ditch, or waterway.
   (C)   Backfilling. All openings made in the improved area shall be
backfilled by the permittee in accordance with the following minimum standards.
      (1)   The opening shall first be backfilled with material suitable for
insulation to a height not to exceed one foot over the top of the facility,
compacted in not more than four-inch layers.
      (2)   The opening shall then be backfilled with either No. 2 RC
aggregate, retained suitable material, or other material specified in the
permit, and compacted throughout its full width with approved vibratory
compacting equipment in layers not to exceed eight inches.
      (3)   Compaction shall be completed to within two inches of the top
elevation of the existing pavement.
   (D)   Restoration of flexible base pavements. Base and surface restoration
of flexible pavements shall be done in accordance with the following method.
      (1)   Temporary restoration. Temporary restoration shall be made and kept
in place for a minimum of 90 days. This temporary restoration shall be
accomplished by utilizing a minimum of two inches of either ID-2 wearing or 2PB
stockpile patching compacted to a grade equal to that of the existing pavement.
See Figure I below.
      (2)   Permanent restoration. See Figure II below.
         (a)   After the minimum 90-day period, but before 210 days, the
temporary restoration shall be removed and permanent restoration made.
         (b)   Prior to making the permanent restoration, six inches from each
edge of the trench shall be sawed or cut, in a neat straight line, to the
bottom elevation of the existing base course, and the detached material shall
be removed.
         (c)   The permanent base course shall consist of bituminous concrete
(BC) having a minimum compacted depth of five inches or a compacted depth equal
to the existing base course, whichever is greater.
         (d)   The permanent wearing course shall be placed in accordance with
the depths of the existing bituminous surface but in no case shall the
compacted wearing course be less than one inch of ID-2.
   (E)   Restoration of plain or reinforced cement concrete pavements. Prior to
replacement of the concrete, one foot from each edge of the trench shall be
sawed or cut, in a neat straight line, to a depth of at least three inches, and
the detached material shall be removed. See Figure III below.
      (1)   The replacement concrete shall consist of high early strength
concrete equal in depth to the original concrete pavement.
      (2)   On existing reinforced cement concrete pavements, reinforced steel
and expansion tie bolts shall be placed in accordance with state’s Department
of Transportation Roadway Construction Standard RC-26 or its subsequent
amendments.
      (3)   The surface shall be restored as follows: after surface corrections
have been completed and just before the concrete becomes non-plastic, the
surface shall be given a textured finish.
   (F)   Shoulder restoration.
      (1)   Paved and stabilized shoulders. Paved and stabilized shoulders
shall be reconstructed and restored to a serviceable condition, of the same
type as existed before the start of work.
      (2)   Other shoulders. Trenches in other types of shoulders shall be
backfilled with compacted No. 2RC aggregate and then resurfaced with the same
type of material existing prior to construction.
   (G)   Paint identification. Upon completion of temporary and permanent
restoration, the restoration date shall be painted on the pavement immediately
adjacent to the cut. The painted date shall indicate the month and year
numerically. The numerals shall be at least six inches in height. The paint
shall be of a durable wearing quality and shall be color coded as follows: blue
(water), yellow (gas-petroleum), red (electric), orange (communications), and
green (sewer).
   (H)   Appurtenances to underground installations.
      (1)   The top of every manhole, valve box, or other access to the
facility shall be at the same elevation as the surface in which it is located.
      (2)   The surface surrounding manhole or valve covers located in
shoulders shall be paved in such a manner as to prevent washouts.
Figure I - Ninety Day Temporary Restoration Method of Flexible Base Pavements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/146edbcc2b5611ca5ef7ba9ccba125a47f776f92/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1367.png]
 
Figure II - Permanent Restoration Method of Flexible Base Pavements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/146edbcc2b5611ca5ef7ba9ccba125a47f776f92/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1369.png]
 
Figure III - Permanent Restoration Method of Plain or Reinforced Cement
Concrete Pavements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/146edbcc2b5611ca5ef7ba9ccba125a47f776f92/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1371.png]
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 1, § 105)
§ 151.06 RECORD EXAMINATION.
   All permit records, restoration records, and emergency work records shall be
made available for examination by the borough upon request.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 1, § 106) (Ord. 3-87, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
151.01 to
151.06 shall constitute grounds for imposition of any or all of the following
penalties:
      (1)   Upon receipt of oral or written notice of any violation(s) from the
borough’s authorized representative or a police officer, the permittee shall
cease to perform any further work in the permitted area except to restore the
area to a safe condition. No further work shall commence in the permitted area
until the violation(s) has been remedied. Where the permittee has received oral
notice of the violation(s), written notice shall be sent to the permittee
within five days of receipt of the oral notice;
      (2)   Confiscation of the applicant’s permit by any police officer or
authorized representative of the borough;
      (3)   Revocation of the applicant’s permit card by the borough;
      (4)   Removal of the facilities installed without a permit or in
violation of these regulations;
      (5)   Such fines, imprisonment, or other penalties as are provided by
ordinances of the borough or laws of state;
      (6)   Such other action as may be deemed necessary or proper after
consultation with the Borough’s Solicitor; and/or
      (7)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of
§§
151.01 to
151.06 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said
fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day on
which a violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 21, Pt. 1, § 107) (Ord. 3-87, passed 8-3-1987; Ord. 2-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Citation of statutory authorization
   
152.002   Intent
   
152.003   Applicability
   
152.004   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.005   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.006   Definitions
Administration
   
152.020   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.021   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.022   Permits required
   
152.023   Issuance of permit
   
152.024   Application procedures and requirements
   
152.025   Review by County Conservation District
   
152.026   Review of application by others
   
152.027   Charges
   
152.028   Placards
   
152.029   Start of construction
   
152.030   Inspection and revocation
   
152.031   Fees
   
152.032   Enforcement
   
152.033   Appeals
Identification of Floodplain Areas
   
152.045   Designation of floodplain areas
   
152.046   Changes in floodplain area delineations
   
152.047   Disputes
Technical Provisions
   
152.060   General
   
152.061   Special floodway and stream setback requirements
   
152.062   Elevation and flood-proofing requirements
   
152.063   Design and construction standards
   
152.064   Development which may endanger human life
   
152.065   Special requirements for manufactured homes
   
152.066   Special requirements for recreational vehicles
   
152.067   Special requirements for subdivisions
Activities Requiring Special Permits
   
152.080   General
   
152.081   Application requirements for special permits
   
152.082   Application review procedures
   
152.083   Special technical requirements
Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas
   
152.095   General regulations
Variances
   
152.110   General provisions
   
152.111   Variance procedures and requirements
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 CITATION OF STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The State Legislature has, by the passage of the state’s Floodplain
Management Act of 1978, delegated the responsibility to local governmental
units to adopt floodplain management regulations to promote public health,
safety, and the general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Borough
Council does hereby order as follows.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.002 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote the general health, welfare, and safety of the community;
   (B)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future;
   (C)   Minimize danger to public health by protecting water supply and
natural drainage;
   (D)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units, and its residents, by preventing excessive development in areas subject
to flooding; and
   (E)   Comply with federal and state floodplain management requirements.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business, or
corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any construction or
development anywhere within the areas of the borough that are subject to
flooding unless a permit has been obtained from the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   A permit shall not be required for minor repairs to existing buildings
or structures.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.004 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any other conflicting provisions which may be in
effect in identified floodplain areas. However, any other ordinance provisions
shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that those provisions are
more restrictive. If there is any conflict between any of the provisions of
this chapter, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.005 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this
chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
accepted engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur. Flood heights
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside
any identified floodplain area, or that land uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   (B)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the borough or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood that has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year (also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD).
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, and A1-30 that indicates the water surface
elevation resulting from a flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all manufactured homes and trailers to be
used for human habitation.
   COMPLETELY DRY SPACE. A space which will remain totally dry during flooding;
the structure is designed and constructed to prevent the passage of water and
water vapor.
   CONSTRUCTION. The construction, reconstruction, renovation, repair,
extension, expansion, alteration, or relocation of a building or structure,
including the placement of manufactured homes.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings, or other structures, the placement of
manufactured homes, streets, and other paving, utilities, filling, grading,
excavation, mining, dredging, or drilling operations and the subdivision of
land.
   ESSENTIALLY DRY SPACE. A space which will remain dry during flooding, except
for the passage of some water vapor or minor seepage; the structure is
substantially impermeable to the passage of water.
   FLOOD. A temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administration has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable
to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Insurance Administration that includes flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate
Map, the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, and the water surface elevation of
the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. A relatively flat or low land area which is subject to partial
or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river, or
watercourse; and/or any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREA. The floodplain area specifically identified in
this chapter as being inundated by the 100-year flood as shown in the FIS.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   The improvement of one lot, or two or more contiguous lots, tracts,
or parcels of land for any purpose involving:
         (a)   A group of two or more buildings; or
         (b)   The division or allocation of land or space between or among two
or more existing or prospective occupants by means of, or for the purpose of,
streets, common areas, leaseholds, condominiums, building groups, or other
features.
      (2)   A subdivision of land.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest fully enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished, flood-resistant partially enclosed area, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, and incidental storage, in an area
other than a basement area is not considered the LOWEST FLOOR of a building,
provided that such space is not designed and built so that the structure is in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in two or more sections, which
are built on permanent chasses and are designed for use with a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term also includes
travel trailers, recreational, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for
more than 180 consecutive days.
   MINOR REPAIR. The replacement of existing work with equivalent materials for
the purpose of its routine maintenance and upkeep, but not including the
cutting away of any wall, partition, or portion thereof, the removal or cutting
of any structural beam or bearing support, or the removal or change of any
required means of egress, or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting
the exitway requirements; nor shall minor repairs include addition to,
alteration of, replacement, or relocation of any standpipe, water supply,
sewer, drainage, drain leader, gas, soil, waste, vent or similar piping,
electric wiring, or mechanical or other work affecting public health or general
safety.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION DATE. Structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after September 2, 1988, and includes any subsequent
improvements thereto.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any wall, dam, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile abutment,
projection, excavation, channel, rectification, culvert, building, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across, or projecting
into any channel, watercourse, or flood-prone area, which may impede, retard,
or change the direction of the flow of water either in itself or by catching or
collecting debris carried by such water, or which is placed where the flow of
water might carry the same downstream to the damage of life and property.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. A flood that, on the average, is likely to occur once every
100 years (i.e., that has 1% chance of occurring each year, although the flood
may occur in any year).
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility, or any other legal entity whatsoever which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Not more than 400 square feet, measured at the largest horizontal
projections; and
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck, not designed for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The 100-year flood elevation plus a freeboard
safety factor of one and one-half feet.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). An area in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on the FIRM as
Zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99, or AH.
   SPECIAL PERMIT. A special approval which is required for hospitals, nursing
homes, jails, and new manufactured homes, and subdivisions and substantial
improvements to such existing parks, when such development is located in all,
or a designated portion of a floodplain.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the permit was issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days from the date of the
permit. The actual START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home on a foundation; or
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or re-division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels, or other division of land,
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, transfer of ownership, or building, or lot development;
provided, however, that the division of land for agricultural, not involving
any new street or easement of access, shall be exempted.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage from any cause sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% or more of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “substantial
damage” (or “repetitive loss” when a repetitive loss provision is used)
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not however
include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure.”
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.020 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Building Permit Officer retained by the Borough Council is hereby
appointed to administer and enforce this chapter and is referred to herein as
the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.021 DUTIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit only after it has
been determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance
with the requirements of this chapter and all other applicable codes and
ordinances.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of any permit, the Floodplain Administrator
shall review the application for the permit to determine if all other necessary
government permits required by state and federal laws have been obtained, such
as those required by the state’s Sewage Facilities Act (Act 1966-537, as
amended); the state’s Dam Safety and Encroachments Act (Act 1978-325, as
amended); the state’s Clean Streams Act (Act 1937-394, as amended); and the
U.S. Clean Water Act, § 404, 33 U.S.C. § 1344. No permit shall be issued until
this determination has been made.
   (C)   In the case of existing structures, prior to the issuance of any
development/permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall review the history of
repairs to the subject building, so that any repetitive loss issues can be
addressed before the permit is issued.
   (D)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or other
authorized official shall inspect the premises to determine that the work is
progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable municipal laws and ordinances. He or she
shall make as many inspections during and upon completion of the work as are
necessary.
   (E)   In the discharge of his or her duties, the Floodplain Administrator
shall have the authority to enter any building, structure, premises, or
development in the identified floodplain area, upon presentation of proper
credentials, at any reasonable hour to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does
not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances,
or that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant,
the Floodplain Administrator shall revoke the permit and report such fact to
the Borough Council for whatever action it considers necessary.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain all records associated
with the requirements of this chapter including, but not limited to,
permitting, inspection, and enforcement.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall consider the requirements of the 34
Pa. Code and the 2009 IBC and the 2009 IRC or latest revisions thereof.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.022 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Permits shall be required before any construction or development is
undertaken within any area of the borough that is subject to flooding.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.023 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   No encroachment, alteration, or improvement of any kind shall be made to a
watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected by such
action have been notified by the borough and until all required permits or
approvals have been first obtained from the Department of Environmental
Protection. In addition, the Federal Emergency Management Agency and state’s
Department of Community and Economic Development shall be notified by the
borough prior to any alteration or relocation of any watercourse.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.024 APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for such a permit shall be made, in writing, to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms supplied by the borough.
   (B)   Such application shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is
to occur;
      (3)   Name and address of contractor;
      (4)   Site location;
      (5)   Listing of other permits required;
      (6)   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost; and
      (7)   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
   (C)   Applicants for permits shall provide all the necessary information in
sufficient detail and clarity to enable the Floodplain Administrator to
determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and conform to the requirements of this and all other applicable codes
and ordinances;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and
water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
      (4)   Structures will be anchored to prevent floatation, collapse, or
lateral movement;
      (5)   Building materials are flood-resistant;
      (6)   Appropriate practices that minimize flood damage have been used;
and
      (7)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities have been designed and/or located to
prevent water entry or accumulation.
   (D)   Applicants shall file the following minimum information plus any other
pertinent information as may be required by the Floodplain Administrator to
make the above determination:
      (1)   A completed permit application form;
      (2)   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of
one inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
         (a)   North arrow, scale, and date;
         (b)   Topographic contour lines, if available;
         (c)   All property and lot lines including dimensions, and the size of
the site expressed in acres or square feet;
         (d)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures,
and other improvements, including the location of any existing or proposed
subdivision and land development;
         (e)   The location of all existing streets, drives, and other
accessways; and
         (f)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
identified floodplain areas, and, if available, information pertaining to the
floodway, and the flow of water including direction and velocities.
      (3)   Plans of all proposed building, structures, and other improvements,
drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
         (a)   The proposed lowest floor elevation of any proposed building
based upon National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1988;
         (b)   The elevation of the 100-year flood; and
         (c)   Supplemental information as may be necessary under the 34 Pa.
Code and the 2009 IBC and the 2009 IRC or latest revisions thereof.
      (4)   The following data and documentation:
         (a)   If available, information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces, and other factors associated with a 100-
year flood;
         (b)   Detailed information concerning any proposed flood-proofing
measures;
         (c)   1.   A document, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, which states that the proposed construction or development has
been adequately designed to withstand 100-year flood elevations, pressures,
velocities, and impact and uplift forces associated with the 100-year flood.
            2.   Such statement shall include a description of the type and
extent of flood-proofing measures which have been incorporated into the design
of the structure and/or the development and corresponding elevations.
         (d)   Detailed information needed to determine compliance with §§
152.063(F) and
152.064, including:
            1.   The amount, location, and purpose of any materials or
substances referred to in §§
152.063(F) and 152.064 which are intended to be used, produced, stored, or
otherwise maintained on site; and
            2.   A description of the safeguards incorporated into the design
of the proposed structure to prevent leaks or spills of the dangerous materials
or substances listed in §
152.064 during a 100-year flood.
         (e)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection Planning Module for Land Development;
         (f)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection, to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control; and
         (g)   Documentation, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, to show that the cumulative effect of the proposed development,
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not
increase the elevation of the 100-year flood more than one foot at any point.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.025 REVIEW BY COUNTY CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   A copy of all applications and plans for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval
shall be submitted by the applicant to the County Conservation District for
review and comment prior to the issuance of a permit.
   (B)   The recommendations of the Conservation District shall be considered
by the Floodplain Administrator for possible incorporation into the proposed
plan.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.026 REVIEW OF APPLICATION BY OTHERS.
   A copy of all plans and applications for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval may
be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to any other appropriate agencies
and/or individuals (e.g., Planning Commission, Borough Engineer, and the like)
for review and comment.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.027 CHARGES.
   (A)   After the issuance of a permit by the Floodplain Administrator, no
change of any kind shall be made to the permit application, permit, or any of
the plans, specifications, or other documents submitted with the application
without the written consent or approval of the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Requests for any such change shall be in writing, and shall be
submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator for consideration.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.028 PLACARDS.
   In addition to the permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a
placard which shall be displayed on the premises during the time construction
is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the permit, the date of
its issuance, and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.029 START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Work on the proposed construction or development shall begin within
180 days after the date of issuance and shall be completed within 12 months
after the date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall expire unless a
time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (1)   The actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means either the first placement
of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab
or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any
work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home on
a foundation.
      (2)   Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
      (3)   For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   (B)   Time extensions shall be granted only if a written request is
submitted by the applicant, which sets forth sufficient and reasonable cause
for the Floodplain Administrator to approve such a request.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.030 INSPECTION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or other
authorized official shall inspect the premises to determine that the work is
progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable borough laws and ordinances. He or she
shall make as many inspections during and upon the completion of the work as
are necessary.
   (B)   In the discharge of his or her duties, the Floodplain Administrator
shall have the authority to enter any building, structure, premises, or
development in the identified floodplain area, upon presentation of proper
credentials at any reasonable hour, to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does
not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances,
or that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant,
the Floodplain Administrator shall revoke the permit and report such fact to
the Council for whatever action it considers necessary.
   (D)   A record of all such inspection and violations of this chapter shall
be maintained.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.031 FEES.
   Applications for a permit shall be accompanied by a fee, in an amount as
established from time to time by resolution of Borough Council, payable to the
borough based upon the estimated cost of the proposed construction as
determined by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.032 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized borough
representative determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that
there has been a violation of any provisions of this chapter, or of any
regulation adopted pursuant thereto, the Floodplain Administrator shall give
notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time not to exceed a period of 30 days for the
performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or his or her agent as the case
may require; provided, however, that such notice or order shall be deemed to
have been properly served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been
served with such notice by any other method authorized or required by the laws
of this state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.033 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any action or decision of the Floodplain
Administrator involving the administration of the provisions of this chapter
may appeal to the Borough Council. Such appeal must be filed, in writing,
within 30 days after the decision or action of the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such appeal, the Borough Council shall set a time and
place, within not less than ten nor more than 30 days, for the purpose of
considering the appeal. Notice of the time and place at which the appeal will
be considered shall be given to all parties.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Board may seek relief
therefrom by appeal to court, as provided by the laws of this state including
the state’s Floodplain Management Act, 32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
IDENTIFICATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 152.045 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   (A)   The identified floodplain area shall be any areas in the borough,
classified as special flood hazard areas (SFHAs) in the Flood Insurance Study
(FIS) and the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) dated March 2,
2012, and issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or the most
recent revision thereof, including all digital data developed as part of the
Flood Insurance Study. The above referenced FIS and FIRMs, and any subsequent
revisions and amendments are hereby adopted by the Borough Council and declared
to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The identified floodplain area shall consist of the following specific
area/district.
      (1)   The AE Area/District shall be those areas identified as an AE Zone
on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which 100-year flood
elevations have been provided in the FIS.
      (2)   The Floodway Area, within the AE Area, is the area identified as
Floodway in the FIS, which represents the channel of a watercourse, and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation by more than one
foot at any point. This term shall also include floodway areas that have been
identified in other available studies or sources of information for those
special floodplain areas where no floodway has been identified in the FIS.
Special requirements for Floodway Areas to include:
         (a)   Any encroachment that would cause any increase in flood heights
shall be prohibited; and
         (b)   No new construction or development shall be allowed, unless a
permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection Regional
Office.
      (3)   The AE Area/District without floodway shall be those areas
identified as an AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and
for which base flood elevations have been provided in the FIS but no floodway
has been delineated.
         (a)   In AE Area/District without floodway, no new development shall
be permitted unless it can be demonstrated that the cumulative effect of all
past and projected development will not increase the BFE by more than one foot.
         (b)   No permit shall be granted for any construction, development,
use, or activity within any AE Area/District without floodway unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development would not,
together with all other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE
than one foot at any point.
      (4)   (a)   The A Area/District shall be those areas identified as an A
Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no 1%
annual chance flood elevations have been provided. For these areas, elevation
and floodway information from other federal, state, or other acceptable source
shall be used when available. Where other acceptable information is not
available, the elevation shall be determined by using the elevation of a point
on the boundary of the identified floodplain area which is nearest the
construction site.
         (b)   In lieu of the above, the municipality may require the applicant
to determine the elevation with hydrologic and hydraulic engineering
techniques. Hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by
professional engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall
certify that the technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted
technical concepts. Studies, analyses, computations, and the like, shall be
submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the
municipality.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.046 CHANGES IN FLOODPLAIN AREA DELINEATIONS.
   (A)   The areas considered to be floodplain may be revised or modified by
the Council where studies or information provided by a qualified agency or
person documents the need or possibility for such revision.
   (B)   No modification or revision of any floodplain area identified in the
FIS shall be made without prior approval from FEMA. Additionally, as soon as
practicable, but not later than six months after the date such information
becomes available, a community shall notify FEMA of the changes by submitting
technical or scientific data.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.047 DISPUTES.
   Should a dispute arise concerning the identification of any floodplain area,
an initial determination shall be made by the Borough Planning Commission and
any party aggrieved by such decision may appeal to the Borough Council. The
burden of proof shall be on the appellant.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
TECHNICAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.060 GENERAL.
   (A)   No encroachment, alteration, or improvement of any kind shall be made
to any watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected by
such action have been notified by the borough, and until all required permits
or approvals have been first obtained from the Department of Environmental
Protection.
   (B)   In addition, the Federal Emergency Management Agency and state’s
Department of Community and Economic Development shall be notified prior to any
alteration or relocation of any watercourse.
   (C)   Any new construction, development, uses, or activities allowed within
any identified floodplain area shall be undertaken in strict compliance with
the provisions contained in this chapter and any other applicable codes,
ordinance, and regulations.
   (D)   Submit technical or scientific data to FEMA for a Letter of Map
Revision (LOMR) within six months of the completion of any new construction,
development, or other activity resulting in changes in the BFE.
   (E)   No encroachment, alteration, or improvement of any kind shall be made
to any watercourse unless it can be shown that the activity will not reduce or
impede the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse in any way.
   (F)   When available, information from other federal, state, and other
acceptable sources shall be used to determine the BFE, as well as a floodway
area, if possible.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.061 SPECIAL FLOODWAY AND STREAM SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   Within the identified Floodplain Area (AE), the following provisions shall
apply: no new construction or development shall be located within the 100-year
floodplain area measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any
watercourse, unless a permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental
Protection.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.062 ELEVATION AND FLOOD-PROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures.
      (1)   In AE, A1-30, and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated up to, or
above, the regulatory flood elevation.
      (2)   In A Zones, where there are no base flood elevations specified on
the FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood
elevation determined in accordance with §
152.045(B)(4).
      (3)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
Pa. Code (Chapters 401 to 405 as amended) shall be utilized.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   In AE, A1-30, and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement of a nonresidential structure shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood elevation,
or be designed and constructed so that the space enclosed below the regulatory
flood elevation:
         (a)   Is flood-proofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water; and
         (b)   Has structural components with the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   In A Zones, where there are no base flood elevations specified on
the FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated or completely flood-proofed up to, or
above, the regulatory flood elevation determined in accordance with §
152.045(B)(4).
      (3)   Any nonresidential structure, or part thereof, made watertight
below the regulatory flood elevation shall be flood-proofed in accordance with
the WI or W2 space classification standards contained in the publication
entitled Flood-Proofing Regulations published by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers (June 1972, as amended March 1992) or with some other equivalent
standard. All plans and specifications for such flood-proofing shall be
accompanied by a statement certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect which states that the proposed design and methods of construction are
in conformance with the above referenced standards.
      (4)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
Pa. Code (Chapters 401-405 as amended) shall be utilized.
   (C)   Basements. Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding
basements) which will be used solely for the parking of a vehicle, building
access, or incidental storage in an area other than a basement, shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters. The term “fully enclosed
space” also includes crawl spaces. Designs for meeting this requirement must
either be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet
or exceed the following minimum criteria: a minimum of two openings having a
total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings
shall be no higher than one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with
screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings or devices provided that they
permit the automatic entry and exit of flood waters.
   (D)   Historic structures. See “substantial improvement” in §
152.006 for requirements for the substantial improvement of historic
structures.
   (E)   Accessory structures and publicly owned gazebos and bandstands.
Structures accessory to a principal building, and publicly owned gazebos and
bandstands need not be elevated or flood-proofed to remain dry, but shall
comply, at a minimum, with the following requirements.
      (1)   The structure shall not be designed or used for human habitation
and shall be limited to the parking of vehicles, or to the storage of tools,
material, and equipment related to the principal use or activity or as a stage
area for public entertainment.
      (2)   The floor area shall not exceed 200 square feet.
      (3)   The structure shall have a low damage potential.
      (4)   The structure shall be located on the site so as to cause the least
obstruction to the flow of flood waters.
      (5)   Power lines, wiring, and outlets shall be elevated to the
regulatory flood elevation.
      (6)   Permanently affixed utility equipment and appliances such as
furnaces, heaters, washers, dryers, and the like are prohibited.
      (7)   Sanitary facilities are prohibited.
      (8)   The structure shall be adequately anchored to prevent flotation or
movement and shall be designed to automatically provide for the entry and exit
of flood water for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on the walls.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria.
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, and the like or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of flood waters.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.063 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall apply for all construction and development
proposed within any identified floodplain area.
   (A)   Fill. If fill is used, it shall:
      (1)   Extend laterally at least 15 feet beyond the building line from all
points;
      (2)   Consist of soil or small rock materials only. Sanitary landfills
shall not be permitted;
      (3)   Be compacted to provide the necessary permeability and resistance
to erosion, scouring, or settling;
      (4)   Be no steeper than one vertical foot to two horizontal feet, unless
substantiated data, justifying steeper slopes are submitted to, and approved by
the Floodplain Administrator; and
      (5)   Be used to the extent to which it does not adversely affect
adjacent properties.
   (B)   Drainage.
      (1)   Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to convey the flow of
storm water runoff in a safe and efficient manner.
      (2)   The system shall ensure proper drainage along streets, and provide
positive drainage away from buildings.
      (3)   The system shall also be designed to prevent the discharge of
excess runoff onto adjacent properties.
   (C)   Water and sanitary sewer facilities.
      (1)   All new or replacement water and sanitary sewer facilities and
systems shall be located, designed, and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damages and the infiltration of flood waters.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer facilities shall be designed and constructed to
prevent the discharge of untreated sewage into flood waters.
      (3)   No part of any on-site sewage system shall be located within any
identified floodplain area except in strict compliance with all state and local
regulations for such systems. If any such system is permitted, it shall be
located so as to avoid impairment to it, or contamination from it, during a
flood.
   (D)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical and
telephone systems shall be located, elevated (where possible), and constructed
to minimize the chance of impairment during a flood.
   (E)   Streets. The finished elevation of all new streets shall be no more
than one foot below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (F)   Storage. All materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or, in
times of flooding, could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life, and not
listed in §
152.064, shall be stored at or above the regulatory flood elevation and/or
flood-proofed to the maximum extent possible.
   (G)   Placement of buildings and structures. All buildings and structures
shall be designed, located, and constructed so as to offer the minimum
obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to have a minimum effect
upon the flow and height of flood water.
   (H)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, storage tanks, and other similar
objects or components located below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
securely anchored or affixed to prevent flotation.
   (I)   Floors, walls, and ceilings.
      (1)   Wood flooring used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be installed to accommodate a lateral expansion of the flooring, perpendicular
to the flooring grain without causing structural damage to the building.
      (2)   Plywood used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be of
a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
      (3)   Walls and ceilings at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be designed and construed of materials that are water-resistant and will
withstand inundation.
      (4)   Windows, doors, and other components at or below the regulatory
flood elevation shall be made of metal or other water-resistant material.
   (J)   Paints and adhesives.
      (1)   Paints or other finishes used at or below the regulatory flood
elevation shall be of a “marine” or “water-resistant” quality.
      (2)   Adhesives used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
of a “marine” or “water-resistant” quality.
      (3)   All wooden components (doors, trim, cabinets, and the like) used at
or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be finished with a “marine” or
“water-resistant” paint or other finishing material.
   (K)   Electrical component.
      (1)   Electrical distribution panels shall be at least three feet above
the 100-year flood elevation.
      (2)   Separate electrical circuits shall serve lower levels and shall be
dropped from above.
   (L)   Equipment. Water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and ventilation
units, and other electrical, mechanical, or utility equipment or apparatus
shall not be located below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (M)   Fuel supply systems. All gas and oil supply systems shall be designed
to prevent the infiltration of flood waters into the system and discharges from
the system into flood waters. Additional provisions shall be made for the
drainage of these systems in the event that flood water infiltration occurs.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.064 DEVELOPMENT WHICH MAY ENDANGER HUMAN LIFE.
   (A)   The following list of materials and substances are considered
dangerous to human life:
      (1)   Acetone;
      (2)   Ammonia;
      (3)   Benzene;
      (4)   Calcium carbide;
      (5)   Carbon disulfide;
      (6)   Celluloid;
      (7)   Chlorine;
      (8)   Hydrochloric acid;
      (9)   Hydrocyanic acid;
      (10)   Magnesium;
      (11)   Nitric acid;
      (12)   Petroleum products (gasoline, fuel oil, and the like);
      (13)   Phosphorus;
      (14)   Potassium;
      (15)   Sodium;
      (16)   Sulfur and sulfur products;
      (17)   Pesticides (including insecticides, fungicides, and rodenticides);
and
      (18)   Radioactive substances, insofar as such substances are not
otherwise regulated.
   (B)   In accordance with the state’s Floodplain Management Act, 32 P.S. §§
679.101 et seq., and the regulations adopted by the Department of Community and
Economic Development as required by the Act, any new or substantially improved
structure which:
      (1)   Will be used for the production or storage of any of the dangerous
materials or substances identified in division (A) above;
      (2)   Will be used for any activity requiring the maintenance of a supply
of more than 550 gallons, or other comparable volume, of any of the dangerous
materials or substances identified in division (A) above on the premises; and
      (3)   Will involve the production, storage, or use of any amount of
radioactive substances shall be subject to the provisions of this section, in
addition to all other applicable provisions.
   (C)   Within any FW (Floodway), any structure of the kind described in
division (B) above shall be prohibited.
   (D)   (1)   Where permitted within any FF (Flood-Fringe Area) or FA (General
Floodplain Area), any structure of the kind described in division (B) above
shall be:
         (a)   Elevated or designed and constructed to remain completely dry up
to at least one and one- half feet above the 100-year flood; and
         (b)   Designed to prevent pollution from the structure or activity
during the course of a 100-year flood.
      (2)   Any such structure, or part thereof, that will be built below the
regulatory flood elevation shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the standards for completely dry flood-proofing contained in the publication
Flood-Proofing Regulations (U. S. Army Corps of Engineers, June 1972), or with
some other equivalent watertight standard.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.065 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Within any identified floodplain area, all manufactured homes and any
additions thereto shall be prohibited within the area measured 50 feet landward
from the top-of-bank of any watercourse.
   (B)   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, all
manufactured homes and additions thereto shall be:
      (1)   Placed on a permanent foundation;
      (2)   Elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is one
and one-half feet or more above the elevation of the 100-year flood; and
      (3)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement.
   (C)   Installation of manufactured homes shall be done in accordance with
the manufacturers’ installation instructions as provided by the manufacturer.
Where the applicant cannot provide the above information, the requirements of
Appendix E of the 2009 International Residential Building Code or the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Permanent Foundations for
Manufactured Housing, 1984 Edition, draft or latest revision thereto shall
apply and 34 Pa. Code Chapter 401 to 405.
   (D)   Consideration shall be given to the installation requirements of the
2006 IBC, and the 2006 IRC or the most recent revisions thereto and 34 Pa.
Code, as amended where appropriate and/or applicable to units where the
manufacturers’ standards for anchoring cannot be provided or were not
established for the units(s) proposed installation.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.066 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles in Zones A, A1-30, AH, and AE must either:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
   (C)   Meet the permit requirements for manufactured homes in §
152.065.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.067 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   All subdivision proposals and development proposals containing at least 50
lots or at least five acres, whichever is the lesser, in flood hazard areas
where base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by
hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analyses that determine base flood
elevations and floodway information. The analyses shall be prepared by a
licensed professional engineer in a format required by FEMA for a Conditional
Letter of Map Revision or Letter of Map Revision. Submittal requirements and
processing fees shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
ACTIVITIES REQUIRING SPECIAL PERMITS
§ 152.080 GENERAL.
   In accordance with the administrative regulations promulgated by the
Department of Community and Economic Development to implement the state’s
Floodplain Management Act, 32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq., the following activities
shall be prohibited within any identified floodplain area unless a special
permit has been issued by the borough:
   (A)   The commencement of any of the following activities, or the
construction, enlargement, or expansion of any structure used, or intended to
be used, for any of the following activities:
      (1)   Hospitals;
      (2)   Nursing homes; and
      (3)   Jails or prisons.
   (B)   The commencement of, or any construction of, a new manufactured home
park or manufactured home subdivision, or substantial improvement to an
existing manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.081 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL PERMITS.
   Applicants for special permits shall provide five copies of the following
items:
   (A)   A written request including a completed permit application form;
   (B)   A small scale map showing the vicinity in which the proposed site is
located;
   (C)   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of one
inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
      (1)   North arrow, scale, and date;
      (2)   Topography based upon the National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1988,
showing existing and proposed contours at intervals of two feet;
      (3)   All property and lot lines including dimensions, and the size of
the site expressed in acres or square feet;
      (4)   The location of all existing streets, drives, other accessways, and
parking areas, with information concerning widths, pavement types and
construction, and elevations;
      (5)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
building structures, and other public or private facilities, including railroad
tracks and facilities and any other natural and human-made features affecting,
or affected by, the proposed activity or development;
      (6)   The location of the floodplain boundary line, information and spot
elevations concerning the 100-year flood elevations, and information concerning
the flow of water including direction and velocities;
      (7)   The location of all proposed buildings, structures, utilities, and
any other improvements; and
      (8)   Any other information which the municipality considers necessary
for adequate review of the application.
   (D)   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures, and other improvements,
clearly and legibly drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
      (1)   Sufficiently detailed architectural or engineering drawings
including floor plans, sections, and exterior building elevations, as
appropriate;
      (2)   For any proposed building, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and, as required, the elevation of any other floor;
      (3)   Complete information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces, and other factors associated with the
100-year flood;
      (4)   Detailed information concerning any proposed flood-proofing
measures;
      (5)   Cross-section drawings for all proposed streets, drives, other
access ways, and parking areas, showing all rights-of-way and pavement widths;
      (6)   Profile drawings for all proposed streets, drives, and vehicular
access ways including existing and proposed grades; and
      (7)   Plans and profiles of all proposed sanitary and storm sewer
systems, water supply systems, and any other utilities and facilities.
   (E)   The following data and documentation:
      (1)   Certification from the applicant that the site upon which the
activity or development is proposed is an existing separate and single parcel,
owned by the applicant or the client he or she represents;
      (2)   Certification from a registered professional engineer, architect,
or landscape architect that the proposed construction has been adequately
designed to protect against damage from the 100-year flood;
      (3)   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, landscape architect, or other qualified person, which contains a
complete and accurate description of the nature and extent of pollution that
might possibly occur from the development during the course of a 100-year
flood, including a statement concerning the effects such pollution may have on
human life;
      (4)   A statement certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
description of the effects the proposed development will have on 100-year flood
elevations and flows;
      (5)   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
description of the kinds and amounts of any loose buoyant materials or debris
that may possibly exist or be located on the site below the 100-year flood
elevation and the effects such materials and debris may have on 100-year flood
elevations and flows;
      (6)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s “Planning Module for Land Development;”
      (7)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control;
      (8)   Any other applicable permits such as, but not limited to, a permit
for any activity regulated by the Department of Environmental Protection under
§ 302 of Act 1978-166, 32 P.S. § 679.302; and
      (9)   An evacuation plan which fully explains the manner in which the
site will be safely evacuated before or during the course of a 100-year flood.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.082 APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   Upon receipt of an application for a special permit by the borough the
following procedures shall apply in addition to those of §§
152.045 to
152.047.
   (A)   Within three working days following receipt of the application, a
complete copy of the application and all accompanying documentation shall be
forwarded to the County Planning Commission by registered or certified mail for
its review and recommendations. Copies of the application shall also be
forwarded to the Borough Planning Commission and Borough Engineer for review
and comment.
   (B)   If an application is received that is incomplete, the borough shall
notify the applicant in writing, stating in what respect the application is
deficient.
   (C)   If the borough decides to disapprove an application, it shall notify
the applicant, in writing, of the reasons for the disapproval.
   (D)   If the borough approves an application, it shall file written
notification, together with the application and all pertinent information, with
the Department of Community and Economic Development, by registered or
certified mail, within five working days after the date of approval.
   (E)   Before issuing the special permit, the borough shall allow the
Department of Community and Economic Development 30 days, after receipt of the
notification by the Department, to review the application and decision made by
the borough.
   (F)   If the borough does not receive any communication from the Department
of Community and Economic Development during the 30-day reviewing period, it
may issue a special permit to the applicant.
   (G)   If the Department of Community and Economic Development should decide
to disapprove an application, it shall notify the borough and the applicant, in
writing, or the reasons for the disapproval, and the borough shall not issue
the special permit.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.083 SPECIAL TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §§
152.060 to
152.067, the following minimum requirements shall also apply to any proposed
development requiring a special permit. If there is any conflict between any of
the following requirements and those in §§
152.060 to
152.067 or in any other code, ordinance, or regulation, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
   (B)   No application for a special permit shall be approved unless it can be
determined that the structure or activity will be located, constructed, and
maintained in a manner which will:
      (1)   Fully protect the health and safety of the general public and any
occupants of the structure. At a minimum, all new structures shall be designed,
located, and constructed so that:
         (a)   The structure will survive inundation by waters of the 100-year
flood without any lateral movement or damage to either the structure itself, or
to any of its equipment or contents below the 100-year flood elevation;
         (b)   The lowest floor elevation will be at least one and one-half
feet above the 100-year flood elevation; and
         (c)   The occupants of the structure can remain inside for an
indefinite period of time and be safely evacuated at any time during the 100-
year flood.
      (2)   Prevent any significant possibility of pollution, increased flood
levels or flows, or debris endangering life and property.
   (C)   (1)   All hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only
by professional engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall
certify that the technical method used correctly reflect currently accepted
technical concepts.
      (2)   Studies, analyses, computations, and the like shall be submitted in
sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the borough and the
Department of Community and Economic Development.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
EXISTING STRUCTURES IN IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 152.095 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   Structures existing in any identified floodplain area prior to the enactment
of this chapter may continue subject to the following provisions. Any
modification, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any kind to an
existing structure, to an extent or amount of 50% or more of its market value
shall constitute a substantial improvement and shall be undertaken only in full
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Any modification, alteration,
reconstruction, or improvement of any kind to an existing structure or use
within the AE Area/District, regardless of cost, shall comply with the
requirements of § 203.C.4.g and §
152.060(C).
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
VARIANCES
§ 152.110 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   If compliance with any of the requirements of this chapter would result in
an exceptional hardship for a prospective builder, developer, or landowner, the
borough may, upon request, grant relief from the strict application of the
requirements.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.111 VARIANCE PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Requests for variances shall be considered by the borough in accordance with
the following.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use,
or activity within any AE Area that would, together with all other existing and
anticipated development, increase the 100-year flood elevation more than one
foot at any point.
   (B)   If granted, a variance shall involve only the least modification
necessary to provide relief.
   (C)   In granting any variance, the borough shall attach whatever reasonable
conditions and safeguards it considers necessary in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare, and to achieve the objectives of this chapter.
   (D)   Whenever a variance is granted, the borough shall notify the applicant
in writing that:
      (1)   The granting of the variance may result in increased premium rates
for flood insurance; and
      (2)   Such variances may increase the risks to life and property.
   (E)   In reviewing any request for a variance, the borough shall consider,
but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   There is good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship
to the applicant; and
      (3)   The granting of the variance will:
         (a)   Neither result in an unacceptable or prohibited increase in
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary public
expense; nor
         (b)   Create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimize the public, or
conflict with any other applicable state statute or regulations, or local
ordinance or regulation.
   (F)   A complete record of all variance requests and related actions shall
be maintained by the borough. In addition, a report of all variances granted
during the year shall be included in the annual or biennial report to FEMA.
   (G)   No variance will be granted for the development to locate within the
floodplain: hospitals; nursing homes; or jails or prisons as listed in §
152.080.
   (H)   No variance will be granted for the production, storage, or
maintenance of §§
152.063(F) and
152.064.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any of the above, however, all structures shall be
designed and constructed so as to have the capability of resisting the 100-year
flood.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or who fails or refuses to comply with any notice,
order, or direction of the Floodplain Administrator or any other authorized
employee of the borough shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction,
shall pay a fine to the borough of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000 plus
costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this chapter
continues or each section of this chapter which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to the above
penalties, all other actions are hereby reserved including an action in equity
for the proper enforcement of this chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty
for any violation of, or noncompliance with, this chapter shall not excuse the
violation or noncompliance or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall
be required to correct or remedy such violations and noncompliances within a
reasonable time. Any development initiated or any structure or building
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, altered, or relocated, in noncompliance
with this chapter may be declared by the borough to be a public nuisance and
abatable as such.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Authority
   
153.004   Application of regulations
   
153.005   Interpretation and conflicts
   
153.006   Modifications
   
153.007   Preventive remedies
   
153.008   Definitions
Procedures
   
153.020   General procedure
   
153.021   Fee schedule
   
153.022   Minor subdivision procedure
   
153.023   Major subdivision and land development procedure
Plan Requirements
   
153.035   Sketch plan
   
153.036   Preliminary plan
   
153.037   Final plan
   
153.038   As-built plans
General Design Standards
   
153.050   Application
   
153.051   Land requirements
   
153.052   Street system
   
153.053   Street design
   
153.054   Curbs and sidewalks
   
153.055   Storm water drainage
   
153.056   Excavation and grading
   
153.057   Blocks and lots
   
153.058   Development on private streets discouraged
   
153.059   Open space, lot siting, planting, and beautification for subdivision
and land developments
   
153.060   Erosion and sediment control
   
153.061   Sanitary sewer facilities
   
153.062   Water facilities
   
153.063   Other utilities and facilities
On-Site Improvements
   
153.075   General requirements
   
153.076   Streets
   
153.077   Curbs and sidewalks
   
153.078   Sewers
   
153.079   Water
   
153.080   Storm drainage
   
153.081   Utilities
   
153.082   Monuments and markers
   
153.083   Other improvements
   
153.084   Time limits
   
153.085   Inspection
   
153.086   Completion of improvements or guarantee thereof prerequisite to final
plat approval
   
153.087   Release from improvement bond
   
153.088   Remedies to effect completion of improvement
 
   
153.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Format for “Approval” Spaces
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as “the Borough of Bedford Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 1, § 101) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE.
   These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the borough;
   (B)   To guide the future growth and development of the borough, in
accordance with the Comprehensive Plan of the borough;
   (C)   To provide for adequate light, air, and privacy; to secure safety from
fire, flood, and other danger; and to prevent overcrowding of the land and
undue congestion of population;
   (D)   To protect the character and social and economic stability of the
borough and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development of the borough;
   (E)   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the borough and
the value of buildings and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the
conflicts among the uses of land and buildings;
   (F)   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water supply, sewerage, storm water
management, schools, parks, playgrounds, recreation, and other public
requirements and facilities;
   (G)   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land
and buildings and the circulation of traffic within the borough, having
particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways,
and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land
and buildings and to provide for the proper location and width of streets and
building lines;
   (H)   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivision and resubdivisions, in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land; and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land;
   (I)   To ensure that public facilities are available and will have a
sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision;
   (J)   To prevent the pollution of air, streams, and ponds; to assure the
adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table; and to encourage
the wise use and management of natural resources in order to preserve the
community and value of the land;
   (K)   To control storm water in a manner consistent with the county storm
water management plan;
   (L)   To regulate the subdivision and/or development of land within any
designated floodplain district in order to promote the general health, welfare,
and safety of the community;
   (M)   To require that each subdivision lot in flood-prone areas include a
safe building site with adequate access; and that public facilities which serve
such uses be designed and installed to minimize flood damage;
   (N)   To protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuitable for use
because of flooding by prohibiting the improper subdivision and/or development
of unprotected lands within the designated floodplain districts;
   (O)   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the borough and to
ensure appropriate development with regard to these natural features;
   (P)   To provide for open spaces through efficient design and layout of the
land; and
   (Q)   To ensure that documents prepared as part of a land ownership transfer
fully and accurately describe the parcel of land being subdivided and the new
parcels thus created.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 1, § 102) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.003 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Authority of the Borough Council. The Borough Council is vested by law
with the control of the subdivision of land and land development within the
borough by the state’s Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
The Borough Council shall retain the authority to approve all subdivision plans
and land development plans as required herein.
   (B)   Authority of the Borough Planning Commission. The Borough Planning
Commission is hereby designated by the Borough Council as an agency which shall
review and make recommendations on preliminary and final subdivision and land
development plans as required herein, prior to action by the Borough Council
and, when provided by ordinance, make other recommendations.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 1, § 103) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.004 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Subdivision control. No subdivision, as herein defined, of any lot,
tract, or parcel of land shall be effected and no street, avenue, sanitary
sewer, storm sewer, water main, or other facilities in connection therewith
shall be laid out, constructed, opened, or dedicated for public use or travel,
or for the common use of occupants of buildings abutting or to abut thereon,
except in strict accordance with the provisions of this chapter. No lot in any
subdivision may be sold and no permit to erect, alter, or repair any building
upon land in a subdivision may be issued, and no building may be erected in a
subdivision, unless and until a subdivision plan has been approved and recorded
and until the improvements required by the Borough Council in connection
therewith have either been constructed or guaranteed as herein provided in §
153.086.
   (B)   Land development control.
      (1)   Land development, as herein defined, must comply with the
regulations contained herein. Such compliance shall include, but not be limited
to, the filing of preliminary and final plats, the dedication and improvement
of rights-of-way, streets, and roads, and the payment of fees and charges as
established by resolution of the Borough Council.
      (2)   Land development plans shall indicate the location of each
structure and clearly define each unit, and shall indicate public easements,
common areas and improvements, all easements appurtenant to each unit, and
improvements to public rights-of-way. Developments are subject to the zoning
regulations as they apply to use and density requirements, setbacks, parking
and other features, and the same shall be indicated on the land development
plan.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 1, § 104) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.005 INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICTS.
   (A)   Interpretation. In interpreting and applying the provisions of this
chapter, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare.
   (B)   Conflict with public and private provisions.
      (1)   Public provisions. Where any provision of this chapter imposes
restrictions different from those imposed by any other provision of this
chapter or any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of law,
whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher standards shall
control.
      (2)   Private provisions. This chapter is not intended to abrogate any
easement, covenant, or any other private agreement or restriction, provided
that where the provisions of this chapter are more restrictive or impose higher
standards or regulations than such easement, covenant, or other private
agreement or restriction, the requirements of this chapter shall govern. Where
the provisions of the easement, covenant, or private agreement or restriction
impose duties and obligations more restrictive, or higher standards than the
requirements of these regulations or the determinations of the Borough Council
in approving a subdivision or in enforcing this chapter, and such private
provisions are not inconsistent with this chapter or determinations thereunder,
then such private provisions shall be operative and supplemental to these
regulations and determinations made thereunder.
   (C)   Municipal liability. The grant of a permit or approval of a plan for
any proposed subdivision and/or land development to be located within any
identified floodplain area or district shall not constitute a representation,
guarantee, or warranty of any kind by the borough, or by any official or
employee thereof, of the practicability or safety of the proposed use and shall
create no liability upon the borough, its officials, or employees.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 1, § 105) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.006 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Borough Council may grant a modification of the requirements of
one or more provisions of this chapter if the literal enforcement will exact
undue hardship because of peculiar conditions pertaining to the land in
question, provided that such modification will not be contrary to the public
interest and that the purpose and intent of this chapter is observed.
   (B)   All requests for modification shall be in writing and shall accompany
and be part of the application for development. The request shall state in full
the grounds and facts of unreasonableness or hardship on which the request is
based, the provision or provisions of this chapter involved, and the minimum
modification necessary.
   (C)   The request for modification shall be referred to the borough’s
Planning Commission for advisory comments.
   (D)   The Borough Council shall keep a written record of all action on all
requests for modifications.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 1, § 106) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.007 PREVENTIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   In addition to other remedies, the borough may institute and maintain
appropriate actions by law or in equity to restrain, correct, or abate
violations, to prevent unlawful construction, to recover damages, and to
prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure, or premises. The
description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other
documents used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the
seller or transferror from such penalties or from the remedies herein provided.
   (B)   The borough may refuse to issue any permit or grant any approval
necessary to further improve or develop any real property which has been
developed or which has resulted from a subdivision of real property in
violation of this chapter. This authority to deny such a permit or approval
shall apply to any of the following applicants:
      (1)   The owner of record at the time of such violation;
      (2)   The vendee or lessee of the owner of record at the time of such
violation without regard as to whether such vendee or lessee had actual or
constructive knowledge of the violation; and/or
      (3)   The current owner of record who acquired the property subsequent to
the time of violation without regard as to whether such current owner had
actual or constructive knowledge of the violation.
   (C)   As an additional condition for issuance of a permit or the granting of
an approval to any such owner, current owners, vendee, or lessee for the
development of any such real property, the borough may require compliance with
the conditions that would have been applicable to the property at the time the
applicant acquired an interest in such real property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 1, § 107) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.008 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Construction. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words
shall, for the purpose of this chapter, have the meaning herein indicated. The
present tense shall include the future; the singular number shall include the
plural; words used in the masculine gender shall include the feminine and the
neuter; the word “shall” is always mandatory; the word “may” is always
permissive.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 2, § 201)
   (B)   Definitions.
      ACCELERATED EROSION. The removal of the surface of the land through the
combined action of people’s activities and natural processes at a rate greater
than would occur because of the natural processes alone.
      APPLICANT. A land owner or developer, as hereinafter defined, who has
filed an application for development including his or her heirs, successors,
and assigns.
      APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT. Every application, whether preliminary,
tentative, or final, required to be filed and approved prior to start of
construction or development including, but not limited to, an application for a
building permit, for the approval of a subdivision plat or plan, or for the
approval of a development plan.
      AVENUE. A public or private right-of-way which usually affords access to
the rear or side of a property. An AVENUE may also be known as a COURT, LANE,
or PLACE.
      BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines, or waterways.
      BOROUGH COUNCIL. The Council of the Borough of Bedford, Bedford County,
Pennsylvania.
      BUILDING . Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals, or
chattels, and including covered porches or bay windows and chimneys. Included
shall be all manufactured homes and trailers to be used for human habitation.
      CARTWAY or ROADWAY. The portion of a street right-of-way designed or
intended for vehicular use.
      CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE. A triangular area of unobstructed vision at street
intersections, having as its sides two perpendicular street lines, and a line
established between a point on each street line a given distance from the
intersection.
      COMMON OPEN SPACE. A parcel of land or an area of water, or a combination
of land and water, within a development site and designed and intended for the
use or enjoyment of residents of a development, not including streets, off-
street parking areas, and areas set aside for public facilities.
      COMPLETELY DRY SPACE. A space which will remain totally dry during
flooding; the structure is designed and constructed to prevent the passage of
water and water vapor.
      CONDOMINIUM AND COOPERATIVE. (An ownership arrangement and not a land
use.) A method of ownership which, when applied to a multi-family dwelling,
provides for separate ownership for each unit, title of which shall consist of
ownership of the unit, together with an undivided interest in the common
element.
      CONSERVATION DISTRICT. The Conservation District serving Bedford County.
      CONSTRUCTION. The construction, reconstruction, renovation, repair,
extension, expansion, alteration, or relocation of a building or structure,
including the placement of manufactured homes.
      COUNTY. The County of Bedford, Pennsylvania.
      COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the County of
Bedford.
      CUT. An excavation. The difference between a point on the original ground
and designated point of lower elevation on the final grade. Also, the material
removed in excavation.
      DEPARTMENT. The Department of Community and Economic Development of the
Commonwealth.
      DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION (DEP). The Pennsylvania Department
of Environmental Protection, its bureaus, divisions, departments, and/or
agencies, as may from time to time be established, or such department or
departments as may in the future succeed it.
      DESIGNATED FLOODPLAIN AREAS. A relatively flat or low land area adjoining
a river, stream, or watercourse which is subject to partial or complete
inundation in a 100-year flood, as designated in the borough’s zoning ordinance
(Chapter 154).
      DETENTION POND. An area in which surface water runoff is temporarily
stored pending its release at a controlled rate.
      DEVELOPER. Any landowner, agent of such landowner, or tenant with the
permission of such landowner, who makes or causes to be made a subdivision of
land or a land development.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, the construction or placement of buildings or
other structures, mobile homes, streets and other paving, utilities, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling operations, and the
subdivision of land.
      DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The provisions for development, including a planned
residential development, a plat of subdivision, all covenants relating to use,
location, and bulk of buildings and other structures, intensity of use or
density of development, streets, ways and parking facilities, common open
space, and public facilities. The phrase PROVISIONS OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN when
used in this chapter shall mean the written and graphic materials referred to
in this definition.
      DRAINAGE. The removal of surface water or ground water from land by
drains, grading, or other means and includes control of runoff to minimize
erosion and sedimentation during and after construction or development.
      DRAINAGE FACILITY. Any ditch, gutter, culvert, storm sewer, or other
structure designed, intended, or constructed for the purpose of carrying,
diverting, or controlling surface water or groundwater.
      DRAINAGE RIGHT-OF-WAY. The lands required for the installation of storm
water sewers or drainage ditches, or required along a natural stream or
watercourse for preserving the channel and providing for the flow of water
therein to safeguard the public against flood damage.
      DRIVEWAY. A private vehicular passageway providing access between a
street and a private parking area or private garage.
      DWELLING. A structure or portion thereof which is used exclusively for
human habitation.
      EASEMENT. A grant for the use of a parcel of land by the public, a
corporation, or a person for a specified purpose.
      ENGINEER. A registered professional engineer in Pennsylvania designated
by the Borough of Bedford.
      ENGINEERING SPECIFICATIONS. The engineering criteria of the borough
regulating the installation of any improvement or facility.
      EROSION. The process by which the land surface and/or subsurface is worn
away by the action of natural elements.
      ESSENTIALLY DRY SPACE. A space which will remain dry during flooding,
except for the passage of some water vapor or minor seepage; the structure is
substantially impermeable to the passage of water.
      EXCAVATION. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other
similar material is dug into, cut, quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced,
relocated, or bulldozed. It shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
      FILL. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other material
is placed, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported, or moved to a new location
above the natural surface of the ground or on top of the stripped surface. It
shall include the conditions resulting therefrom; the difference in elevation
between a point on the original ground and a designated point of higher
elevation of the final grade. The material used to make fill.
      FLOOD. A temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
      FLOODPLAIN. A relatively flat or low land area which is subject to
partial or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river, or
watercourse; and/or any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of
surface waters from any source.
      FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures, and their contents.
      FLOODWAY. The designated area of a floodplain required to carry and
discharge flood waters of a given magnitude. For purposes of this chapter, the
FLOODWAY shall be capable of accommodating a flood of the 100-year magnitude.
      GOVERNING BODY. The Borough Council.
      GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN. A plan showing all existing ground features
and proposed grading, including existing and proposed surface and subsurface
drainage facilities, described by grades, contours, and topography.
      IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREA. The floodplain area specifically identified
in this chapter as being inundated by the 100-year flood. Included would be
areas identified as Floodway (FW), Flood-Fringe (FF), and General Floodplain
(FA).
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A surface which prevents the penetration of water
into the ground.
      IMPROVEMENTS. Those physical additions, installations, and changes
required to render land suitable for the use intended including, but not
limited to, grading, paving, curbing, street lights and signs, fire hydrants,
water mains, electric service, gas service, sanitary sewers, storm drains,
sidewalks, cross-walks, driveways, culverts, and street shade trees.
      INTERIOR WALK. A right-of-way or easement for pedestrian use, extending
from a street into a block or across a block to another street.
      LAND DEVELOPMENT.
         (a)   Any of the following activities:
            1.   The improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots,
tracts, or parcels of land for any purpose involving:
               a.   A group of two or more residential or nonresidential
buildings, whether proposed initially or cumulatively, or a single
nonresidential building on a lot or lots regardless of the number of occupants
or tenure; or
               b.   The division or allocation of land or space, whether
initially or cumulatively, between or among two or more existing or prospective
occupants by means of, or for the purpose of, streets, common areas,
leaseholds, condominiums, building groups, or other features.
            2.   A subdivision of land.
         (b)   LAND DEVELOPMENT does not include development which involves:
            1.   The conversion of an existing single-family detached dwelling
or single-family semi- detached dwelling into not more than three residential
units, unless such units are intended to be a condominium;
            2.   The addition of an accessory building, including farm
building, on a lot or lots subordinate to an existing principal building; or
            3.   The addition or conversion of buildings or rides within the
confines of an enterprise which would be considered an amusement park. For the
purposes of this division (b), an AMUSEMENT PARK is defined as a tract or area
used principally as a location for permanent amusement structures or rides.
This exclusion shall not apply to newly acquired acreage by an amusement park
until initial plans for the expanded area have been approved by the proper
authorities.
      LAND DISTURBANCE. Any activity involving grading, tilling, digging, or
filling of ground, or stripping of vegetation or any other activity which
causes land to be exposed to the danger of erosion.
      LOT. A designated parcel, tract, or area of land established by a plat or
otherwise as permitted by law and to be used, developed, or built upon as a
unit.
         (a)   LOT, CORNER. A lot which has an interior angle of less than 135
degrees at the intersection of two street lines. A lot abutting upon a curved
street or streets shall be considered a CORNER LOT if the tangent to the curve
at the points beginning within the lot or at the points of intersection of the
side lot lines with the street lines intersects at an angle of less than 135
degrees.
         (b)   LOT, DEPTH. The mean distance from the right-of-way line of the
lot to its opposite rear line measured in a direction parallel to the side
lines of the lot. LOT DEPTH for triangular lots shall be the mean distance from
the street line to the point of intersection of the side yards.
         (c)   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot, the side lot lines of which do not abut on
a street.
         (d)   LOT, MINIMUM WIDTH. The minimum lot width at the building
setback line.
         (e)   LOT, NONCONFORMING. A lot, the area or dimension of which was
lawful prior to the adoption or amendment of this chapter, but which fails to
conform to the requirements of the zoning district in which it is located by
reason of such adoption or amendment.
         (f)   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which has been recorded in the office of
the Recorder of Deeds.
         (g)   LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE. A lot which abuts upon both a street and
either an arterial or a collector street, with vehicular access solely from the
former.
         (h)   LOT, THROUGH. An interior lot having frontage on two parallel or
approximately parallel streets.
         (i)   LOT, TRIANGULAR. A lot having three lot lines, but which does
not qualify as a corner lot.
         (j)   LOT, WIDTH. The distance measured between the side lot lines, at
the required building setback line. In a case where there is only one side lot
line, LOT WIDTH shall be measured between such side lot line and the opposite
rear lot line or street line.
      MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE. Any security, other than cash, which may be
accepted by the borough for the maintenance of any improvements required by
this chapter.
      MAJOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision not classified as a minor subdivision.
      MARKER. A wood or metal stake placed to designate the boundaries and
corners of lots in the subdivision of land for the purpose of reference in land
and property survey and to facilitate the sale of lots.
      MINOR REPAIR. The replacement of existing work with equivalent materials
for the purpose of its routine maintenance and upkeep, but not including the
cutting away of any wall, partition or portion thereof, the removal or cutting
of any structural beam or bearing support, or the removal or change of any
required means of egress or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting the
exitway requirements; nor shall MINOR REPAIRS include addition to, alteration
of, replacement, or relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer, drainage,
drain leader, gas, soil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric wiring, or
mechanical or other work affecting public health or general safety.
      MINOR SUBDIVISION. The subdivision of land into not more than two parcels
located on an existing improved street that does not involve installation of
improvements as required by this chapter; extension of utilities; frontage on
an arterial or collector street; adverse effect to the development of the
remaining parcel; adverse effect to adjoining properties; and conflict with the
borough’s Comprehensive Plan, zoning ordinance (Chapter 154), any portion of
this chapter, or other state, county, or borough ordinances, laws, or
regulations.
      MOBILE OR MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
includes park trailers, travel trailers, and recreational and other similar
vehicles placed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
      MOBILE OR MANUFACTURED HOME LOT. A parcel of land in a mobile home park,
improved with the necessary utility connections and other appurtenances
necessary for the erection thereon of a single mobile or manufactured home.
      MOBILE OR MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land which has been planned and improved for the placement of two or more
mobile or manufactured homes.
      MONUMENT. A concrete, stone, or other permanent object placed to
designate boundary lines, corners of property, and rights-of-way of streets and
utilities, for the purpose of reference in land and property survey.
      MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY. A body politic and corporate created pursuant to the
Act of May 2, 1945, Pub. Law 382, No. 164, 53 P.S. §§ 301 et seq., the
Municipality Authorities Act of 1945.
      MUNICIPALITIES PLANNING CODE. Act of July 31, 1968, Pub. Law 805, as
amended, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
      100-YEAR FLOOD. A flood that, on the average, is likely to occur once
every 100 years (i.e., that has 1% chance of occurring each year, although the
flood may occur in any year).
      ONSITE IMPROVEMENTS. All improvements constructed on the applicant’s
property, or the improvements constructed on the property abutting the
applicant’s property, necessary for the ingress or egress to the applicant’s
property and required to be constructed by the applicant pursuant to any
municipal ordinance including, but not limited to, the Municipal Building Code,
this chapter, PRD regulations, and zoning ordinance (Chapter 154).
      OWNER. The legal or beneficial owner or owners of land, including the
holder of an option or contract to purchase (whether or not such option or
contract is subject to any condition), a lessee if he or she is authorized
under the lease to exercise the rights of the owner or other persons having a
proprietary interest in the land, shall be deemed to be an OWNER for the
purpose of this chapter.
      PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any security which may be in lieu of a requirement
that certain improvements be made before the Borough Council approves a final
subdivision or land development plan, including performance bonds, escrow
agreements, and other similar collateral or surety agreements.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility, or any other legal entity whatsoever which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
      PLAN, FINAL. A complete and exact subdivision plan or land development
plan, prepared for official recording as required by statute, to define
property rights and proposed streets and other improvements.
      PLAN, PRELIMINARY. A tentative subdivision plan or land development plan,
in lesser detail than a final plan, showing approximate proposed street and lot
layout as a basis for consideration prior to preparation of a final plan.
      PLAN, SKETCH. An informal plan, subdivision or land development plan, not
necessarily to scale, indicating salient existing features of a tract and its
surroundings and the general layout of the proposed subdivision.
      PLAN, SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL. A plan for controlling
erosion and sediment during construction which shall provide all steps,
including scheduling, to assure erosion and sediment control during all phases
of construction, including final stabilization.
      PLANNING AGENCY. The Borough of Bedford Planning Commission.
      PLAT. A map or plan of a subdivision or land development whether sketch,
preliminary, or final.
      PUBLIC GROUNDS. Includes:
         (a)   Parks, playgrounds, trails, paths, and other recreational areas
and other public areas;
         (b)   Sites for schools, sewage treatment, refuse disposal, and other
publicly owned or operated facilities; and
         (c)   Publicly owned or operated scenic and historic sites.
      PUBLIC HEARING. A formal meeting held pursuant to public notice by the
Borough Council or Borough Planning Agency, intended to inform and obtain
public comment, prior to taking action in accordance with this chapter.
      PUBLIC MEETING. A forum held pursuant to notice under the Act of July 3,
1986, Pub. Law 388, No. 84, 53 P.S. §§ 271 et seq., the Sunshine Act.
      PUBLIC NOTICE. Notice published once each week for two successive weeks
in a newspaper of general circulation in the Borough of Bedford. Such NOTICE
shall state the time and place of the hearing and the particular nature of the
matter to be considered at the hearing. The first publication shall not be more
than 30 days and the second publication shall not be less than seven days from
the date of the hearing.
      REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The 100-year flood elevation plus a freeboard
safety factor of one and one-half feet.
      RESERVE STRIP. A narrow parcel of ground having inadequate area for
building purposes separating a street or a proposed street from other adjacent
properties.
      RESIDENT PROPERTY OWNER. Any individual maintaining a voting address in
the Borough of Bedford, within 1,000 feet of the proposed subdivision, owning
real estate in his or her own or joint names.
      RESUBDIVISION. Any subdivision or transfer of land, laid out on a plan
which has been approved by the Borough Council, which changes or proposes to
change property lines and/or public rights-of-way not in strict accordance with
the approved plan.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A corridor of land set aside for use, in whole or in part,
by a street.
      RUNOFF. The surface water discharge or rate of discharge of a given
watershed after a fall of rain or snow that does not enter the soil but runs
off the surface of the land; that part of precipitation which flows over the
land.
      SEDIMENT. Solid material, both mineral and organic, that is in
suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by
water.
      SEDIMENTATION. The process by which mineral or organic matter is
accumulated or deposited by the movement of wind and water, or by gravity. Once
this matter is deposited, or remains suspended in water, it is usually referred
to as “sediment.”
      SETBACK (BUILDING SETBACK LINE). The minimum distance that a building
must be held back from an adjacent lot line, depending on the zoning district
in which the lot is located.
      SEWER, COMMUNITY. A system, whether publicly or privately owned, for the
collection of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature from two or more
lots and for the treatment or disposal of the sewage or industrial waste on one
or more of the lots or at any other site.
      SEWER, INDIVIDUAL. A system of piping, tanks, or other facilities serving
a single lot and collecting and disposing of sewage in whole or in part into
the soil or into waters of the state or by means of conveyance to another site
for final disposal.
      SHOULDER. The portion of a roadway (cartway) between the curb or gutter
and the travelway intended for emergency and parking use.
      SIGHT DISTANCE. The unimpeded view a vehicle operator has along the
street he or she is traveling or the street he or she is entering or crossing,
such distance related to driver reaction time and posted speed limits and
assuming the operator’s eye level is between two feet, six inches, and eight
feet above the pavement.
      SLOPE. The face of an embankment of cut section; any ground whose surface
makes an angle with the plane of the horizon. SLOPES are usually expressed in a
percentage based upon vertical difference in feet per 100 feet of horizontal
distance.
      SPECIAL PERMIT. A special approval which is required for hospitals,
nursing homes, jails, and new manufactured home parks and subdivisions, and
substantial improvements to such existing parks, when such development is
located in all or a designated portion of a floodplain.
      STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. The plan for managing storm water runoff
adopted by Bedford County as required by the Act of October 4, 1978, Pub. Law
864, No. 167, 32 P.S. §§ 680.1 et seq. and known as the “Storm Water Management
Act.”
      STREET, ROAD, or HIGHWAY. Includes street, avenue, boulevard, road,
highway, freeway, parkway, lane, avenue, viaduct, or any other ways used or
intended to be used by vehicular traffic or pedestrians, whether public or
private, which are identified on the legally adopted borough street or highway
plan or the official map, together with all necessary appurtenances, including
bridges, rights-of-way, and traffic control improvements. The term shall not
include the interstate highway system.
         (a)   ARTERIAL STREETS. Those serving large volumes of comparatively
high-speed and long-distance traffic, and include facilities classified as main
and secondary highways by the state’s Department of Transportation.
         (b)   COLLECTOR STREETS. Streets which give minimal emphasis to travel
mobility, which is characterized by low travel speeds, full land access,
neighborhood penetration, and which serves minor traffic generators such as
local elementary schools, small individual industrial plants, offices,
commercial facilities, and warehouses not served by principal or minor
arterials.
         (c)   CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street intersecting another street at one
end and terminated at the other by a vehicular turnaround.
         (d)   LOCAL ACCESS STREETS. Those used primarily to provide access to
abutting properties.
         (e)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS. Minor streets, parallel and adjacent to
arterial streets, providing access to abutting properties and control of
intersections with the arterial street.
      STRUCTURE. Any human-made object having an ascertainable stationary
location on or in land or water, whether or not affixed to the land.
      SUBDIVISION. The division or redivision of a lot, tract, or parcel of
land, by any means, into two or more lots, tracts, or parcels or other
divisions, including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs
or devisees, transfer or ownership, or building or lot development.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either, before the improvement or the repair is started, or if the
structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
      SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETED. Where, in the judgment of the Borough Engineer,
at least 90% (based on the cost of the required improvements for which
financial security was posted pursuant to the requirements of this chapter) of
those improvements required as a condition for final approval have been
completed in accordance with the approved plan, so that the project will be
able to be used, occupied, or operated for its intended use.
      SURVEYOR. A licensed surveyor registered by the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
      SWALE. A low-lying stretch of land characterized as a depression used to
carry surface water runoff.
      TOP SOIL. Surface soils and subsurface soils which normally are fertile
soils and soil material, ordinarily rich in organic matter or humus debris. TOP
SOIL is usually found in the uppermost soil layer called the A Horizon.
      UNDEVELOPED LAND. Any lot, tract, or parcel of land which has not been
graded or in any other manner improved.
      UNIT. A part of the property, structure, or building designed or intended
for any type of independent use, which has direct exit to a public street or
way, or to an easement or right-of-way leading to a public street or way and
includes a proportionate undivided interest in the common elements, which is
assigned to the property, structure, or building.
      WATER FACILITY. Any water works, water supply works, water distribution
system, or part thereof, designed, intended, or constructed to provide or
distribute potable water.
      WATER SURVEY. An inventory of the source, quantity, yield, and use of
groundwater and surface water resources within the Borough of Bedford.
      WATERCOURSE. A stream of water, river, brook, or creek; a channel or
ditch for water, whether natural or human-made.
      WETLANDS.
         (a)   Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar
areas.
         (b)   The term includes, but is not limited to, WETLAND areas listed
in the State Water Plan, the United States Forest Service Wetlands Inventory of
Pennsylvania, the Pennsylvania Coastal Zone Management Plan, and a wetland area
designated by a river basin commission.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 2, § 202) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
PROCEDURES
§ 153.020 GENERAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Classification of subdivision. Whenever any subdivision of land or
land development is proposed, before any contract is made for the sale of any
part thereof, and before any permit for the erection of a structure in such
proposed subdivision or land development shall be granted, the owner, or his or
her authorized agent, shall apply for and secure approval of such proposed
subdivision or land development in accordance with the following procedures for
subdivision and land development.
   (B)   Preapplication borough consultation. Prior to filing an application
for approval of a subdivision or land development within the borough, the owner
or his or her authorized agent shall meet with the Borough Engineer for an
official classification of his or her proposed subdivision or land development.
The Borough Engineer shall determine whether the proposal shall be classified
as a minor subdivision, a major subdivision, or a land development. At this
time, the Borough Engineer shall advise the owner or his or her authorized
agent as to which of the procedures contained herein must be followed.
   (C)   Preapplication Conservation District Consultation. Prospective
developers should consult with the County Conservation District representative
concerning erosion and sediment control and the effect of geologic conditions
on the proposed development.
   (D)   Preapplication research. If it is known that the parcels being created
will be used for development requiring a special permit, or for development
that is considered dangerous to human life, prospective developers should check
the provisions contained in the zoning ordinance (Chapter 154) and floodplain
ordinance (Chapter 152), which pertain specifically to those kind of
developments.
   (E)   Official filing date. For the purpose of these regulations, the
official filing date shall be the date of the regular meeting of the Planning
Commission next following the date the application and plans are received in
the Borough Building; provided, that should said regular meeting occur more
than 30 days following the submission of the application, the official filing
date shall be the thirtieth day following the day the application has been
submitted. Upon receipt of an application for subdivision or land development
approval, the Borough Engineer shall affix to the application both the date of
submittal and the official filing date.
   (F)   County Planning Commission review. All plans shall be submitted to and
reviewed by the County Planning Commission in accordance with its then
prevailing rules and regulations. The borough shall forward to the subdivider a
copy of any report of the County Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 3, § 301) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.021 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Submission of fees. All filing, inspection, and engineering fees shall
be submitted to the borough.
   (B)   Plan filing fee. A filing fee shall accompany the preliminary plan. No
application shall be accepted or acted upon unless payment is made to the
borough. The Borough Council shall create by resolution a schedule of fees to
be paid by the subdivider or land developer to defray the cost of administering
and processing of plans. The schedule of fees may be changed from time to time
by resolution of the Borough Council.
   (C)   Review fees.
      (1)   Review fees shall include the reasonable and necessary charges by
the borough’s professional consultants or engineer for review and report to the
borough, and shall be set by resolution. Such review fees shall be reasonable
and in accordance with the ordinary and customary charges by the Borough
Engineer or consultant for similar service in the community, but in no event
shall the fees exceed the rate or cost charged by the engineer or consultant to
the borough when fees are not reimbursed or otherwise imposed on applicants.
      (2)   In the event the applicant disputes the amount of any such review
fees, the applicant shall, within ten days of the billing date, notify the
borough that such fees are disputed, in which case the borough shall not delay
or disapprove a subdivision or land development application due to the
applicant’s request over disputed fees.
      (3)   In the event that the borough and the applicant cannot agree on the
amount of review fees which are reasonable and necessary, then the fees shall
be recalculated and recertified by another professional engineer licensed as
such in this state and chosen mutually by the borough and the applicant or
developer. The estimate certified by the third engineer shall be presumed fair
and reasonable and shall be the final estimate. In the event that a third
engineer is so chosen, fees for the services of said engineer shall be paid
equally by the borough and the applicant or developer.
   (D)   Payment of fees. An applicant shall, by filing a plan, be then
obligated to pay the fees herein provided. The engineering fees required to be
paid by this section shall be promptly submitted to the borough by the
applicant upon the submission of bills therefor to the applicant from time to
time by the Borough Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 3, § 302) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.022 MINOR SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Minor subdivision plans shall be initiated and submitted for review in
the form of a final plan as specified in §
153.037 and shall be otherwise reviewed in accordance with the procedures and
standards of §
153.023.
   (B)   Any additional subdivision of a tract from which a minor subdivision
has already been formed shall be deemed to be a major subdivision and shall
follow the procedure applying thereto.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 3, § 303) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.023 MAJOR SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Sketch plan. Prospective subdividers and developers are strongly urged
to discuss possible development sites with the Planning Commission prior to
submission of a preliminary plan. A sketch plan shall be presented for review
not less than ten days prior to the regular meeting of the Planning Commission
at which it is to be considered. Submission of a sketch plan will not
constitute a formal filing of a subdivision or land development plan with the
Borough Council. Sketch plans should include those items listed in §§
153.035 to
153.038.
   (B)   Preliminary plan.
      (1)   Submission of preliminary plans.
         (a)   The preliminary plan and all information and procedures relating
thereto shall in all respects be in compliance with the applicable provisions
of this chapter. It is the responsibility of the subdivider or developer to
coordinate his or her plans with the respective private and public service
agencies.
         (b)   The application form shall be accompanied by the requisite fee
as set forth in §
153.021 and by not less than three copies of all required material and not less
than nine prints of the preliminary plan of the subdivision or development, as
required by borough resolution from time to time.
         (c)   The Borough Engineer shall forward one copy of the preliminary
plan prints and one copy of the required material to the County Planning
Commission and such other agencies as he or she deems appropriate for review
and comment.
         (d)   The Engineer shall forward the remaining copies of the
preliminary plan prints and required materials to the Planning Commission.
         (e)   When applicable, the application form shall be accompanied by a
planning module for land development, as required by the state’s Department of
Environmental Protection.
      (2)   Review of preliminary plans.
         (a)   In cases where the subdivision or land development adjoins an
existing or proposed state highway or has proposed streets entering onto state
highways, the developer shall submit the plans to the state’s Department of
Transportation for review.
         (b)   The Planning Commission will consider the plan to determine if
it meets the standards set forth in this chapter and the borough’s zoning
ordinance (
Chapter 154).
         (c)   The Planning Commission shall act on the preliminary plan within
60 days of the official filing date, but in any event shall act on the plan in
time for the Borough Council to render their decision within 90 days from the
official filing date. In the event that any variance from this chapter is
requested by the applicant or is deemed necessary for approval, the variance
and the reasons for its necessity shall be entered into the records of the
Borough Council.
      (3)   Planning Commission recommendation.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall recommend whether the preliminary
plan shall be approved, approved with modifications, or disapproved, and shall
notify the Borough Council in writing thereof, including, if disapproved, a
statement of reasons for such action.
         (b)   In making its recommendation, the Planning Commission shall
consider the recommendations of the Borough Engineer, borough staff, the
Borough Sanitary Engineer, the County Planning Commission, interested
residents, and the recommendations of any agency or agencies from which a
review was requested under division (B)(1)(c) above.
      (4)   Borough Engineer review. All plans shall be reviewed by the Borough
Engineer, which review shall precede the transmission of such plans to the
Borough Council.
      (5)   Resubmission of preliminary plans. A revised plan submitted after
disapproval shall be considered and processed as a new plan submission.
      (6)   Approval of preliminary plans.
         (a)   The Borough Council shall act on the preliminary plan within 90
days of the official filing date. Failure to do so shall be deemed an approval.
Before acting on a preliminary plan, the Borough Council may hold a hearing
thereon after public notice.
         (b)   1.   The Borough Council shall notify the applicant of its
decision to approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the preliminary
plan in writing. Such notice shall be given to the applicant in person or
mailed to him or her at his or her last known address not later than 15 days
following the decision.
            2.   If the plan is approved with conditions acceptable to the
developer and accepted by him or her in writing or disapproved, the Borough
Council shall specify in their notice the conditions which must be met and/or
the defects found in the plan and the requirements which have not been met,
including specific reference to provisions of the state’s Municipalities
Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., or any other statute or this chapter
or any other ordinance which have not been fulfilled.
         (c)   Approval of the preliminary plan shall constitute approval of
the subdivision or land development as to the character and intensity of
development, the arrangement and approximate dimensions of streets, lots, and
other planned features. The approval binds the subdivider or developer to the
general scheme of the subdivision shown, unless a revised preliminary plan is
submitted, and permits the subdivider to proceed with final detailed design of
improvements, to arrange for guarantee to cover installation of the
improvements and to prepare the final plan. Approval of the preliminary plan
does not authorize the sale of lots nor the recording of the preliminary plan.
   (C)   Final plan.
      (1)   Submission of final plans.
         (a)   After the subdivider or developer has received official
notification from the Borough Council that the preliminary plan has been
approved, he or she must submit a final plan in accordance with the provisions
of §
153.057.
         (b)   The final plan shall conform in all respects with the approved
preliminary plan. If it does not, the plan submitted shall be considered as a
revised preliminary plan and shall be forwarded by the Borough Engineer to the
Planning Commission for review and recommendation as a preliminary plan.
         (c)   The subdivider or developer must submit with the final plan a
guarantee for the installation of improvements which meets the requirements of
§§
153.075 to
153.088.
         (d)   The application form shall be accompanied by the requisite
inspection and engineering fees as set forth in §
153.021.
         (e)   Documented approval of the planning module for land development
by the state’s Department of Environmental Protection shall be a part of the
requisite materials accompanying the final plan submission.
         (f)   The subdivider or developer shall submit a reproducible original
of the plans, nine prints of the final subdivision or land development plans,
and at least three copies of all other required information.
         (g)   Upon receipt of the final plan, the engineer shall forward the
original plans and five copies of the plans, and one copy of all the other
material to the Planning Commission for review and recommendation; one copy of
the plan and one copy of all other material to the County Conservation District
for review and comments; one copy of the plan and one of all other material to
the County Planning Commission; one copy of the plan to the Borough Sanitary
Engineer; and copies to such other agencies whose recommendations would be
pertinent to the processing of the plan.
      (2)   Review of final plans.
         (a)   The Planning Commission will review the plan and requisite
materials for compliance with the approved preliminary plan and for conformance
to the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall act on the final plan within 60
days of the official filing date.
      (3)   Planning Commission recommendation. The Planning Commission shall
recommend whether the final plan shall be approved, approved with conditions,
or disapproved and shall notify the Borough Council in writing thereof,
including, if approved with conditions or disapproved, a statement of reasons
for such action. In making its recommendation, the Planning Commission shall
consider the recommendations of the Borough Engineer, the County Planning
Commission, the County Conservation District, PennDOT, and the recommendations
of any agency or agencies from which a review was requested under division (C)
(1)(g) above.
      (4)   Borough Engineer review. All plans shall be reviewed by the Borough
Engineer, which approval shall precede the transmission of such plans to the
Borough Council.
      (5)   Resubmission of final plans. A revised plan submitted after
disapproval shall be considered and processed as a new plan submission.
      (6)   Approval of final plans. The Borough Council shall act upon the
application for approval of a final plan and render its decision and
communicate it to the applicant not later than 90 days following the date of
the regular meeting of the Planning Commission next following the date the
application is filed, provided that should the said next regular meeting occur
more than 30 days following the filing of the application, the said 90-day
period shall be measured from the thirtieth day following the day the
application has been filed.
         (a)   The decision of the Borough Council shall be in writing and
shall be communicated to the applicant personally or mailed to him or her at
his or her last known address not later than 15 days following the decision.
         (b)   When the application is not approved in terms as filed, the
decision shall specify the defects found in the application and describe the
requirements which have not been met and shall, in each case, cite to the
provisions of the Municipalities Planning Code or any other statute and the
provisions of this chapter and any other ordinance relied upon.
         (c)   Failure of the Borough Council to render a decision and
communicate it to the applicant within the time and in the manner required
herein shall be deemed an approval of the application in terms as presented,
unless the applicant has agreed in writing to an extension of time or change in
the prescribed manner of presentation of communication of the decision, in
which case, failure to meet the extended time or change in manner of
presentation of communication shall have like effect.
      (7)   Recording of final plans.
         (a)   Upon approval of the final plan, the subdivider or developer
shall prepare one transparent reproduction of the original final plan on stable
plastic base film and no less than four prints thereof, which shall be
submitted to the borough not later than 30 days after approval.
            1.   These plans, upon satisfaction of all conditions attached to
the approval, will be signed by the Borough Council.
            2.   A copy of the signed final plan shall be recorded in the
office of the County Recorder of Deeds within 90 days after approval of the
final plan or the approval of the Borough Council shall be null and void.
            3.   The final plan must be recorded before proceeding with the
sale of lots or construction of buildings.
         (b)   Recording the final plan shall be an irrevocable offer to
dedicate all streets and other public ways to public use and to dedicate or
reserve all park reservations and other public areas to public use unless
reserved by the subdivider as hereinafter provided. The approval of the final
plan shall not impose any duty upon the Borough Council concerning maintenance
of the improvements offered for dedication nor shall such approval be construed
as an acceptance of such dedication.
         (c)   The subdivider shall place a notation on the final plan if there
is no offer of dedication to the public of streets and certain designated
public areas, in which event the title to such areas shall remain with the
owner, and the borough shall assume no responsibility for improvement or
maintenance thereof; which fact shall be noted on the final plan.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 3, § 304) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
PLAN REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.035 SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   A sketch plan may be submitted by the subdivider or developer as a
basis for informal discussion with the Planning Commission, which may comment
upon such sketch plan, but no approval or disapproval shall be given.
   (B)   Data furnished in a sketch plan shall be at the discretion of the
subdivider. For fullest usefulness, it is suggested that a sketch should
include the following information:
      (1)   Tract boundaries;
      (2)   Location within the borough;
      (3)   North point;
      (4)   Streets on and adjacent to the tract;
      (5)   Significant topographical physical features, including floodplains,
if any;
      (6)   Proposed general street layout; and
      (7)   Proposed general lot layout, including location of proposed open
space and other preservation areas.
   (C)   A subdivision sketch plan need not be to scale nor are precise
dimensions required.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 4, § 401) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.036 PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   The preliminary plan shall be at a scale of not more than 100 feet to
the inch.
   (B)   The preliminary plan shall show or be accompanied by the following
information:
      (1)   Proposed subdivision or land development name or identifying title;
      (2)   Borough name;
      (3)   North point, scale, and date of preparation;
      (4)   Name(s) and addresses of the owner(s) of the property, including
reference to deed book, volume, and page of current legal owner;
      (5)   Name of the registered engineer or surveyor or other person
responsible for the plan;
      (6)   Tract boundaries, with bearings and distances;
      (7)   Existing contours at vertical interval of five feet or, in the case
of relatively level tracts, at such lesser interval as may be necessary for
satisfactory study and planning of the tract;
      (8)   Datum to which contour elevations refer shall be U.S. Coast and
Geodetic Survey datum; (borough will furnish elevations of nearest known bench
marks.)
      (9)   (a)   All existing watercourses, floodplains, or tree masses and
other significant natural features with a map showing the location of the
proposed subdivision and/or land development with respect to any identified
floodplain area or district, including information on the 100-year flood
elevations. Where the subdivision and/or land development lies partially or
completely within any identified floodplain area or district or where such
activities border on any identified floodplain area or district, the
preliminary plan map shall include the following information:
            1.   The location and elevation of proposed roads, utilities and
building sites, fills, and flood or erosion protection facilities;
            2.    The 100-year flood elevations; and
            3.   Areas subject to special deed restrictions.
         (b)   All such maps shall show contours at intervals of two or five
feet, depending upon the slope, and identify accurately the boundaries of the
identified floodplain areas or districts.
      (10)   All existing buildings, sewers, water mains, culverts, petroleum
or petroleum products lines, fire hydrants, and other significant human-made
features;
      (11)   All existing streets on or adjacent to the tract, including name,
right-of-way width, and cartway width;
      (12)   All existing property lines, easements, and rights-of-way and the
purpose for which the easements or rights-of-way have been established;
      (13)   Location and width of all proposed streets, avenues, rights-of-
way, and easements; proposed lot lines with approximate dimensions and areas of
all lots; proposed minimum setback line for each street; playgrounds, public
buildings, public areas, and parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or
reserved for public use; proposed street names; proposed watercourses and
detention ponds; proposed phasing of land development; and typical section of
all streets;
      (14)   Total acreage, number of lots, average lot size, density, open
space, and existing zoning classification;
      (15)   Names of owners of all adjoining properties and the names of all
abutting subdivisions;
      (16)   A location map, at a scale of 400 feet to the inch, showing the
proposed development and adjoining areas, will be required;
      (17)   Where the preliminary plan covers only a part of the subdivider’s
entire holding, a sketch shall be submitted of the prospective street layout
for the remainder;
      (18)   Where applicable, a plan revision module for land development
shall be the responsibility of the applicant and shall be prepared in
accordance with the rules and regulations of the state’s Department of
Environmental Protection. The completed module shall accompany the preliminary
plan submission;
      (19)   All existing and proposed drainage structures, land disturbances,
and impervious surfaces; all temporary and permanent storm water management
controls; all erosion and sedimentation controls; maintenance responsibilities
of permanent storm water management control facilities; and all streams or
other bodies of water, swales, and drainageways;
      (20)   When required by §
153.060, a proposed soil erosion and sedimentation control plan shall be
submitted;
      (21)   A map showing the exact location and elevation of all proposed
buildings, structures, roads, and public utilities to be constructed within any
identified floodplain area or district. All such maps shall show contours at
intervals of two feet and identify accurately the boundaries of the floodplain
areas. Submission of the final plan shall also be accompanied by all required
permits and related documentation from the Department of Environmental
Protection and any other state agency or local municipality where any
alteration or relocation of a stream or watercourse is proposed. In addition,
documentation shall be submitted indicating that all affected adjacent
municipalities have been notified of the proposed alteration or relocation. The
Department of Community and Economic Development and the Federal Insurance
Administrator shall also be notified whenever any such activity is proposed;
      (22)   Block for signatures of the reviewing agency membership and date
of recommendation, as per example in Appendix A;
      (23)   Block for signatures of the Borough Council and date of approval,
as per example in Appendix A;
      (24)   Land development plans shall show building locations and parking
areas in addition to the above information;
      (25)   A letter from the subdivider specifically requesting any waiver
from the regulations herein established and citing the reasons for same; and
      (26)   Water supply applicants shall present evidence to the Borough
Council that a subdivision is to be supplied by a municipal authority or
utility. A copy of a certificate of public convenience from the state’s Public
Utility Commission, or an application for such certificate, a cooperative
agreement, or a commitment to serve the area in question, whichever is
appropriate, shall be acceptable.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 4, § 402) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.037 FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   Final plans shall be on sheets 11 inches by 17 inches or 18 inches by
24 inches or 24 inches by 36 inches. Where necessary to avoid sheets larger
than the maximum size prescribed, final plans shall be drawn in two or more
sections. The plan shall be drawn and annotated in accordance with the
“subdivision plan form” shown as Appendix A hereto. The plan shall show a
graphical scale not to exceed 100 feet to the inch.
   (B)   The final plan shall include or be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Subdivision name or identifying title;
      (2)   Borough name;
      (3)   North point, scale, date of preparation, and date of preliminary
plan approval;
      (4)   Name and address of the record owner and subdivider or land
developer, including reference to deed book, volume, and page of current legal
owner;
      (5)   Name and seal of the registered professional engineer or surveyor
responsible for the plan;
      (6)   Tract boundaries with bearings and distances;
      (7)   All existing streets and driveways on or adjacent to the tract,
including name, right-of-way width, cartway width, street lines, lot lines,
rights-of-way, easements, and areas dedicated or proposed to be dedicated to
public use;
      (8)   Sufficient data, including bearing and length, to locate every
street, lot, easement, right-of-way, and boundary line upon the ground;
      (9)   The length of all straight lines, radii, lengths of curves, and
tangent bearings for each street;
      (10)   All dimensions and angles or bearings of the lines of each lot and
of each lot proposed to be dedicated to public use;
      (11)   The proposed building setback line for each street and the
proposed placement of each building, except placement for single-family
dwellings;
      (12)   Location and width of all rights-of-way, easements, and the
purpose for which the rights-of-way and easements were established;
      (13)   Location of all sanitary and storm sewer easements and location of
all watercourses and detention ponds, whether public or private;
      (14)   All dimensions shall be shown in feet and hundredths of a foot;
      (15)   Lots within a subdivision shall be numbered and their area shown
within the lot boundaries; house numbers, as assigned by the borough, shall
also be shown therein;
      (16)   Typical section for all proposed streets;
      (17)   Permanent reference monuments shall be shown on the plan and
designated existing or proposed;
      (18)   Names of any adjoining subdivisions shall be shown;
      (19)   Names of the owners of any adjoining unplotted land shall be
shown;
      (20)   An approval block providing for the signatures of the reviewing
agency and the Borough Council and the date of approval, as per example in
Appendix A;
      (21)   An appropriate statement signed by owner unequivocally indicating
his or her intention either:
         (a)   To dedicate for public use all streets, roads, easements, and
rights-of-way so intended and designated; or
         (b)   To reserve as private any streets, roads, easements, or rights-
of-way intended not to be dedicated for public use.
      (22)   A statement of acknowledgment in legal form, executed by a notary,
stating that the subdivider is the owner or equitable owner of the land
proposed for subdivision and that the subdivision as shown on the final plan is
the act and deed of the subdivider and that it is desired to record the same;
      (23)   A copy of the sewage “plan revision module for land development”
or other equivalent documentation approved by the Department of Environmental
Protection in compliance with the requirements of the state’s Sewage Facilities
Act;
      (24)   Water supply applicants shall present evidence to the Borough
Council that a subdivision is to be supplied by a municipal authority or
utility. A copy of a certificate of public convenience from the state’s Public
Utility Commission of an application for such certificate, a cooperative
agreement, or a commitment to serve the area in question, whichever is
appropriate, shall be acceptable;
      (25)   All existing and proposed drainage structures, land disturbances,
and impervious surfaces; all temporary and permanent storm water management
controls; all erosion and sedimentation controls; maintenance responsibilities
of permanent storm water management control facilities; and all streams or
other bodies of water, swales, and drainageways; and
      (26)   A map showing the exact location and elevation of all proposed
buildings, structures, roads, and public utilities to be constructed within any
identified floodplain area or district. All such maps shall show contours at
intervals of two feet and identify accurately the boundaries of the floodplain
areas. Submission of the final plan shall also be accompanied by all required
permits and related documentation from the Department of Environmental
Protection and any other state agency or local municipality where any
alteration or relocation of a stream or watercourse is proposed. In addition,
documentation shall be submitted indicating that all affected adjacent
municipalities have been notified of the proposed alteration or relocation. The
Department of Community and Economic Development and the Federal Insurance
Administrator shall also be notified whenever any such activity is proposed.
   (C)   Improvement and construction plan.
      (1)   The improvement construction plan(s) shall be at any of the
following scales: plans shall be on sheets 11 inches by 17 inches or 18 inches
by 24 inches or 24 inches by 36 inches. Where necessary to avoid sheets larger
than the maximum size prescribed, final plans shall be drawn in two or more
sections. The plan shall show a graphical scale not to exceed 100 feet to the
inch.
      (2)   It shall show the following:
         (a)   Subdivision name or identifying title;
         (b)   North point, scale, and date;
         (c)   Name of the owner of record, the subdivider and telephone
numbers;
         (d)   Name and seal of the registered professional engineer or
surveyor responsible for the plan;
         (e)   Centerline of streets with bearings, distances, curve data,
sight distances, and stations corresponding to the profile;
         (f)   Right-of-way and curb lines of streets with radii at
intersections;
         (g)   Beginning and end of proposed construction of streets;
         (h)   Tie-ins by courses and distances to intersection of all public
roads with their names and widths;
         (i)   Location of all monuments with reference to them;
         (j)   Property lines and ownership of abutting properties;
         (k)   Location and size of all drainage structures, public utilities,
street name signs, and shade trees;
         (l)   Location and size of storm and/or sanitary sewer lines with
stations corresponding to the profile;
         (m)   Location of storm and/or sanitary sewer manholes or inlets with
grade between and elevation of flow line and top of each manhole or inlet;
         (n)   Property lines and ownership, with details of easements where
required;
         (o)   Beginning and end of proposed construction of storm and/or
sanitary sewer;
         (p)   Location of storm and/or sanitary sewer laterals, Ys, and the
like;
         (q)   Location of all other drainage facilities and public utilities;
         (r)   Profile of existing ground surface along centerline of street;
         (s)   Proposed centerline grade of streets with percent of grade on
tangents and elevations at 50-foot intervals, including grades at
intersections, control points, and the like;
         (t)   Vertical curve data of streets, including length and elevations
and sight distance as required by engineer;
         (u)   Profile of existing ground surface with elevations at top of
manholes or inlets; and
         (v)   Profile of storm drain or sewer, showing size of pipe, grade,
cradle (if any), manhole or inlet locations, and elevations at flow line.
   (D)   Grading and drainage plan, prepared in accordance with §§
153.055 and
153.056.
   (E)   Soil erosion and sedimentation control plan when required by §
153.060.
   (F)   Storm water management plan approved by the borough. The following
activities are specifically exempt from these planning provisions:
      (1)   Land disturbances associated with existing dwellings;
      (2)   Agriculture when operating in accordance with a conservation plan
approved by the Conservation District; and
      (3)   Forest management operations which are following the Department of
Environmental Protection management practices contained in its publication Soil
Erosion and Sedimentation Control Guidelines for Forestry and are operating
under an erosion and sedimentation control plan.
   (G)   A copy of final deed restrictions or protective covenants.
   (H)   A copy of any and all proposed written easements or deeds to be
granted including, but not limited to, storm drainage easements, recreation
easements, or dedication or agreements to pay a fee in lieu thereof, and
sanitary sewer easements.
   (I)   Written agreement of land developer or subdivider in a form approved
by the Borough Council, including an agreement to construct in form and
substance agreeable to the borough, required improvements including, but not
limited to, streets, curbs, sidewalks, and storm drainage facilities.
   (J)   An approved Department of Environmental Protection planning module
where on-lot sewage disposal systems or community treatment systems are
proposed, or written proof of the Department of Environmental Protection’s
approval for the extension of existing sanitary sewer service.
   (K)   If required, a highway occupancy permit or review and written approval
by the state’s Department of Transportation.
   (L)   Approval by the U. S. Postal Service of street names.
   (M)   Plans of bridges and other improvements shall contain sufficient
information to provide complete working plans for the proposed construction.
   (N)   Typical cross section of streets showing:
      (1)   Right-of-way width and location and width of paving;
      (2)   Type, thickness, and crown of paving;
      (3)   Type and size of curb;
      (4)   Grading of sidewalk area;
      (5)   Location, width, type, and thickness of sidewalks; and
      (6)   Typical location of sewers and utilities with sizes.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 4, § 403) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.038 AS-BUILT PLANS.
   The subdivider or developer will furnish the borough with as-built plans for
sanitary sewer systems, storm sewer systems, and water systems within the
subdivision or land development.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 4, § 404) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
GENERAL DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.050 APPLICATION.
   The following principles, standards, and requirements will be applied by the
Borough Council and Planning Commission to evaluate plans for proposed
subdivision or land developments. The standards and requirements outlined
herein shall be considered minimum standards and requirements for the promotion
of the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare. Where literal
compliance with the standards herein specified is clearly impractical, the
Borough Council may modify or adjust the standards to permit reasonable
utilization of property while securing substantial conformance with the
objectives of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 501) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.051 LAND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Land shall be suited to the purposes for which it is to be subdivided
or developed.
   (B)   Land which is unsuitable for development because of hazards to life,
safety, health, or property shall not be subdivided or developed until such
hazards have been eliminated or unless adequate safeguards against such hazards
are provided for in the subdivision or land development plan. Land included as
having unsuitable characteristics would be the following:
      (1)   Land subject to flooding or which has a high groundwater table.
         (a)   Where not prohibited by this or any other laws or ordinances,
land located in any identified floodplain area or district may be platted for
development with the provision that the developer construct all buildings and
structures to preclude flood damage in accordance with this and any other laws
and ordinances regulating such development.
         (b)   Building sites for residences or any other type of dwelling or
accommodation shall not be permitted in any identified floodway area or
district. Sites for these uses may be permitted outside the floodway if the
sites or dwelling units are elevated up to the regulatory flood elevation. If
fill is used to raise the elevation of a site, the fill area shall extend out
laterally for a distance of at least 15 feet beyond the limits of the proposed
structures.
         (c)   Building sites for structures or buildings other than for
residential uses shall also not be permitted in any identified floodway area or
district. Also, such sites for structures or buildings outside the floodway
shall be protected as provided for in division (B)(1)(b) above. However, the
Borough Council may allow the subdivision and/or development of areas or sites
for commercial and industrial uses at an elevation below the regulatory flood
elevation if the developer otherwise protects the area to that height or
assures that the buildings or structures will be flood-proofed at least up to
that height.
         (d)   If the borough determines that only a part of a proposed plat
can be safely developed, it shall limit development to that part and shall
require that development proceed consistent with this determination.
         (e)   When a developer does not intend to develop the plat himself or
herself and the borough determines that additional controls are required to
ensure safe development, it may require the developer to impose appropriate
deed restrictions on the land. Such deed restrictions shall be inserted in
every deed and noted on every recorded plat.
      (2)   Land which, if developed, will create or aggravate a flooding
condition upon other land;
      (3)   Land subject to subsidence;
      (4)   Land subject to underground fires;
      (5)   Land containing significant areas of slopes greater than 10%;
      (6)   Land which, because of topography or means of access, is considered
hazardous by the Borough Council; and
      (7)   Land which is subject to ground pollution or contamination.
   (C)   Proposed subdivisions of land developments shall be coordinated with
existing nearby neighborhoods so that the community as a whole may develop
harmoniously.
   (D)   Proposed land uses shall conform to the borough’s zoning ordinance
(Chapter 154).
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 502) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.052 STREET SYSTEM.
   (A)   Proposed streets shall be properly related to such street plans or
parts thereof as have been officially prepared and adopted by the borough and
shall be coordinated with existing or proposed streets in adjoining
subdivisions or land developments.
   (B)   Proposed streets shall further conform to such county and state road
and highway plans as have been prepared, adopted, or filed as prescribed by
law.
   (C)   Streets shall be related to the topography so as to produce usable
lots and acceptable grades.
   (D)   Access shall be given to all lots and portions of the tract in the
subdivision or land development and to adjacent unsubdivided territory unless
the topography clearly indicates that such connection is not feasible. Streets
giving such access shall be improved to the limits of the subdivision or land
development and shall be improved to borough specifications. Reserve strips and
land-locked areas shall not be created.
   (E)   Streets shall be laid out to preserve the integrity of their design.
Local access streets shall be laid out to discourage their use by through
traffic and, where possible, arterial streets shall be designed for use by
through traffic.
   (F)   Where the proposed subdivision or land development contains or is
adjacent to an existing or proposed arterial street or a highway designated as
a limited access highway by the appropriate highway authorities, provisions
shall be made for marginal access streets at a distance acceptable for the
appropriate use of the land between the arterial street or limited access
highway and the marginal access streets. The Borough Council may also require
rear service areas, double frontage lots, or such other treatment as will
provide protection for abutting properties, reduction in the number of
intersections with primary streets, and separation of local and through
traffic.
   (G)   Half or partial streets will not be permitted in new subdivisions or
land developments except where essential to reasonable subdivision or
development of a tract in conformance with the other requirements and standards
of this chapter and where, in addition, satisfactory assurance for dedication
of the remaining part of the street can be secured.
   (H)   Wherever a tract to be subdivided or developed borders an existing
half or partial street, the entire street shall be shown on the plan.
   (I)   Dead-end streets shall be prohibited, except as stubs (with adequate
turning capability) to permit future street extension into adjoining tracts or
when designed as cul-de-sacs.
   (J)   New reserve strips, including those controlling access to streets,
shall be forbidden.
   (K)   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement of streets
in a proposed subdivision or land development shall be made to provide for the
proper projection of streets into the unsubdivided land.
   (L)   Street names shall be coordinated with existing or platted street
names and if a new street is a continuation of or is aligned with an existing
or platted street, it shall bear the same name as the existing or platted
street.
   (M)   (1)   No street shall be laid out or opened which extends to or
crosses any boundary between the borough and any other municipality except with
the specific approval of the Borough Council and upon such condition as the
Borough Council may impose.
      (2)   If the street is proposed to serve a commercial area, an industrial
area, or a residential area of 50 dwelling units or more, located in another
municipality, the street shall not be approved unless the area is also served
by a street in the other municipality and unless the relevant traffic
facilities of the borough are adequate to handle the anticipated volume.
   (N)   All streets shall have a uniform width throughout their respective
lengths except where otherwise required by the Borough Council pursuant to §
153.053(C)(2).
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 503) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.053 STREET DESIGN.
   (A)   Street classification. Three functional classifications are hereby
established for the streets and roads in borough.
      (1)   Arterial. This classification includes highways which provide
intracounty or intermunicipal traffic of substantial volumes where the average
trip lengths are usually five miles or greater. Generally, these highways
should accommodate operating speeds of 35 to 55 mph.
      (2)   Collector. This classification is intended to include those
highways which connect local access highways to arterial highways. They may
serve intracounty and intramunicipal traffic. They may serve as traffic
corridors connecting residential areas with industrial, shopping, and other
service. They may penetrate residential areas. Generally, these highways will
accommodate operating speeds of 35 mph.
      (3)   Local access. This classification is intended to include streets
and roads that provide direct access to abutting land and connections to higher
classes of roadways. Traffic volumes will be low and travel distances generally
short. These streets and roads should be designed for operating speeds of 25
mph or under.
   (B)   Right-of-way widths. Minimum widths for each type of public street
shall be as follows.
 
Type of Street Right-of-Way Width Cartway Width
Collector      60 feet            34 feet
Local access   50 feet            24 feet
 
      (1)   Where a proposed subdivision abuts or contains an existing public
street or road having a right-of-way width less than would be required if said
street or road were created under this chapter, sufficient additional width for
right-of-way shall be provided and dedicated to meet the foregoing standards.
      (2)   Additional right-of-way and cartway widths may be required by the
Borough Council to promote public safety and convenience when special
conditions require it and to provide parking space in areas of intensive use.
   (C)   Cul-de-sac streets.
      (1)   Cul-de-sac streets, whether permanent or temporary, shall be
provided at the closed end with a minimum right-of-way radius of 40 feet and a
minimum paved radius of 30 feet.
      (2)   Unless future extension is clearly impractical or undesirable, the
turnaround right-of-way shall be placed adjacent to a property line and a
right-of-way of the same width as the street shall be carried to the property
line in such a way as to permit future extension of the street into the
adjoining tract. At such time as such a street is extended, the overage created
by the turnaround outside the boundaries of the extended street shall revert in
ownership to the property owners fronting on the cul-de-sac turnaround.
      (3)   Commercial and industrial cul-de-sacs shall be reviewed for
adequacy by the Borough Engineer. His or her recommendations will be given to
the Borough Council who shall have final authority in this matter.
      (4)   Permanent cul-de-sac streets shall be kept to a minimum and shall
not exceed 600 feet in length.
   (D)   Street alignment.
      (1)   Whenever street lines are deflected by more than five degrees,
connection shall be made by horizontal curves.
      (2)   The minimum radius at the centerline for horizontal curves on
collector and arterial streets shall be 300 feet, and for local streets the
minimum radius shall be 100 feet.
      (3)   On local access streets, the minimum tangent between reverse curves
shall be at least 100 feet; on collector and arterial streets, the minimum
tangent shall be at least 250 feet.
      (4)   Minimum horizontal sight distance measured four feet above grade
shall be 300 feet for collector streets and 100 feet for local access streets.
   (E)   Street grades.
      (1)   The minimum grade on all streets shall be 0.5%.
      (2)   The maximum grade on collector or arterial streets shall be 7% and
on local access streets 10%.
      (3)   Vertical curves shall be used in changes of grade exceeding 1% and
shall provide proper sight distances as specified herein above.
      (4)   The finished elevation of proposed streets shall not be more than
one foot below the regulatory flood elevation. The borough may require profiles
and elevations of streets to determine compliance with the requirements.
Drainage openings shall be sufficient to discharge flood flows without unduly
increasing flood heights.
   (F)   Street intersections.
      (1)   Local streets shall not intersect with collector or arterial
streets on the same side at intervals of less than 800 feet as measured from
centerline to centerline.
      (2)   The distance between centerlines of streets opening onto the
opposite side of a proposed or existing street shall be not less than 150 feet
unless the streets are directly opposite each other.
      (3)   Multiple intersections involving the junction of more than two
streets shall be avoided. Where this proves impossible, such intersections
shall be designed with extreme care for both pedestrian and vehicular safety.
      (4)   Streets shall be all laid out to intersect as nearly as possible at
right angles. Local streets shall not intersect collector or arterial streets
at an angle of less than 75 degrees. The intersection of two local streets
shall not be at an angle of less than 60 degrees.
      (5)   Minimum curve radius at the intersection of two local streets shall
be at least 20 feet; and, minimum curve radius at the intersection of a local
street and a collector street shall be at least 25 feet.
      (6)   There shall be provided and maintained at all intersections clear
sight triangles of 75 feet in all directions measured along the centerline from
the point of intersection. Nothing which obstructs the vision of a motorist
shall be permitted in this area.
      (7)   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. Where the grade of any street at the approach to an intersection
exceeds 7%, a leveling area shall be provided having a grade of not greater
than 4% for a distance of 25 feet measured from the nearest right-of-way line
of the intersecting street.
   (G)   Pavement design.
      (1)   All components of the pavement structure shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with state’s Department of Transportation
Specifications, Form 408.
      (2)   The following shall be considered to be minimum standards for
street construction in the borough.
Alternatives Type Local Access Streets Collector Streets
Alternatives Type                  Local Access Streets Collector Streets
Flexible pavement
Surface      ID-2 wearing          1-1/2 inches         1-1/2 inches
Base         Bituminous            4 inches             6 inches
Subbase      Crushed aggregate     6 inches             6 inches
Rigid pavement
Surface      Plain cement concrete 6 inches             6 inches
Subbase      Crushed aggregate     6 inches             6 inches
 
   (H)   Avenues and driveways.
      (1)   Avenues are prohibited in residential developments.
      (2)   Driveways serving properties located adjacent to an intersection
shall be offset from the intersection of the property line a distance not less
than the required front yard setback or ten feet, whichever is greater. At no
time shall driveways be constructed in any manner which would cause vehicles
exiting therefrom or entering thereto from being clearly observed by the
operators of vehicles being driven in the nearest intersecting streets or
avenues.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 504) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.054 CURBS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Curbs.
      (1)   Curbs shall be provided on all streets and parking compounds
located within multi-family and apartment building developments. Curbs shall
also be required on new streets in subdivisions or land developments in which
the average lot width of the interior lots at the required building setback
line in 100 feet or less. Curbs may also be required in any subdivision in
which the lot areas or lot widths exceed the above minimum, when the centerline
of the street grade of any street exceeds 3%. In such cases, curbs or other
drainage controls shall be installed to properly control surface drainage and
protect the streets from erosion. The curbing requirement may be waived at the
discretion of the Borough Council but, when the requirement is waived, grass
lined swales or rock lined ditches shall be required.
      (2)   All curbs shall be depressed at intersections to sufficient width
to accommodate wheelchairs. Depression shall be in line with sidewalks where
provided.
      (3)   Curbs may be either the vertical type or rolled curb and gutter
type. Rolled curb and gutter shall not be used on collector streets. The
transition from one type of curb to another shall occur only at street
intersections.
      (4)   All curbs shall be constructed of Portland cement concrete with
expansion joints every 20 feet and shall follow PennDOT standards where
applicable.
   (B)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be provided on all streets and parking compounds
located within multi-family and apartment building developments. Sidewalks
shall also be required on new streets in subdivisions or land developments in
which average lot width of interior lots at the required building setback line
is 100 feet or less. The requirement of sidewalks may be waived at the
discretion of the Borough Council.
      (2)   Minimum width for sidewalks along each type of public street shall
be four feet and shall follow borough and PennDOT specifications where
applicable.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 505) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.055 STORM WATER DRAINAGE.
   Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to convey the flow of storm
water runoff in a safe and efficient manner. The system shall ensure proper
drainage along streets and provide positive drainage away from structures. The
borough may require a primarily underground system to accommodate frequent
floods and a secondary system to accommodate larger, less frequent floods.
Drainage plans shall be consistent with local and regional drainage plans. The
facilities shall be designed to prevent the excess runoff onto adjacent
properties.
   (A)   Lots shall be laid out and graded to provide positive drainage away
from buildings. The Borough Council may require a grading and drainage plan for
individual lots indicating a buildable area within each lot, complying with the
setback requirements, for which positive drainage is assured.
   (B)   No person, corporation, or other entity shall block, impede the flow
of, alter, construct any structure or deposit any material or thing, or commit
any act, which will affect normal or flood flow in any communal stream or
watercourse without having obtained prior approval from the borough or
Department of Environmental Protection, whichever is applicable.
   (C)   Where a subdivision or land development is traversed by a natural
watercourse, there shall be provided a drainage easement or right-of-way
conforming substantially with the line of such watercourse and of such width as
will be adequate to preserve natural drainage.
   (D)   The borough will assure that all permanent streams, not under the
jurisdiction of other official agencies, are maintained open and free flowing.
   (E)   The subdivider or developer and each person, corporation, or other
entity which makes any surface changes shall be required to:
      (1)   Collect onsite surface runoff and dispose of it to the point of
discharge into the common natural watercourse of the drainage area;
      (2)   Design drainage facilities to handle runoff from upstream areas,
assuming full development of those areas, based upon the Comprehensive Plan for
borough; and
      (3)   Design, construct, and/or install such drainage structures and
facilities as are necessary to prevent erosion damage to the subdivision or
land development, adjacent property, and downstream property. Such structures
and facilities shall satisfactorily convey such surface waters to the nearest
practical street, storm drain, detention pond, or natural watercourse.
   (F)   Storm sewers, culverts, and related installations shall be provided to
permit unimpeded flow of natural watercourses, to drain all low points along
streets, and to intercept storm water runoff along streets at intervals
reasonably related to the extent and grade of the area drained.
   (G)   Storm sewers, as required, shall be placed in front of the curb or
curb line when located in a street right-of-way. When located in undedicated
land, they shall be placed within an easement not less than 15 feet wide, as
approved by the Borough Engineer, who may require additional width of easement
as circumstances warrant.
   (H)   Street drainage will not be permitted to cross intersections or the
crown of the road.
      (1)   Maximum spacing of street inlets shall not exceed 600 feet.
      (2)   All street inlets shall be PennDOT Type C or M. Inlet tops shall be
cast in place reinforced concrete or precast concrete.
      (3)   All culvert ends shall be provided with either reinforced concrete
head walls or pipe end sections.
      (4)   Minimum pipe size shall be 15-inch diameter.
      (5)   When material for storm drain systems is not specified, PennDOT
specifications will govern.
   (I)   All springs and sump pump discharges shall be collected so as not to
flow in the streets.
   (J)   Storm water roof drains shall not discharge water directly over a
sidewalk.
   (K)   Stabilized outlets shall be provided for footer drains, floor drains,
and downspouts.
   (L)   The Soils Cover Complex Method of the Soil Conservation Service of the
U.S. Department of Agriculture shall be used as the primary means of estimating
storm water runoff.
   (M)   The Rational Method may be used for analysis of storm sewer systems
and for storm water management facilities in minor subdivisions.
   (N)   Where the estimated runoff based upon the above methods is doubtful,
several recognized methods should be studied and compared.
   (O)   The minimum design criteria shall be a ten-year storm. Higher
frequency conditions shall be used in sensitive areas and where an overflow
would endanger public or private property.
   (P)   Runoff calculations must include complete hydrologic and hydraulic
design and analysis of all control facilities.
   (Q)   Control facilities.
      (1)   Permanent control measures/facilities shall be designed to assure
that the maximum rate of storm water runoff is not greater after development
than prior to development for a ten-year storm frequency. More stringent
criteria may be required in sensitive areas where storm water problems
presently exist.
      (2)   Control facilities shall be designed to meet, as a minimum, the
design standards and specifications as determined by the Borough Engineer and
approved by Borough Council.
         (a)   Detention ponds may be waived by the Borough Council on the
recommendation of the Borough Engineer at sites in close proximity to major
streams. This is to facilitate drainage prior to stream flooding.
         (b)   In areas underlain with limestone geology, ponds shall be
limited to the detention (dry) type unless the developer can show a special
need for a retention pond, in which case it shall have a lining. Detention
ponds shall be prohibited in areas of known sinkholes unless the pond is lined.
If a sinkhole develops in a pond or channel before acceptance by the borough, a
lining shall be required.
         (c)   Any ponds with slopes steeper than three to one shall be fenced
with a six-foot fence of a type subject to the approval of the borough.
      (3)   A maintenance program for control facilities must be included as
part of the grading and drainage plan.
         (a)   Maintenance during development activities of a project shall be
the responsibility of the contractor, developer, and owner.
         (b)   Arrangement for maintenance of permanent control facilities
after completion of development activities shall be made before approval of
final plans is given by the Borough Council.
   (R)   In cases where permanent control facilities are owned by an entity, it
shall be the responsibility of that entity to maintain control facilities
(e.g., homeowner’s association). In such cases, a legally binding agreement
between the owner and the borough shall be made providing for maintenance of
all permanent erosion control facilities, including the inspection by the
borough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 506) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.056 EXCAVATION AND GRADING.
   Where any excavation or grading is proposed or where any existing trees,
shrubs, or other vegetative cover will be removed, the developer shall consult
the County Conservation District representative concerning plans for erosion
and sediment control and to also obtain a report on the soil characteristics of
the site so that a determination can be made as to the type and degree of
development the site may accommodate. Before undertaking any excavation or
grading, the developer shall obtain a grading and excavation permit.
   (A)   Blocks and lots shall be graded to provide proper drainage away from
buildings and to prevent the collection of storm water in pools. Minimum 2%
slopes away from structures shall be required.
   (B)   Lot grading shall be of such design as to carry surface waters to the
nearest practical street, storm drain, or natural watercourse. Where drainage
swales are used to deliver surface waters away from buildings, their grade
shall not be less than 1% nor more than 4%. The swales shall be sodded,
planted, or lined as required. A grading and draining plan shall be required
for all subdivisions and land developments, except minor subdivisions.
   (C)   No final grading shall be permitted with a cut face steeper in slope
than two horizontal to one vertical except under one or more of the following
conditions.
      (1)   The material in which the excavation is made is sufficiently stable
to sustain a slope of steeper than two horizontal to one vertical, and a
written statement of a civil engineer, licensed by the commonwealth and
experienced in erosion control, to that effect is submitted to the Borough
Engineer and approved by him or her. The statement shall state that the site
has been inspected and that the deviation from the slope specified hereinbefore
will not result in injury to persons or damage to property.
      (2)   A concrete or stone masonry wall constructed according to sound
engineering standards for which plans are submitted to the Borough Engineer for
review and approval is provided.
   (D)   No final grading shall be permitted which creates any exposed surface
steeper in slope than two horizontal to one vertical except under one or more
of the following conditions:
      (1)   The fill is located so that settlement, sliding, or erosion will
not result in property damage or be hazardous to adjoining property, streets,
avenues, or buildings;
      (2)   A written statement from a civil engineer, licensed by the
commonwealth and experienced in erosion control, certifying that he or she has
inspected the site and that the proposed deviation from the slope specified
above will not endanger any property or result in property damage, is submitted
to and approved by the Borough Engineer; and/or
      (3)   A wall is constructed to support the face of the fill.
   (E)   The top or bottom edge of slopes shall be a minimum of three feet from
property or right-of-way lines of street or avenues in order to permit the
normal rounding of the edge without encroaching on the abutting property. All
property lines, where walls or slopes are steeper than one horizontal to one
vertical and five feet or more in height shall be protected by a protective
fence no less than three feet in height approved by the Borough Engineer.
   (F)   All lots must be kept free of any debris or nuisances whatsoever.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 507) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.057 BLOCKS AND LOTS.
   (A)   The length, width, shape, and design of blocks shall be determined
with due regard to the provision of adequate sites for buildings of the type
proposed, to the land use and/or zoning requirements of the borough, the
topography of the land being subdivided, and the requirements for safe and
convenient vehicular and pedestrian circulation.
   (B)   Unless the topography of the land being subdivided or the existing
pattern of development in the immediately adjacent area shall be otherwise than
herein required, the following minimum standards for the design and size of
blocks and lots shall prevail.
      (1)   Blocks shall not exceed 1,600 feet in length, nor be less than 500
feet in length.
      (2)   Residential blocks shall generally be of sufficient depth to
accommodate two tiers of lots, except where reverse frontage lots bordering an
arterial or collector street are used, or where due to the contour of the land,
or the necessary layout of the subdivision, there is insufficient depth between
intersecting streets for such two tier design.
      (3)   Crosswalks or interior pedestrian walks shall be required in blocks
exceeding 1,000 feet in length to provide for pedestrian circulation or access
to community facilities. Such walks shall be paved for width of not less than
four feet, shall be located in easements not less than ten feet in width and
shall, insofar as possible, be located in the center of any such block.
      (4)   Blocks for commercial and industrial areas may vary from the
elements of design contained in this section if the nature of the use requires
other treatment. In such cases, off-street parking for employees and customers
shall be provided along with safe and convenient limited access to the street
system. Space for off-street loading shall also be provided with limited access
to the street system. Extension of streets, railroad access right-of-way, and
utilities shall be provided as necessary.
      (5)   Lot lines intersecting street lines shall be substantially at right
angles or radial to street lines.
      (6)   Lots shall, in general, front on a street which has already been
dedicated to the borough, or which the subdivider or developer proposes to
dedicate to the borough in connection with approval of the final plan. In
commercial or industrial subdivisions or land developments, where access is
proposed to be provided by private streets within the subdivision or land
development, this requirement may be waived by the Borough Council.
      (7)   The borough shall assign house numbers to each lot within a
subdivision.
      (8)   Minimum lot sizes shall be in accordance with the borough’s zoning
ordinance (
Chapter 154).
      (9)   Remnants of land, smaller than required for a lot, shall not be
permitted within any subdivision. Such remnants shall be incorporated in
existing or proposed lots or dedicated to public use if acceptable to the
Borough Council.
      (10)   Double frontage lots are prohibited except in accordance with
division (B)(2) above.
      (11)   No residential lots shall be created which front upon an arterial
or collector street, as defined in §
153.053(A) herein.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 508) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.058 DEVELOPMENT ON PRIVATE STREETS DISCOURAGED.
   (A)   It is the policy of this borough that all subdivided lands shall have
immediate access to a public street. Because of unique property configuration
and location, the borough recognizes the need for limited exceptions to the
foregoing general policy.
   (B)   No subdivision will be approved on a private street or road if more
than two lots already front on such street or road or if after subdivision more
than two lots will front on such private street or road.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 509) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.059 OPEN SPACE, LOT SITING, PLANTING, AND BEAUTIFICATION FOR SUBDIVISION
AND LAND DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. In order to promote the highest environmental quality
possible, the degree to which the applicant of a subdivision or land
development plan has preserved existing salient natural features and land forms
intrinsic to the site shall be assessed. Terms of approval of a plat may be
subject to the manner in which the layout or design of the plan has preserved
existing natural features such as, but not limited to, trees, wooded areas, and
watercourse.
   (B)   Open space. Where the applicant is offering for dedication, or is
required by ordinance to establish a reservation of open space or preserve an
area of scenic or historic importance, a “limit of work,” which will confine
excavation, earth moving procedures, and other changes to the landscape, may be
required to ensure preservation and prevent despoliation of the character of
the area in open space.
   (C)   Tree preservation. Whenever possible, trees shall not be removed
unless they are located within the proposed street right-of-way, within the
proposed building area, or within utility locations and equipment access areas.
In areas where trees are retained, the original grade level shall be
maintained, if possible, so as not to disturb the trees.
   (D)   Top soil preservation. All of the top soil from areas where cuts and
fills have been made should be stockpiled and redistributed uniformly after
grading. All areas of the site shall be stabilized by seeding or planting on
slopes of less than 10% and shall be stabilized by sodding on slopes 10% or
more and planted in ground cover on slopes 20% or greater.
   (E)   Landscaping. For all multi-family, apartment, office, commercial, and
industrial subdivisions or land developments, a landscaping plan shall be
provided and shall include sufficient plantings for the required open space,
planting strips, screenings, formal gardens, shade trees, and natural barriers.
   (F)   Buffer planting requirements. Buffer yard requirements should be as
specified in the borough’s zoning ordinance (
Chapter 154).
   (G)   Preserved landscaping. When there is a conscientious effort to
preserve the existing natural integrity and character of a site and where such
preservation effectuates areas of woodland and trees comparable to required
planting improvements, i.e., landscaping and buffer screening, the plan may be
received in lieu of additional landscaping requirements.
   (H)   Trees. The planting of trees within the street right-of-way line shall
not be permitted. The planting of any trees within the private property of each
residential lot shall be at the discretion of the property owner or developer.
   (I)   Watercourse protection. Where a subdivision or land development is
traversed by a natural watercourse, there shall be provided a drainage easement
or right-of-way conforming substantially with the line of such watercourse and
of such width as will be adequate to preserve natural drainage. Such easement
shall be in addition to the open space required in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 510) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.060 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   (A)   General purpose.
      (1)   The Borough Council finds that the minimization of erosion and
control of sedimentation in connection with land development and subdivision
are in the public interest, affecting public health, safety, and welfare, and
therefore those regulations governing erosion control and sedimentation control
are necessary for the borough.
      (2)   No changes shall be made in the contour of the land, no grading,
excavating, removal, or destruction to the top soil, trees, or other vegetative
cover of the land shall be commenced until such time that a plan for minimizing
erosion and sedimentation has been processed with and reviewed by the Borough
Engineer and/or County Soil and Water Conservation District, or there has been
a determination by the above entities that such plans are not necessary.
      (3)   No subdivision or land development plan shall be approved unless:
         (a)   There has been an erosion and sedimentation control plan
approved by the Borough Council that provides for minimizing erosion and
sedimentation consistent with this section and an improvement bond or other
acceptable securities are deposited with the borough in the form of an escrow
guarantee which will ensure installation and completion of the required
improvements; or
         (b)   There has been a determination by the Borough Council that a
plan for minimizing erosion and sedimentation is not necessary.
      (4)   Where not specified in this chapter, measures used to control
erosion and reduce sedimentation shall as a minimum meet the standards and
specifications of the County Soil and Water Conservation District. The Borough
Engineer, or other officials as designated, shall ensure compliance with the
appropriate specifications, copies of which are available from the Soil and
Water Conservation District.
   (B)   Performance principles. The following measures are effective in
minimizing erosion and sedimentation and shall be included where applicable in
the control plan.
      (1)   Stripping of vegetation, regrading, or other development shall be
done in such a way that will prevent all but minor erosion.
      (2)   Development plans shall preserve salient natural features, keep
cut-fill operations to a minimum, and ensure conformity with topography so as
to create the least erosion potential and adequately handle the volume and
velocity of surface water runoff.
      (3)   Whenever feasible, natural vegetation shall be retained, protected,
and supplemented.
      (4)   The disturbed area and the duration of exposure shall be kept to a
practical minimum.
      (5)   Disturbed soils shall be stabilized as quickly as practicable.
      (6)   Temporary vegetation and/or mulching shall be used to protect
exposed critical areas during development.
      (7)   The permanent final vegetation and structural erosion control and
drainage measures shall be installed as soon as practical in the development.
      (8)   Provisions shall be made to effectively accommodate the increased
runoff caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and after
development. Where necessary, the rate of surface water runoff will be
structurally retarded.
      (9)   Sediment in the runoff water shall be trapped until the disturbed
area is stabilized by the use of debris basins, sediment basins, silt traps, or
similar measures.
   (C)   Grading for erosion and other environmental controls. In order to
provide suitable sites for building and other uses, improve surface drainage,
and control erosion, the following requirements shall be met.
      (1)   Streets shall be improved to a mud-free or otherwise permanently
passable condition as one of the first items of work done on a subdivision or
development. The wearing surface shall be installed in accordance with §
153.053(G) and as approved in the final plan.
      (2)   Provisions shall be made to prevent surface water from damaging the
cut face of excavations or the sloping surfaces of fills, by installation of
temporary or permanent drainage across or above these areas.
      (3)   Fill shall be placed and compacted so as to minimize sliding or
erosion of the soil.
      (4)   Fills placed adjacent to watercourses shall have suitable
protection against erosion during periods of flooding.
      (5)   During grading operations, necessary measures for dust control will
be exercised.
      (6)   Grading equipment will not be allowed to enter into flowing
streams. Provisions will be made for the installation of temporary or permanent
culverts or bridges.
   (D)   Responsibility.
      (1)   Whenever sedimentation damage is caused by stripping vegetation,
grading, or other development, it shall be the collective responsibility of the
land developer and subdivider, and of the contractor, person, corporation, and
other entity causing such sedimentation, to remove it from all adjoining
surfaces, drainage systems, and watercourses and to repair any damage at his or
her expense as quickly as possible.
      (2)   Maintenance of all erosion and sedimentation control facilities
during the construction and development period is the responsibility of the
land developer or subdivider.
      (3)   It is the responsibility of any developer or subdivider and any
person, corporation, or other entity doing any act on or across a communal
stream, watercourse, or swale, or upon the floodplain or right-of-way, to
maintain as nearly as possible in its present state the stream, watercourse,
swale, floodplain, or right-of-way during the pendency of the activity and to
return it to its original or equal condition after such activity is completed.
      (4)   The subdivider or land developer shall provide and install, at his
or her expense, in accordance with borough requirements, all drainage and
erosion control improvements (temporary and permanent) shown on the erosion and
sediment control plan.
   (E)   Compliance with regulations and procedures.
      (1)   The Borough Council, in its consideration of all preliminary plans
of subdivision and land development, shall condition its approval upon the
execution of erosion and sediment control measures as contained in divisions
(B) and (C) above.
      (2)   The installation and design of the required erosion and sediment
control measures shall be in accordance with standards and specifications of
the County Soil and Conservation District.
   (F)   Stream channel construction. Stream channel construction on watersheds
with drainage areas in excess of one-half square mile, or in those cases where
downstream hazards exist, will conform to criteria established by the state’s
Department of Environment Protection.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 511) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.061 SANITARY SEWER FACILITIES.
   (A)   All sanitary sewer systems shall be flood-proofed up to the regulatory
flood elevation.
   (B)   (1)   The borough may prescribe adequate methods for waste disposal.
      (2)   The borough shall require a developer to provide sewage facilities
to connect to the public sewage system and shall prescribe the procedures to be
followed by the developer in connecting to the system.
      (3)   All sewage facilities and connections shall be in accordance with
the rules and regulations of the appropriate public sewage system provider.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 512) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.062 WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   All water systems shall be flood-proofed up to the regulatory flood
elevation. The borough shall require the developer to provide water facilities
to connect to the public water supply system where practical and shall
prescribe the procedures to be followed by the developer in connecting to the
system.
   (B)   All water facilities and connections shall be in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the appropriate public water system provider.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 513) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.063 OTHER UTILITIES AND FACILITIES.
   All other public and private utilities and facilities, including gas and
electric, shall be elevated or flood- proofed up to the regulatory flood
elevation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 514) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
ON-SITE IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.075 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following improvements shall be installed by the subdivider. The final
plan shall not be approved until final detailed design of the improvements is
approved and the improvements are installed or security to the Borough Council
is provided.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 601) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.076 STREETS.
   Streets shall be brought to the grades and dimensions drawn on plans,
profiles, and cross sections submitted by the subdivider and approved by the
Borough Engineer. The subdivider must install the required utilities and
provide, where necessary, adequate subsurface drainage for the streets. The
streets shall be designed and constructed to the standards set forth in §§
153.052 and
153.053.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 602) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.077 CURBS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Curbs and sidewalks shall be provided in accordance with the standards set
forth in §
153.054.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 603) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.078 SEWERS.
   All subdivision or land development are to be provided with a complete
sanitary sewer system connected to a public sanitary sewer system. A statement
of approval from the engineer of the sewerage system to which it will be
connected shall be submitted to the Borough Council. Where required, a
Department of Environmental Protection planning module approval shall also be
obtained for final plan approval.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 604) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.079 WATER.
   (A)   Provision of system. The subdivision or land development shall be
provided with a complete water supply system which shall be connected to a
municipal water supply system; except that, when such municipal system is not
reasonably available, each lot in a subdivision shall be capable of being
provided with an individual water supply system in accordance with minimum
standards approved by the state’s Department of Environmental Protection.
   (B)   Plans. The plans for the installation of the mains of a water supply
system shall be prepared for the subdivision or land development with the
cooperation of the applicable water supply agency and approved by its engineer.
A statement of approval from the engineer of the water supply agency to which
the subdivision or land development will be connected shall be submitted to the
Borough Council. Upon the completion of the water supply system, one copy of
each of the plans for such system shall be filed with the borough.
   (C)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be provided as an integral part of
any public water supply system.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 605) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.080 STORM DRAINAGE.
   A storm drainage system shall be provided in accordance with the standards
as set forth in §
153.055.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 606) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.081 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Easements for utilities shall have a minimum width of 20 feet.
   (B)   To the fullest extent possible, easements for public utilities shall
be centered on or adjacent to rear or side lot lines.
   (C)   Telephone, electric, television cable, and such other utilities shall
be installed underground and shall be provided within the street right-of-way
or easements to be dedicated for such utilities, and in accordance with plans
approved by the Borough Council and the applicable utility company. Underground
installation of the utility distribution and service lines shall be completed
prior to street paving and gutter, curbing, and sidewalk installation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 607) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.082 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   (A)   Monuments of a type approved by the borough shall be set at the
intersection of lines forming angles in the boundaries of the subdivision, at
the intersection of street lines and set at all points where lines and curves
intersect.
   (B)   Any monuments or markers that are removed must be replaced by a
registered land surveyor at the expense of the person responsible for the
removal.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 608) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.083 OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Street name signs conforming to borough specifications shall be
provided and installed by the subdivider or developer at all street
intersections.
   (B)   Other improvements to promote public safety and health as required by
the Borough Council as a condition of approval.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 609) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.084 TIME LIMITS.
   All improvements shall be installed according to a time schedule which shall
be approved by the Borough Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 610) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.085 INSPECTION.
   At the time each improvement is to be installed and upon its completion, the
subdivider shall notify the Borough Council so that adequate inspections can be
made. The inspection will be made by the Borough Manager or his or her
designee. All costs of undertaking the inspection will be borne by the
subdivider.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 611) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.086 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS OR GUARANTEE THEREOF PREREQUISITE TO FINAL
PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   No plat shall be finally approved unless the streets shown on such
plat have been improved to a mud-free or otherwise permanently passable
condition or improved as may be otherwise required by this chapter and any
walkways, curbs, gutter, street lights, fire hydrants, shade trees, water
mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, and other improvements as may be required
by this chapter have been installed in accordance with this chapter. In lieu of
the completion of any improvements required as a condition for the final
approval of a plat, including improvements or fees otherwise required by
ordinance, the developer may deposit with the borough financial security in an
amount sufficient to cover all required improvements.
   (B)   When requested by the developer, in order to facilitate financing, the
Borough Council shall furnish the developer with a signed copy of a resolution
indicating approval of the final plat contingent upon the developer obtaining a
satisfactory financial security. The final plat or record plan shall not be
signed nor recorded until the financial improvements agreement is executed. The
resolution or letter of contingent agreement shall expire and be deemed to be
revoked if the financial security is not executed within 90 days unless a
written extension is granted by the Borough Council; such extension shall not
be unreasonably withheld and shall be placed in writing at the request of the
developer.
   (C)   Without limitation as to other types of financial security which the
borough may approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, federal
or state chartered lending institution irrevocable letters of credit and
restrictive or escrow accounts in such lending institutions shall be deemed
acceptable financial security for the purposes of this section.
   (D)   Such financial security shall be posted with a bonding company or
federal or state chartered lending institution chosen by the party posting the
financial security, provided said bonding company or lending institution is
authorized to conduct such business within the state.
   (E)   Such bond or other security shall provide for and secure to the
public, the completion of any improvements which may be required on or before
the date fixed in the formal action of approval or accompanying agreement for
completion of the improvements.
   (F)   The amount of financial security to be posted for the completion of
the required improvements shall be equal to 110% of the cost of completion
estimated as of 90 days following the date scheduled for completion by the
developer. Annually, the borough may adjust the amount of the financial
security by comparing the actual cost of the improvements which have been
completed and the estimated cost for the completion of the remaining
improvements as of the expiration of the ninetieth day after either the
original date scheduled for completion or a rescheduled date of completion.
Subsequent to said adjustment, the borough may require the developer to post
additional security in order to assure that the financial security equals said
110%. Any additional security shall be posted by the developer in accordance
with this division (F).
   (G)   The amount of financial security required shall be based upon an
estimate of the cost of completion of the required improvements, submitted by
the applicant or developer and prepared by a professional engineer licensed as
such in this state and certified by such engineer to be a fair and reasonable
estimate of such cost. The borough, upon the recommendation of the Borough
Engineer, may refuse to accept such estimate for good cause shown. If the
applicant or developer and the borough are unable to agree upon an estimate,
then the estimate shall be recalculated and recertified by another professional
engineer licensed as such in this state and chosen mutually by the borough and
the applicant or developer. The estimate certified by the third engineer shall
be presumed fair and reasonable and shall be the final estimate. In the event
that a third engineer is so chosen, fees for the services of said engineer
shall be paid equally by the borough and the applicant or developer.
   (H)   If the party posting the financial security requires more than one
year from the date of posting of the financial security to complete the
required improvements, the amount of financial security may be increased by an
additional 10% for each one-year period beyond the first anniversary date from
posting of financial security or to an amount not exceeding 110% of the cost of
completing the required improvements as reestablished on or about the
expiration of the preceding one-year period by using the above bidding
procedure.
   (I)   In the case where development is projected over a period of years, the
Borough Council may authorize submission of final plats by sections or stages
of development subject to such requirements or guarantees as to improvement in
future sections or stages of development as it finds essential for the
protection of any finally approved section of the development.
   (J)   As the work of installing the required improvements proceeds, the
party posting the financial security may request the Borough Council to release
or authorize the release, from time to time, of such portions of the financial
security necessary to payment to the contractor or contractors performing the
work. Any such requests shall be in writing, addressed to the Borough Council
and the Borough Council shall have 45 days from receipt of such request within
which to allow the Borough Engineer to certify, in writing, to the Borough
Council that such portion of the work upon the improvements has been completed
in accordance with the approved plat. Upon such certification, the Borough
Council shall authorize release by the bonding company or lending institution
of an amount as estimated by the Borough Engineer fairly representing the value
of the improvements completed or, if the Borough Council fails to act within
said 45-day period, the Borough Council shall be deemed to have approved the
release of funds as requested. The Borough Council may, prior to final release
at the time of completion and certification by its engineer, require retention
of 10% of the estimated cost of the aforesaid improvements.
   (K)   Where the Borough Council accepts dedication of all or some of the
required improvements following completion, the Borough Council may require the
posting of financial security to secure structural integrity of said
improvements as well as the functioning of said improvements in accordance with
the design and specifications as depicted on the final plat for a term not to
exceed 18 months from the date of acceptance of dedication. Said financial
security shall be of the same type as otherwise required in this section with
regard to installation of such improvements, and the amount of the financial
security shall not exceed 15% of the actual cost of installation of said
improvements.
   (L)   If water mains or sanitary sewer lines, or both, along with the
apparatus or facilities related thereto, are to be installed under the
jurisdiction and pursuant to the rules and regulation of a public utility or
municipal authority separate and distinct from the borough, financial security
to assure proper completion and maintenance thereof shall be posted in
accordance with terms of this chapter or in accordance with the regulations of
the controlling public utility or municipal authority, whichever should be more
restrictive.
   (M)   If financial security has been provided in lieu of the completion of
improvements required as a condition for the final approval of a plat as set
forth in this section, the borough shall not condition the issuance of
building, grading, or other permits relating to the erection or placement of
improvements, including buildings, upon the lots or land as depicted upon the
final plat upon actual completion of the improvements depicted upon the
approved final plat. Moreover, if said financial security has been provided,
occupancy permits for any building or buildings to be erected shall not be
withheld following the improvement of the streets providing access to and from
public roads to such building or buildings to a mud-free or otherwise
permanently passable condition, as well as the completion of all other
improvements as depicted upon the approved plat, either upon the lot or lots or
beyond the lot or lots in question if such improvements are necessary for the
reasonable use of or occupancy of the building or buildings.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 612) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.087 RELEASE FROM IMPROVEMENT BOND.
   (A)   When the developer has completed all of the necessary and appropriate
improvements, the developer shall notify the Borough Council, in writing, by
certified or registered mail, of the completion of the aforesaid improvements
and shall send a copy thereof to the Borough Engineer. The Borough Council
shall, within ten days after receipt of such notice, direct and authorize the
Borough Engineer to inspect all of the aforesaid improvements. The Borough
Engineer shall, thereupon, file a report in writing, with the Borough Council
and shall promptly mail a copy of the same to the developer by certified or
registered mail. The report shall be made and mailed within 30 days after
receipt by the Borough Engineer of the aforesaid authorization from the Borough
Council; said report shall be detailed and shall indicate approval or rejection
of said improvements, either in whole or in part, and if said improvements, or
any portion thereof, shall not be approved or shall be rejected by the Borough
Engineer, said report shall contain a statement of reasons for such nonapproval
or rejection.
   (B)   The Borough Council shall notify the developer, within 15 days of
receipt of the engineer’s report, in writing by certified or registered mail,
of the action of said Borough Council with relation thereto.
   (C)   If the Borough Council or the Borough Engineer fails to comply with
the time limitation provisions contained herein, all improvements will be
deemed to have been approved and the developer shall be released from all
liability, pursuant to its performance guaranty bond or other security
agreement.
   (D)   If any portion of the said improvements shall not be approved or shall
be rejected by the Borough Council, the developer shall proceed to complete the
same and, upon completion, the same procedure of notification, as outlined
herein, shall be followed.
   (E)   Nothing herein, however, shall be construed in limitation of the
developer’s right to contest or question by legal proceedings or otherwise, any
determination of the Borough Council or the Borough Engineer.
   (F)   Where herein reference is made to the Borough Engineer, he or she
shall be as a consultant thereto.
   (G)   The applicant or developer shall reimburse the borough for the
reasonable and necessary expense incurred for the inspection of improvements
according to a schedule of fees adopted by resolution of the Borough Council
and as from time to time amended. Such expense shall be reasonable and in
accordance with the ordinary and customary fees charged by the Borough Engineer
or consultant for work performed for similar services in the community, but in
no event shall the fees exceed the rate or cost charged by the engineer or
consultant to the borough when fees are not reimbursed or otherwise imposed on
applicants.
      (1)   In the event the applicant disputes the amount of any such expense
in connection with the inspection or improvements, the applicant shall, within
ten working days of the date of billing, notify the borough that such expenses
are disputed as unreasonable or unnecessary, in which case, the borough shall
not delay or disapprove a subdivision or land development application or any
approval or permit related to development due to the applicant’s request over
disputed engineer expenses.
      (2)   If, within 20 days from the date of billing, the borough and the
applicant cannot agree on the amount of expenses which are reasonable and
necessary, then the applicant and the borough shall jointly, by mutual
agreement, appoint another professional engineer licensed as such in the state
to review the said expenses and make a determination as to the amount thereof
which is reasonable and necessary.
      (3)   The professional engineer so appointed shall hear such evidence and
review such documentation as the professional engineer, in his or her sole
opinion, deems necessary and render a decision within 50 days of the billing
date. The applicant shall be required to pay the entire amount determined in
the decision immediately.
      (4)   In the event that the borough and applicant cannot agree upon the
professional engineer to be appointed within 20 days of the billing date, then,
upon application by either party, the Court of Common Pleas of the judicial
district in which the borough is located shall appoint such engineer, who, in
that case, shall be neither the Borough Engineer nor any professional engineer
who has been retained by, or performed services for, the borough or the
applicant within the preceding five years.
      (5)   (a)   The fee of the appointed professional engineer for
determining the reasonable and necessary expenses shall be paid by the
applicant if the amount of payment required in the decision is equal to or
greater than the original bill.
         (b)   If the amount of payment required in the decision is less than
the original bill by $1,000 or more, the borough shall pay the fee of the
professional engineer, but otherwise the borough and the applicant shall each
pay one-half of the fee of the appointed professional engineer.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 613) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.088 REMEDIES TO EFFECT COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENT.
   In the event that any improvements which may be required have not been
installed as provided in this chapter or in accord with the approved final
plat, the Borough Council is hereby granted the power to enforce any corporate
bond or other security by appropriate legal and equitable remedies. If the
proceeds of such bond or other security are insufficient to pay the cost of
installing or making repairs or corrections to all the improvements covered by
said security, the Borough Council may, at its option, install part of such
improvements in all or part of the subdivision or land development and may
institute appropriate legal or equitable action to recover the moneys necessary
to complete the remainder of the improvements. All of the proceeds, whether
resulting from the security or from any legal or equitable action brought
against the developer, or both, shall be used solely for the installation of
the improvements covered by such security, and not for any other borough
purpose.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 614) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership, or corporation who or which has violated the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon being found liable therefor in a civil
enforcement proceeding commenced by the borough, pay a judgment of not more
than $500 plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney fees incurred by
the borough as a result thereof. No judgment shall commence or be imposed,
levied, or payable until the date of the determination of a violation by the
District Justice. If the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the
judgement, the borough may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable
rules of civil procedure. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute
a separate violation, unless the District Justice determining that there has
been a violation further determines that there was a good faith basis for the
person, partnership, or corporation violating this chapter to have believed
that there was no such violation, in which event there shall be deemed to have
been only one such violation until the fifth day following the date of the
determination of a violation by the District Justice and thereafter each day
that a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   (B)   The Court of Common Pleas, upon petition, may grant an order of stay,
upon cause shown, tolling the per diem judgment pending the final adjudication
of the violation and judgment.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed or interpreted to
grant to any person or entity other than the borough the right to commence any
action for enforcement pursuant to this section.
   (D)   District Justices shall have initial jurisdiction in proceedings
brought under this section.
(Prior Code, Ch. 22, Pt. 1, § 108) (Ord. 2-2001, passed 7-2-2001)
APPENDIX A: FORMAT FOR “APPROVAL” SPACES
FORMAT FOR “APPROVAL” SPACES
   The following format shall be used in “Approval” spaces on Final Subdivision
Plans:
Reviewed this              day of                            , 20       , and
found to meet the requirements for a Final Plan as stated in the Subdivision
and Land Development Ordinance.
                                                                 Borough
Engineer
                                                                                           
Recommended for Approval by the Borough of Bedford Planning Commission this
                day of                                , 20        .
                                                                  Chairman
                                                                  Secretary
                                                                                           
OWNER’S STATEMENT
It is hereby certified that the undersigned has legal or equitable title to the
land shown. All roads or streets shown hereon, if not previously dedicated, are
hereby offered for public use.
                                                                      
RECORDED IN PLAN BOOK                                   PAGE
                     
Note: Plan size for recording purposes shall not exceed 240”x 36.”
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Short title
   
154.002   Purpose and authority
   
154.003   Statement of community development objectives
   
154.004   Definitions
   
154.005   General provisions
   
154.006   Nonconforming buildings and uses
Zoning Districts
   
154.020   Designation of districts
   
154.021   S Slope District
   
154.022   R-1 Residential District - Single-Family
   
154.023   R-2 Residential District - Single-Family
   
154.024   R-2T Residential District; Single-Family and Single-Family Townhouse
   
154.025   R-3 Residential District - Multi-Family
   
154.026   R-4 Residential and Business/Professional Offices District
   
154.027   RLC Residential and Light Commercial District
   
154.028   C-1 Commercial District - Central
   
154.029   C-2 Commercial District - Highway
   
154.030   CMR Commercial/Manufacturing/Residential District
   
154.031   FP Flood-Prone District
Vehicle Access and Regulations
   
154.045   Off-street parking
   
154.046   Signs
   
154.047   Motor vehicle access
Administration
   
154.060   Enactment of zoning ordinance amendments
   
154.061   Procedure for landowner curative amendments
   
154.062   Procedure for borough curative amendments
   
154.063   Zoning Hearing Board
   
154.064   Hearings
   
154.065   Jurisdiction
   
154.066   Appointment and powers of zoning officer
   
154.067   Zoning permits
   
154.068   Variances
   
154.069   Special exceptions
   
154.070   Conditional uses
   
154.071   Parties appellant before the Board
   
154.072   Time limitations
   
154.073   Stay of proceedings
   
154.074   Fees
   
154.075   Enforcement notice
   
154.076   Causes of action
   
154.077   Enforcement remedies
   
154.078   Interpretation, purpose, and conflict
Historic District
   
154.090   Short title
   
154.091   District map
   
154.092   Purpose
   
154.093   Scope
   
154.094   Definitions
   
154.095   Uncertainty in boundaries
   
154.096   Permit requirement
   
154.097   Certificate of appropriateness required
   
154.098   Board of Historical Architectural review
   
154.099   Duties of the Zoning Permit Officer
   
154.100   Responsibilities of the Borough Council
   
154.101   Conflict with other laws
   
154.102   Interpretation
   
154.103   Notice of violation
   
154.104   Appeals
   
154.105   Relief from personal responsibilities
   
154.106   Amendments
   
154.107   Zoning map
 
   
154.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building and sign regulations, see
Ch. 150
   Subdivision and land development, see
Ch. 153
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “the Borough Zoning
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.002 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted by virtue of the authority contained in § 93 of the
Act of July 10, 1947 (Pub. Law 1621) amending the Borough Code, as amended, for
the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, and the general welfare of
the borough and under the authority of the Municipalities Planning Code, 53
P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.003 STATEMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES.
   The following goals and objectives shall constitute the statement of
community development objectives of and for the borough, and this chapter shall
implement such statement of community development objectives.
   (A)   The decisions on community development in the borough shall be guided
by a comprehensive plan, taking into consideration the character of the borough
and its various sections, and the suitability of the various parts of the
borough for particular uses and structures.
   (B)   The borough shall make every effort to promote, protect, and
facilitate the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare.
   (C)   This chapter is designed to facilitate the prevention of the
overcrowding of land, blight, danger, and congestion in travel and
transportation and loss of health, life, or property from fire, flood, panic,
or other dangers.
   (D)   The borough shall preserve and protect its heritage, both natural and
historical, wherever and whenever possible.
   (E)   The borough shall strive for the aesthetic improvement and community
beautification in all areas of its territory.
   (F)   The borough shall strive to preserve and increase recreational and
open space amenities wherever and whenever possible.
   (G)   The borough shall strive for the most beneficial relationship of
traffic movement and land use.
   (H)   The borough shall continue to relate improvements to fiscal
capabilities, present and projected, to support needed facilities.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.004 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words
shall, for the purpose of this chapter, have the meaning herein indicated.
      (1) Words used in the present tense include the future tense. The
singular includes the plural.
      (2) The word PERSON includes a corporation as well as an individual.
      (3) The word LOT includes the word PLOT or PARCEL.
      (4) The term SHALL is always mandatory.
      (5)   The word USED or OCCUPIED, as applied to any land or building,
shall be construed to include the words “intended, arranged, or designed to be
used or occupied.”
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building detached from and subordinate to the main
building on the same lot and used for purposes customarily incidental to the
main building.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal use or building and located on the same lot with such principal use
or building.
      ALLEY. A public thoroughfare other than a side street which affords only
a secondary means of access to abutting property and not intended for general
traffic circulation.
      ALTERATIONS. As applied to a building or structure, any change or
rearrangement in the total floor area or an enlargement, whether by extending
on a side or by increasing in height, or the moving from one location or
position to another.
      ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL. Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
      ANIMAL HOSPITAL. A building used for the treatment, housing, or boarding
of small domestic animals such as dogs, cats, rabbits, and birds or fowl by a
veterinarian.
      APARTMENT HOUSE. A building occupied by three or more dwelling units.
      AREA, BUILDING. The total area taken on a horizontal plane at the main
grade level of the principal building and all accessory buildings exclusive of
uncovered porches terraces and steps.
      AREA, LOT. The total area within the lot lines.
      AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any area of land, including any structure
thereon, or any building or part thereof, that is used for the retail sale of
gasoline, oil, other fuel or accessory for motor vehicles, and which may
include facilities used for polishing, greasing, washing, dry cleaning, or
otherwise cleaning or servicing such motor vehicles.
      AUTO BODY SHOP. Any structure or any building or part thereof, that is
used for the repair or painting of bodies and fenders of motor vehicles.
      BASEMENT. A story partly underground but having one-half or more of its
height above the average level of the adjoining ground.
      BED AND BREAKFAST. Building where lodging is provided for compensation on
a temporary basis, whether or not food or meals are provided.
      BOARD. Any body granted jurisdiction under a land use ordinance or under
this chapter to render final adjudications.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A building where, for compensation, lodging and/or meals
are provided for at least three but not more than 15 persons.
      BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals, or
chattels, and including covered porches or bay windows and chimneys.
      BUILDING, DETACHED. A building surrounded by open space on the same lot.
      BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to the front, side, or rear lot line set
so as to provide the required yard.
      BUILDING, MAIN. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot on which it is located.
      CARPORT. See GARAGE, PRIVATE.
      CELLAR. A story partly underground and having more than one-half of its
clear height below the average level of the adjoining ground. A CELLAR shall
not be considered in determining the permissible number of stories.
      COURT. An unoccupied open space, other than a yard, on the same lot with
a building, which is bounded on two or more sides by the walls of such
building.
      COURT, INNER. A court that does not extend to a street, alley, yard, or
outer court.
      COURT, OUTER. A court which extends to a street alley, yard, or other
outer court.
      COVERAGE. The percentage of the plot or lot area covered by the building
area.
      DAIRY. A commercial establishment for the manufacture or processing of
dairy products.
      DECISION. Final adjudication of any board or other body granted
jurisdiction under any land use ordinance or this chapter to do so, either by
reason of the grant of exclusive jurisdiction or by reason of appeals from
determinations. All DECISIONS shall be appealable to the court of common pleas
of the county and judicial district wherein the borough lies.
      DOG KENNEL. A structure for keeping three or more dogs that are more than
six months old.
      DUMP. A lot or land, or part thereof, used primarily for the disposal by
abandonment, dumping, burial, burning, or any other means and for whatever
purposes, of garbage, sewage, trash, refuse, junk, discarded machinery,
vehicles or parts thereof, or waste material of any kind.
      DWELLING. A building designed for residential purposes and used as the
living quarters for one or more families.
      DWELLING, END UNIT TOWNHOUSE. An individually owned single-family
dwelling unit, attached to another similar unit on one side via a party wall
that contains no common doors or windows. The owner is responsible for payment
of all real estate taxes, maintenance, and repairs of the property. The sale of
the property (structure and lot) may be conveyed to any party without prior
approval by anyone other than the homeowner.
      DWELLING, INTERIOR UNIT TOWNHOUSE. An individually owned single-family
dwelling unit, attached to other similar units on both sides via party walls
that contain no common doors or windows. The owner is responsible for payment
of all real estate taxes, maintenance, and repairs of the property. The sale of
the property (structure and lot) may be conveyed to any party without prior
approval by anyone other than the homeowner.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building used by three or more families living
independently of each other and doing their own cooking, including apartment
houses.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY, ATTACHED (ROW). A building used by one family
and having two party walls in common with other buildings.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY, DETACHED. A building used by one family, having
only one dwelling unit, and having two side yards.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY, SEMI-DETACHED. A building used by one family,
having one side yard and one party wall in common with another building.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY DETACHED. A building used by two families, with one
dwelling unit arranged over or beside the other, and having two side yards.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY, SEMI-DETACHED. A building used by two families,
with one dwelling unit arranged over or beside the other, having one side yard
and one party wall in common with another building.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms used for living and sleeping purposes
and having a kitchen with fixed cooking facilities arranged for occupancy by
one family.
      ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES. Electric public
utilities transmission distribution facilities including substations.
      FAMILY. One or more persons occupying one dwelling unit and maintaining
one common household, not including occupants of a club, fraternity, lodging,
or boarding house.
      FLOOR AREA OF A BUILDING. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the
floor of a building having the greatest dimensions, including the areas of
roofed porches and roofed terraces, and its accessory buildings on the same
lot. All dimensions shall be measured between exterior faces of walls.
      FLOOR AREA, HABITABLE. The sum of the horizontal areas of all rooms used
for habitation, such as living room, dining room, kitchen, or bedroom, but not
including hallways, stairways, cellars, attics, service rooms or utility rooms,
bathrooms, closets, nor unheated areas such as enclosed porches nor rooms
without at least one window or skylight opening onto an outside yard or court.
      FLOOR AREA RATIO. The ratio of floor area of a building to its lot area.
When a FLOOR AREA RATIO of 4/10 is specified, the floor area of a building
constructed on a lot of 30,000 square feet is limited to a maximum of 4,000
square feet.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. An enclosed or covered space for the storage of one or
more vehicles; provided that no business, occupation, or service is conducted
for profit therein nor space therein for more than one car is leased to a
nonresident of the premises.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any garage other than a private garage, and which is used
for storage, repair, rental, servicing, or supplying of gasoline or oil to
motor vehicles.
      GRADE, FINISHED. The completed surfaces of lawns, walks, and roads,
brought to grade as shown on official plans or designs relating thereto.
      HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance measured from the mean level of
the ground surrounding the building to a point midway between the highest and
lowest point of the roof, but not including chimneys, spires, towers, elevator
penthouses, tanks, and similar projections.
      HOME OCCUPATION. A business or commercial activity administered or
conducted as an accessory use which is clearly secondary to the use as a
residential property. The business or commercial activity must satisfy the
following requirements.
         (a)   The business or commercial activity is clearly incidental,
accessory, and subordinate to the property’s residential use.
         (b)   The business or commercial activity shall be compatible with the
residential use of the property and surrounding residential uses.
         (c)   The business or commercial activity shall employ no more than
two persons other than family members residing in the dwelling thereon.
         (d)   There shall be no display or sale of retail goods and no
stockpiling or inventory of a substantial nature.
         (e)   There shall be no outside appearance of a business or commercial
use.
         (f)   The business or commercial activity shall create no greater
traffic volumes or parking demands than would normally be expected in its
neighborhood in the borough.
         (g)   The business or commercial activity may not use any equipment or
process which creates noise, vibrations, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical or
electronic interference, including interference with radio or television
reception, which is detectable in the neighborhood.
         (h)   The business or commercial activity may not generate any solid
waste or sewage discharge, in volume or type, which is not normally associated
with residential use in the neighborhood.
         (i)   The business or commercial activity is not a nursery school,
dancing school, exercise or health center, day care center, funeral home,
mortuary, eating or drinking establishment, animal kennel, animal hospital,
veterinarian office, boarding house, medical or dental clinic, transportation
vehicle repair or rental facility, theater, or other commercial recreation
facility.
         (j)   The business or commercial activity may not involve any illegal
activity.
      HOSPITAL. A place for the diagnosis, treatment, or other care of humans
and having facilities for in-patient care including such establishments as a
sanitarium and sanatorium.
      HOTEL. A building used as the more or less temporary abiding place of 16
or more individuals who are, for compensation, lodged, with or without meals,
and in which no provision is made for cooking in any individual room or suite.
A HOTEL may include restaurants, news stands, and other accessory services
primarily for serving its occupants and only incidentally the public.
      JUNKYARD. A lot, land, or structure or part thereof, used primarily for
the collection, storage, and sale of waste paper, rags, scrap metal, or
discarded material or for the collecting, dismantling, storage, and salvaging
of machinery or vehicles not in running condition, and for the sale of parts
thereof.
      LAUNDERETTE. A business premises equipped with individual clothes washing
and/or drying machines for the use of retail customers, exclusive of laundry
facilities provided as an accessory use in an apartment house or an apartment
hotel.
      LODGING HOUSE. A building where, for compensation, rooms are provided for
at least three but not more than 15 persons, and in which no table board is
furnished.
      LOT. A designated parcel, tract, or area of land established by a plat or
otherwise as permitted by law and to be used, developed, or built upon as a
unit.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot at the junction of and abutting on two or more
intersecting streets, or at the point of abrupt change of a single street where
the interior angle is less than 135 degrees and the radius of the street line
is less than 100 feet.
      LOT, END UNIT TOWNHOUSE DWELLING. The individually owned lot on which an
end unit townhouse dwelling is constructed, including a front yard, a side
yard, and a rear yard. The owner is responsible for payment of all real estate
taxes, maintenance, and repairs of the property. The sale of the property
(structure and lot) may be conveyed to any party without prior approval by
anyone other than the homeowner.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
      LOT, INTERIOR UNIT TOWNHOUSE DWELLING. The individually owned lot on
which an interior unit townhouse dwelling is constructed, including a front
yard and a rear yard. The owner is responsible for payment of all real estate
taxes, maintenance, and repairs of the property. The sale of the property
(structure and lot) may be conveyed to any party without prior approval by
anyone other than the homeowner.
      LOT, THROUGH. An interior lot having street lines on opposite sides
(ends) of the lot.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. A street right-of-way line on the narrow side of the lot
facing the street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or way. If a lot faces a street,
avenue, drive, lane, road, or way with a width greater than 20 feet and also a
street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or way with a width equal to or less than 20
feet, the FRONT LOT LINE is the lot line parallel to the wider street, avenue,
drive, lane, road, or way.
      LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line that is most distant from, and is, or is
most nearly, parallel to, the front lot line. If a rear lot line is less than
15 feet long, or if the lot comes to a point at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE
shall be a line at least 15 feet long, lying wholly within the lot, parallel to
the front line. If a lot has two or more front lot lines, the person
constructing the initial main building shall specify which of the non-front lot
lines is to be designated as the REAR LOT LINE.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. A lot line which is neither a front lot line nor a rear
lot line.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A one time transportable, single-family dwelling
intended for permanent occupancy, contained in two or more units designed to be
joined into one integral unit which arrives at a site complete and ready for
occupancy, except for placement on a permanent foundation and minor/incidental
unpacking and assembly operations.
      MOBILE HOME. A transportable, single-family dwelling intended for
permanent occupancy, contained in one unit, or in two or more units designed to
be joined into one integral unit capable of again being separated for repeated
towing, which arrives at a site complete and ready for occupancy except for
minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, and constructed so that
it may be used without a permanent foundation.
      MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land in a mobile home park, improved with
the necessary utility connections and other appurtenances necessary for the
erection thereon of a single mobile home.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel or contiguous parcels of land which has been
so designated and improved that it contains two or more mobile home lots for
the placement thereon of mobile homes.
      MOTEL. A building or group of buildings, whether detached or in connected
units, used as individual sleeping or dwelling units, designed with separate
entrances and designed for year-round occupancy, primarily for transient
automobile travelers, and providing for accessory off-street parking
facilities. The term MOTEL includes buildings designated as tourist courts,
tourist cabins, motor lodges, and similar terms.
      MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY. A body politic and corporate created pursuant to the
Act of May 2, 1945 (Pub. Law 382, No. 164), known as the “Municipalities
Authority Act of 1945.”
      NONCONFORMING BUILDING. A building or structure which does not conform to
all the height, area, and yard regulations of the district in which it is
located.
      NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot, the area or dimension of which was lawful prior
to the adoption or amendment of this chapter, but which fails to conform to the
requirements of the zoning district in which it is located by reason of such
adoption or amendment.
      NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign which does not conform to the regulations of
the district in which it is located.
      NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure or part of a structure manifestly
not designed to comply with the use or extent of use provisions of this chapter
or amendment heretofore or hereafter enacted, where such structure lawfully
existed prior to the enactment of this chapter or amendment or prior to the
application of this chapter or amendment to its location by reason of
annexation. Such NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES include, but are not limited to,
nonconforming signs.
      NONCONFORMING USE. A use, whether of land or of structure, which does not
comply with the applicable use provisions in this chapter or amendment
heretofore or hereafter enacted, where such use was lawfully in existence prior
to the enactment of this chapter or amendment, or prior to the application of
this chapter or amendment to its location by reason of annexation.
      NURSING OR CONVALESCENT HOME. A building with less than 15 sleeping rooms
where persons are housed or lodged and furnished with meals and nursing care
for hire.
      OPEN SPACE. The unoccupied space open to the sky on the same lot with the
building.
      PARKING SPACE. The space within a building, or on a lot or parking lot,
for the parking or storage of one automobile.
      PET STORE. Retail business for the sale of small household and small wild
animals, including supplies.
      PLAT. A map, plan, or layout showing the subdivision of land and
indicating the location and boundaries of individual properties.
      PREMISES. Any lot, parcel, or tract of land and any building construction
thereon.
      PRIVATE ROAD. A legally established right-of-way, other than a street,
which provides the primary vehicular access to a lot.
      PUBLIC GROUNDS. Includes:
         (a)   Parks, playgrounds, trails, paths, and other recreational areas
and other public areas;
         (b)   Sites for schools, sewage treatment, refuse disposal, and other
publicly owned or operated facilities; and
         (c)   Publicly owned or operated scenic and historic sites.
      PUBLIC HEARING. A formal meeting held pursuant to public notice by the
Borough Council or Planning Commission, intended to inform and obtain public
comment prior to taking action in accordance with this chapter.
      PUBLIC MEETING. A forum held pursuant to notice under the Act of June 3,
1986 (Pub. Law 388, No. 84), known as the “Sunshine Act,” 53 P.S. §§ 271 et
seq.
      PUBLIC NOTICE. Notice published once each week for two successive weeks
in a newspaper of general circulation in the borough. Such NOTICE shall state
the time and place of the hearing and the particular nature of the matter to be
considered at the hearing. The first publication shall not be more than 30 days
and the second publication shall not be less than seven days from the date of
the hearing.
      RACE TRACK. Track used by motorized vehicles capable of transporting one
or more humans.
      REPORT. Any letter, review, memorandum, compilation, or similar writing
made by any body, board, officer or consultant other than a solicitor to any
other body, board, officer, or consultant for the purpose of assisting the
recipient of such report in the rendering of any decision or determination. All
REPORTS shall be deemed recommendatory and advisory only and shall not be
binding upon the recipient, board, officer, body, or agency, nor shall any
appeal lie therefrom. Any REPORT used, received, or considered by the body,
board, officer, or agency rendering a determination or decision shall be made
available for inspection to the applicant and all other parties to any
proceeding upon request, and copies thereof shall be provided at cost of
reproduction.
      RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. A hotel used by 16 or more permanent guests only and
not by transients.
      RIDING ACADEMY. An establishment where horses are kept for riding or
driving, or are stabled for compensation, or incidental to the operation of any
club, association, ranch, or similar establishment.
      SANITARIUM or SANATORIUM. A private hospital, whether or not such
facility is operated for profit.
      SCREEN PLANTING. A vegetative material of sufficient height and density
to conceal from the view, in adjoining districts, the structures and uses on
the premises upon which the screen planting is located.
      SETBACK. The distance from the property line to the nearest part of the
applicable building, structure, or sign, measured perpendicularly to the
property line.
      SIGN. Any structure or device for visual communication that is used for
the purpose of bringing the subject thereof to the attention of the public, but
not including any flag, badge, or insignia of any government or government
agency, or of any civic, charitable, religious, patriotic, fraternal, or
similar organization.
      SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use permitted in a particular zoning district
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and Articles VI and IX of the
state’s Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10601 et seq. and 53 P.S. §§
10901 et seq.
      STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above
it, then the space between any floor and the ceiling next above it.
      STREET. Includes street, avenue, boulevard, road, highway, freeway,
parkway, lane, viaduct, or any other ways used or intended to be used by
vehicular traffic or pedestrians, whether public or private.
      STREET LINE. The dividing line between the street and the lot.
      STRUCTURE. Any human-made object having an ascertainable stationary
location on or in land or water, whether or not affixed to the land.
      SUBDIVISION. The division or redivision of a lot, tract, or parcel of
land by any means, into two or more lots, tracts, parcels, or other divisions
of land, including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs
or devisees, transfer of ownership, or building or lot development.
      TELEPHONE CENTRAL OFFICE. A building and its equipment erected and used
for the purpose of facilitating transmission and exchange of telephone and
radio messages between subscribers, and other business of the telephone
company; provided, that in a residential district a TELEPHONE CENTRAL OFFICE
shall not include storage of materials, trucks, or repair facilities, or
housing of repair crews.
      THEATER. A building or part of a building devoted to the showing of
moving pictures or theatrical productions on a commercial basis.
      THEATER, OUTDOOR DRIVE-IN. An open lot or part thereof with its
appurtenant facilities devoted primarily to the showing of moving pictures or
theatrical productions on a commercial basis to patrons seated in automobiles
or on outdoor seats.
      TOURIST HOME. A dwelling in which overnight accommodations are provided
or offered for transient guests for compensation.
      TRAILER CAMP. A tract of land where two or more trailer coaches are
parked or which is used or held out for the purpose of supplying to the public
a parking space for two or more trailer coaches.
      TRAILER COACH. Any portable or mobile vehicle used for living purposes
and with its wheels, rollers, or skids in place.
      USE. The specific purpose for which land or a building is designed,
arranged, intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained. The
term “permitted use” or its equivalent shall not be deemed to include any
nonconforming use.
      VARIANCE. Relief granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and
Articles VI and IX of the state’s Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§
10101 et seq.
      WINDOW. An opening to the outside, other than a door, which provides all
or part of the required natural light, natural ventilation, or both, to an
interior space.
      YARD. An unoccupied space open to the sky, on the same lot with a
building or structure.
      YARD, FRONT. The required open space extending along the full width of a
front lot line and back to the required building line.
      YARD, REAR. The required open space extending from the rear of the main
building to the lot line (not necessarily a street line) across the entire
width of the lot. On a corner lot, one of the yards not situated adjacent to a
street shall be designated by the owner or developer as being the REAR YARD.
      YARD, SIDE. The required open space between the side (face) of any
building and the side lot line, extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
Any lot line not a rear line or a front line shall be deemed as a side line. In
the case of a through lot, SIDE YARDS shall extend from the rear line of the
required front yard to the front line of the required rear yard. On a corner
lot, one of the yards not situated adjacent to a street shall be designated by
the owner or developer as being the SIDE YARD.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010; Ord. 2011-01, passed 3-7-2011; Ord. 2020-04,
passed 12-22-2022)
§ 154.005 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The following regulations shall qualify or supplement the district
regulations appearing elsewhere in this chapter.
   (A)   Use regulations.
      (1)   Farming. The tilling of the soil, raising of crops, and gardening
shall be permitted in any district.
      (2)   Manufacturing. In order that the Zoning Officer may have a
reasonable basis upon which to approve a proposed industrial operation for
conformity to the requirements of this chapter, the following data shall be
submitted with an application for a permit:
         (a)   Plot plan;
         (b)   Architectural plan;
         (c)   Description of operation;
         (d)   Engineering and architectural plans for water supply and sewage
disposal;
         (e)   Plans for prevention or control of noise, vibration, glare, fire
hazards, air pollution, water pollution, and traffic;
         (f)   Proposed fuel;
         (g)   Number of shifts and maximum employment per shift; and
         (h)   Additional pertinent data as may be required by the Zoning
Officer.
      (3)   Motels. In districts where permitted, motels shall be subject to
the following conditions.
         (a)   Cabins or parts thereof shall be placed no closer to any lot
line than 30 feet.
         (b)   The space between cabins or units shall be not more than 20 feet
and the space between the fronts or rears of cabins or units shall be not less
than 60 feet.
         (c)   At least one parking space shall be provided on the premises for
each accommodation. Off-street parking and loading spaces for other facilities
developed on the motel premises shall be provided as required by §
154.030.
         (d)   Every cabin or unit shall be provided with running water and
toilet facilities for each accommodation.
         (e)   With the application for a permit, a plan shall be submitted to
the Zoning Officer showing the following:
            1.   Extent and area of the property;
            2.   Entrances, exits, driveways, roads, and walks;
            3.   Site of each cabin or unit;
            4.   Plan for water supply;
            5.   Plan for sewage disposal; and
            6.   Plan for supply of electricity.
      (4)   Municipal uses. In any district, a building may be erected,
altered, or extended and land may be developed which is arranged, intended, or
designed for municipal uses, including municipal recreation use.
      (5)   Prohibited uses.
         (a)   Dwellings in the Flood-Prone and Commercial Districts.
Hereafter, a building shall not be erected in the Commercial Districts
established on the zoning map for use as a single-family or two-family dwelling
unless the dwelling use is incidental to the principal use of the premises.
         (b)   Prohibited uses. The following uses are prohibited in all
districts throughout the borough:
            1.   The incineration, reduction, or storage of garbage, offal,
animals, fish, or refuse, unless by the authority of or under the supervision
of the borough;
            2.   Dumps and dumping of any kind unless by the authority of or
under the supervision of the borough;
            3.   The stripping of top soil for sale, exclusive of the process
of grading a lot preparatory to the construction of a building for which a
permit has been issued;
            4.   All trailer coaches, trailer camps, mobile homes, and mobile
home parks; or any manufactured or modular homes with a roof pitch less than
seven to 12 (seven inches vertical rise over 12 horizontal inches);
            5.   Occupying for sleeping or living purposes motor homes and
camper trailers;
            6.   Mining and quarrying;
            7.   Race tracks;
            8.   Outdoor drive-in theaters;
            9.   Poultry raising activities;
            10.   The parking of vehicles, specifically defined/designated as
commercial vehicles by the state’s Motor Vehicle Code, on any public right-of-
way, excepting temporarily for the purpose of loading and unloading;
            11.   The parking or storage of construction related vehicles or
equipment on any public right-of-way, excepting temporarily while construction
is underway provided a permit has been duly granted for the construction
activity;
            12.   The displaying and selling of pornographic material;
            13.   Produces heat, smoke, odors, dust, or vibration perceptible
beyond the property boundary, except during temporary construction or repair
activities;
            14.   Involves explosive materials or processes or creates special
fire hazards, except when controlled by insured, licensed, and/or professional
person(s) for special events sanctioned by Borough Council or its designee,
such as Independence Day celebration(s), or for temporary construction
activities;
            15.   Produces glare from any process which emits harmful
ultraviolet rays, including arc welding and acetylene torch cutting,
perceptible beyond the property boundary, except during temporary construction
or repair activities;
            16.   Produces electromagnetic radiation or radioactive emissions
which exceed applicable local, state, or federal law;
            17.   Produces noise levels which violate the borough’s noise
ordinance or its successor; and
            18.   Air conditioners, ventilation, heating units, and similar
devices of eight tons or greater heating or cooling capacity that emit sound
that is plainly audible beyond the property boundary shall be required to apply
“best engineering practices for noise mitigation and control” sound mitigation
techniques to reduce the sound to the extent feasible.
         (c)   Outside storage. The out-of-doors parking or storage of
equipment, supplies, or other materials on any lot in the S, R-1, R-2, R-3, and
R-4 Districts, excepting as may temporarily be required during construction
activities.
         (d)   Commercial vehicle parking. The out-of-doors parking or storage
of vehicles, specifically defined/designated as commercial vehicles by the
state’s Motor Vehicle Code on any lot in the S, R-1, R-2, R-2T, R-3, R-4, or
RLC Districts, excepting temporarily for the purpose loading and unloading.
      (6)   Public utility facilities. Public utility facilities shall be
permitted in any district without regard to the use and area regulations;
provided, however, that buildings or structures erected for these utilities
shall be subject to the height regulations and front, side, and rear yard
regulations of the district in which the facility is located.
   (B)   Height regulations.
      (1)   The height of any building may exceed the maximum permitted height
by one foot for each additional foot by which the width of each yard exceeds
the minimum yard regulation for the district in which the building is located,
except for those buildings which are controlled by a floor-area ratio.
      (2)   Height regulations shall not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas,
penthouses, or domes not used for human occupancy; nor to chimneys,
ventilators, skylights, water tanks, bulkheads, utility poles or towers, silos,
grain elevators, and necessary mechanical or ornamental appurtenances.
      (3)   For all residential uses, accessory buildings shall not exceed 25
feet in height.
   (C)   Area regulations. Unless the regulations of the district in which they
are located require greater lot areas or lot widths, the following regulations
shall apply.
      (1)   Lots not served by a public water or sanitary sewer system or other
systems approved by the Department of Environmental Protection shall be not
less than 100 feet wide at the building line nor less than 20,000 square feet
in area, per dwelling unit.
      (2)   Lots served by a public water system and a septic tank shall be not
less than 60 feet wide at the building line nor less than 9,000 square feet in
area, per dwelling unit.
      (3)   On a lot held in single and separate ownership on the effective
date of this chapter which does not fulfill the regulations for the minimum
area and yard dimensions for the district in which it is located, a building
may be erected, altered, and used thereon, providing the yard space is not less
than the minimum specified herein; and said lot may be subdivided upon approval
of the subdivision plat or plats by the Borough Planning Commission.
      (4)   The area, width, and depth of lots shall provide adequate open area
for off-street parking space and yards. When necessary, septic tanks and drain
fields shall be provided with open space in addition to the open space required
for off-street parking and other paved areas, and the area covered by the main
building and buildings and structures accessory thereto.
   (D)   Yard regulations.
      (1)   Front yards.
         (a)   In zoning districts currently designated as R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
RLC, C-2, CMR, and for single-family dwellings in the R-2T District, where a
main building is proposed to be built on an unimproved lot which is situated
between two lots on which one or both of the main buildings have maintained
lesser front yard setbacks; from a street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or way
that is greater than 20 feet in width; than those required since the enactment
of the zoning ordinance in February 1959, then the front yard setback of the
middle main building may be reduced to the average of the front yard setbacks
of the two adjacent lots, however, the entrance wall/opening of a garage or
carport shall not be constructed less than 20 feet from the street line.
         (b)   In zoning districts currently designated as R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
RLC, C-2, CMR, and for single-family dwellings in the R-2T District, where an
unimproved lot is bordered on one side by another unimproved lot and on the
other side by a lot on which the main building has maintained a lesser front
yard setback; from a street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or way that is greater
than 20 feet in width; than required since the enactment of the zoning
ordinance in February 1959, then the front yard setback of such middle lot may
be the average depth of the front yard setback required for the district and
the front yard setback of the main building on the adjoining lot, however, the
entrance wall/opening of a garage or carport cannot be constructed less than 20
feet from the street line. The second unimproved lot from the original improved
lot must have at least the minimum front yard setback required in the district.
         (c)   In zoning districts currently designated as R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
RLC, C-2, CMR, and for single-family dwellings in the R-2T District, where the
main building is proposed to be built on an unimproved corner lot which is
situated beside a lot on which the main building has maintained a lesser front
yard setback; from a street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or way that is greater
than 20 feet in width; than those required since the enactment of the zoning
ordinance in February 1959, then the front yard setback of such unimproved lot
may be the average depth of the front yard setback required for the district
and the front yard setback of the main building on the adjoining lot, however,
the entrance wall/opening of a garage or carport shall not be constructed less
than 20 feet from the street line.
         (d)   In zoning districts currently designated as R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
RLC, C-2, CMR, and for single-family dwellings in the R-2T District, where the
main building is proposed to be built on an unimproved corner lot which is
situated beside a lot on which the main building has maintained a front yard
setback of less than 20 feet; from a street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or way
that is equal to or less than 20 feet in width; then the front yard setback of
such unimproved lot may be the average depth of the front yard setback required
for the district and the front yard setback of the main building on the
adjoining lot, however, the front yard setback shall not be less than ten feet.
The entrance wall/opening of a garage or carport shall not be constructed less
than 20 feet from the street line.
         (e)   In zoning districts currently designated as R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
RLC, C-2, CMR, and for single-family dwellings in the R-2T District, where the
original main building that was constructed prior to February 1959 is proposed
to be extended or enlarged on a lot which is situated between two lots on which
the main buildings have maintained lesser front yard setbacks; from a street,
avenue, drive, lane, road, or way that is greater than 20 feet in width; than
those required since the enactment of the zoning ordinance in February 1959,
then the front yard setback of the middle main building may be reduced to the
average of the front yard setbacks of the two adjacent lots when the front yard
setbacks of both of the adjacent lots are less than that of the middle lot,
however, the entrance wall/opening of a garage or carport shall not be
constructed less than 20 feet from the street line.
         (f)   In zoning districts currently designated as R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
RLC, C-2, CMR, and for single-family dwellings in the R-2T District, where the
original main building that was constructed prior to February 1959 is proposed
to be extended or enlarged on a lot which is situated beside a lot on which the
main building has maintained lesser front yard setback; from a street, avenue,
drive, lane, road, or way that is greater than 20 feet in width; than those
required since the enactment of the zoning ordinance in February 1959, then the
front yard setback of the one-half width of the main building which is to be
extended or enlarged that is situated beside the non-compliant adjacent
property may be equal the average of the existing front yard setback of the lot
in question and the front yard setback of the non-compliant adjacent lot,
however, the entrance wall/opening of a garage or carport shall not be
constructed less than 20 feet from the street line.
         (g)   In zoning districts currently designated as R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
RLC, C-2, CMR, and for single-family dwellings in the R-2T District, where the
original main building that was constructed prior to February 1959 is proposed
to be extended or enlarged on a corner lot which is situated beside a lot on
which the main building has maintained a lesser front yard setback; from a
street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or way that is greater than 20 feet in
width; than those required since the enactment of the zoning ordinance in
February 1959, then the front yard setback of the main building may be equal to
the average depth of the existing front yard setback of the lot in question and
the front yard setback of the of the non-compliant adjacent lot, however, the
entrance wall/opening of a garage or carport cannot be constructed less than 20
feet from the street line.
         (h)   In zoning districts currently designated as R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
RLC, C-2, CMR, and for single-family dwellings in the R-2T District, where the
main building is proposed to be extended or enlarged on a corner lot which is
situated beside a lot on which the main building has maintained a front yard
setback of less than 20 feet; from a street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or way
that is equal to or less than 20 feet in width; then the front yard setback of
such main building may be equal to the average depth of the existing front yard
setback of the lot in question and the front yard setback of the main building
on the adjoining lot, however, the front yard setback shall not be less than
ten feet. The entrance wall/opening of a garage or carport shall not be
constructed less than 20 feet from the street line.
         (i)   In zoning districts currently designated as R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
RLC, C-2, CMR, and for single-family dwellings in the R-2T District, where the
main building is proposed to be extended or enlarged on a lot which is situated
between two lots on which the main buildings have maintained front yard
setbacks of less than 20 feet; from a street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or way
that equal to or less than 20 feet in width; then the front yard setback of the
middle main building may be reduced to the average of the front yard setbacks
of the two adjacent lots when the front yard setbacks of both of the adjacent
lots are less than that of the middle lot, however, the front yard setback
shall not be less than ten feet. The entrance wall/opening of a garage or
carport shall not be constructed less than 20 feet from the street line.
         (j)   In zoning districts currently designated as R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
RLC, C-2, CMR, and for single-family dwellings in the R-2T District, where the
main building is proposed to be extended or enlarged on a lot which is situated
beside a lot on which the main building has maintained front yard setback of
less than 20 feet; from a street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or way that is
equal to or less than 20 feet in width; then the front yard setback of the one-
half width of the main building which is to be extended or enlarged situated
beside the non-compliant adjacent property may be equal to the average of the
existing front yard setback of the lot in question and the front yard setback
of the non-compliant adjacent lot, however, the front yard setback shall not be
less than ten feet. The entrance wall/opening of a garage or carport shall not
be constructed less than 20 feet from the street line.
         (k)   In zoning districts currently designated as R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
RLC, C-2, CMR, and for single-family dwellings in the R-2T District, where the
main building is proposed to be extended or enlarged on a lot which has no
adjoining lots fronting along a street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or way that
is equal to or less than 20 feet in width and has maintained a front yard
setback of less than 20 feet, then the front yard setback of the proposed
extension or enlargement of the main building shall be equal to the setback of
the existing main building, however, the front yard setback shall not be less
than ten feet. The entrance wall/opening of a garage or carport shall not be
constructed less than 20 feet from the street line.
         (l)   In Zoning District R-2T, the front yard setback for townhouse
units shall not be less than 20 feet.
      (2)   Side yards.
         (a)   On corner lots, the side yard abutting a street, avenue, drive,
lane, road, or way that is not parallel to the front lot line shall have a
minimum width as required in the zoning district.
         (b)   On an interior lot, held in single and separate ownership, with
a lot width less than required for the zoning district only one main building
may be erected, and side yards shall be provided according to the following
requirements.
            1.   On lots with a width of 50 feet or more, two side yards shall
be provided as required by the district regulations.
            2.   On lots less than 50 feet but not less than 27 feet in width,
two side yards shall be provided, each equaling 20% of the lot width.
            3.   On lots less than 27 feet but not less than 20 feet in width,
the main building shall be 16 feet in width and only one side yard shall be
provided, equaling in width the difference between the lot width and 16 feet.
One side wall of the main building shall be constructed abutting the lot line
and shall have no door openings nor be constructed as a party wall.
            4.   On lots less than 20 feet in width, a main building shall be
constructed the full width of the lot. Side walls abutting the lot lines shall
have no door openings and they shall not be constructed as party walls. For
dwellings, constructed to a depth of more than two rooms, a court not less than
six feet in width shall be provided, abutting the side wall for all rooms
beyond the second room.
         (c)   In zoning districts currently designated as R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
RLC, C-2, CMR, and for single-family dwellings in the R-2T District, where a
main building is proposed to be built on a lot which is situated between two
lots on which one or both of the main buildings have maintained lesser side
yard setbacks than required since the enactment of the zoning ordinance in
February 1959, then the side yard setback of the middle main building may be
reduced to the side yard setback of the adjacent lot, however, no portion of
the main building shall be less than five feet from the side lot line.
         (d)   In zoning districts currently designated as R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
RLC, C-2, CMR, and for single-family dwellings in the R-2T District, where the
main building is proposed to be extended or enlarged on a lot on which the main
building has maintained a lesser side yard setback than required since the
enactment of the zoning ordinance in February 1959, then the side yard setback
of any proposed extension or enlargement of the main building may also be
reduced to a point no closer to a side lot line than the shortest setback
distance of the existing main building, however no proposed extension or
enlargement of the main building shall be less than five feet from the side lot
line.
         (e)   A carport, open on three sides, may be erected within one of the
side yards when attached to a main building existing prior to February 1959;
provided, the carport shall be not less than three feet from such side lot
line.
      (3)   Rear yards.
         (a)   In zoning districts currently designated as R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
RLC, C-2, CMR, and for single-family dwellings in the R-2T District, where a
main building is proposed to be built on a lot which is situated between two
lots on which the main buildings have maintained lesser rear yard setbacks than
required since the enactment of the zoning ordinance in February 1959, then the
rear yard setback of the middle main building may be reduced to the average of
the rear yard setbacks of the two adjacent lots, however, however no part of
the main building shall be less than 15 feet from the rear lot line and the
entrance wall/opening of a garage or carport cannot be constructed less than 30
feet from the rear lot line.
         (b)   In zoning districts currently designated as R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
RLC, C-2, CMR, and for single-family dwellings in the R-2T District, where the
main building is proposed to be extended or enlarged on a lot on which the main
building has maintained a lesser rear yard setback than required since the
enactment of the zoning ordinance in February 1959, then the rear yard setback
of any proposed extension or enlargement of the main building may also be
reduced to a point no closer to the rear lot line than the shortest setback
distance of the existing main building:
            1.   However, no part of the main building shall be less than 15
feet from the rear lot line and the entrance wall/opening of a garage or
carport shall not be constructed less than 30 feet from the rear lot line when
the lot in question is an interior lot; and
            2.   However, no part of the main building shall be less than five
feet from the rear lot line and the entrance wall/opening of a garage or
carport shall not be constructed less than 30 feet from the rear lot line when
the lot in question is a corner lot.
      (4)   Accessory buildings and swimming pools.
         (a)   An accessory building may be erected within the front yard of a
through lot in the yard fronting along a street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or
way that is less than 20 feet in width; provided:
            1.   The accessory building shall not occupy more than 30% of the
required front yard;
            2.   An exterior wall, having an opening for vehicle access, shall
be located at least 20 feet from the street line;
            3.   An exterior wall, not having an opening for vehicle access,
shall be located at least ten feet from the street line; and
            4.   The accessory building shall be located at least five feet
from the side lot lines.
         (b)   A swimming pool and accessory deck may be erected within the
front yard of a through lot in the yard fronting along a street, avenue, drive,
lane, road, or way that is less than 20 feet in width, provided:
            1.   The swimming pool and accessory deck shall be located at least
20 feet from the street line; and
            2.   The swimming pool and accessory deck shall be located no
closer to the side lot line than either five feet or the distance of the
required side yard for the zoning district in which it is located, whichever is
greater.
         (c)   An accessory building may be erected within the rear yard of a
lot, provided:
            1.   The accessory building shall not occupy more than 30% of the
required rear yard; and
            2.   The accessory building shall be located at least five feet
from the side and rear lot lines.
         (d)   A swimming pool and accessory deck may be erected within the
rear yard of a lot, provided: the swimming pool and accessory deck shall be
located no closer to the rear or side lot lines than either five feet or the
distance of the required side yard for the zoning district in which it is
located, whichever is greater.
         (e)   An accessory building may be erected within a side yard,
provided the accessory building shall be located at least five feet from the
side lot line.
      (5)   Projection in yards.
         (a)   Cornices, eaves, gutters, bay windows, or chimneys may project
into the front, side, or rear yard of a lot not more than two feet.
         (b)   Covered porches and decks, whether enclosed or unenclosed, shall
be considered as part of the main building and shall not project into any yard.
         (c)   Uncovered and unenclosed porches and decks, the floor level of
which exceeds two feet in height above the surrounding level of the ground,
shall not project into any yard.
         (d)   Uncovered and unenclosed porches, the floor level of which may
not exceed two feet in height above the surrounding level of the ground, may
project into the front yard of a lot by not more than four feet.
         (e)   Uncovered and unenclosed porches and decks, the floor level of
which may not exceed two feet in height above the surrounding level of the
ground, may project into the rear yard of a lot by not more than ten feet.
         (f)   For a public building, a handicapped ramp may be constructed
regardless of the yard setback requirements of the district.
         (g)   For a private residence, a handicapped ramp may temporarily be
constructed within the yard(s) but shall only extend into the yard(s) a maximum
width of four feet and then only for the duration of time as it is required by
the occupant of the residence.
      (6)   Fencing, screening, and retaining walls. Unless otherwise
stipulated, the following standards shall apply:
         (a)   Fences, walls, hedges, or other planted screens may be erected
in any yard subject to following height restrictions:
            1.   Located in a front yard: three and one-half feet maximum;
            2.   Located in a side or rear yard: six feet maximum or up to
eight feet provided the ratio of solid to open portion does not exceed one to
four. It is the responsibility of the person who is applying for the zoning
permit to determine whether 53 P.S. § 15171 also applies. There shall be no
maximum applied to hedges or planted screens (e.g., trees) located along the
rear property line; and
            3.   Located in any yard in the CMR Zoning District where the
property is used for commercial or manufacturing purposes: 12 feet maximum. All
yards used for the storage of any material needed for the operation or conduct
of a manufacturing or commercial enterprise shall be enclosed by a solid wall,
uniformly painted board fence, or screen planting on all sides which face upon
a street. It is the responsibility of the person who is applying for the zoning
permit to determine whether 53 P.S. § 15171 also applies.
         (b)   Fences, screens, or walls up to ten feet in height may be
approved by the Planning Commission for any yard of a public school,
recreational facility, building, or a public/essential service provided that
the ratio of solid to open portion does not exceed 1:4. It is the
responsibility of the person who is applying for the zoning permit to determine
whether 53 P.S. § 15171 also applies;
         (c)   A retaining wall may be erected along any property line or in
any yard where it is required to prevent a landslide or other hazardous
conditions;
         (d)   A fence or screen cannot be erected in a public or dedicated
right-of-way;
         (e)   Fences located along a property boundary shall be set back a
minimum of six inches from the property line;
         (f)   Fences shall not contain barbs or similar types of injurious
materials, unless specifically approved by the Planning Commission for security
reasons;
         (g)   The finished side of the fence or wall shall always face the
abutting properties or street; and
         (h)   Fencing around swimming pools:
            1.   In-ground pools, in all zoning districts, shall be enclosed by
a fence, constituting a barrier to small children, at least four feet in height
and equipped with a gate and lock. Fencing for a pool shall comply with the
applicable requirements of this division (D)(6)(h).
            2.   Above-ground pools in all zoning districts having vertical
walls four feet or more above ground level and removable steps are not required
to be fenced, but the owner shall remove the steps when the pool is not in use
to prevent access by small children.
      (7)   Obstruction to vision. Walls, fences, signs, or other structures
shall not be erected or altered, and hedges, trees, or other growth shall not
be planted or maintained, which may cause danger to traffic on a street or
driveway or to pedestrians on a sidewalk or street by obstructing the view.
   (E)   Courts. Courts shall conform to the following requirements.
      (1)   Generally. An open space in the form of an inner court or outer
court shall be provided in connection with any building in any residential or
business district wherever any room therein in which a person or persons live,
work, sleep, or congregate cannot be adequately lighted and ventilated from the
street or yard. Such court shall be adjacent to such room, the windows of which
shall open in such court.
      (2)   Outer court.
         (a)   The width of any outer court upon which windows open from a
living room, bedroom, or dining room shall be not less than the height of any
wall opposite such windows except as provided in division (D)(4) above.
However, when the depth of such court is less than six feet, the minimum width
may be as little as twice the depth.
         (b)   The depth of an outer court formed by walls on three sides shall
be not greater than one- half times the width.
      (3)   Inner court.
         (a)   The least dimension of an inner court shall be not less than the
full height of the walls enclosing such court, but not less than 50 feet.
         (b)   An open and unobstructed passageway shall be provided for each
inner court. Such passageway shall have sufficient cross section area and
headroom for the passage of firefighting equipment and shall be continuous from
the inner court to a yard or an unobstructed open area with access to a street.
   (F)   Habitable floor area. (See § 154.004.) The minimum habitable floor
area of a dwelling unit hereafter erected shall be 1,000 square feet. In the
case of apartment houses, the minimum habitable floor area shall not be less
than 300 square feet.
   (G)   Reduction of lot dimensions. The area, width, or depth of any lot
shall not be reduced by subdivision, sale, or development so that the lot
width, lot area, lot area per dwelling unit, courts and yards, or other open
spaces are smaller, or so that the coverage is greater, than prescribed herein.
   (H)   Drainage. No building or zoning permit shall be issued for structures
in areas considered by the Zoning Officer to be subject to inundation by floods
or excessive storm drainage, unless the structures are constructed to withstand
such conditions.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010; Ord. 2011-01, passed 3-7-2011; Ord. 2017-01,
passed 1-3-2017)
§ 154.006 NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES.
   All lawful uses of land or of a building, sign, or other structure existing
on the effective date of this chapter may be continued, maintained,
reconstructed, altered, restored, changed, sold, or resold even though such use
may not conform to the use, height, area, yard, and other regulations of the
district in which it is located, providing such nonconforming conditions shall
comply with the following.
   (A)   Zoning permit.
      (1)   Where a zoning permit has been issued for a nonconforming building
or use 90 or more days prior to the effective date of this chapter, and
construction other than excavation and foundations has not been started, the
zoning permit previously issued shall become null and void and all future
zoning permits shall be granted as provided in §
150.40 through
150.61, only when proposed buildings and uses conform to the requirements of
this chapter.
      (2)   Where a zoning permit has been issued less than 90 days prior to
the effective date of this chapter and the proposed building or use does not
conform to the requirements of this chapter, the proposed building or use shall
be considered the same as a lawful building or use and shall be regulated by
the requirements of this subchapter, only if at least one of the following
conditions has been met prior to the effective date of this chapter:
         (a)   Construction other than excavation has been started; or
         (b)   A contract for construction other than excavation has been let.
   (B)   Alterations. Repairs and structural alterations may be made to a
nonconforming building or a building occupied by a nonconforming use.
   (C)   Extension(s) or enlargement(s).
      (1)   The types of extension(s) and enlargement(s) listed below are
permitted for nonconforming uses and buildings existing on the effective date
of this chapter:
         (a)   The extension of a nonconforming use of land upon a lot occupied
by such use;
         (b)   The extension or enlargement of a conforming building occupied
by a nonconforming use;
         (c)   The extension or enlargement of a nonconforming building
occupied by a nonconforming use; and
         (d)   The extension or enlargement of a nonconforming building
occupied by a conforming use.
      (2)   The foregoing extension(s) or enlargement(s) shall be subject to
the following conditions:
         (a)   The extension or enlargement shall conform to the height, area,
and coverage regulations of the district in which it is located;
         (b)   Refer to §
154.005(D) for information relating to yards;
         (c)   The entire building or use shall be provided with off-street
parking and loading spaces as required by §
154.030; and
         (d)   The extension or enlargement does not replace a conforming use.
   (D)   Abandonment. If the nonconforming use of the building or land ceases
for a period of one year or more, subsequent use of such building or land shall
be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter with exception to the
following: hereafter, the removal of a trailer coach from a trailer camp which
is nonconforming under the terms of this chapter shall constitute abandonment
of the space so occupied and subsequent use of the said trailer space shall
conform with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.020 DESIGNATION OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Zone districts. For the purpose of this subchapter, the borough is
hereby divided into districts which shall be designated as follows.
C-1 Commercial District - Central
C-2 Commercial District - Highway
CMR Commercial/Manufacturing/Residential District
FP Flood-Prone District
H Historic District
R-1 Residential District - Single-Family
R-2 Residential District - Single-Family
R-2T Residential District - Single-Family and Single-Family Townhouse
R-3 Residential District - Multi-family
R-4 Residential and Business/Professional Offices District
RLC Residential and Light Commercial
S Slope District
 
   (B)   Zoning map. The boundaries of the districts shall be as shown upon the
map attached to and made a part of this chapter which shall be designated
“Zoning Map.” The said map and all the notations, references and other data
shown thereon are hereby incorporated by reference into this chapter as if all
were fully described herein.
   (C)   Boundaries between districts. The boundaries between districts are,
unless otherwise indicated, either the centerlines of streets, alleys, railroad
rights-of-way, lot lines, or such lines extended or lines parallel thereto.
      (1)   Where district boundaries approximate the location of the above
lines, they shall be construed to be on those lines.
      (2)   Where figures are shown on the zoning map between a street, alley,
railroad right-of-way, or lot line, and a district boundary line, they indicate
that the district boundary line runs parallel to that line at a distance
therefrom equivalent to the number of feet so indicated.
      (3)   Where district boundaries are not clearly fixed by the above
methods, they shall be determined by the use of the scale of the zoning map.
   (D)   Interpretation of boundaries. When a district boundary line divides a
lot held in single and separate ownership at the effective date of this
chapter, the regulations of either abutting district may be construed by the
owner to be applicable to the portion of such lot in the other abutting
district for a distance of not more than 50 feet beyond the district boundary
line.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.021 S SLOPE DISTRICT.
   In the S Slope District, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Preservation of natural amenities;
      (2)   Select-cut logging and quarrying (no blasting);
      (3)   Public and private parks and recreation grounds;
      (4)   Wastewater transmission and treatment facilities;
      (5)   Electric and telephone public utility transmission and distribution
facilities including substations and water pumping stations;
      (6)   Municipal buildings or uses;
      (7)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (8)   Home occupations and household pets;
      (9)   The tilling of soil, the raising of crops, fruits, and vegetables,
and noncommercial greenhouses;
      (10)   Signs pertaining to a use conducted within the building or on the
lot, or appertaining to the lease or sale of the property, or identifying the
use or building on the property; and
      (11)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above
uses.
   (B)   Height regulations.
      (1)   The height of a building shall be not greater than 35 feet.
      (2)   The height of a dwelling shall be not less than one story.
   (C)   Area regulations. The lot area and lot area per dwelling unit shall be
not less than 12,500 square feet.
   (D)   Width regulations. The lot width at the building line shall be not
less than 100 feet.
   (E)   Yard regulations. Each lot shall have front, side, and rear yards of
not less than the depth or width indicated below:
      (1)   Front yard depth: 35 feet;
      (2)   Side yards, two - width: 15 feet each; and
      (3)   Rear yard depth: 35 feet.
   (F)   Coverage regulations. The coverage shall be no more than 20%. At least
50% of the lot shall be covered with vegetative material.
   (G)   Off-street parking. Parking shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.045.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010; Ord. 2011-01, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 154.022 R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT - SINGLE-FAMILY.
   In the R-1 Residential District, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Churches or similar places of worship, parish houses, and convents;
      (3)   Public and private schools including colleges and institutions of
higher education;
      (4)   Public parks, playgrounds, and municipal recreation areas;
      (5)   Municipal buildings, public libraries, and museums;
      (6)   Wastewater transmission and treatment facilities;
      (7)   Electric and telephone public utility transmission and distribution
facilities, including substations, water pumping stations, and reservoirs;
      (8)   Home occupations and household pets;
      (9)   The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, fruits, and
vegetables, greenhouses, and nurseries;
      (10)   Signs when erected and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.031 appearing herein entitled “Signs;”
      (11)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above
uses; and
      (12)   Bed and breakfast establishments.
   (B)   Height regulations.
      (1)   The height of a building shall be not greater than 35 feet.
      (2)   The height of a dwelling shall be not less than one story.
   (C)   Area regulations. The lot area per dwelling unit shall be not less
than 9,000 square feet.
   (D)   Width regulations. For a dwelling, the lot width at the building line
shall be not less than 60 feet on an interior lot and 78 feet on a corner lot.
   (E)   Yard regulations. Each lot shall have front, side, and rear yards of
not less than the depth or width indicated below:
      (1)   Front yard depth:
         (a)   Thirty-five feet when the adjacent street, avenue, drive, lane,
road, or way is greater than 20 feet in width; and
         (b)   Twenty feet when the adjacent street, avenue, drive, lane, road,
or way is 20 feet or less in width.
      (2)   Side yards width:
         (a)   Twelve feet each for the two side yards on an interior lot;
         (b)   Twelve feet for the one interior side yard of a corner lot; and
         (c)   Twenty-five feet for the one side yard fronting along a street,
avenue, drive, lane, road, or way that is not defined as a front yard.
      (3)   Rear yard depth: 35 feet; and
      (4)   See §
154.005(D) for additional provisions.
   (F)   Coverage regulations. The coverage shall be no more than 30%.
   (G)   Off-street parking. Parking shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.045.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010; Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-22-2020)
§ 154.023 R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT - SINGLE-FAMILY.
   In the R-2 Residential District, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Churches or similar places of worship, parish houses, and convents;
      (3)   Public and private schools including colleges and institutions of
higher education;
      (4)   Public parks, playgrounds, and municipal recreation areas;
      (5)   Municipal buildings, public libraries, and museums;
      (6)   Wastewater transmission facilities;
      (7)   Electric and telephone public utility transmission and distribution
facilities, including substations, water pumping stations, and reservoirs;
      (8)   Home occupations and household pets;
      (9)   The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, fruits, and
vegetables, greenhouses, and nurseries;
      (10)   Signs, when erected and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.031 appearing herein entitled “Signs;”
      (11)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above;
and
      (12)   Bed and breakfast establishments.
   (B)   Height regulations.
      (1)   The height of a building shall be not greater than 35 feet.
      (2)   The height of a dwelling shall be not less than one story.
   (C)   Area regulations. The lot area per dwelling unit shall be no less than
6,000 square feet.
   (D)   Width regulations. For a dwelling, the lot width at the building line
shall be not less than 60 feet on an interior lot, and 78 feet on a corner lot.
   (E)   Yard regulations. Each lot shall have front, side, and rear yards of
not less than the depth or width indicated below.
      (1)   Front yard depth:
         (a)   Thirty feet when the adjacent street, avenue, drive, lane, road,
or way is greater than 20 feet in width; and
         (b)   Twenty feet when the adjacent street, avenue, drive, lane, road,
or way is 20 feet or less in width.
      (2)   Side yards width:
         (a)   Twelve feet each for the two side yards on an interior lot;
         (b)   Twelve feet for the one interior side yard of a corner lot; and
         (c)   Twenty feet for the one side yard fronting along a street,
avenue, drive, lane, road, or way that is not defined as a front yard.
      (3)   Rear yard depth: 30 feet.
      (4)   See §
154.005(D) for additional provisions.
   (F)   Coverage regulations. The coverage shall be no more than 30%.
   (G)   Off-street parking. Parking shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.045.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010; Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-22-2020)
§ 154.024 R-2T RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT; SINGLE-FAMILY AND SINGLE-FAMILY TOWNHOUSE.
   In the R-2T Residential District, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Single-family townhouse dwellings;
      (3)   Churches or similar places of worship, parish houses, and convents;
      (4)   Public and private schools including colleges and institutions of
higher education;
      (5)   Public parks, playgrounds, and municipal recreation areas;
      (6)   Municipal buildings, public libraries, and museums;
      (7)   Wastewater transmission facilities;
      (8)   Electric and telephone public utility transmission and distribution
facilities, including substations, water pumping stations, and reservoirs;
      (9)   Home occupations and household pets;
      (10)   The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, fruits, and
vegetables, greenhouses, and nurseries;
      (11)   Signs, when erected and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.031 appearing herein entitled “Signs;” and
      (12)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above.
   (B)   Height regulations.
      (1)   The height of a building shall be not greater than 35 feet.
      (2)   The height of a single-family dwelling shall be not less than one
story.
      (3)   The height of a single-family townhouse shall be not less than two
stories.
   (C)   Area regulations.
      (1)   The lot area per single-family dwelling unit shall be no less than
6,000 square feet.
      (2)   The lot area for an end unit townhouse shall be not less than 7,680
square feet on an interior lot and 9,600 square feet on a corner lot.
      (3)   The lot area for an interior unit townhouse shall be not less than
4,800 square feet.
   (D)   Width regulations.
      (1)   For a single-family dwelling, the lot width at the front yard
building line shall be not less than 60 feet on an interior lot, and 78 feet on
a corner lot.
      (2)   For an end unit townhouse, the lot width at the front yard building
line shall be not less than 32 feet on an interior lot, and 40 feet on a corner
lot.
      (3)   For an interior unit townhouse, the lot width at the front yard
building line shall be not less than 20 feet.
   (E)   Yard regulations. Each lot shall have front, side, and rear yards of
not less than the depth or width indicated below.
      (1)   Front yard depth:
         (a)   Twenty feet for a single-family dwelling when the adjacent
street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or way is greater than 20 feet in width;
         (b)   Twenty feet for a single-family dwelling when the adjacent
street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or way is 20 feet or less in width; and
         (c)   Twenty feet for a townhouse dwelling unit. Adjacent townhouse
dwelling units shall have staggered offset front yard depths of not less than
two feet, however, the front yard depth of any one unit shall be not less than
20 feet.
      (2)   Side yards width:
         (a)   Twelve feet each for the two side yards on a single-family
interior lot;
         (b)   Twelve feet for the one interior side yard of a single-family
corner lot;
         (c)   Twelve feet for an interior side yard of an end unit townhouse;
and
         (d)   Twenty feet for the one side yard of a single-family dwelling or
an end unit townhouse fronting along a street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or
way that is not defined as a front yard.
      (3)   Rear yard depth:
         (a)   Thirty feet for a single-family dwelling; and
         (b)   One-hundred feet for a townhouse unit.
      (4)   See §
154.005(D) for additional provisions.
   (F)   Coverage regulations.
      (1)   The coverage for a single-family dwelling shall be no more than
30%.
      (2)   The coverage for a townhouse unit shall be no more than 20%.
   (G)   Off-street parking. Parking shall be provided in accordance with
provisions of §
154.045.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.025 R-3 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT - MULTI-FAMILY.
   In the R-3 Residential District, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Single-family semi-detached dwellings;
      (3)   Single-family attached dwellings (row houses);
      (4)   Two-family detached dwellings (duplex dwellings);
      (5)   Two-family semi-detached dwellings (double duplex dwellings);
      (6)   Apartment dwellings when the building is constructed on the basis
of a floor-area ratio of not more than four-tenths;
      (7)   Churches or similar places of worship, parish houses, and convents;
      (8)   Public and private schools including colleges and institutions of
higher education;
      (9)   Public parks, playgrounds, and municipal recreation areas;
      (10)   Municipal buildings, public libraries, and museums;
      (11)   The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, fruits, and
vegetables, greenhouses, and nurseries;
      (12)   Home occupations and household pets;
      (13)   Wastewater transmission facilities;
      (14)   Electric and telephone public utility transmission and
distribution facilities, including substations, water pumping stations, and
reservoirs;
      (15)   Signs when erected and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.031 appearing herein entitled “Signs;”
      (16)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above
uses; and
      (17)   Bed and breakfast establishments.
   (B)   Height regulations.
      (1)   The height of a building shall be not more than 35 feet, except for
apartments, in which case the floor area ratio shall control.
      (2)   The height of a dwelling shall be not less than one story.
   (C)   Area, width, and coverage regulations.
      (1)   The lot area per dwelling unit and lot width shall be not less, and
the coverage shall be not less and the coverage shall be no greater, than
indicated below.
 Lot Area per Dwelling Unit (square feet) Lot Width       Coverage
                                          Interior Corner
                         Lot Area per Dwelling Unit  Lot Width       Coverage
                         (square feet)               Interior Corner
Apartments               2,000                       -        -      -
Single-family attached   2,400                       24       -      50%
Single-family detached   6,000                       60       75     30%
Single-family semi-      4,000                       40       55     30%
detached
Two-family detached      3,000                       60       75     30%
Two-family semi-detached 2,000                       40       55     30%
 
      (2)   For nonresidential buildings, the coverage shall be no more than
30%.
   (D)   Yard regulations. Each lot shall have front, side, and rear yards of
not less than the depth or width indicated below.
      (1)   Front yard depth:
         (a)   Twenty-five feet when the adjacent street, avenue, drive, lane,
road, or way is greater than 20 feet in width, except for apartment dwellings;
and
         (b)   Twenty feet when the adjacent street, avenue, drive, lane, road,
or way is 20 feet or less in width, except for apartment dwellings.
      (2)   Side yards width:
         (a)   Ten feet each for the two side yards on an interior lot, except
for apartment dwellings and attached dwellings;
         (b)   Ten feet for the one interior side yard of a corner lot, except
for apartment dwellings;
         (c)   Twenty feet for the one side yard fronting along a street,
avenue, drive, lane, road, or way that is not defined as a front yard, except
for apartment dwellings; and
         (d)   For attached dwellings on interior lots, the ten-foot side yards
are only required to be adjacent to the exterior side walls of the building.
      (3)   Rear yard depth: 25 feet, except for apartment dwellings.
      (4)   For apartment dwellings of one or two stories, there shall be a
front yard(s), a side yard(s), and a rear yard each of not less than 25 feet;
provided that for each story over two, five feet of depth or width shall be
added to each yard.
      (5)   See §
154.005(D) for additional provisions.
   (E)   Off-street parking. Parking shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.045.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.026 R-4 RESIDENTIAL AND BUSINESS/PROFESSIONAL OFFICES DISTRICT.
   In the R-4 Residential District, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Single-family semi-detached dwellings;
      (3)   Single-family attached dwellings (row houses);
      (4)   Two-family detached dwellings (duplex dwellings);
      (5)   Two-family semi-detached dwellings (double duplex dwellings);
      (6)   Apartment dwellings when the building is constructed on the basis
of a floor-area ratio of not more than four-tenths;
      (7)   Churches or similar places of worship, parish houses, and convents;
      (8)   Public and private schools, including colleges and institutions of
higher education;
      (9)   Public parks, playgrounds, and municipal recreation areas;
      (10)   Municipal buildings, public libraries, and museums;
      (11)   Wastewater transmission facilities;
      (12)   Electric and telephone public utility transmission and
distribution facilities, including substations, water pumping stations, and
reservoirs;
      (13)   Business, professional, and public utility offices;
      (14)   Mortuary and undertaking establishments;
      (15)   Home occupations and household pets;
      (16)   The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, fruits, and
vegetables, greenhouses, and nurseries;
      (17)   Signs when erected and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.046 appearing herein entitled “Signs;”
      (18)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above
uses; and
      (19)   Bed and breakfast establishments.
   (B)   Height regulations.
      (1)   The height of a building shall be not greater than 35 feet.
      (2)   The height of the dwelling shall be not less than one story.
   (C)   Area regulations. The lot area per single-family detached dwelling
shall be not less than 6,000 square feet and per apartment dwelling unit, 2,000
square feet.
   (D)   Width regulations. For a single-family detached dwelling, the lot
width at the building line shall be not less than 60 feet on an interior lot,
and 78 feet on a corner lot.
   (E)   Yard regulations. Each lot shall have front, side, and rear yards of
not less than the depth or width indicated below.
      (1)   Front yard depth:
         (a)   Thirty feet when the adjacent street, avenue, drive, lane, road,
or way is greater than 20 feet in width, except for apartment dwellings; and
         (b)   Twenty feet when the adjacent street, avenue, drive, lane, road,
or way is 20 feet or less in width, except for apartment dwellings.
      (2)   Side yards width:
         (a)   Twelve feet each for the two side yards on an interior lot,
except for apartment dwellings and attached dwellings;
         (b)   Twelve feet for the one interior side yard of a corner lot,
except for apartment dwellings and attached dwellings;
         (c)   Twenty feet for the one side yard fronting along a street,
avenue, drive, lane, road, or way that is not defined as a front yard, except
for apartment dwellings and attached dwellings; and
         (d)   For attached dwellings on interior lots, the 12-foot side yards
are only required to be adjacent to the exterior side walls of the building.
      (3)   Rear yard depth: 30 feet, except for apartment dwellings.
      (4)   For apartment dwellings of one or two stories, there shall be a
front yard(s), a side yard(s), and a rear yard, each of not less than 25 feet;
provided that for each story over two, five feet of depth or width shall be
added to each yard.
      (5)   See §
154.005(D) for additional provisions.
   (F)   Coverage regulations. The coverage shall be no more than 30% on
single-family lots.
   (G)   Off-street parking. Parking shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.045.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.027 RLC RESIDENTIAL AND LIGHT COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   In the RLC Residential and Light Commercial District, the following
regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Single-family semi-detached dwellings;
      (3)   Single-family attached dwellings (row houses);
      (4)   Two-family detached dwellings (duplex dwellings);
      (5)   Two-family semi-detached dwellings (double duplex dwellings);
      (6)   Apartment dwellings when the building is constructed on the basis
of a floor-area ratio of not more than four-tenths;
      (7)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
      (8)   Churches or similar places of worship, parish houses, and convents;
      (9)   Public and private schools, including colleges and institutions of
higher education;
      (10)   Business, professional, and public utility offices;
      (11)   Mortuary and undertaking establishments;
      (12)   Stores for the retailing of: specialty foods, ice-cream,
confectionary, and bakery products; cooking utensils; china, pottery, and
glassware; flatware and cutlery; clothing and shoes/boots; jewelry; perfumes
and colognes; cameras; books and newspapers; hobby and craft supplies; seasonal
decorations; dining, bed, and bath linens; candles; and artificial and cut
flowers;
      (13)   Restaurants, tea rooms, and cafés. The sale of alcoholic beverages
shall only be for consumption on the premises and shall be permitted only when
incidental to one of the uses referenced in this division (A)(13);
      (14)   Art and portrait galleries;
      (15)   Specialty printing and graphics shops;
      (16)   Public parks, playgrounds, and municipal recreation areas;
      (17)   Municipal buildings, public libraries, and museums;
      (18)   Municipal water pumping, storage, and transmission facilities;
      (19)   Municipal wastewater pumping and collection facilities;
      (20)   Electric, telephone, television, and gas public utility
transmission and distribution facilities, including substations;
      (21)   Home occupations and household pets;
      (22)   The raising of crops, fruits, and vegetables when the activity is
accessory and incidental to one of the above uses;
      (23)   Signs, when erected and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of § 154.0031 appearing herein entitled “Signs;”
      (24)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above
uses;
      (25)   Other business and commercial uses of a nature similar to the
above shall be considered as a special exception; and
      (26)   The above specified stores, shops, and businesses shall be retail
establishments exclusively and shall be permitted only under the following
conditions:
         (a)   Such uses, operations, or products shall not be objectionable
due to odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration, or other causes; and
         (b)   There shall be no manufacture, compounding, processing, or
treatment of products other than that which is clearly incidental and essential
to a retail store or business and when all such products are sold at retail on
the premises.
   (B)   Height regulations.
      (1)   The height of a building, excepting church steeples and municipal
buildings, shall be not greater than 35 feet.
      (2)   The height of the dwelling shall be not less than one story.
   (C)   Area regulations. The lot area per single-family detached dwelling
shall be not less than 6,000 square feet and per apartment dwelling unit, 2,000
square feet.
   (D)   Width regulations. For a single-family detached dwelling, the lot
width at the building line shall be not less than 60 feet on an interior lot,
and 78 feet on a corner lot.
   (E)   Yard regulations. Each lot shall have front, side, and rear yards of
not less than the depth or width indicated below.
      (1)   Front yard depth:
         (a)   Twenty feet when the adjacent street, avenue, drive, lane, road,
or way is greater than 20 feet in width, except for apartment dwellings; and
         (b)   Ten feet when the adjacent street, avenue, drive, lane, road, or
way is 20 feet or less in width, except for apartment dwellings.
      (2)   Side yards width:
         (a)   Ten feet each for the two side yards on an interior lot, except
for apartment dwellings and attached dwellings;
         (b)   Ten feet for the one interior side yard of a corner lot, except
for apartment dwellings and attached dwellings;
         (c)   Twenty feet for the one side yard fronting along a street,
avenue, drive, lane, road, or way that is greater than 20 feet in width that is
not defined as a front yard, except for apartment dwellings and attached
dwellings;
         (d)   Ten feet for the one side yard fronting along a street, avenue,
drive, lane, road, or way that is equal to or less than 20 feet in width that
is not defined as a front yard, except for apartment dwellings and attached
dwellings; and
         (e)   For attached dwellings on interior lots, the ten-foot side yards
are only required to be adjacent to the exterior side walls of the building.
      (3)   Rear yard depth: 20 feet, except for apartment dwellings.
      (4)   For apartment dwellings of one or two stories, there shall be a
front yard(s), a side yard(s), and a rear yard, each of not less than 25 feet;
provided that for each story over two, five feet of depth or width shall be
added to each yard.
      (5)   See §
154.005(D) for additional provisions.
   (F)   Coverage regulations.
      (1)   Residential. The coverage shall be no more than 30% on single-
family lots.
      (2)   Nonresidential. The coverage shall be no more than 60%. At least
10% of the lot area shall be covered with vegetative material.
   (G)   Off-street parking. Parking shall be provided in accordance with
provisions of §
154.045.
   (H)   Hours of operation. Light Commercial Businesses, Professional Offices,
and Business Offices may be open for business only between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and midnight.
   (I)   Walk-up and drive-up windows. Walk-up and drive-up windows are not
permitted in this District.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.028 C-1 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT - CENTRAL.
   In the C-1 Commercial District, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   All uses permitted in any Residential District; provided a
residential use shall be permitted only when accessory and incidental to one or
more of the following permitted uses;
      (2)   Amusement enterprises including theaters, billiard or pool parlors,
bowling alleys, skating rinks, or similar uses or places of assembly;
      (3)   Department stores;
      (4)   Garages for the storage and repair of motor vehicles, but not
automobile body shops;
      (5)   Medical and dental clinics and laboratories;
      (6)   Florists or nurseries; provided that all incidental equipment and
supplies including fertilizers and empty cans are kept within the building;
      (7)   Stores for the retailing of food, drugs, confectionery, hardware,
bakery products, clothing, household appliances, flowers, or house plants;
      (8)   Personal service shops, including barbers, beauty parlors, tailors,
shoe repair, and dry cleaning;
      (9)   Banks, business and professional offices;
      (10)   Railway or bus passenger stations, telegraph offices, and express
offices;
      (11)   Electric and telephone public utility transmission and
distribution facilities, including substations, water pumping stations, and
reservoirs;
      (12)   Mortuary and undertaking establishments;
      (13)   Municipal buildings or uses;
      (14)   Restaurants, tea rooms, cafés, and other places serving food or
beverages;
      (15)   Private schools conducted for gain or profit;
      (16)   Signs, when erected and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.031 appearing herein entitled “Signs;”
      (17)   Other uses similar to those enumerated above;
      (18)   Hotels, motels, or residential hotels;
      (19)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above
uses;
      (20)   Multi-family housing for the elderly and physically handicapped
persons;
      (21)   Wastewater transmission facilities;
      (22)   Printing and newspaper publishing;
      (23)   Animal hospitals and pet stores; and
      (24)   The above specified stores, shops, and businesses shall be retail
establishments exclusively and shall be permitted only under the following
conditions:
         (a)   Such uses, operations, or products shall not be objectionable
due to odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration, or other causes; and
         (b)   There shall be no manufacture, compounding, processing, or
treatment of products other than that which is clearly incidental and essential
to a retail store or business and when all such products are sold at retail on
the premises.
   (B)   Height regulations. A building or structure or any enlargement thereof
may be erected and maintained to a height at the street line of no more than
eight stories or 100 feet. This height may be exceeded by four feet for each
one foot by which the building is set back from the street line, provided that
the cubical content of such building shall not exceed that of a prism having a
base equal to the lot and a height of 100 feet.
   (C)   Yard regulations.
      (1)   Yards are not required for commercial buildings, but if a yard is
provided it shall be not less than three feet in width.
      (2)   In the case of residential uses, all regulations for the closest
adjoining Residential District as to yards shall apply.
   (D)   Off-street parking. Loading and unloading space shall be provided in
accordance with the provisions of §
154.045(C); however, the regulation for off-street parking facilities as set
forth in §
154.045(B) shall not apply in C-1 Commercial Districts.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.029 C-2 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT - HIGHWAY.
   In the C-2 Commercial District, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   All uses permitted in a Residential District and in C-1 Commercial
Districts; provided a residential use shall be permitted only when accessory
and incidental to one or more of the following permitted uses;
      (2)   Automobile service stations, hotels, residential hotels, motels,
lodging and boarding houses, tourist homes, restaurants, miniature golf
courses, bus passenger stations, automobile sales, clubs, lodges, recreation
centers, and other places of assembly;
      (3)   Other uses similar in character to those enumerated above which
will not be injurious to the districts; and
      (4)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the above
permitted uses. The above specified stores, shops, and businesses shall be
permitted only under the following conditions:
         (a)   Such uses, operations, or products shall not be objectionable
due to odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration, or other similar causes; and
         (b)   There shall be no manufacture, compounding, processing, or
treatment of products other than that which is clearly incidental and essential
to a retail store or business and when all such products are sold at retail on
the premises.
   (B)   Height regulations.
      (1)   The height of a building shall be no greater than 35 feet.
      (2)   The height of a dwelling shall be no less than one story.
   (C)   Yard regulations. Each lot shall have front, side, and rear yards of
not less than the depth or width indicated below.
      (1)   Front yard depth:
         (a)   Twenty feet when the adjacent street, avenue, drive, lane, road,
or way is greater than 20 feet in width; and
         (b)   Twenty feet when the adjacent street, avenue, drive, lane, road,
or way is 20 feet or less in width.
      (2)   Side yards width:
         (a)   Ten feet each for the two side yards on an interior lot;
         (b)   Ten feet for the one interior side yard on a corner lot;
         (c)   Twenty feet for the one side yard fronting along a street,
avenue, drive, lane, road, or way that is not defined as a front yard; and
         (d)   Provided that when a written agreement is supplied to the
borough by the adjoining property owners, no side yard shall be required where
two or more commercial uses abut side by side. However, in no case shall party
walls be permitted between properties of separate ownership. In case of a
series of abutting structures, abutting and paralleling a public right-of-way,
an open and unobstructed passage of at least 20 feet in width shall be provided
at grade level at intervals of not more than 400 feet.
      (3)   Rear yard depth: 20 feet.
      (4)   See §
154.005(D) for additional provisions.
   (D)   Coverage regulations. The coverage shall be no more than 60%. At least
10% of the lot area shall be covered with vegetative material.
   (E)   Off-street parking. Parking, loading, and unloading shall be provided
in accordance with the provisions of §
154.045.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.030 CMR COMMERCIAL/MANUFACTURING/RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   In the CMR Commercial/Manufacturing/Residential District, the following
regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Automobile service stations, automobile sales, trailer coach sales,
service garage, auto sales lots, automobile assembling, auto body shops,
painting, upholstery, reconditioning, vehicle repair or overhauling, tire
retreading or recapping, welding shops, and the like;
      (2)   Bottling works and bookbinding;
      (3)   Building materials storage, lumber yards, and lumber mills;
      (4)   Blacksmith and machine shops, excluding punch press over 20 tons
rated capacity, drop hammers, and automatic screw machines;
      (5)   Carpenter, cabinet making, furniture repair and upholstery,
electrician, metal working, tinsmith, plumbing, gas, steam, or hot water
fitting shops;
      (6)   Contractor’s equipment, sales, service, and storage;
      (7)   Laboratories and lithographing;
      (8)   Laundries, cleaning, dyeing, and carpet and rug cleaning;
      (9)   Distribution plants, parcel delivery, and service industries;
      (10)   The manufacturing, compounding, processing, or treatment of such
products as bakery goods;
      (11)   The manufacture and assembling of articles or merchandise from the
following previously prepared materials: cellophane; canvas; cloth; cork; felt;
film; glass; leather; stone; paper; plastic; precious or semiprecious metal or
shell; textile; wood; yarn; and paint not employing a boiling process;
      (12)   The manufacturing of pottery and figurines or other similar
ceramic products, using only clay, and kilns fired only by electricity or gas;
      (13)   Printing and newspaper publishing;
      (14)   Freight and trucking terminals;
      (15)   Electrical and optical manufacturing;
      (16)   All uses permitted in C-1 and C-2 Commercial Districts;
      (17)   Wholesale business, warehouse, and cold storage plant;
      (18)   All uses permitted in R-4 Residential and Business/Professional
Offices District;
      (19)   All uses similar to the above and not otherwise prohibited by law;
      (20)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the above
uses; and
      (21)   The above uses are permitted only on the condition that they are
not obnoxious or offensive by reason of the emission of odor, dust, smoke,
noise, gas, vibration, illumination, refuse matter, or water-carried waste.
   (B)   Height regulations.
      (1)   The height of a building shall be not greater than 40 feet.
      (2)   The height of a dwelling shall be not less than one story.
   (C)   Area regulations. Not applicable for commercial and manufacturing
uses. For residential uses, utilize R-3 Residential District Multi-family
guidelines.
   (D)   Yard regulations. Each lot shall have front, side, and rear yards of
not less than the depth or width indicated below.
      (1)   Front yard depth:
         (a)   Twenty-five feet when the adjacent street, avenue, drive, lane,
road, or way is greater than 20 feet in width, except for apartment dwellings;
and
         (b)   Twenty feet when the adjacent street, avenue, drive, lane, road,
or way is 20 feet or less in width, except for apartment dwellings.
      (2)   Side yards width:
         (a)   Ten feet each for the two side yards on an interior lot, except
for apartment dwellings and attached dwellings;
         (b)   Ten feet for the one interior side yard of a corner lot, except
for apartment dwellings;
         (c)   Twenty feet for the one side yard fronting along a street,
avenue, drive, lane, road, or way that is not defined as a front yard, except
for apartment dwellings;
         (d)   For attached dwellings on interior lots, the ten-foot side yards
are only required to be adjacent to the exterior side walls of the building;
and
         (e)   Provided that when a written agreement is supplied to the
borough by the adjoining property owners, no side yard shall be required where
two or more commercial uses abut side by side. However, in no case shall party
walls be permitted between properties of separate ownership. In case of a
series of abutting structures, abutting and paralleling a public right-of-way,
an open and unobstructed passage of at least 20 feet in width shall be provided
at grade level at intervals of not more than 400 feet.
      (3)   Rear yard depth: 25 feet, except for apartment dwellings.
      (4)   For apartment dwellings of one or two stories, there shall be a
front yard(s), a side yard(s), and a rear yard, each of not less than 25 feet;
provided that for each story over two, five feet of depth or width shall be
added to each yard.
      (5)   See §
154.005(D) for additional provisions.
   (E)   Coverage regulations.
      (1)   The coverage shall be no more than 60%.
      (2)   At least 10% of the lot area shall be covered with vegetative
material.
   (F)   Off-street parking. Parking, loading, and unloading space shall be
provided in accordance with the provisions of §
154.045.
   (G)   Exceptions. Divisions (C), (D), (E), and (F) above shall not apply to
additions or changes to buildings or uses existing at the time of adoption of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.031 FP FLOOD-PRONE DISTRICT.
   In the FP Flood-Prone District, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   The tilling of the soil, raising of crops, fruits, vegetables, and
nurseries;
      (2)   Storage of any equipment or materials, except junk or refuse that
can be easily removed in case of flood;
      (3)   Public and private parks, playgrounds, recreation areas, golf
courses, and driving ranges; and
      (4)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to above uses
except dwellings.
   (B)   Height, regulations. The height of a building shall be no greater than
35 feet.
   (C)   Area regulations. The lot area shall be not less than one acre.
   (D)   Width regulations. The lot width at the building line shall be not
less than 150 feet.
   (E)   Yard regulations. Each lot shall have front, side, and rear yards of
not less than the depth or width indicated below:
      (1)   Front yard depth: 50 feet;
      (2)   Side yards, two - width: 50 feet each; and
      (3)   Rear yard depth: 50 feet.
   (F)   Coverage regulations.
      (1)   The coverage shall be no more than 10%.
      (2)   At least 50% the lot shall be covered by vegetative material.
   (G)   Off-street parking. Parking shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.045.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
VEHICLE ACCESS AND REGULATIONS
§ 154.045 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   General parking regulations.
      (1)   Off-street parking facilities shall be provided to lessen
congestion in the streets. The facilities required herein shall be available to
patrons throughout the hours of operation of the particular business or use for
which such facilities are provided. As used herein, the term PARKING SPACE
includes either covered garage space or uncovered parking lot space located off
the public right-of-way.
      (2)   (a)   Each parking space shall consist of not less than an average
of 325 square feet of usable area for each motor vehicle, including interior
driveways and connecting the garage or parking space with a street or alley.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the above, all parking spaces shall be ample in
size for the vehicles for which use is intended. The net parking space per
vehicle shall be not less than nine feet wide and 20 feet long.
         (c)   Outdoor parking spaces, and the approaches thereto, shall be
paved or covered with gravel or crushed limestone. Such outdoor parking space
shall be deemed to be part of the open space of the lot on which it is located.
      (3)   A garage or carport may be located wholly or partly inside the
walls of the principal building, or attached to the outer walls. If separated
from the principal building, the garage (enclosed or unenclosed) shall conform
to all accessory building requirements. The garage may be constructed under a
yard or court. The space above an underground garage shall be deemed to be part
of the open space of the lot on which it is located.
   (B)   Facilities required. Any of the following buildings hereafter erected
and any building hereafter converted into one of the following buildings and
any open area hereafter used for commercial purposes shall be provided with not
less than minimum parking spaces as set forth below, which spaces shall be
readily accessible to, and within a reasonable distance from, the buildings
served thereby. Such spaces shall be on the same lot as the principal building
or open area, except when otherwise authorized as a special exception. The C-
1 Central Commercial District and properties located in the RLC Residential and
Light Commercial District used for nonresidential purposes shall be exempt from
these requirements:
      (1)   Dwellings other than townhouse units: two parking spaces for each
dwelling unit;
      (2)   Townhouse unit: a minimum of two garage parking spaces, each of
sufficient size to accommodate a full-size van or pick-up truck and located
wholly inside the walls of the townhouse unit, shall be provided at each
townhouse unit;
      (3)   Apartment houses and apartment hotels: the total number of parking
or garage spaces shall be not less than two times the number of apartments in
the building. A garage accessory to an apartment house or apartment hotel shall
provide only for the storage of vehicles of the owner, tenants, and employees.
No parking space shall be provided nor parking permitted in front yard areas of
apartment houses and apartment hotels, unless authorized as a special
exception;
      (4)   Boarding or lodging houses, hotels, motels, and tourist houses: at
least one parking space for each guest room. If a restaurant in connection with
the above is open to the public, the off-street parking facilities shall be not
less than those required for restaurants, in addition to those required for
guest rooms;
      (5)   Theaters, auditoriums, churches, schools, stadiums, or any other
place of public or private assembly: at least one parking space for each five
seats provided for public or private assembly;
      (6)   Retail stores, restaurants, and bar rooms: at least one parking
space for each 60 square feet of gross floor area, exclusive of areas not used
for sale or display of merchandise;
      (7)   Office building: at least one parking space for each 200 square
feet of floor area, or fraction thereof;
      (8)   Industrial or wholesale establishments: at least one parking space
for each two employees;
      (9)   Public garages or automobile service stations: at least one parking
space for each 400 square feet of floor or ground area, or fraction thereof,
devoted to repair or service facilities, which shall be in addition to the
space allocated for the normal storage of motor vehicles;
      (10)   Hospitals and sanitariums: at least one parking space for each
five patients for which accommodations are provided. Such spaces shall be in
addition to those necessary for doctors and other administrative personnel;
      (11)   Open areas used for commercial purposes: at least one parking
space for each 1,500 square feet of area, or fraction thereof;
      (12)   Dance halls, bowling alleys, swimming pools, roller rinks, clubs,
lodges and other similar places, and other commercial buildings: at least one
parking space for each 100 square feet of floor area; and
      (13)   Bed and breakfast: one parking space for each guest room and two
parking spaces for resident owner or employees.
   (C)   Loading and unloading space.
      (1)   In addition to the off-street parking space required above, all
commercial and industrial establishments, hospitals or sanitariums and other
similar uses shall provide adequate off-street area for loading and unloading
of supplies to and from vehicles.
      (2)   At least one loading berth shall be provided; however, should the
gross floor area of the main building and buildings accessory thereto used for
commercial and/or industrial purposes exceed 10,000 square feet, one additional
loading berth shall be provided for each 10,000 square feet of gross floor
area. The off-street loading berth shall be not less than ten feet by 25 feet
in size.
      (3)   Hotels shall have at least one loading berth, with an additional
loading berth when the gross floor area exceeds 50,000 square feet.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.046 SIGNS.
   See the sign ordinance, §§
150.40 through
150.61, as amended.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.047 MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESS.
   Wherever motor vehicle access is provided from the street (or private road)
onto the lot, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Driveways and curbs. Access to the lot shall comply with the following
regulations.
      (1)   Access shall be by not more than two driveways for each 100 feet
frontage on any street.
      (2)   No two of said driveways shall be closer to each other than 12
feet, and no flare shall cross an extended side property line.
      (3)   In all cases but townhouses units, each driveway shall be not more
than 35 feet in width, measured at right angles to the centerline of the
driveway, except as increased by permissible curb return radii. The entire
flare of any return radius shall fall within the right-of-way.
      (4)   (a)   For townhouse units, each driveway shall be not more than 16
feet in width, measured at right angles to the centerline of the driveway.
         (b)   The entire flare of any return radius shall fall within the
right-of-way.
         (c)   Driveways of adjoining townhouse units shall be separated by a
lawn and/or planting bed measuring at least four feet in width; however this
area may contain an approach to the main occupant entryway, constructed of
concrete, brick, or another impervious material, that consumes no more than 30%
of the said lawn and/or planting bed.
      (5)   Driveways shall be no closer than ten feet to the point of
intersection of two property lines at any corner as measured along the property
line, and shall not extend across such extended property line.
      (6)   (a)   For non-dwelling uses, where there is an existing curb and
gutter or sidewalk on the street (or private road), a safety island along the
entire frontage of the property shall be provided, except for the permitted
driveways.
         (b)   On the two ends and street (or private road) side of each such
island shall be constructed a concrete curb, the height, location, and
structural specifications of which shall be approved by the Borough Engineer.
         (c)   Maximum and minimum curb return radii permitted and minimum
driveway approach angles to the centerline of the street (or private road) are
required as shown on Plate No. 11 attached to this chapter and made by this
reference as much a part of this chapter as if fully described and detailed
herein.
      (7)   For non-dwelling uses, where there is no existing curb and gutter
or sidewalk, a curb, fence, or pipe rail not exceeding two feet or less than
eight inches in height as shown on Plate No. 11 attached to this chapter shall
be constructed along the entire length of the property line, except in front of
the permitted driveways.
   (B)   Location of gasoline pumps. Gasoline pumps and all other service
equipment shall be set back not less than 20 feet from any lot line, and shall
be so located that vehicles stopped for service will not extend over the
property line.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.060 ENACTMENT OF ZONING ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Borough Council may from time to time amend, supplement, or repeal
any of the regulations and provisions of this chapter. The procedure for the
preparation of a proposed zoning ordinance as set forth in § 607 of the state’s
Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. § 10607, is hereby declared optional.
   (B)   Before voting on the enactment of an amendment, the Borough Council
shall hold a public hearing thereon, pursuant to public notice. In addition, if
the proposed amendment involves a zoning map change, notice of said public
hearing shall be conspicuously posted by the borough at points deemed
sufficient by the borough along the perimeter of the tract to notify
potentially interested citizens. The affected tract or area shall be posted at
least one week prior to the date of the hearing.
   (C)   In the case of an amendment other than that prepared by the Planning
Commission, the Borough Council shall submit each such amendment to the
Planning Commission at least 30 days prior to the hearing on such proposed
amendment to provide the Planning Commission an opportunity to submit
recommendations.
   (D)   If, after any public hearing held upon an amendment, the proposed
amendment is changed substantially, or is revised to include land previously
not affected by it, the Borough Council shall hold another public hearing,
pursuant to public notice, before proceeding to vote on the amendment.
   (E)   At least 30 days prior to the public hearing on the amendment by the
Borough Council, the borough shall submit the proposed amendment to the county
planning agency for recommendations.
   (F)   Within 30 days after enactment, a copy of the amendment to this
chapter shall be forwarded to the county planning agency.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.061 PROCEDURE FOR LANDOWNER CURATIVE AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   A landowner who desires to challenge on substantive grounds the
validity of this chapter or the zoning map, or any provision thereof, which
prohibits or restricts the use or development of land in which he or she has an
interest may submit a curative amendment to the Borough Council with a written
request that his or her challenge and proposed amendment be heard and decided
as provided in § 916.1 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code
(hereinafter “MPC”), 53 P.S. § 10916.1. The curative amendment and challenge
shall be referred to the Planning Commission and the county planning agency as
provided in § 609 and notice of the hearing thereon shall be given as provided
in §§ 610 and 916.1 of the MPC, 53 P.S. §§ 10609, 10610, and 10916.1.
   (B)   The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with § 908 of the MPC, 53
P.S. § 10908, and all references therein to the Zoning Hearing Board shall, for
purposes of this section, be references to the Borough Council. If the borough
does not accept a landowner’s curative amendment brought in accordance with
this section and a court subsequently rules that the challenge has merit, the
court’s decision shall not result in a declaration of invalidity for this
entire chapter and zoning map, but only for those provisions which specifically
relate to the landowner’s curative amendment and challenge.
   (C)   The Borough Council, if it determines that a validity challenge has
merit, may accept a landowner’s curative amendment, with or without revision,
or may adopt an alternative amendment which will cure the challenged defects.
The Borough Council shall consider the curative amendments, plans, and
explanatory material submitted by the landowner and shall also consider:
      (1)   The impact of the proposal upon roads, sewer facilities, water
supplies, schools, and other public service facilities;
      (2)   If the proposal is for a residential use, the impact of the
proposal upon regional housing needs and the effectiveness of the proposal in
providing housing units of a type actually available to and affordable by
classes of persons otherwise unlawfully excluded by the challenged provisions
of this chapter or zoning map;
      (3)   The suitability of the site for the intensity of use proposed by
the site’s soils, slopes, woodlands, wetlands, floodplains, aquifers, natural
resources, and other natural features;
      (4)   The impact of the proposed use on the site’s soils, slopes,
woodlands, wetlands, floodplains, natural resources, and natural features, the
degree to which these are protected or destroyed, the tolerance of the
resources to development, and any adverse environmental impacts; and
      (5)   The impact of the proposal on the preservation of agriculture and
other land uses which are essential to public health and welfare.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.062 PROCEDURE FOR BOROUGH CURATIVE AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   If the borough determines that this chapter, or any portion hereof, is
substantially invalid, it shall take the following actions. The borough shall
declare, by formal action, this chapter or portions hereof substantially
invalid and propose to prepare a curative amendment to overcome such
invalidity. Within 30 days of such declaration and proposal the Borough Council
shall:
      (1)   By resolution, make specific findings setting forth the declared
invalidity of this chapter which may include:
         (a)   References to specific uses which are either not permitted or
not permitted in sufficient quantity;
         (b)   Reference to a class of use or uses which requires revision; or
         (c)   Reference to this entire chapter which requires revisions.
      (2)   Begin to prepare and consider a curative amendment to this chapter
to correct the declared invalidity.
   (B)   Within 180 days from the date of the declaration and proposal, the
borough shall enact a curative amendment to validate or reaffirm the validity
of this chapter pursuant to the provisions of § 609 of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code (hereinafter “MPC”), 53 P.S. § 10609, in order to
cure the declared invalidity of this chapter.
   (C)   Upon the initiation of the procedures as set forth in division (A)
above, the Borough Council shall not be required to entertain or consider any
landowner’s curative amendment filed under § 609.1 of the MPC, 53 P.S. §
10609.1, nor shall the Zoning Hearing Board be required to give a report
requested under §§ 909.1 or 916.1 of the MPC, 53 P.S. §§ 10909.1 and 10916.1,
subsequent to the declaration and proposal based upon grounds identical or
substantially similar to those specified by the resolution required by division
(A) above. Upon completion of the procedures set forth in subsections (A)(1)(a)
and (A)(1)(b) above, no rights to a cure pursuant to the provisions of §§ 609.1
and 916.1 of the MPC, 53 P.S. §§ 10609.1 and 10916.1 shall, from the date of
the declaration and proposal, accrue to any landowner on the basis of the
substantive invalidity of this chapter for which there has been a curative
amendment pursuant to this section.
   (D)   The borough, having utilized the procedures set forth in this section,
may not again utilize said procedure for a period of 36 months following the
date of enactment of a curative amendment, or reaffirmation of the validity of
this chapter; provided, however, if after the date of declaration and proposal
there is a substantially new duty imposed upon the borough by virtue of a
change in statute or by virtue of a state appellate court decision, the borough
may utilize the provisions of this section to propose a curative amendment to
this chapter to fulfill said duty or obligation.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.063 ZONING HEARING BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created for the borough a Zoning Hearing Board in
accordance with the provisions of Article IX of the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10901 et seq.
   (B)   The membership of the Board shall consist of three residents of the
borough appointed by resolution by the Borough Council. The terms of office
shall be for three years and shall be so fixed that the term of office of one
member shall expire each year. The Board shall promptly notify the Borough
Council of any vacancies which occur. Appointments to fill vacancies shall be
only for the unexpired portion of the term. Members of the Board shall hold no
other office in the borough.
   (C)   Any Board member may be removed for malfeasance, misfeasance, or
nonfeasance in office or for other just cause by a majority vote of the Borough
Council which appointed the member, taken after the member has received 15
days’ advance notice of the intent to take such a vote. A hearing shall be held
in connection with the vote if the member shall request it in writing.
   (D)   The Board shall elect from its own membership its officers, who shall
serve annual terms as such and may succeed themselves. For the conduct of any
hearing and the taking of any action a quorum shall be not less than a majority
of all the members of the Board, but the Board may appoint a hearing officer
from its own membership to conduct any hearing on its behalf and the parties
may waive further action by the Board as provided in this chapter.
   (E)   The Board may make, alter, and rescind rules and forms for its
procedure, consistent with ordinances of the borough and laws of the state. The
Board shall keep full public records of its business, which records shall be
the property of the borough and shall submit a report of its activities to the
Borough Council as requested by the Borough Council.
   (F)   Within the limits of funds appropriated by the Borough Council, the
Board may employ or contract for secretaries, clerks, legal counsel,
consultants, and other technical and clerical services. Members of the Board
may receive compensation for the performance of their duties, as may be fixed
by the Borough Council, but in no case shall it exceed the rate of compensation
authorized to be paid to the members of the Borough Council.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.064 HEARINGS.
   The Zoning Hearing Board shall conduct hearings and make decisions in
accordance with the following requirements.
   (A)   Public notice shall be given and written notice shall be given to the
applicant, the Zoning Officer and to any person who has made timely request for
the same. Written notices shall be given at such time and in such manner as
shall be prescribed by rules of the Board. In addition to the written notice
provided herein, written notice of said hearing shall be conspicuously posted
on the affected tract of land at least one week prior to the hearing.
   (B)   The hearing shall be held within 60 days from the date of the
applicant’s request, unless the applicant has agreed in writing to an extension
of time.
   (C)   The hearings shall be conducted by the Board or the Board may appoint
any member as a hearing officer. The decision or, where no decision is called
for, the findings shall be made by the Board, however, the appellant or the
applicant, as the case may be, in addition to the borough may, prior to the
decision of the hearing, waive decision or findings by the Board and accept the
decision or findings of the hearing officer as final.
   (D)   The parties to the hearing shall be the borough, any person affected
by the application who has made timely appearance of record before the Board,
and any other person including civic or community organizations permitted to
appear by the Board. The Board shall have power to require that all persons who
wish to be considered parties enter appearances in writing on forms provided by
the Board for that purpose.
   (E)   The Chairperson or acting Chairperson of the Board or the hearing
officer presiding shall have power to administer oaths and issue subpoenas to
compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of relevant documents and
papers, including witnesses and documents requested by the parties.
   (F)   The parties shall have the right to be represented by counsel and
shall be afforded the opportunity to respond and present evidence and argument
and cross-examine adverse witnesses on all relevant issues.
   (G)   Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but irrelevant, immaterial,
or unduly repetitious evidence may be excluded.
   (H)   The Board or the hearing officer, as the case may be, shall keep a
stenographic record of the proceedings. The appearance fee for a stenographer
shall be shared equally by the applicant and the Board. The cost of the
original transcript shall be paid by the Board if the transcript is ordered by
the Board or hearing officer or shall be paid by the person appealing from the
decision of the Board if such appeal is made, and in either event the cost of
additional copies shall be paid by the person requesting such copy or copies.
In other cases, the party requesting the original transcript shall bear the
cost thereof.
   (I)   The Board or the hearing officer shall not communicate, directly or
indirectly, with any party or his or her representatives in connection with any
issue involved except upon notice and opportunity for all parties to
participate, shall not take notice of any communication, reports, staff
memoranda, or other materials, except advice from their solicitor, unless the
parties are afforded an opportunity to contest the material so noticed and
shall not inspect the site or its surroundings after the commencement of
hearings with any party or his or her representative unless all parties are
given an opportunity to be present.
   (J)   The Board or the hearing officer, as the case may be, shall render a
written decision or, when no decision is called for, make written findings on
the application within 45 days after the last hearing before the Board or
hearing officer. Where the application is contested or denied, each decision
shall be accompanied by findings of fact and conclusions based thereon together
with the reasons therefor. Conclusions based on any provisions of this chapter
or of any law, ordinance, rule, or regulation shall contain a reference to the
provision relied on and the reasons why the conclusion is deemed appropriate in
the light of the facts found. If the hearing is conducted by a hearing officer,
and there has been no stipulation that his or her decision or findings are
final, the Board shall make his or her report and recommendations available to
the parties within 45 days and the parties shall be entitled to make written
representations thereon to the Board prior to final decision or entry of
findings, and the Board’s decision shall be entered no later than 30 days after
the report of the hearing officer. Where the Board fails to render the decision
within the period required by this division (J), or fails to hold the required
hearing within 60 days from the date of the applicant’s request for a hearing,
the decision shall be deemed to have been rendered in favor of the applicant
unless the applicant has agreed in writing or on the record to an extension of
time. When a decision has been rendered in favor of the applicant because of
the failure of the Board to meet or render a decision as hereinabove provided,
the Board shall give public notice of the said decision within ten days from
the last day it could have met to render a decision in the same manner as
provided in division (A) above. If the Board shall fail to provide such notice,
the applicant may do so. Nothing in this division (J) shall prejudice the right
of any party opposing the application to appeal the decision to a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (K)   A copy of the final decision or, where no decision is called for, of
the findings shall be delivered to the applicant personally or mailed to him or
her not later than the day following its date. To all other persons who have
filed their name and address with the Board not later than the last day of the
hearing, the Board shall provide by mail or otherwise, brief notice of the
decision or findings and a statement of the place at which the full decision or
findings may be examined.
   (L)   The Borough Council shall establish, by resolution, fees with respect
to hearings before the Zoning Hearing Board.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.065 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Zoning Hearing Board shall have exclusive jurisdiction to hear and
render final adjudications in the following matters:
      (1)   Substantive challenges to the validity of any land use ordinance,
except those brought before the Borough Council pursuant to §§ 609.1 and 916.1
(a)(2) of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code (hereinafter “MPC”), 53
P.S. §§ 10609.1 and 10916.1;
      (2)   Challenges to the validity of a land use ordinance raising
procedural questions or alleged defects in the process of enactment or
adoption, which challenges shall be raised by an appeal taken within 30 days
after the effective date of said ordinance. Where the ordinance appealed from
is the initial zoning ordinance of the borough and a Zoning Hearing Board has
not been previously established, the appeal raising procedural questions shall
be taken directly to court;
      (3)   Appeals from the determination of the Zoning Officer including, but
not limited to, the granting or denial of any permit, or failure to act on the
application therefor, the issuance of any cease and desist order, or the
registration or refusal to register any nonconforming use, structure, or lot;
      (4)   Appeals from a determination by the Borough Engineer or the Zoning
Officer with reference to the administration of any floodplain or flood hazard
ordinance or such provisions within a land use ordinance;
      (5)   Applications for variances from the terms of this chapter and flood
hazard ordinance or such provisions within a land use ordinance, pursuant to §
910.2 of the MPC, 53 P.S. § 10910.2;
      (6)   Applications for special exceptions under this chapter or
floodplain or flood hazard ordinance or such provisions within a land use
ordinance, pursuant to § 912.1 of the MPC, 53 P.S. § 10912.1;
      (7)   Appeals from the determination of any officer or agency charged
with the administration of any transfer of development rights or performance
density provisions of this chapter;
      (8)   Appeals from the Zoning Officer’s determination under § 916.2 of
the MPC, 53 P.S. § 10916.2; and
      (9)   Appeals from the determination of the Zoning Officer or Borough
Engineer in the administration of any land use ordinance or provision thereof
with reference to sedimentation and erosion control and storm water management
insofar as the same relate to development not involving applications under
Article V or VII of the MPC, 53 P.S. §§ 10501 et seq. and 53 P.S. §§ 10701 et
seq.
   (B)   The Borough Council shall have exclusive jurisdiction to hear and
render final adjudications in the following matters:
      (1)   All applications for approval of planned residential developments
under Article VII of the MPC pursuant to the provisions of § 702 of the MPC, 53
P.S. § 10702;
      (2)   All applications pursuant to § 508 of the MPC, 53 P.S. § 10508, for
approval of subdivisions or land developments under Article V of the MPC, 53
P.S. §§ 10501 et seq.;
      (3)   Applications for conditional use under the express provisions of
this chapter;
      (4)   Applications for curative amendment to this chapter or pursuant to
§§ 609.1 and 916.1(a) of the MPC, 53 P.S. §§ 10609.1 and 10916.1(a);
      (5)   All petitions for amendments to land use ordinances, pursuant to
the procedures set forth in § 609 of the MPC, 53 P.S. § 10609; and
      (6)   (a)   Appeals from the determination of the Zoning Officer or the
Borough Engineer in the administration of any land use ordinance or provisions
thereof with reference to sedimentation and erosion control and storm water
management insofar as the same relate to applications for land development
under Articles V and VII of the MPC, 53 P.S. §§ 10501 et seq., and 53 P.S. §§
10701 et seq.
         (b)   Where such determination relates only to development not
involving an Article V or VII application, the appeal from such determination
of the Zoning Officer or the Borough Engineer shall be to the Zoning Hearing
Board pursuant to this section. Where the applicable land use ordinance vests
jurisdiction for final administration of subdivision and land development
applications in the Planning Commission, all appeals from determinations under
this division (B)(6) shall be to the Planning Commission and all appeals from
the decision of the Planning Commission shall be to court.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.066 APPOINTMENT AND POWERS OF ZONING OFFICER.
   (A)   A Zoning Officer shall be appointed by the Borough Council. He or she
is hereby given the duty, power, and authority to enforce the provisions of
this chapter. He or she shall examine all applications for permits; issue
zoning permits for construction and uses which are in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter; record and file all applications for permits,
with accompanying plans and documents; keep a permanent and continuing record
identifying and registering all nonconforming uses and nonconforming
structures; and make such reports as may be required. Zoning permits for
construction and uses which are a special exception or a variance to the
requirements of this chapter shall be issued only upon written order of the
Zoning Hearing Board.
   (B)   Powers of Zoning Officer.
      (1)   The Zoning Officer shall meet the qualifications established by the
borough and shall be able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the borough a
working knowledge of municipal zoning.
      (2)   The Zoning Officer shall administer this chapter in accordance with
its literal terms, and shall not have the power to permit any construction or
any use or change of use which does not conform to this chapter.
      (3)   The Zoning Officer is hereby authorized to institute civil
enforcement proceedings as a means of enforcement when acting within the scope
of his or her employment.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.067 ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required. A zoning permit shall be required prior to the
erection, addition, or alteration of any building or structure or portion
thereof; prior to the use or change in use of a building, structure, or land;
and prior to the change or extension of a nonconforming use.
      (1)   Application for permits. All applications for zoning permits shall
be accompanied by plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the actual shape
and dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact size and location of any
buildings existing on the lot, the lines within which the proposed building or
structure shall be erected or altered, the existing and intended use of each
building or part of a building, the number of families or dwelling units the
building is designed to accommodate, and such information as may be necessary
to determine compliance with this chapter and all other pertinent ordinances.
One copy of such plans shall be returned to the owner when such plans shall be
approved. All applications with accompanying plans and documents shall become a
public record after a permit is issued or denied.
      (2)   Issuance of permits. A zoning permit shall not be issued until it
is certified that the proposed building, addition, or alteration will comply
with all the provisions of this chapter, as well as with all of the provisions
of the Floodplain Building Code.
      (3)   Time frame. All work authorized by a zoning permit shall be
completed within one year of the date of issuance of the said permit.
   (B)   Temporary zoning permits. A temporary zoning permit may be authorized
by the Zoning Hearing Board for a nonconforming structure or use which it deems
beneficial to the public health or general welfare or which it deems necessary
to promote the proper development of the community; provided that such
nonconforming structure or use shall be completely removed upon expiration of
the temporary zoning permit. Such temporary permits shall be issued for a
specified period of time not to exceed one year, and may be renewed annually
for an aggregate period not exceeding three years. The method of application
and issuance provided for zoning permits, above, shall also apply to temporary
zoning permits.
   (C)   Certificate of nonconformance. An application for a certificate of
nonconformance shall be made to the Zoning Officer by the owner of any property
which, at the time of the effective date of this chapter, does not conform to
the provisions of this chapter. Such application shall be made within 90 days
after the effective date of this chapter, and the certificate of nonconformance
shall set forth in detail all of the nonconforming conditions of said property.
This certificate shall be for the purpose of ensuring to such owner the right
to continue a nonconforming use in accordance with the regulations of this
chapter. A copy of the certificate of nonconformance shall be retained by the
Zoning Officer.
   (D)   Appeals; application for variances and special exceptions. An appeal,
or application for a special exception or variance from the terms of this
chapter, may be filed with the Zoning Officer and shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant or appellant;
      (2)   The name and address of the owner of the real estate to be affected
by such proposed exception or variance, or appeal;
      (3)   A brief description and location of the real estate to be affected
by such proposed change or appeal;
      (4)   A statement of the present zoning classification of the real estate
in question, the improvements thereon, and the present use thereof;
      (5)   A statement of the section of this chapter under which the variance
or exception requested may be allowed, and reasons why it should be granted, or
a statement of the section of this chapter governing the situation in which the
alleged erroneous ruling is being appealed and reasons for the appeal; and
      (6)   A reasonably accurate description of the present improvements, and
the additions or changes intended to be made under this application, indicating
the location and size of the lot and size of improvements now erected and
proposed to be erected thereon.
   (E)   Zoning Hearing Board certificate. It shall be the duty of the
Secretary of the Zoning Hearing Board to issue a Zoning Hearing Board
certificate which shall indicate the action of the Zoning Hearing Board on
applications for a special exception, or a variance or opinion on review. The
Zoning Hearing Board may cancel or revoke a Zoning Hearing Board certificate
for any violation of the chapter, or of conditions imposed.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.068 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Zoning Hearing Board shall hear requests for variances where it is
alleged that the provisions of this chapter inflict unnecessary hardship upon
the applicant. The Board may, by rule, prescribe the form of application and
may require preliminary application to the Zoning Officer. The Board may grant
a variance, provided that all of the following findings are made where relevant
in a given case:
      (1)   There are unique physical circumstances or conditions, including
irregularity, narrowness, or shallowness of lot size or shape, or exceptional
topographical or other physical conditions peculiar to the particular property
and that the unnecessary hardship is due to such conditions and not the
circumstances or conditions generally created by the provisions of this chapter
in the neighborhood or district in which the property is located;
      (2)   Because of such physical circumstances or conditions, there is no
possibility that the property can be developed in strict conformity with the
provisions of this chapter and that the authorization of a variance is
therefore necessary to enable the reasonable use of the property;
      (3)   Such unnecessary hardship has not been created by the applicant;
      (4)   The variance, if authorized, will not alter the essential character
of the neighborhood or district in which the property is located, nor
substantially or permanently impair the appropriate use or development of
adjacent property, nor be detrimental to the public welfare; and
      (5)   That the variance, if authorized, will represent the minimum
variance that will afford relief and will represent the least modification
possible of the regulation in issue.
   (B)   In granting any variance, the Board may attach such reasonable
conditions and safeguards as it may deem necessary to implement the purposes of
this chapter and the state’s Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et
seq.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.069 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   Where the Borough Council, in this chapter, has stated special exceptions to
be granted or denied by the Zoning Hearing Board pursuant to express standards
and criteria, the Board shall hear and decide requests for such special
exceptions in accordance with such standards and criteria. In granting a
special exception, the Board may attach such reasonable conditions and
safeguards, in addition to those expressed in this chapter, as it may deem
necessary to implement the purposes of this chapter and the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.070 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Where the Borough Council, in this chapter, has stated conditional uses to
be granted or denied by the Borough Council pursuant to express standards and
criteria, the Borough Council shall hold hearings on and decide requests for
such conditional uses in accordance with such standards and criteria. In
granting a conditional use, the Borough Council may attach such reasonable
conditions and safeguards, in addition to those expressed in this chapter, as
it may deem necessary to implement the purposes of this chapter and the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.071 PARTIES APPELLANT BEFORE THE BOARD.
   Appeals raising the substantive validity of any land use ordinance (except
those to be brought before the Borough Council pursuant to the state’s
Municipalities Code), procedural questions or alleged defects in the process of
enactment or adoption of a land use ordinance; or from the determination of the
Zoning Officer including, but not limited to, the granting or denial of any
permit, or failure to act on the application therefor, the issuance of any
cease and desist order, or the registration or refusal to register any
nonconforming use, structure, or lot; from a determination by the Borough
Engineer or the Zoning Officer with reference to the administration of any
floodplain or flood hazard ordinance or such provisions within a land use
ordinance; from the determination of any officer or agency charged with the
administration of any transfer of development rights or performance density
provisions of this chapter; from the determination of the Zoning Officer or
Borough Engineer in the administration of any land use ordinance or provision
thereof with reference to sedimentation and erosion control and storm water
management, insofar as the same relate to development not involving subdivision
and land development or planned residential development, may be filed with the
Zoning Hearing Board in writing by the landowner affected, any officer or
agency of the borough, or any person aggrieved. Requests for a variance and for
special exception may be filed with the Board by any landowner or any tenant
with the permission of such landowner.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.072 TIME LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall be allowed to file any proceeding with the Zoning
Hearing Board later than 30 days after an application for development,
preliminary or final, has been approved by the borough if such proceeding is
designed to secure reversal or to limit the approval in any manner unless such
person alleges and proves that he or she had no notice, knowledge, or reason to
believe that such approval had been given.
   (B)   If such person has succeeded to his or her interest after such
approval, he or she shall be bound by the knowledge of his or her predecessor
in interest. The failure of anyone other than the landowner to appeal from an
adverse decision on a tentative plan or from an adverse decision by the Zoning
Officer on a challenge to the validity of this chapter or an amendment hereto,
or map or an amendment thereto, shall preclude an appeal from a final approval
except in the case where the final submission substantially deviates from the
approved tentative approval.
   (C)   All appeals from determinations adverse to the landowner shall be
filed by the landowner within 30 days after notice of the determination is
issued.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.073 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon filing of any appeal proceeding before the Zoning Hearing
Board and during its pendency before the Board, all land development pursuant
to any challenged ordinance, order, or approval of the Zoning Officer or of any
agency or body, and all official action thereunder, shall be stayed unless the
Zoning Officer or any other appropriate agency or body certifies to the Board
facts indicating that such stay would cause imminent peril to life or property,
in which case the development or official action shall not be stayed otherwise
than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the Board or by the court
having jurisdiction of zoning appeals, on petition, after notice to the Zoning
Officer or other appropriate agency or body.
      (2)   When an application for development, preliminary or final, has been
duly approved and proceedings designed to reverse or limit the approval are
filed with the Board by persons other than the applicant, the applicant may
petition the court having jurisdiction of zoning appeals to order such person
to post bond as a condition to continuing the proceedings before the Board.
   (B)   After the petition is presented, the court shall hold a hearing to
determine if the filing of the appeal is frivolous.
      (1)   At the hearing, evidence may be presented on the merits of the
case. It shall be the burden of the applicant for a bond to prove the appeal is
frivolous. After consideration of all evidence presented, if the court
determines that the appeal is frivolous, it shall grant the petition for a
bond.
      (2)   The right to petition the court to order the appellants to post
bond may be waived by the appellee, but such waiver may be revoked by him or
her if an appeal is taken from a final decision of the court.
   (C)   The question whether or not such petition should be granted and the
amount of the bond shall be within the sound discretion of the court. An order
denying a petition for bond shall be interlocutory. An order directing the
responding party to post a bond shall be interlocutory.
   (D)   If an appeal is taken by a respondent to the petition for a bond from
an order of the court dismissing a zoning appeal for refusal to post a bond and
the appellate court sustains the order of the court below to post a bond, the
respondent to the petition for a bond, upon motion of the petitioner and after
hearing in the court having jurisdiction of zoning appeals, shall be liable for
all reasonable costs, expenses, and attorney fees incurred by the petitioner.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.074 FEES.
   (A)   The fee for a zoning permit (or for a temporary zoning permit) shall
be in an amount as established from time to time by resolution of Borough
Council.
   (B)   Such fee shall be payable at the office of the Zoning Officer upon
making application for such permit, and no permit shall be issued until such
fee is paid.
   (C)   Any part of such fee in excess of $25 shall be refunded to the
applicant if the application should be refused.
   (D)   At the time of application for such permit, the fee as above provided
to be paid shall be based on an estimate of cost approved by the Zoning
Officer.
   (E)   Upon completion of the permitted work, additional payment shall be
made at the office of the Zoning Officer at the same rate for any excess of
actual cost, as determined by the Zoning Officer, over the estimated cost on
which a fee had previously been paid.
   (F)   A fee in an amount as established from time to time by resolution of
Borough Council, payable in advance, shall be paid to the Zoning Hearing Board
upon making application for a certificate of nonconformance.
   (G)   A fee in an amount as established from time to time by resolution of
Borough Council, payable in advance, shall be paid for each appeal or
application to the Zoning Hearing Board for a special exception or variance to
cover advertising cost, mailing notices, and charges of the stenographer for
taking the notes of testimony; provided that if more than ten pages of
testimony are taken in any case, the appellant or applicant shall reimburse the
borough for the cost of such additional testimony.
   (H)   A fee in an amount as established from time to time by resolution of
Borough Council, payable in advance, shall be paid for each application for a
change or amendment in the zoning ordinance and/or zoning map.
   (I)   A fee in an amount as established from time to time by resolution of
Borough Council, payable in advance, shall be paid for each certified statement
of district classification of any property and/or compliance of any property
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.075 ENFORCEMENT NOTICE.
   (A)   If it appears to the borough that a violation of this chapter has
occurred, the borough shall initiate enforcement proceedings by sending an
enforcement notice as provided in this section.
   (B)   The enforcement notice shall be sent to the owner of record of the
parcel on which the violation has occurred, to any person who has filed a
written request to receive enforcement notices regarding that parcel and to any
other person requested in writing by the owner of record.
   (C)   An enforcement notice shall state at least the following:
      (1)   The name of the owner of record and any other person against whom
the borough intends to take action;
      (2)   The location of the property in violation;
      (3)   The specific violation with a description of the requirements which
have not been met, citing in each instance the applicable provisions of this
chapter;
      (4)   The date before which the steps for compliance must be commenced
and the date before which the steps must be completed;
      (5)   The recipient of the notice has the right to appeal to the Zoning
Hearing Board within a period of ten days; and
      (6)   Failure to comply with the notice within the time specified, unless
extended by appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board, constitutes a violation, with
possible sanctions clearly described.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.076 CAUSES OF ACTION.
   (A)   In case any building, structure, landscaping, or land is, or is
proposed to be, erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted,
maintained, or used in violation of this chapter, the Borough Council or, with
the approval of the Borough Council, an officer of the borough, or any
aggrieved owner or tenant of real property who shows that his or her property
or person will be substantially affected by the alleged violation, in addition
to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to
prevent, restrain, correct, or abate such building, structure, landscaping, or
land, or to prevent, in or about such premises, any act, conduct, business, or
use constituting a violation.
   (B)   When any such action is instituted by a landowner or tenant, notice of
that action shall be served upon the borough at least 30 days prior to the time
the action is begun by serving a copy of the complaint on the Borough Council.
No such action may be maintained until such notice has been given.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.077 ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Any person, partnership, or corporation who or which has violated or
permitted the violation of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon being
found liable therefor in a civil enforcement proceeding commenced by the
borough, pay a judgment of not more than $500 plus all court costs, including
reasonable attorney fees incurred by the borough as a result thereof. No
judgment shall commence or be imposed, levied, or payable until the date of the
determination of a violation by the District Justice. If the defendant neither
pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the borough may enforce the judgment
pursuant to the applicable rules of civil procedure. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation, unless the District Justice
determining that there has been a violation further determines that there was a
good faith basis for the person, partnership, or corporation violating this
chapter to have believed that there was no such violation, in which event there
shall be deemed to have been only one such violation until the fifth day
following the date of the determination of a violation by the District Justice,
and thereafter each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (B)   The Court of Common Pleas, upon petition, may grant an order of stay,
upon cause shown, tolling the per diem fine pending a final adjudication of the
violation and judgment.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed or interpreted to
grant to any person or entity other than the borough the right to commence any
action for enforcement pursuant to this section.
   (D)   District Justices shall have initial jurisdiction over proceedings
brought under this section.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.078 INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE, AND CONFLICT.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the health, safety,
morals, and general welfare. It is not intended to interfere with or abrogate
or annul other rules, regulations, or ordinances; provided, that where this
chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or premises, or
upon the height of a building, or requires larger open spaces than are imposed
by such other rules, easements, covenants, restrictions, regulations, or
ordinances, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
HISTORIC DISTRICT
§ 154.090 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as “the Bedford Historic
District Ordinance.”
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.091 DISTRICT MAP.
   The Bedford Historic District Map, together with all explanatory matter
thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this
subchapter. Said map shall be identified by the signature of the President of
Council, shall be attested by the Borough Secretary, and shall bear the seal of
the borough under the following words: “This is to certify that this is the
Official Historic District Map referred to in § 100 of Ordinance No. 1-85 of
the Borough of Bedford.” Said map shall contain also the date if the adoption
of the ordinance along with the dates and numbers of all ordinances amending
it.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.092 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To protect those areas of the borough which reflect the cultural,
economical, social, political, and architectural history of the borough, the
state, and the nation;
   (B)   To awaken, in our people, an interest in our historic past;
   (C)   To promote the use and reuse of the areas of the borough for the
culture, education, pleasure, and the general welfare of the people of the
borough, the state, and the nation;
   (D)   To strengthen the economy of the borough by stabilizing and improving
property values within the Historic District; and
   (E)   To encourage new buildings and developments that will be harmonious
with the existing historic and architecturally important buildings.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.093 SCOPE.
   The borough’s Historic District ordinance regulates and restricts within the
Historic District or districts the erection, reconstruction, alteration,
restoration, demolition, or razing of any building or structure, in whole or in
part, and prescribes certain procedures relating to the issuance of permits for
properties within said district or districts.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.094 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, all words used in the present tense
include the future tense. All words in the plural number include the singular
number and all words in the singular number include the plural number, unless
the natural construction of the word clearly indicates otherwise. The word
“shall” is mandatory and not directory. The word “used” includes “designated,
intended, built, or arranged to be used.”
   ALTERATION. Any change modification, or addition to a part of or all of the
exterior of any building or structure.
   BEDFORD HISTORICAL ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW BOARD. The agency established by
this subchapter to advise Borough Council on any requests for authorization to
construct, alter, reconstruct, repair, restore, or demolish all or a part of
any building or structure within a Historic District. Also referred to as the
BEDFORD BOARD OF HISTORICAL ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW.
   BOARD. The Bedford Board of Historical Architectural Review.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Bedford.
   BOROUGH COUNCIL. The governing body of the Borough of Bedford.
   BOROUGH SECRETARY. The Secretary of the Borough of Bedford.
   BUILDING. Any enclosed or open structure which is a combination of materials
to form a construction for occupancy and/or use, including mobile homes and
trailers, to be used for any reason whatsoever.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. The approval statement signed by the Council
of the Borough of Bedford which certifies the appropriateness of a particular
request for the construction, alteration, reconstruction, repair, restoration,
demolition, or razing of all or a part of any building or structure within a
Historic District and which authorizes the issuance of a zoning permit for said
request.
   COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any or all work necessary for the erection of any building or
structure from a combination of materials.
   COUNCIL PRESIDENT. The chief executive of the Borough of Bedford.
   DEMOLITION. The dismantling or tearing down of all of part of any building
or structure and all operations incidental thereto.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. Any area of the Borough of Bedford created by ordinance
of the borough pursuant to an Act of June 13, 1961, Pub. Law 282, No. 167, as
amended and subject to the regulations contained herein.
   NATION. The United States of America.
   PERMIT. A certificate issued by the Zoning Permit Officer which approves the
erection, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, demolition, or razing of any
building or structure, in whole or in part, within any Historic District and
which is subject to the provisions of this subchapter.
   PUBLIC STREET OR WAY. Any land dedicated to public use or passage including,
but not limited to, streets, alleys, parks, pedestrian right-of-ways, and other
public rights-of-way, whether constructed, dedicated, or proposed.
   RECONSTRUCTION. Any or all work needed to remake or to rebuild all or part
of any building or structure to a sound condition, but not necessarily of
original materials.
   REPAIRS. Any or all work involving the replacement of existing work with
equivalent material for the purpose of maintenance, but not including any
addition, change, or modification in construction.
   RESTORATION. Any or all work involved in returning a building or structure,
or a part thereof, to its original condition or nearly original condition
through the use of original or nearly original materials. Condition shall refer
to design rather than to structural stability.
   SIGN. Any device, structure, or object for visual communication, including
its structure and component parts, that is used for the purpose of bringing the
subject thereof to the attention of people, but not including any cloth flag of
any public, quasi-public, civic, charitable, or religious group.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   STRUCTURE. Any constructed, erected, or placed material or combination of
materials in or upon the ground, including, but not by way of limitation,
buildings, mobile homes, radio towers, sheds, signs, and storage bins.
   ZONING PERMIT. An approval statement issued by the Zoning Permit Officer or
his or her designee authorizing the construction, alteration, reconstruction,
repair, restoration, demolition, or razing of all or a part of any building or
structure.
   ZONING PERMIT APPLICATION. The request filed by any person with the Zoning
Permit Officer that seeks authorization to construct, alter, reconstruct,
repair, restore, demolish, or raze all of part of any building or structure.
   ZONING PERMIT OFFICER. The officer of the borough designated by the Borough
Council as the individual who issues the permit for construction, alteration,
reconstruction, repair, restoration, demolition, or razing of all or a part of
any building (within a Historic District).
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.095 UNCERTAINTY IN BOUNDARIES.
   Should a dispute arise as to the accuracy of the Historic District map, the
official map on file in the office of the Borough Secretary shall be the final
authority. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of Historic Districts,
the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Where district lines are indicated as approximately following the
centerline or street line of streets, or the centerline or alley line of
alleys, such lines shall be construed to extend to the centerlines of said
streets or alleys.
   (B)   Where Historic District lines are so indicated that they are
approximately parallel to the street lines of streets, the alley lines of
alleys, or the limits of rights-of-way, such lines shall be construed as being
parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the Historic
District map. If no distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by
the use of the scale shown on said map.
   (C)   Where Historic District lines are indicated as approximately following
lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries.
   (D)   Where Historic District lines are indicated as approximately following
a body of water, such line shall be construed as coincident with the shoreline
or said body of water.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.096 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   Except for interior alterations or modifications, no person shall erect,
construct, reconstruct, alter, restore, demolish, paint, raze, or change in
appearance, in any manner, any building or structure, in whole or in part,
within any Historic District, without first obtaining permits which have been
issued on the strength of a certificate of appropriateness issued by Borough
Council.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.097 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued for the erection, reconstruction,
alteration, restoration, demolition, or razing of a building or structure in
any Historic District until Borough Council has issued a certificate of
appropriateness therefor.
      (1)   Said certificate shall not be limited to work requiring a zoning
permit according to the presently enacted zoning ordinance of the borough, but
shall include all work affecting general design, arrangement, texture,
material, and color which can be seen from a public street or way, including
utility installations or other public improvements.
      (2)   This includes, but it not limited to, the following: painting;
sandblasting; chemical cleaning; stucco or other applied textures; replacement
or major repair of windows; cornices; trim or other nonstructural elements;
signs; and other work affecting the visual appearance of the structure as
defined in this section.
   (B)   All work authorized by a certificate of appropriateness shall be
completed within one year of the date of issuance of the said certificate.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.098 BOARD OF HISTORICAL ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW.
   The Board of Historical Architectural Review is hereby created.
   (A)   Membership.
      (1)   The Board shall be composed of not less than five members,
appointed by Borough Council; one of whom shall be a registered architect; one
a licensed real estate broker; one the Zoning Permit Officer; and the remaining
members shall be persons with knowledge and interest in the preservation of the
historic buildings and district. The terms of the members shall be so fixed
that no more than two terms shall expire during the same calendar year. All
terms shall expire on the same month of the applicable year. Upon the
expiration of the term of any member, a successor shall be appointed to serve
for a term of five years. There shall be no limit to the number of terms a
member can serve.
      (2)   The term of any member of the Board who was appointed in his or her
capacity as a registered architect, a licensed real estate broker, or the
building inspector shall automatically be considered vacant if the person
ceases to be so engaged. An appointment for fill the vacancy shall be only for
the unexpired portion of the term.
   (B)   Organization of the Board. The Board shall establish its own bylaws,
establish offices, and elect officers from its own membership. For the conduct
of any meeting and the taking of any action, a quorum shall be not less than a
majority of the Board as a whole. Any action taken at any meeting shall require
the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board as a whole. No member of the
Board shall be permitted to take part in the discussion or vote of the issuance
of any certificate of appropriateness for any property in which said member has
any interest, direct or indirect. The Board shall keep full public records of
its business and shall submit a report of its activities to Borough Council at
least once a year.
   (C)   Removal of members. Any Board member may be removed for malfeasance,
misfeasance, or nonfeasance in office or for other just cause by a majority
vote of Borough Council taken after the member has received 15 days’ advance
notice of the intent to take such vote.
   (D)   Expenditures for services. Borough Council may appropriate funds for
legal, secretarial, clerk, consultant, and other technical assistance required
to achieve the aims of this subchapter. Board members shall serve without
compensation, except that Borough Council may reimburse Board members for
expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (E)   Functions of the Board.
      (1)   Powers and duties.
         (a)   To conduct a survey of buildings for the purpose of determining
those of historic and/or architectural significance and pertinent facts about
them; act in coordination with the County Planning Commission and other
appropriate groups, and to maintain and periodically revise the detailed
listings of historic sites and buildings and data about them, appropriately
classified with respect to national, state, or local significance, to period or
field of interest or otherwise;
         (b)   To propose, from time to time as deemed appropriate, the
establishment of additional Historic Districts and revisions to existing
Historic Districts;
         (c)   To formulate recommendations concerning the establishment of an
appropriate system of markers for selected historic and/or architectural sites
and buildings, including proposals for the installation and care of such
historic markers;
         (d)   To formulate recommendations concerning the preparation and
publication of maps, brochures, and descriptive material about the borough’s
historic and/or architectural sites and buildings;
         (e)   To cooperate with and advise the Borough Council, the County
Planning Commission, and other agencies in matters involving historically and/
or architecturally significant sites and buildings (such as appropriate land
usage, parking facilities, and signs, as well as adherence to lot dimensional
regulations and minimum structural standards);
         (f)   To cooperate with and enlist assistance from the National Park
Service, the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the state’s Historical
and Museum Commission and other agencies, public and private, from time to
time, concerned with historic sites and buildings;
         (g)   To advise owners of historic buildings on problems of
preservation; and
         (h)   To promote public interest in the purpose of this subchapter by
carrying on a public relations program.
      (2)   Advise to Borough Council. The Board shall give to Borough Council
counsel as regards the advisability of issuing any certificates required to be
issued pursuant to this subchapter and to the enabling legislation pursuant to
which it was enacted.
      (3)   Use of criteria. The following criteria shall be used by the
Historical Architectural Review Board in making its recommendations to Borough
Council concerning the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness:
         (a)   The effect of the proposed change upon the general historic and
architectural nature of the District;
         (b)   The appropriateness of the exterior architectural features which
can be seen from a public street or way;
         (c)   The general design, arrangement, texture, material, and color of
the building or structure and the relation of such factors to similar features
of buildings or structures in the district. Consideration shall be given, but
not limited to, the following:
            1.   Proportion of buildings front facades. The relationship
between the width of the front of the building and the height of the front of
the building;
            2.   Proportion of openings within the building. The relationship
of width to height of windows and doors;
            3.   Rhythms of solids to voids in the front facade. Since rhythm
is a repeated and recurrent alteration of strong and weak architectural
elements, a rhythm of masses to openings in building should be maintained;
            4.   Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. In moving past a
series of buildings, a rhythm of recurrent or repeated building masses to
spaces between them should be experienced.
            5.   Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections. Moving past a
series of structures, one experiences a rhythm of entrances or projections at
an intimate scale;
            6.   Relationship of materials. Within an area the predominant
materials may be brick, stone, stucco, wood siding, or other material;
            7.   Relationship of textures. The predominant textures of an area
may be smooth, such as stucco, or rough as brick with tooled joints or
horizontal wood siding, or other textures;
            8.   Relationship of color. Insofar as the mass and detail such as
trim are concerned, a predominant color that may be of a natural material or a
patina colored by time. Blending colors of trim is also a factor;
            9.   Relationship of architectural details. Architectural details
and their relationship to the structure in question and adjacent ones
including, but not limited to, cornices, lintels, arches, quoins, balustrades
and iron work, chimneys, and the like;
            10.   Relationship of roof shapes. Buildings should have compatible
roof shapes such as gable, mansard, hip, flat, gambrel, and/or other kinds of
roof shapes;
            11.   Walls of continuity. Physical ingredients such as brick
walls, wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape masses, building facades, or
combinations of these form continuous, cohesive walls of enclosures along the
street;
            12.   Relationship of landscaping. There may be a predominance of a
quality and quantity of landscaping, although emphasis herein shall be with the
amounts and continuity of landscaping;
            13.   Paving materials. There may be a predominance in the use of
brick pavers, cobblestones, granite blocks, or others;
            14.   Directional expression of front elevation. Structural shape,
planning of openings, and architectural detail may provide a predominantly
vertical, horizontal, or nondirectional character to the building’s facade; and
            15.   Scale. Scale is created by the size of units of construction
and architectural detail that relate to the size of people. It can also be
determined by building mass and how it relates to open space. The major
elements of scale may be brick or stone units, window or door openings, porches
and balconies, and the like.
         (d)   The Historical Architectural Review Board shall grant variations
in a manner that will be in harmony with the character of the other buildings
or structures on the street and/or districts;
         (e)   The height of any new building or structure shall not exceed the
height of the tallest adjacent building or structure by more than 10%. This
requirement shall also apply to any proposed modifications to existing
buildings or structures;
         (f)   In cases where applications for proposed demolition occur, the
Historical Architectural Review Board shall, where deemed necessary, recommend
to the Borough Council that the proposed demolition be postponed for a period
not exceeding nine months. However, in the event demolition cannot be avoided,
then the moving of a building shall be encouraged as an alternative to
demolition if there is no other way to preserve the building. (Also see §
154.099); and
         (g)   In addition to the above, all other borough laws and ordinances
shall be complied with including the zoning and subdivision ordinances.
      (4)   Signs.
         (a)   No sign or permanent external advertising display of any kind
shall be erected, altered, or used in any Historic District except for
advertising informing the public of the service, business, occupation, or
profession carried on in or about the property on which such sign or permanent
external advertising display appears. In conjunction with this, no such sign or
advertising display of any kind or for any purpose shall be erected or altered
until an application for permit to make such erection or alteration has been
reviewed by the Board for its conformity in exterior material composition,
exterior structural design, external appearance, and size with similar
advertising or information media used in the architectural period of the
district and a permit granted thereon.
         (b)   In addition to the above, and those matters considered in
division (E)(3) above, the following shall be adhered to.
            1.   No animated, revolving, or moving signs shall be permitted.
            2.   Illumination of any sign shall be indirect, shielded, or
otherwise arranged to prevent direct glare.
            3.   No free-standing sign shall be more than 15 feet high.
            4.   No sign shall be erected at the intersection of any street in
such a manner as to obstruct free and clear vision, or at any location where by
reason of its position, shape, or color it may interfere with, obstruct the
view of, or be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal, or device.
            5.   No sign shall be located so as to prevent or hinder free
ingress to or egress from any door, window, or fire escape. No sign shall be
attached to a standpipe or fire escape.
            6.   No sign shall be attached to or placed on any public utility
pole or tree located within any public right-of-way.
         (c)   All other requirements of any borough ordinance must be complied
with. Historical markers may be authorized by the Board subject to the
provisions stipulated and such markers shall not be considered as signs but are
to be erected in accordance with the requirements established for historic
markers by the Board.
      (5)   Notice to the applicant. Upon receipt by the Board of a notice that
an application for a permit for the erection, reconstruction, alteration,
restoration, demolition, or razing of a building or structure in a Historic
District has been filed in the office of the Zoning Permit Officer, the Board
shall schedule a meeting to consider the counsel which the Board will give to
the Borough Council. The person applying for the permit shall be given not less
than ten days written notice of the time and place of said meeting and shall be
invited to appear to explain his or her reasons therefor. The applicant may
waive, in writing, this notification period. The Board shall notify the
applicant of its decision within 30 days of its receipt of the application. If
the Board, on the basis of the information received at the meeting and from its
general background and knowledge decides to recommend against the granting of a
certificate of appropriateness, it shall indicate to the applicant the changes
in plans and specifications, if any, which, in the opinion of the Board, would
protect the distinctive historical character of the Historic District. The
Board shall withhold its report from Borough Council for a period of five days
following its notice to the applicant that the Board intends to recommend
against the granting of the certificate of appropriateness. This grace period,
which is intended to allow the applicant to decide whether or not to make the
suggested changes, may be extended by an additional 15 days upon the written
request of the applicant. At the expiration of this grace period, the Board
shall forward all pertinent information to Borough Council, including any
decision of the applicant as regards suggested changes to the plan in question.
      (6)   Notice to Borough Council. The Board shall submit its counsel in
writing to Borough Council within 30 days of its date of receipt of the
application, unless the time limitation is waived in writing by the applicant.
This 30-day period shall be extended, automatically, by the number of grace
period days given pursuant to division (E)(5) above. Should the Board fail to
report to Borough Council within the time specified, it shall be assumed as a
matter of law that the Board has recommended that Borough Council issue the
subject certificate of appropriateness. The written report to Borough Council
shall include the following:
         (a)   The exact location of the area in which the work is to be done;
         (b)   The exterior changes to be made or the exterior character of the
structure to be constructed or erected;
         (c)   A list of the surrounding structures with their general exterior
characteristics;
         (d)   The effect of the proposed change upon the general historical
and architectural nature of the district;
         (e)   The appropriateness of exterior architectural features which can
be seen from a public street or way;
         (f)   The general design, arrangement, texture, material, and color of
the building or structure and the relation of such factors to similar features
of buildings or structures in the district;
         (g)   The opinion of the Board (including any dissent) as to the
appropriateness of the work proposed as it will preserve or destroy the
historical aspect and nature of the district; and
         (h)   The specific counsel of the Board as to the issuance by Borough
Council of a certificate of appropriateness.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.099 DUTIES OF THE ZONING PERMIT OFFICER.
   (A)   Issuance of permits. The Zoning Permit Officer shall be responsible
for the issuance of permits for any work that would affect the general design,
arrangement, texture, material, or color of any structure or building in any
Historic District when the result of such work is capable of being viewed from
a public street or way. Permits shall be required for such work, even if a
permit is not required according to the presently enacted zoning ordinance of
the borough; this includes, but it not limited to, the following: painting;
sandblasting; chemical cleaning; stucco or other applied textures; replacement
or major repair of windows, cornices, trim, or other nonstructural elements;
signs; and other work affecting the visual appearance of the structure as
defined in this section. No such permit shall be issued by the Zoning Permit
Officer until Borough Council has issued a certificate of appropriateness.
   (B)   Conduct of office. Upon receipt of an application for a permit for
work to be done in any Historic District, the Zoning Permit Officer shall act
in accordance with the procedures presently being followed in that office
except as those procedures are modified by the following requirements.
      (1)   He or she shall forward within three working days to the Board of
Historical Architectural Review a copy of the application for a permit,
together with a copy of the plot plan and the building plans and specifications
filed by the applicant.
      (2)   He or she shall maintain in that office a record of all such
applications. The record shall include details of the handling and disposition
of the same and shall be in addition to, and appropriately cross-referenced to,
other zoning permit records.
      (3)   He or she shall require applicants to submit a sufficient number of
additional copies of material required to be attached to an application for a
permit to allow compliance with the foregoing.
      (4)   Upon receipt of the written disapproval of the application by
Borough Council, the Zoning Permit Officer shall disapprove the permit
application and shall so notify the applicant.
      (5)   The Zoning Permit Officer shall have the power to institute any
proceedings at law or in equity necessary for the enforcement of this
subchapter in the same manner as in enforcement of the zoning ordinance of the
borough.
   (C)   Hazardous structures. In the event that the subject building or
structure presents a clear and present danger to the public or if said building
has been rendered unfit for habitation because of fire, explosion, or other
similar cause, the terms of this subchapter may be waived to the extent that
the applicant can proceed to render the subject property safe and/or habitable
under the terms of the zoning ordinance of the borough. However, any changes
made to the subject property must be approved, finally, under the terms of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.100 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOROUGH COUNCIL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the written counsel of the Board as provided in §
154.098(E)(6), Borough Council shall consider at a regular or special meeting
the question of issuing to the Zoning Permit Officer a certificate of
appropriateness authorizing a permit for the work covered by the application.
   (B)   The applicant shall be advised by the Borough Secretary of the time
and place of the meeting at which the application will be considered and shall
be advised that he or she has the right to attend to be heard as to his or her
reasons for filing the same. In determining whether or not to certify the
appropriateness of the proposed erection, reconstruction, alteration,
restoration, demolition, or razing of all or a part of any building or
structure within any Historic District, Borough Council shall consider the same
factors as the Board of Historical Architectural Review set forth in §
154.098(E)(3) and the report of the Board.
   (C)   If Council approves the application, it shall issue a certificate of
appropriateness authorizing the Zoning Permit Officer to issue a permit for the
work covered. If Council disapproves, it shall do so in writing and copies
shall be given to the applicant and to the state’s Historical and Museum
Commission.
   (D)   The disapproval shall indicate what changes in the plans and
specifications would meet the conditions for protecting the distinctive
historical character of the district. In either case, Borough Council shall
notify the applicant of its decision, in writing, within 30 days of its receipt
of the application.
   (E)   Should Borough Council fail to so notify the applicant, it shall be
assumed, as a matter of law, that the application is approved, unless the
applicant waives the time limit in writing.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.101 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   Should any provision set forth in this subchapter be found to conflict
with any law of the United States or of the state, such federal and/or state
laws shall govern and this subchapter shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   Such conflict shall not affect the validity of the subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.102 INTERPRETATION.
   All standards set forth in this subchapter are to be interpreted as minimum
standards required. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit or
prevent the use of higher standards.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.103 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Notice. The Zoning Permit Officer shall serve a notice of violation on
the person in violation of this subchapter or of a plan approved thereunder, or
in violation of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this
subchapter. Such notice shall direct the abatement of such violation.
   (B)   Prosecution of violation. If the violation is not abated within the
time specified in the notice of violation, the Zoning Permit Officer shall
institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct,
or abate such violation.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.104 APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   Any party aggrieved by any decision of Borough Council made
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter may file an appeal with the
County Court of Common Pleas within 30 days after notice of the decision has
been made or, if no decision is made, 30 days after the date when a decision is
deemed to have been made under this subchapter.
      (2)   Failure of said person to file said appeal within said 30 days
shall preclude an appeal from said decision.
   (B)   (1)   Upon the filing of an appeal with the County Court of Common
Pleas, and during its pendency before the Court, all work under appeal shall be
stayed unless the Zoning Permit Officer certifies to Borough Council in writing
that such stay would cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case
the work shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be
granted by the court having jurisdiction.
      (2)   Any interested party may petition the court having jurisdiction to
order such appellants to post bond as a condition to continuing the proceedings
before the Court. The question of whether or not such petition should be
granted and the amount of the bond shall be within the sound discretion of the
Court.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.105 RELIEF FROM PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Any person charged with the enforcement of this subchapter, while
acting for the borough, shall not thereby render himself or herself personally
liable, and he or she is relieved hereby from all personal liability for any
damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required
or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties.
   (B)   Any suit instituted against any officer or employee because of an act
performed by him or her in the lawful discharge of his or her duties shall be
defended by the legal representative of the borough.
   (C)   In no case shall any such officer or employee be liable for costs in
any action or suit or proceeding that may be instituted in pursuance of the
provisions of this subchapter when he or she performs his or her duties in good
faith and without malice.
   (D)   For the purposes of this subchapter, any person who has been assigned
duties by Borough Council pursuant to this subchapter shall be considered an
employee of the borough and shall be entitled to the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.106 AMENDMENTS.
   Borough Council may, from time to time, after public notice and hearing,
amend, change, or supplement the regulations herein established.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 154.107 ZONING MAP.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/146edbcc2b5611ca5ef7ba9ccba125a47f776f92/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1383.png]
 
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010; Ord. 2011-01, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this subchapter or who shall
fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof, or who shall conduct
activities in violation of a permit issued under the provisions of this
subchapter or who shall, without having applied for and received an approved
permit, conduct activities for which a permit is required under the terms of
this subchapter shall be, upon conviction thereof, sentenced to a fine of not
more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs,
to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation
continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-1-2010)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ACQUISITIONS AND VACATIONS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   ZONING
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Ord.  11-3-  Intergovernmental agreement establishing the Bedford County
02-03 2003   Association of Municipalities
Res.  4-5-
01-   2004   Cooperation agreement with Downtown Bedford Inc.
2004
Res.  2-7-   Remaining affiliated with the Bedford County Association of
01-   2005   Municipalities
2005
Res.  8-1-
04-   2005   Participation in the PACC Vehicle and Equipment contract
2005
Res.  12-22-
07-   2005   Cooperation agreement with Downtown Bedford, Inc.
2005
Res.  6-4-   Cooperative agreement expanding the “Main Street District” in the
03-   2007   borough
2007
Res.  12-18- Cooperative agreement expanding the “Main Street District” in the
06-   2008   borough
2008
Res.  1-5-   Authorizing the execution of the electronic access licensing
01-   2009   agreement with PennDOT
2009
Res.  5-7-   Agreement with Downtown Bedford, Inc. concerning the revitalization
04-   2012   of the historic area
2012
Res.  5-7-   Cooperative agreement delineating the area of the borough to be
05-   2012   designated as the “Keystone Community District”
2012
Ord.  10-1-  Management agreement with the borough authority concerning water
03-   2018   facilities
2018
            
 
TABLE II: ACQUISITIONS AND VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. 2-01     4-2-2001    Transfer of control of part of a highway
Ord. 02-2004  6-7-2004    Vacating an unopened street
Ord. 03-2004  9-7-2004    Accepting a deed of dedication for portions of Forbes
                          Road and Oakwood Drive
Ord. 2005-01  3-7-2005    Vacation of a portion of Lafayette Avenue
Ord. 2006-02  6-5-2006    Vacation of a portion of Allegheny Avenue
Ord. 2008-05  8-4-2008    Vacating an unopened street
Res. 03-2008  10-6-2008   Clarification of park ownership and extension of park
                          trail
Ord. 2015-05  12-7-2015   Vacating a portion of West Vondersmith Avenue
Ord. 2015-07  1-4-2016    Vacating a portion of Westmoreland Avenue
Ord. 2020-02  - -2020     Acquiring an easement on property at 238 West Penn
                          Street
Ord. 2020-08  6-1-2020    Acquiring an easement on property at 238 West Penn
                          Street
Ord. 2021-02  9-7-2021    Vacating a portion of Lafayette Avenue
Res. 2020-02  3-2-2020    Condemning property related to Ord. 2020-02
                         
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. 3-01     5-7-2001    Approval of television franchise transfer
Res. 05-2005  9-6-2005    Granting a television franchise
                         
 
TABLE IV: ZONING
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
             The area located in the borough and described as: beginning at the intersection
             of West Street with Central Way; thence by Central Way to Chamberlain Street;
             thence by Chamberlain Street to West Pitt Street; thence by West Pitt Street to
2-7-  2-7-   the division line between Lot Nos. 55 and 54 as shown on Bedford County Tap Map
1983  1983   No. E-9 C-4; thence by division line between said Lot Nos. 55 and 54 to Clarion
             Avenue; thence by Clarion Avenue to West Street; thence by West Street to the
             intersection with Central Way, the place of beginning, is hereby changed from a
             zoning classification of R-2 to a zoning classification of R-4 (Prior Code, Ch.
             27, Pt. 22)
             The zoning classification is hereby changed from R-1 to C-1 on a parcel of
             property owned by Paul Arnold and George and Stella Arnold, (effective May 17,
             1976) said property is further described as follows: beginning at a point
2-6-  2-6-   bounded on the south by North Street on the west by the rear property lines of
1984C 1984   various lots fronting on North Drive and Delta Avenue, their rear property
             lines also being the borough’s corporate boundary line; on the north by Broad
             Street, whose southern right-of-way is also the borough’s corporate boundary
             line; and on the east by the rear property lines of various lots fronting
             George Street (Prior Code, Ch. 27, Pt. 22)
1-93  5-3-   Changing the classification of four lots situated in the borough from R-
      1993   2 Residential to Manufacturing (Prior Code, Ch. 27, Pt. 22)
             The zoning classification is hereby changed from M to CMR for all lots located
2006- 4-3-   north of the Raystown Branch of the Juniata River, excepting those lots
1     2006   fronting on George Street and Richard Street north of North Street which shall
             remain R-1 (Prior Code, Ch. 27, Pt. 22)
2006- 4-3-   The zoning classification is hereby changed from C-2 to R-4 for all lots
1     2006   located west of Chamberlain Street and fronting on Pitt Street (Prior Code, Ch.
             27, Pt. 22)
             The area located in the borough and described as: beginning at the intersection
             of West Street with Penn Street; thence west by Penn Street to Limestone
             Avenue; thence west-southwest by Limestone Avenue to the borough’s corporate
2010- 3-1-   boundary line; thence southwest by the borough’s corporate boundary line to the
3     2010   intersection of two borough corporate boundary lines; thence east by the
             borough’s corporate boundary line to West Street; thence north by West Street
             to Penn Street, the place of beginning, is hereby changed from a zoning
             classification of R-2 to a zoning classification of R-2T (Prior Code, Ch. 27,
             Pt. 22)
             The area located in the borough and described as: beginning at the intersection
             of Vondersmith Avenue with Richard Street; thence north by Richard Street to a
             point 120 feet north of the northern right-of-way line of Penn Street, thence
2010- 3-1-   west by a line 120 feet north of and parallel with the northern right-of-way
3     2010   line of Penn Street to Lafayette Avenue; thence south by Lafayette Avenue to
             Vondersmith Avenue; thence east by Vondersmith Avenue to Richard Street, the
             place of beginning, is hereby changed from a zoning classification of R-4 to a
             zoning classification of RLC (Prior Code, Ch. 27, Pt. 22)
             The area located in the borough and described as: beginning at the intersection
             of Vondersmith Avenue with Lafayette Avenue; thence south by Lafayette Avenue
             and Grant Street to Watson Street; thence east by Watson Street to Huntingdon
2010- 3-1-   Avenue; thence north by Huntingdon Avenue and a line running in line with the
3     2010   centerline of Huntingdon Avenue to Vondersmith Avenue; thence west by
             Vondersmith Avenue to Lafayette Avenue, the place of beginning, is hereby
             changed from a zoning classification of R-4 to a zoning classification of R-1
             (Prior Code, Ch. 27, Pt. 22)
             The area located in the borough and described as: beginning at the intersection
             of Vondersmith Avenue and Huntingdon Avenue; thence south by Huntingdon Avenue
             and a line running in line with the centerline of Huntingdon Avenue to Springs
             Road; thence southeast by Springs Road to Richard Street; thence east-southeast
             by the borough’s corporate boundary line to the intersection of two borough
2010- 3-1-   corporate boundary lines; thence north by the borough’s corporate boundary line
3     2010   to the southern end of Westmoreland Avenue; thence north by Westmoreland Avenue
             and a line running in line with the centerline of Westmoreland Avenue
             (approximately 240 feet east of the eastern right-of-way line of Richard
             Street) to Vondersmith Avenue thence west by Vondersmith Avenue to Huntingdon
             Avenue, the place of beginning, is hereby changed from zoning classifications
             R-4 and R-3 to a zoning classification of R-1 (Prior Code, Ch. 27, Pt. 22)
             The area located in the borough and described as: beginning at the intersection
             of Vondersmith Avenue with Richard Street; thence east by Vondersmith Avenue to
             Anderson Street, thence north by Anderson Street to Central Way; thence west by
             Central Way to a line running in line with the centerline of Westmoreland
             Avenue (approximately 240 feet east of the eastern right-of-way line of Richard
2010- 3-1-   Street); thence south by a line running in line with the centerline of
3     2010   Westmoreland Avenue (approximately 240 feet east of the eastern right-of-way
             line of Richard Street) to a line running 120 feet north of and parallel with
             the northern right-of-way line of Penn Street; thence west by a line running
             120 feet north of and parallel with the northern right-of-way line of Penn
             Street to Richard Street; thence south by Richard Street to Vondersmith Avenue,
             the place of beginning, is hereby changed from zoning classifications R-4 and
             R-3 to a zoning classification of R-1 (Prior Code, Ch. 27, Pt. 22)
Ord.  3-7-
2011- 2011   Describes area that is included in the zoning map
01
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Pennsylvania Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes Annotated
References to Pennsylvania Code
References to 2001 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA STATUTES
References to Pennsylvania Statutes Code Section
References to Pennsylvania Statutes  Code Section
3 P.S. §§ 951 et seq.              90.37
10 P.S. §§ 162.1 et seq.           111.03
16 P.S. § 11011-6                   33.031
                                     152.033,
32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq.         152.064,
                                     152.080
32 P.S. § 679.302                   152.081
32 P.S. §§ 680.1 et seq.           153.008
35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq.        50.01
35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 to 7210.1103   150.01
40 P.S. § 638                       113.01
53 P.S. §§ 271 et seq.             153.008,
                                     154.004
53 P.S. §§ 301 et seq.             153.008
53 P.S. § 772                       32.010
53 P.S. §§ 881.101 et seq.         32.036
53 P.S. §§ 895.101 et seq.         32.036
53 P.S. §§ 4000.101 et seq.        50.01
53 P.S. §§ 6901 et seq.            33.023,
                                     33.090
53 P.S. § 6913                      33.065
53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 through 6924.9033.002,
                                     33.003
53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq.        33.001
53 P.S. § 6924.504                  33.003
                                     33.034,
53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq.            33.039,
                                     53.07
                                     153.003,
                                     153.008,
                                     153.023,
53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.           154.002,
                                     154.004,
                                     154.068 –
                                     154.070
53 P.S. §§ 10501 et seq.           154.065
53 P.S. § 10508                     154.065
53 P.S. §§ 10601 et seq.           154.004
53 P.S. § 10607                     154.060
                                     154.061,
53 P.S. § 10609                     154.062,
                                     154.065
53 P.S. § 10609.1                   154.062,
                                     154.065
53 P.S. § 10610                     154.061
53 P.S. §§ 10701 et seq.           154.065
53 P.S. § 10702                     154.065
53 P.S. §§ 10901 et seq.           154.004,
                                     154.063
53 P.S. § 10908                     154.061
53 P.S. § 10909.1                   154.062
53 P.S. § 10910.2                   154.065
53 P.S. § 10912.1                   154.065
                                     154.061,
53 P.S. § 10916.1                   154.062,
                                     154.065
53 P.S. § 10916.1(a)                154.065
53 P.S. § 10916.2                   154.065
53 P.S. § 15171                     154.005
53 P.S. § 46202                     50.01
72 P.S. § 806                       33.039
72 P.S. § 5511.2                    33.100
72 P.S. § 5511.7                    33.100
72 P.S. § 5511.26a                  33.100
72 P.S. § 5860.101 et seq.          33.100
72 P.S. § 7303                      33.003
72 P.S. §§ 8101-C et seq.          33.036
72 P.S. §§ 8101-D et seq.          33.021
72 P.S. § 8102-D                    33.038
75 P.S. §§ 7301 et seq.            71.99
                                     
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES
 
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes Code Section
8 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.                       10.02
8 Pa.C.S. § 3301.5                              10.01
8 Pa.C.S. §§ 3321 to 3324                      10.99
53 Pa.C.S. § 7101                               32.065
53 Pa.C.S. Ch. 85, Subch. F                      33.066
                                                 
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES ANNOTATED
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes Annotated Code Section
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes Annotated Code Section
1 Pa.C.S.A. § 1937                                        33.002
3 Pa.C.S.A. § 5701-5714                                   112.04
42 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq.                              150.24
42 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6301 et seq.                             130.99
42 Pa.C.S.A. § 8953                                       31.43
75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq.                              71.47
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 3368                                       70.09
75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6101 et seq.                             70.09
                                                           
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CODE
 
References to Pa. Code          Code Section
                                152.021,
34 Pa. Code                     152.024,
                                152.065
                                150.01,
34 Pa. Code Chapters 401 to 405 152.062,
                                152.065
                                
 
REFERENCES TO 2001 CODE
Prior Code Section New Code Section
Prior Code Section    New Code Section
Ch. 1, Pt. 1, § 101  30.001
Ch. 1, Pt. 1, § 102  30.002
Ch. 1, Pt. 2, § 201  30.015
Ch. 1, Pt. 2, § 202  30.016
Ch. 1, Pt. 2, § 211  30.017
Ch. 1, Pt. 2, § 212  30.018,
                      30.019
Ch. 1, Pt. 3, § 301  30.035
Ch. 1, Pt. 4, § 401  31.01
Ch. 1, Pt. 4, § 402  31.02
Ch. 1, Pt. 4, § 403  31.03
Ch. 1, Pt. 4, § 404  31.04
Ch. 1, Pt. 4, § 411  31.05
Ch. 1, Pt. 4, § 412  31.06
Ch. 1, Pt. 5, § 501  31.40
Ch. 1, Pt. 5, § 502  31.41
Ch. 1, Pt. 5, § 503  31.42
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 601  32.001
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 602  32.002
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 603  32.003
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 604  32.004
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 605  32.005
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 606  32.006
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 607  32.007
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 608  32.008
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 609  32.009
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 610  32.010
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 611  32.011
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 612  32.012
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 613  32.013
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 614  32.014
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 615  32.015
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 616  32.016
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 617  32.017
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 621  32.030
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 622  32.031
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 623  32.032
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 624  32.033
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 625  32.034
Ch. 1, Pt. 6, § 626  32.035
Ch. 1, Pt. 7, § 701  32.050
Ch. 1, Pt. 7, § 702  32.051
Ch. 1, Pt. 8, § 801  30.050
Ch. 1, Pt. 8, § 802  30.051
Ch. 1, Pt. 8, § 803  30.052
Ch. 1, Pt. 8, § 804  30.053
Ch. 1, Pt. 8, § 805  30.054
Ch. 1, Pt. 8, § 806  30.055
Ch. 1, Pt. 8, § 807  30.056
Ch. 1, Pt. 9, § 901  31.55
Ch. 1, Pt. 10, § 100132.065
Ch. 1, Pt. 10, § 100232.066
Ch. 1, Pt. 10, § 100332.067
Ch. 1, Pt. 10, § 100432.068
Ch. 1, Pt. 10, § 100532.069
Ch. 1, Pt. 10, § 100632.070
Ch. 2, Pt. 1, § 101  90.01
Ch. 2, Pt. 1, § 102  90.02
Ch. 2, Pt. 1, § 103  90.03
Ch. 2, Pt. 1, § 104  90.04
Ch. 2, Pt. 1, § 105  90.05
Ch. 2, Pt. 1, § 106  90.99
Ch. 2, Pt. 2, § 201  90.20
Ch. 2, Pt. 2, § 202  90.21
Ch. 2, Pt. 2, § 203  90.22
Ch. 2, Pt. 2, § 204  90.99
Ch. 2, Pt. 3, § 301  90.35
Ch. 2, Pt. 3, § 302  90.36
Ch. 2, Pt. 3, § 303  90.37
Ch. 2, Pt. 3, § 304  90.99
Ch. 4, Pt. 1, § 101  150.20
Ch. 4, Pt. 1, § 102  150.21
Ch. 4, Pt. 1, § 103  150.22
Ch. 4, Pt. 1, § 104  150.23
Ch. 4, Pt. 1, § 105  150.24
Ch. 4, Pt. 1, § 106  150.25
Ch. 4, Pt. 1, § 107  150.26
Ch. 4, Pt. 1, § 108  150.27
Ch. 4, Pt. 1, § 109  150.99
Ch. 6, Pt. 1, § 101  130.01
Ch. 6, Pt. 1, § 102  130.02
Ch. 6, Pt. 1, § 103  130.03
Ch. 6, Pt. 1, § 104  130.04
Ch. 6, Pt. 1, § 105  130.05
Ch. 6, Pt. 1, § 106  130.06
Ch. 6, Pt. 1, § 107  130.07
Ch. 6, Pt. 1, § 108  130.99
Ch. 6, Pt. 1, § 109  130.08
Ch. 6, Pt. 2, § 201  131.01
Ch. 6, Pt. 2, § 202  131.02
Ch. 6, Pt. 2, § 203  131.03
Ch. 6, Pt. 2, § 204  131.99
Ch. 6, Pt. 2, § 205  131.04
Ch. 6, Pt. 3, § 301  132.01
Ch. 6, Pt. 3, § 302  132.02
Ch. 6, Pt. 3, § 303  132.03
Ch. 6, Pt. 3, § 304  132.99
Ch. 6, Pt. 4, § 401  132.50
Ch. 6, Pt. 4, § 402  132.99
Ch. 6, Pt. 5, § 501  132.15
Ch. 6, Pt. 5, § 502  132.16
Ch. 6, Pt. 5, § 503  132.17
Ch. 6, Pt. 5, § 504  132.18
Ch. 6, Pt. 5, § 505  132.19
Ch. 6, Pt. 5, § 506  132.20
Ch. 6, Pt. 5, § 507  132.21
Ch. 6, Pt. 5, § 508  132.99
Ch. 6, Pt. 6, § 601  132.35
Ch. 6, Pt. 6, § 602  132.36
Ch. 6, Pt. 6, § 603  132.37
Ch. 6, Pt. 6, § 604  132.38
Ch. 6, Pt. 6, § 605  132.99
Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 101  31.20
Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 102  31.21
Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 103  31.22
Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 104  31.23
Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 105  31.24
Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 106  31.25
Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 107  31.26
Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 108  31.27
Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 109  31.28
Ch. 7, Pt. 1, § 110  31.99
Ch. 7, Pt. 2, § 201  91.01
Ch. 7, Pt. 2, § 202  91.02
Ch. 7, Pt. 2, § 203  91.03
Ch. 7, Pt. 2, § 204  91.04
Ch. 7, Pt. 2, § 205  91.99
Ch. 10, Pt. 1, § 101 92.001
Ch. 10, Pt. 1, § 102 92.002
Ch. 10, Pt. 1, § 103 92.003
Ch. 10, Pt. 1, § 104 92.004
Ch. 10, Pt. 1, § 105 92.005
Ch. 10, Pt. 1, § 106 92.006
Ch. 10, Pt. 1, § 107 92.999
Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 201 92.055
Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 202 92.056
Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 203 92.057
Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 204 92.058
Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 205 92.059
Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 206 92.060
Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 207 92.061
Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 208 92.062
Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 209 92.063
Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 210 92.064
Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 211 92.065
Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 212 92.066
Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 213 92.067
Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 214 92.068
Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 215 92.999
Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 216 92.069
Ch. 10, Pt. 2, § 217 92.070
Ch. 10, Pt. 3, § 301 93.01
Ch. 10, Pt. 3, § 302 93.02
Ch. 10, Pt. 3, § 303 93.03
Ch. 10, Pt. 3, § 304 93.04
Ch. 10, Pt. 3, § 305 93.05
Ch. 10, Pt. 3, § 306 93.06
Ch. 10, Pt. 3, § 307 93.99
Ch. 11, Pt. 1, § 101 110.55
Ch. 11, Pt. 1, § 102 110.99
Ch. 13, Pt. 1, § 101 111.01
Ch. 13, Pt. 1, § 102 111.02
Ch. 13, Pt. 1, § 103 111.03
Ch. 13, Pt. 1, § 104 111.04
Ch. 13, Pt. 1, § 105 111.05
Ch. 13, Pt. 1, § 106 111.06
Ch. 13, Pt. 1, § 107 111.07
Ch. 13, Pt. 1, § 108 111.08
Ch. 13, Pt. 1, § 109 111.99
Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 201 110.15
Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 202 110.16
Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 203 110.17
Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 204 110.18
Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 205 110.19
Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 206 110.20
Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 207 110.21
Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 208 110.22
Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 209 110.23
Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 210 110.24
Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 211 110.25
Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 212 110.26
Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 213 110.27
Ch. 13, Pt. 2, § 214 110.99
Ch. 13, Pt. 3, § 301 110.40
Ch. 13, Pt. 3, § 302 110.41
Ch. 13, Pt. 3, § 303 110.42
Ch. 13, Pt. 3, § 304 110.43
Ch. 13, Pt. 3, § 305 110.44
Ch. 13, Pt. 3, § 306 110.99
Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 101 70.01
Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 102 70.02
Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 103 70.03
Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 104 70.04,
                      70.99
Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 105 70.05,
                      70.99
Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 106 70.06,
                      70.99
Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 107 70.07,
                      70.99
Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 108 70.08
Ch. 15, Pt. 1, § 109 70.09
Ch. 15, Pt. 2, § 201 Ch. 73, Schd. I
Ch. 15, Pt. 2, § 202 Ch. 73, Schd. I
Ch. 15, Pt. 2, § 203 Ch. 73, Schd. II
Ch. 15, Pt. 2, § 204 Ch. 73, Schd. III
Ch. 15, Pt. 2, § 205 Ch. 73, Schd. IV
Ch. 15, Pt. 2, § 206 Ch. 73, Schd. V
Ch. 15, Pt. 2, § 207 Ch. 73, Schd. VI
Ch. 15, Pt. 2, § 208 70.20,
                      70.99
Ch. 15, Pt. 3, § 302 70.21,
                      70.99
Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 401 71.01
Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 402 Ch. 74, Schd. I
Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 403 71.02
Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 404 Ch. 74, Schd. II
Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 405 Ch. 74, Schd. III
Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 406 71.03
Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 407 71.04
Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 408 71.05
Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 409 71.99
Ch. 15, Pt. 4, § 410 71.06
Ch. 15, Pt. 5, § 501 Ch. 74, Schd. IV
Ch. 15, Pt. 5, § 502 71.20
Ch. 15, Pt. 5, § 503 71.21
Ch. 15, Pt. 5, § 504 71.22
Ch. 15, Pt. 5, § 505 71.23
Ch. 15, Pt. 5, § 507 71.24
Ch. 15, Pt. 5, § 508 71.99
Ch. 15, Pt. 5, § 509 71.25
Ch. 15, Pt. 6, § 601 71.40
Ch. 15, Pt. 6, § 602 71.41
Ch. 15, Pt. 6, § 603 71.42
Ch. 15, Pt. 6, § 604 71.43
Ch. 15, Pt. 6, § 605 71.44
Ch. 15, Pt. 6, § 606 71.45
Ch. 15, Pt. 6, § 607 71.46
Ch. 15, Pt. 6, § 608 71.99
Ch. 15, Pt. 6, § 609 71.47
Ch. 15, Pt. 7, § 701 70.35
Ch. 15, Pt. 7, § 702 70.36
Ch. 15, Pt. 7, § 703 70.37
Ch. 15, Pt. 7, § 704 70.38
Ch. 15, Pt. 7, § 705 70.99
Ch. 15, Pt. 8, § 801 72.01,
                      72.99
Ch. 15, Pt. 8, § 802 72.02,
                      72.99
Ch. 15, Pt. 8, § 803 72.03,
                      72.99
Ch. 16, Pt. 1, § 101 94.01
Ch. 16, Pt. 1, § 102 94.99
Ch. 18, Pt. 1, § 101 52.01
Ch. 18, Pt. 1, § 102 52.02
Ch. 18, Pt. 1, § 103 52.03
Ch. 18, Pt. 1, § 104 52.04
Ch. 18, Pt. 1, § 105 52.05
Ch. 18, Pt. 1, § 106 52.06
Ch. 18, Pt. 1, § 107 52.07
Ch. 18, Pt. 1, § 108 52.99
Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 101 50.01
Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 102 50.02
Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 103 50.03
Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 104 50.04
Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 105 50.05
Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 106 50.06
Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 107 50.07
Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 108 50.08
Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 109 50.09
Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 110 50.10
Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 111 50.11
Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 112 50.99
Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 113 50.12
Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 114 50.13
Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 115 50.14
Ch. 20, Pt. 1, § 116 50.15
Ch. 21, Pt. 1, § 101 151.01
Ch. 21, Pt. 1, § 102 151.02
Ch. 21, Pt. 1, § 103 151.03
Ch. 21, Pt. 1, § 104 151.04
Ch. 21, Pt. 1, § 105 151.05
Ch. 21, Pt. 1, § 106 151.06
Ch. 21, Pt. 1, § 107 151.99
Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 201 95.001
Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 202 95.002
Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 203 95.003
Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 204 95.004
Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 205 95.005
Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 206 95.006
Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 207 95.007
Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 208 95.008
Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 209 95.009
Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 210 95.999
Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 211 95.020
Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 212 95.021
Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 213 95.999
Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 221 95.035
Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 222 95.036
Ch. 21, Pt. 2, § 223 95.999
Ch. 21, Pt. 3, § 301 95.050
Ch. 21, Pt. 3, § 302 95.051
Ch. 21, Pt. 3, § 303 95.999
Ch. 21, Pt. 4, § 401 95.065
Ch. 21, Pt. 4, § 402 95.066
Ch. 21, Pt. 4, § 403 95.999
Ch. 21, Pt. 5, § 501 95.080
Ch. 21, Pt. 5, § 502 95.081
Ch. 21, Pt. 5, § 503 95.999
Ch. 22, Pt. 1, § 101 153.001
Ch. 22, Pt. 1, § 102 153.002
Ch. 22, Pt. 1, § 103 153.003
Ch. 22, Pt. 1, § 104 153.004
Ch. 22, Pt. 1, § 105 153.005
Ch. 22, Pt. 1, § 106 153.006
Ch. 22, Pt. 1, § 107 153.007
Ch. 22, Pt. 1, § 108 153.999
Ch. 22, Pt. 2, § 201 153.008
Ch. 22, Pt. 2, § 202 153.008
Ch. 22, Pt. 3, § 301 153.020
Ch. 22, Pt. 3, § 302 153.021
Ch. 22, Pt. 3, § 303 153.022
Ch. 22, Pt. 3, § 304 153.023
Ch. 22, Pt. 4, § 401 153.035
Ch. 22, Pt. 4, § 402 153.036
Ch. 22, Pt. 4, § 403 153.037
Ch. 22, Pt. 4, § 404 153.038
Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 501 153.050
Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 502 153.051
Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 503 153.052
Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 504 153.053
Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 505 153.054
Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 506 153.055
Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 507 153.056
Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 508 153.057
Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 509 153.058
Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 510 153.059
Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 511 153.060
Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 512 153.061
Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 513 153.062
Ch. 22, Pt. 5, § 514 153.063
Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 601 153.075
Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 602 153.076
Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 603 153.077
Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 604 153.078
Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 605 153.079
Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 606 153.080
Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 607 153.081
Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 608 153.082
Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 609 153.083
Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 610 153.084
Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 611 153.085
Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 612 153.086
Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 613 153.087
Ch. 22, Pt. 6, § 614 153.088
Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 201 33.020
Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 202 33.021
Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 203 33.022
Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 204 33.023
Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 205 33.024
Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 206 33.025
Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 207 33.026
Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 208 33.027
Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 209 33.028
Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 210 33.029
Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 211 33.030
Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 212 33.031
Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 213 33.032
Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 214 33.033
Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 215 33.034
Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 216 33.035
Ch. 24, Pt. 2, § 217 33.036
Ch. 24, Pt. 4, § 401 33.050
Ch. 24, Pt. 4, § 402 33.051
Ch. 24, Pt. 4, § 403 33.052
Ch. 25, Pt. 1, § 101 92.035
Ch. 25, Pt. 1, § 102 92.036
Ch. 25, Pt. 1, § 103 92.037
Ch. 25, Pt. 1, § 104 92.038
Ch. 25, Pt. 1, § 105 92.039
Ch. 25, Pt. 1, § 106 92.040
Ch. 25, Pt. 1, § 107 92.999
Ch. 25, Pt. 1, § 108 92.041
Ch. 26, Pt. 1, § 101 51.01
Ch. 26, Pt. 1, § 102 51.02
Ch. 26, Pt. 1, § 103 51.03
Ch. 26, Pt. 1, § 104 51.04
Ch. 26, Pt. 1, § 105 51.99
Ch. 27, Pt. 22        TSO Table IV
                      
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        9-14-1959   30.017 –
                     30.019
10-88    12-22-1988  31.05,
                     31.06
2-01     4-2-2001    TSO Table II
3-01     5-7-2001    TSO Table III
04-01    5-22-2001   30.073
06-01    9-19-2001   30.073
01-2003  2-3-2003    30.074
06-2003  10-6-2003   30.020
01-2004  4-5-2004    TSO Table I
05-2004  6-7-2004    31.43
01-2005  2-7-2005    TSO Table I
04-2005  8-1-2005    TSO Table I
05-2005  9-6-2005    TSO Table III
07-2005  12-22-2005  TSO Table I
02-2006  9-5-2006    30.072
03-2007  6-4-2007    TSO Table I
03-2008  10-6-2008   TSO Table II
06-2008  12-18-2008  TSO Table I
01-2009  1-5-2009    TSO Table I
07-2009  9-1-2009    30.022
01-2010  1-4-2010    30.021
02-2011  3-7-2011    31.07
01-2012  3-5-2012    30.071
04-2012  5-7-2012    TSO Table I
05-2012  5-7-2012    TSO Table I
09-2012  7-2-2012    110.01
05-2015  5-4-2015    30.003
04-2015  7-6-2015    150.02
01-2016  3-7-2016    114.01 –
                     114.08
01-2017  1-3-2017    30.075
02-2017  12-4-2017   30.070
2019-02  3-4-2019    110.01
2020-02  3-2-2020    TSO Table II
2021-01  7-6-2021    110.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
-         4-2-1951    30.015,
                      30.016
                      92.001 –
-         8-6-1962    92.006,
                      92.999
                      95.020,
-         10-5-1964A  95.021,
                      95.999
-         6-6-1966    32.030 –
                      32.035
-         10-4-1971A  32.050,
                      32.051
-         10-4-1971B  94.01,
                      94.99
316       6-4-1973    30.001
317       6-4-1973    30.002
318       6-4-1973    30.035
319       6-4-1973    31.40 –
                      31.42
                      90.01 –
320       6-4-1973    90.05,
                      90.99
                      132.01 –
322       6-4-1973    132.03,
                      132.99
323       6-4-1973    132.50,
                      132.99
                      95.050,
                      95.051,
324       6-4-1973    95.999,
                      132.15 –
                      132.21,
                      132.99
                      111.01 –
326       6-4-1973    111.08,
                      111.99
329       6-4-1973    95.036,
                      95.999
-         2-3-1975    30.016
2-7-1983  2-7-1983    TSO Table IV
2-6-1984C 2-6-1984    TSO Table IV
2-85      7-1-1985    110.55,
                      110.99
                      130.01 –
2-86      7-7-1986    130.08,
                      130.99
                      131.01 –
3-86      9-8-1986    131.04,
                      131.99
                      50.01 –
2-87      6-1-1987    50.15,
                      50.99,
                      151.01 –
3-87      8-3-1987    151.04,
                      151.06,
                      151.99
3-88      9-6-1988    33.020 –
                      33.036
1-89      2-16-1989   31.41
                      90.20 –
7-89      11-6-1989   90.22,
                      90.99
                      92.035 –
2-90      6-4-1990    92.041,
                      92.999
1-91      5-13-1991   30.018
                      110.15 –
3-91      12-2-1991   110.27,
                      110.99
5-91      12-19-1991  30.001
                      51.01 –
3-92      3-2-1992    51.04,
                      51.99
1-93      5-3-1993    TSO Table IV
                      92.055 –
                      92.058,
2-94      9-11-1994   92.060 –
                      92.070,
                      92.999
                      95.001 –
5-95      9-5-1995    95.009,
                      95.999
1-96      8-5-1996    33.050 –
                      33.052
                      110.40 –
3-97      11-3-1997   110.44,
                      110.99
                      132.35 –
2-98      6-1-1998    132.38,
                      132.99
2-99      5-3-1999    51.02
                      30.050 –
                      30.056,
                      31.01 –
                      31.04,
                      31.20 –
                      31.28,
                      31.99,
                      32.001 –
                      32.017,
                      32.065 –
                      32.070,
                      33.022,
                      50.01,
                      50.02,
                      50.04,
                      50.05,
                      50.10,
                      50.11,
                      50.99,
                      51.99,
                      52.01 –
                      52.07,
                      52.99,
                      70.01 –
                      70.09,
                      70.20,
                      70.21,
                      70.35,
                      70.37,
                      70.99,
                      71.02 –
                      71.06,
                      71.20 –
                      71.25,
                      71.40 –
                      71.47,
                      71.99,
                      72.01 –
                      72.03,
                      72.99,
                      Ch. 73, Schd. I,
                      Ch. 73, Schd. II,
                      Ch. 73, Schd. III,
                      Ch. 73, Schd. IV,
                      Ch. 73, Schd. V,
                      Ch. 73, Schd. VI,
                      Ch. 74, Schd. I,
                      Ch. 74, Schd. III,
                      90.01,
                      90.02,
                      90.04,
2-2001    7-2-2001    90.35 –
                      90.37,
                      90.99,
                      91.01,
                      91.03,
                      91.04,
                      91.99,
                      92.004 –
                      92.006,
                      92.057,
                      92.061,
                      92.067,
                      92.999,
                      93.01 –
                      93.06,
                      93.99,
                      94.01,
                      94.99,
                      95.003,
                      95.021,
                      95.065,
                      95.066,
                      95.080,
                      95.081,
                      95.999,
                      110.99,
                      111.01 –
                      111.08,
                      111.99,
                      130.99,
                      131.99,
                      132.01 –
                      132.03,
                      132.15 –
                      132.21,
                      132.50,
                      132.99,
                      150.20 –
                      150.27,
                      150.99,
                      151.03,
                      151.99,
                      153.001 –
                      153.008,
                      153.020 –
                      153.023,
                      153.035 –
                      153.038,
                      153.050 –
                      153.063,
                      153.075 –
                      153.088,
                      153.999
04-01     8-6-2001    33.050 –
                      33.054
                      33.090 –
01-03     10-6-2003   33.097,
                      33.999
02-03     11-3-2003   TSO Table I
                      150.01 –
01-2004   6-7-2004    150.05,
                      150.99
02-2004   6-7-2004    TSO Table II
03-2004   9-7-2004    TSO Table II
                      150.40 –
04-2004   12-6-2004   150.61,
                      150.99
2005-01   3-7-2005    TSO Table II
                      113.01 –
2005-02   10-3-2005   113.06,
                      113.99
2006-1    4-3-2006    TSO Table IV
                      70.35 –
                      70.38,
                      70.50 –
                      70.52,
                      70.99,
                      71.01,
                      Ch. 73, Schd. VI,
2006-01   4-3-2006    Ch. 74, Schd. I,
                      Ch. 74, Schd. III,
                      90.01,
                      90.06,
                      92.061,
                      92.063,
                      95.001,
                      95.035
2006-02   6-5-2006    TSO Table II
2006-03   12-4-2006   Ch. 74, Schd. I
2007-02   5-7-2007    Ch. 74, Schd. III
                      33.065 –
2007-03   12-3-2007   33.076,
                      33.999
                      90.50 –
2008-01   2-4-2008    90.53,
                      90.99
2008-02   5-5-2008    33.037 –
                      33.039
2008-04   7-7-2008    111.03,
                      111.09
2008-05   8-4-2008    TSO Table II
                      91.15 –
2008-06   9-2-2008    91.17,
                      91.99
2009-01   1-5-2009    32.036
2009-02   7-6-2009    Ch. 74, Schd. III
2009-3    9-1-2009    91.18
2010-02   2-1-2010    Ch. 73, Schd. VI
2010-3    3-1-2010    TSO Table IV
                      154.001 –
                      154.006,
                      154.020 –
                      154.031,
                      154.045 –
2010-03   3-1-2010    154.047,
                      154.060 –
                      154.078,
                      154.090 –
                      154.107,
                      154.999
2010-04   9-7-2010    Ch. 73, Schd. III,
                      Ch. 73, Schd. VI
2010-06   12-27-2010  Ch. 74, Schd. III
                      154.004,
                      154.005,
2011-01   3-7-2011    154.021,
                      154.107,
                      TSO Table IV
2011-02   7-5-2011    Ch. 74, Schd. III
2011-04   12-5-2011   33.001 –
                      33.006
                      152.001 –
                      152.006,
                      152.020 –
                      152.033,
                      152.045 –
                      152.047,
2012-02   4-2-2012    152.060 –
                      152.067,
                      152.080 –
                      152.083,
                      152.095,
                      152.110,
                      152.111,
                      152.999
2012-3    5-7-2012    92.059
                      70.38,
2012-04   7-2-2012    71.05,
                      Ch. 74, Schd. III
2012-05   9-4-2012    Ch. 74, Schd. II,
                      Ch. 74, Schd. IV
2013-01   7-1-2013    71.99,
                      Ch. 74, Schd. III
                      150.40,
                      150.46,
2014-01   10-6-2014   150.48,
                      150.51,
                      150.58
2015-01   3-2-2015    131.05
                      32.007,
2015-02   3-2-2015    32.009,
                      32.011,
                      32.012
2015-03   3-2-2015    Ch. 74, Schd. III
2015-04   6-1-2015    32.036
                      94.15 –
2015-04   12-7-2015   94.19,
                      94.99
2015-05   12-7-2015   TSO Table II
2015-07   1-4-2016    TSO Table II
2016-01   8-1-2016    Ch. 74, Schd. III
2017-01   1-3-2017    154.005
2017-02   2-6-2017    93.06
2017-03   8-7-2017    91.02
2017-04   9-5-2017    32.036
2017-05   9-5-2017    32.036
2017-07   12-28-2017  32.036
2018-01   3-5-2018    Ch. 74, Schd. II,
                      Ch. 74, Schd. III
                      112.01 –
2018-02   5-7-2018    112.08,
                      112.99
03-2018   10-1-2018   TSO Table I
2018-04   12-27-2018  32.036
2019-01   3-4-2019    112.05
2019-03   4-16-2019   32.018
2019-04   7-1-2019    Ch. 74, Schd. II
                      92.020 –
2019-05   7-16-2019   92.022,
                      92.999
2019-06   11-4-2019   32.012
2019-08   12-19-2019  32.036
2020-02   - -2020     TSO Table II
2020-03   12-7-2020   Ch. 74, Schd. III
                      112.20 –
                      112.25,
2020-04   12-22-2020  154.004,
                      154.022,
                      154.023
2020-06   12-22-2020  32.036
2020-08   6-1-2020    TSO Table II
2021-01   7-6-2021    111.01,
                      111.10
2021-02   9-7-2021    TSO Table II
2021-03   10-19-2021  Ch. 74, Schd. III
2022-01   1-3-2022    32.036
2022-02   1-18-2022   Ch. 73, Schd. III
                      52.20 –
2022-03   3-7-2022    52.31,
                      52.99
2022-04   10-3-2022   Ch. 74, Schd. II
2022-05   12-5-2022   Adopting Ordinance
2023-01   1-3-2023    33.100
2023-02   - -2023     Ch. 74, Schd. II,
                      Ch. 74, Schd. III
2023-03   - -2023     112.23
2023-05   12-4-2023   Ch. 74, Schd. III
                      94.15 –
2024-01   2-5-2024    94.19,
                      94.99
                      96.01 -
2024-02   12-2-2024   96.03,
                      96.99
2024-04   12-17-2024  53.01 -
                      53.09
2024-05   12-17-2024  Ch. 74, Schd. III
2025-09   - -2025     110.01
                     
 
 
