BEDMINSTER TOWNSHIP, PENNSYLVANIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through December 13, 2023
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 257
BEDMINSTER TOWNSHIP, PA
AN ORDINANCE OF BEDMINSTER TOWNSHIP, BUCKS COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA CODIFYING THE
ORDINANCES OF BEDMINSTER TOWNSHIP; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN
LEGISLATION NOT INCLUDED THEREIN; AND TO SAVE FROM REPEAL CERTAIN OTHER
LEGISLATION NOT INCLUDED THEREIN
   Preamble
   WHEREAS, the Bedminster Township Board of Supervisors has contracted with
American Legal Publications to codify the existing Bedminster Township
ordinances into an comprehensive document; and
   WHEREAS, the Bedminster Township Board of Supervisors finds the
implementation of an organized code of ordinances will serve to facilitate
compliance and review of Bedminster Township ordinances.
   NOW, THEREFORE, the Bedminster Township Board of Supervisors, hereby enacts
and ordains the following:
ARTICLE I: ADOPTION OF CODE OF ORDINANCES
§AO-1.   Adoption.
   In accordance with Pursuant to Section 1601(d) of the Second Class Township
Code [53 P.S. § 66601(d)], the “Code of Ordinances of Bedminster Township,” as
prepared and published for Bedminster Township is hereby adopted as a
consolidation, codification, and revision of the ordinances of the Township.
The chapters thereof contain the text of the body of all general administrative
and regulatory ordinances of the Township organized as follows:
TABLE OF CONTENTS
TITLE I - GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter 10 - General Provisions
Chapter 11 - Fees and Reimbursements
Chapter 12 - Parkland Rules and Regulations
TITLE III - ADMINISTRATION
Chapter 30 - Township Manager
Chapter 31 - Township Organizations
Chapter 32 - Police
Chapter 33 - Township Employees
Chapter 34 - Taxation and Finances
TITLE V - PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter 50 - Municipal Solid Waste
Chapter 51 - Public Sewers
Chapter 52 - Public Water
Chapter 53 - Streets and Rights-of-Way
Chapter 54 - Rights-of-Way Maintenance
TITLE VII - TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter 70 - General Provisions
Chapter 71 - Traffic Schedules
Chapter 72 - Parking Schedules
Chapter 73 - Storm Emergencies
TITLE IX - PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Chapter 90 - Public Playground Safety
Chapter 91 - Sewage Management
Chapter 92 - Alarm Systems
Chapter 93 - Fire Prevention
Chapter 94 - Wells
Chapter 95 - Building Regulations
Chapter 96 - Property Maintenance Code
Chapter 97 - Property Occupancy
Chapter 98 - Property Numbering and Addresses
TITLE XI - BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter 110 - Peddlers and Solicitors
Chapter 111 - Junkyards
Chapter 112 - Towing Regulations
TITLE XIII - GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter 130 - Offenses Against Public Morals, Peace, and Safety
Chapter 131 - Warrantless Arrests
Chapter 132 - Rental Housing
TITLE XV - LAND USAGE
Chapter 150 - Official Map
Chapter 151 - Stormwater Management
Chapter 152 - Subdivision and Land Development
Chapter 153 - Zoning
TABLES OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table I - Franchises
Table II - Agreements
Table III - Streets
Table IV - Zoning Map
§AO-2.   Citation.
   The codification referred to in §AO-1 of this Ordinance shall be known and
cited officially as the “Bedminster Township Code or Ordinances,” and all
future ordinances shall make reference thereto.
§AO-3.   Savings Clause.
   The provisions of the Bedminster Township Code of Ordinances, so far as they
are the same as those ordinances and regulations in force immediately prior to
the adoption of said Code, are intended as a continuation of such ordinances
and regulations and not as a new enactment. The provisions of the Bedminster
Township Code of Ordinances shall not affect any suit, land use appeal, or
prosecution pending or to be instituted to enforce any of the prior ordinances
or regulations.
§AO-4.   Changes in Previously Adopted Legislation; New Provisions.
   A.   In compiling this Code of Ordinances, no substantive changes in the
meaning or intent of such ordinances have been made, except certain grammatical
changes and other minor non-substantive changes were made in one or more of
said pieces of legislation. It is the intention of the Board of Supervisors
that all such changes be adopted as part of the Code as if the ordinances had
been previously formally amended to read as such.
   B.   Nomenclature. Throughout the Code, references to the following agencies
or officials are updated as indicated:
      (1)   “Department of Environmental Resources” or “DER” to “Department of
Environmental Protection” or “DEP.”
      (2)   “Department of Community Affairs” or “DCA” to “Department of
Community and Economic Development” or “DCED.”
      (3)   “Justice of the Peace,” “District Magistrate”, “Magisterial
District Justice”, and “District Justice” to “Magisterial District Judge.”
      (4)   “Soil Conservation Service” or “SCS” to “Natural Resources
Conservation Service” or “NRCS.”
      (5)   “Dog Warden” to “Animal Control Officer.”
      (6)   “Zoning Board of Adjustment” to “Zoning Hearing Board.”
   C.   Nomenclature. Throughout the Code, wherever state or federal statutes
arc referenced, the references shall read as follows:
      (1)   Pennsylvania Clean Streams Act, 35 P.S. § 691.1 et seq.
      (2)   Pennsylvania Dam Safety and Encroachments Act, 32 P.S. § 693.1 et
seq.
      (3)   Pennsylvania Farmland and Forest Land Assessment Act (Clean and
Green - Act 319), 72 P.S. § 5490.1 et seq.
      (4)   Pennsylvania Fiscal Code, P.S. Title 72.
      (5)   Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act, 32 P.S. § 679.101 et seq.
      (6)   Pennsylvania Hazardous Material and Emergency Planning and Response
Act, 35 P.S. § 6022.101 et seq.
      (7)   Pennsylvania Intergovernmental Cooperation Act, 53 Pa.C.S.A. § 2301
et seq.
      (8)   Pennsylvania Local Tax Collection Law, 72 P.S. § 5511.1 et seq.
      (9)   Pennsylvania Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6924.101 et seq.
      (10)   Pennsylvania Municipal Claim and Tax Lien Law, 53 P.S. § 7101 et
seq.
      (11)   Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement Law, 53 P.S. § 888.101 et seq.
      (12)   Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. § 10101 et seq.
      (13)   Pennsylvania Occupational Disease Act, 77 P.S. § 1201 et seq.
      (14)   Pennsylvania Open Space Lands Act (Act 442), 32 P.S. § 5001 et
seq.
      (15)   Pennsylvania Safe Drinking Water Act, 35 P.S. § 721.1 et seq.
      (16)   Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. § 65101 et seq.
      (17)   Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 537), 35 P.S. § 750.1 et
seq.
      (18)   Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management Act, 35 P.S. § 6018.101 et
seq.
      (19)   Pennsylvania State Human Relations Act, 43 P.S. § 951 et. seq.
      (20)   Pennsylvania Stormwater Management Act, 32 P.S. § 680.1 et seq.
      (21)   Pennsylvania Uniform Condominium Act, 68 Pa.C.S.A. § 3101 et. seq.
      (22)   Pennsylvania Uniform Planned Community Act, 68 Pa.C.S.A. § 5101 et
seq.
      (23)   Pennsylvania Workers Compensation Act, P.S. Title 77.
      (24)   U.S. Clean Water Act, 33 USC § 1251 et seq.
      (25)   U.S. Fair Housing Act, 42 USC § 3601 et seq.
      (26)   U.S. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 USC § 6901 et seq.
§AO-6.   Procedural Changes.
   A.   Grammatical and spelling errors have been corrected where necessary.
   B.   Minor changes have been made to correct obsolete terms and usages.
   C.   The penalty provisions have been revised where necessary to comply with
the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, Pennsylvania Vehicle Code,
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Pennsylvania Crimes Code, and
Pennsylvania Local Tax Enabling Act.
§AO-7.   Amending the Code of Ordinances.
   Amendments to the Code of Ordinances should include the citation of the
chapter, section, and subsection to be amended, revised, repealed, or added in
a fashion similar to the following:
   A.   Amendment or revision. “Chapter                  , Section
                 , Subsection                   is hereby amended to read as
follows...”
   B.   Additions. “Chapter                  , Section                   ,
Subsection                  is hereby amended by the addition of the
following...”
   C.   Repeal. “Chapter                   , Section                  ,
Subsection                  is hereby repealed in its entirety.”
§AO-8.   Responsibility for Code of Ordinances.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Township Secretary to maintain an up-
to-date certified copy of the Code of Ordinances. This copy shall be the
official copy of Bedminster Township and shall be available for public
inspection.
§AO-9.   Penalties.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to change, alter, or tamper with the Code of
Ordinances in any manner which will intentionally misrepresent the laws of the
Township. Anyone violates this Section, upon conviction before the Magisterial
District Judge or other court of competent jurisdiction, shall be sentenced to
pay a fine of not more than $600 per day during which such violation shall
continue, plus all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by the
Township in enforcing the violation. Each day a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense, and each provision violated shall constitute a
separate offense.
§AO-10.   Severability of the Code of Ordinances.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Supervisors that
the chapters, sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of the Code
of Ordinances are severable. If any chapter, section, paragraph, sentence,
clause, or phrase of this Code is for any reason found to be unconstitutional,
illegal, or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall not affect nor impair any
of the remaining chapters, sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases
of this Code. It is hereby declared as the intent of the Board of Supervisors
of Bedminster Township that this Code would have been adopted had such
unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid chapter, section, paragraph, sentence,
clause, or phrase not been included herein.
§AO-11.   Sale of Code Book; Supplementation.
   Copies of the Code of Ordinances, or any chapter or portion of it, may be
purchased from the Township Secretary, or an authorized agent or the Secretary,
upon the payment of a fee to be set by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
The Secretary may also arrange for procedures for the periodic supplementation
or the Code.
§AO-12.   Repealer.
   All ordinances, parts of ordinances, and amendments thereof are repealed
insofar as they are inconsistent with this Codification Ordinance.
§AO-13.   Severability.
   If any sentence, clause, section, or part of this Codification Ordinance is
for any reason found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity
shall not affect nor impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences,
clauses, sections, or parts of this Ordinance. It is hereby declared as the
intent of the Board of Supervisors of Bedminster Township that this Ordinance
would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence,
clause, section, or part thereof not been included herein.
§AO-14.   Effective Date.
   This Ordinance shall become effective five (5) days after final enactment.
   ENACTED AND ORDAINED by the Board of Supervisors of Bedminster Township this
14th day of June, 2023.
Attest                                  BEDMINSTER TOWNSHIP
/s/                      BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
Richard Schilling, Township Manager
                                 /s/
                                 Morgan Cowperthwaite Jr., Chairman
                                 /s/
                                 Mark W. Schmidt, Vice Chairman
                                 /s/
                                 Glenn A. Wismer, Member
TITLE I: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   FEES AND REIMBURSEMENTS
      
12.   PARKLAND RULES AND REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Adoption; citation
   
10.02   Saving clause
   
10.03   Changes in previously adopted legislation; new provisions
   
10.04   Procedural changes
   
10.05   Amending the code of ordinances
   
10.06   Responsibility for the code of ordinances
   
10.07   Severability of the code of ordinances
   
10.08   Sale of code book; supplementation
   
10.09   Repealer
   
10.10   Effective date
 
   
10.99   General code penalty
§ 10.01 ADOPTION; CITATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 1601(d) of the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code,
being 53 P.S. § 66601(d), the “Code of Ordinances of Bedminster Township, as
prepared and published for Bedminster Township is hereby adopted as a
consolidation, codification” and revision of the ordinances of the township.
   (B)   The codification referred to in division (A) above shall be known and
cited officially as the “Bedminster Township Code of Ordinances,” and all
future ordinances shall make reference thereto.
(Ord. passed - -2022)
§ 10.02 SAVING CLAUSE.
   The provisions of this code of ordinances, so far as they are the same as
those ordinances and regulations in force immediately prior to the adoption of
said code, are intended as a continuation of such ordinances and regulations,
and not as a new enactment. The provisions of this code of ordinances shall not
affect any suit, land use appeal or prosecution pending or to be instituted to
enforce any of the prior ordinances or regulations.
(Ord. passed - -2022)
§ 10.03 CHANGES IN PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED LEGISLATION; NEW PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In compiling this code of ordinances, no substantive changes in the
meaning or intent of such ordinances have been made, except certain grammatical
changes and other minor non-substantive changes were made in one or more of
said pieces of legislation. It is the intention of the Board of Supervisors
that all such changes be adopted as part of this code as if the ordinances had
been previously formally amended to read as such.
   (B)   Throughout this code, references to the following agencies or
officials are updated as indicated:
      (1)   “Department of Environmental Resources” or “DER” to “Department of
Environmental Protection” or “DEP;”
      (2)   “Department of Community Affairs” or “DCA” to “Department of
Community and Economic Development” or “DCED;”
      (3)   “Justice of the Peace,” “District Magistrate,” “Magisterial
District Justice,” and “District Justice” to “Magisterial District Judge;”
      (4)   “Soil Conservation Service” or “SCS” to “Natural Resources
Conservation Service” or “NRCS;”
      (5)   “Dog Warden” to “Animal Control Officer;” and
      (6)   “Zoning Board of Adjustment” to “Zoning Hearing Board.”
   (C)   Throughout this code of ordinances, wherever state or federal statutes
are referenced, the references shall read as follows:
      (1)   Pennsylvania Clean Streams Act, 35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq.;
      (2)   Pennsylvania Dam Safety and Encroachments Act, 32 P.S. §§ 693.1 et
seq.;
      (3)   Pennsylvania Farmland and Forest Land Assessment Act (Clean and
Green, Act 319), 72 P.S. §§ 5490.1 et seq.;
      (4)   Pennsylvania Fiscal Code, 72 P.S.;
      (5)   Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act, 32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq.;
      (6)   Pennsylvania Hazardous Material and Emergency Planning and Response
Act, 35 P.S. §§ 6022.101 et seq.;
      (7)   Pennsylvania Intergovernmental Cooperation Act, 53 Pa.C.S.A. §§
2301 et seq.;
      (8)   Pennsylvania Local Tax Collection Law, 72 P.S. §§ 5511.1 et seq.;
      (9)   Pennsylvania Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq.;
      (10)   Pennsylvania Municipal Claim and Tax Lien Law, 53 P.S. §§ 7101 et
seq.;
      (11)   Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement Law, 53 P.S. §§ 888.101 et seq.;
      (12)   Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et
seq.;
      (13)   Pennsylvania Occupational Disease Act, 77 P.S. §§ 1201 et seq.;
      (14)   Pennsylvania Open Space Lands Act (Act 442), 32 P.S. §§ 5001 et
seq.;
      (15)   Pennsylvania Safe Drinking Water Act, 35 P.S. §§ 721.1 et seq.;
      (16)   Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq.;
      (17)   Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 537), 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et
seq.;
      (18)   Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management Act, 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et
seq.;
      (19)   Pennsylvania State Human Relations Act, 43 P.S. §§ 951 et. seq.;
      (20)   Pennsylvania Stormwater Management Act, 32 P.S. §§ 680.1 et seq.;
      (21)   Pennsylvania Uniform Condominium Act, 68 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 3101 et
seq.;
      (22)   Pennsylvania Uniform Planned Community Act, 68 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 5101
et seq.;
      (23)   Pennsylvania Workers Compensation Act, 77 P.S.;
      (24)   United States Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.;
      (25)   United States Fair Housing Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq.; and
      (26)   United States Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §§
6901 et seq.
(Ord. passed - -2022)
§ 10.04 PROCEDURAL CHANGES.
   (A)   Grammatical and spelling errors have been corrected where necessary.
   (B)   Minor changes have been made to correct obsolete terms and usages.
   (C)   The penalty provisions have been revised where necessary to comply
with the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, the Pennsylvania Vehicle
Code, the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, the Pennsylvania Crimes
Code, and the Pennsylvania Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Ord. passed - -2022)
§ 10.05 AMENDING THE CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Amendments to this code of ordinances should include the citation of the
chapter, section and division to be amended, revised, repealed or added in a
fashion similar to the following:
   (A)   Amendment or revision: “Chapter_____, section_____ or division _____
is hereby amended to read as follows...;”
   (B)   Additions: “Chapter _____, section _____ or division _____ is hereby
amended by the addition of the following...;” and
   (C)   Repeal: “Chapter _____, section _____ or division _____ is hereby
repealed in its entirety.”
(Ord. passed - -2022)
§ 10.06 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Township Secretary to maintain an up-
to-date, certified copy of this code of ordinances. This copy shall be the
official copy of the township and shall be available for public inspection.
(Ord. passed - -2022)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Supervisors
that the chapters, sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this
code of ordinances are severable. If any chapter, section, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase of this code is for any reason found to be unconstitutional,
illegal or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity shall not affect nor impair any
of the remaining chapters, sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases
of this code of ordinances. It is hereby declared as the intent of the Board of
Supervisors of the township that this code of ordinances would have been
adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid chapter, section,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase not been included herein.
   (B)   If any sentence, clause, section or part of the codification ordinance
contained within this chapter is for any reason found to be unconstitutional,
illegal or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity shall not affect nor impair any
of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or parts of this
chapter. It is hereby declared as the intent of the Board of Supervisors of the
township that this chapter would have been adopted had such unconstitutional,
illegal or invalid sentence, clause, section or part thereof not been included
herein.
(Ord. passed - -2022)
§ 10.08 SALE OF CODE BOOK; SUPPLEMENTATION.
   Copies of this code of ordinances, or any chapter or portion of it, may be
purchased from the Township Secretary, or an authorized agent of the Township
Secretary, upon the payment of a fee to be set by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors. The Township Secretary may also arrange for procedures for the
periodic supplementation of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -2022)
§ 10.09 REPEALER.
   All ordinances, parts of ordinances and amendments thereof are repealed
insofar as they are inconsistent with the codification ordinance contained
within this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2022)
§ 10.10 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective five days after final enactment.
(Ord. passed - -2022)
§ 10.99 GENERAL CODE PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to change, alter or tamper with this
code of ordinances in any manner which will intentionally misrepresent the laws
of the township. Anyone violates this division (A), upon conviction before the
Magisterial District Judge or other court of competent jurisdiction, shall be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $600 per day during which such
violation shall continue, plus all court costs and reasonable attorney fees
incurred by the township in enforcing the violation. Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense, and each provision violated
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   All provisions of this township code which fail to specifically
provide for procedures and/or fines concerning the prosecution of violations
thereof shall be enforced in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Any violation of a provision of this township code shall
hereinafter be enforced by the township, in accordance with the procedures set
forth in the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq.,
by either filing a civil enforcement proceeding or a non-traffic citation
against the violator(s) with a Magisterial District Judge with jurisdiction, or
other court of competent jurisdiction, at the township’s discretion. Notice of
such enforcement proceeding shall be made in accordance with the applicable
Pennsylvania Rules of Civil Procedure. If a defendant neither pays nor timely
appeals any resulting judgment, the township may enforce the judgment pursuant
to the applicable Rule of Civil Procedure.
      (2)   Persons violating any provision of this code of ordinances, upon
conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine in accordance with the following.
         (a)   For all provisions governing violations concerning building;
housing; property maintenance; health; fire; public safety; parking;
solicitation; curfew; and water, air and noise pollution, each such violation
shall carry a fine not exceeding $1,000 per day during which such violation
shall continue, plus all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by
the township in enforcing the violation. Each day a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense, and each provision violated shall constitute a
separate offense
         (b)   For all other provisions, each such violation shall carry a fine
not exceeding $600 per day during which such violation shall continue, plus all
court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by the township in enforcing
the violation. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense, and each provision violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passes - -2022)
Statutory reference:
   Ordinances; penalty, see 53 P.S. § 66601
CHAPTER 11: FEES AND REIMBURSEMENTS
Section
   
11.01   Emergency service cost reimbursement
   
11.02   Attorney fees to be charged to delinquent property owners for legal
services
   
11.03   Authorizing the collection and reimbursement of the cost of industrial
accidents
§ 11.01 EMERGENCY SERVICE COST REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known as the “Township Emergency Service
Cost Reimbursement Ordinance.”
   (B)   Authority, findings and purpose.
      (1)   Authority. Under § 1803(b) of the Second Class Township Code, 53
P.S. § 66803(b), the township has the authority to make rules and regulation
for the government of fire companies located within the township.
      (2)   Findings. The township recognizes that the duties of volunteer fire
companies require specialized emergency rescue tools and equipment, emergency
rescue materials, hazardous material abatement equipment and hazardous
abatement materials during emergency responses. The township recognizes that
such tools and equipment place a financial burden on volunteer fire companies,
and the replacement of such materials and specialized training add to the
additional financial burden for volunteer fire companies.
      (3)   Purpose. To grant any fire company operating in the township (“Fire
Departments”) the authority to seek reimbursement for the reasonable cost of
responding to such incidents, either directly or in coordination with the
Office of Emergency Management, as provided below.
   (C)   Recovery of costs.
      (1)   The township authorizes the Fire Departments to recover the
reasonable cost of emergency rescue tools, equipment and materials; hazardous
material abatement tools, equipment and materials; and personnel hours
involving any hazardous material, environmental, fire safety and/or rescue
incident or operation, including vehicular accidents.
      (2)   The reasonable costs outlined above may be recovered directly by
the Fire Departments or through a third party billing service as an authorized
agent for the collection of such costs.
      (3)   The Fire Departments or third party billing service shall only have
the authority to recovery the aforementioned costs from the applicable
insurance company/carrier.
      (4)   The reimbursement rates for the aforementioned tools, equipment and
materials shall be set by the Fire Departments from time to time and shall be
only applied to the recovery of costs arising out of incidents that occurred
subsequent to the setting of the rates. These rates shall be approved by the
township and be kept on file in the Township Building.
      (5)   In addition to the aforementioned reasonable costs, the Fire
Departments or third party billing service shall be authorized to collect
reasonable interest, as well as a reasonable administrative fee for collecting
the same, and any and all additional fees as may be authorized by the Hazardous
Material and Emergency Planning and Response Act or authorized by any other
statute or law.
   (D)   Responsibility of the township. The township shall not be responsible
for any aspect of the recovery of costs under this section. The township shall
not take any steps to assist the Fire Departments or any third party billing
service in recovery of costs under this section.
   (E)   Revocation of grant of authority. Any attempt by a Fire Department or
third party billing service to recover costs from any individual/entity other
than the appropriate insurance company/carrier shall result in the immediate
revocation of the authority to recover such costs granted under this section.
(Ord. 184, passed 6-13-2007)
§ 11.02 ATTORNEY FEES TO BE CHARGED TO DELINQUENT PROPERTY OWNERS FOR LEGAL
SERVICES.
   (A)   Any property owner in the township who has not paid promptly any
municipal charge owing to the township for which the property becomes charged
or assessed, pursuant to the Municipal Claims Act, 53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq.,
shall also include an amount sufficient to compensate the township for its
reasonable attorney fees incurred in the collection of such delinquent charges
at the same hourly rate being paid by the township to its Municipal Solicitor.
   (B)   The actual fees paid by the property owner shall reflect the actual
time and labor required, the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved
and the skill requisite to properly undertake collection and representation of
the township, the customary charges of the members of the Bar for similar
services, the amount of the delinquent accounts collected and the benefit to
the township for the services provided.
(Ord. 134, passed 6-14-2000)
§ 11.03 AUTHORIZING THE COLLECTION AND REIMBURSEMENT OF THE COST OF INDUSTRIAL
ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS. Any person or persons, corporation, partnership or other entity
engaged in the buying, selling, storing, transferring, transporting and/or
manufacturing of properties, merchandise, chemicals or other fuels, goods and
who do so for any form of compensation.
      INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENT. Any incident that occurs from the storage,
transportation, use and/or manufacturing of any substance potentially dangerous
to the public health and welfare at large that necessitates:
         (a)   The intervention of the Township Police Department or any of the
emergency agencies, including fire, ambulance or rescue squads which may
service the township including, but not limited to, the Ottsville Fire Company,
the Dublin Fire Company, the Plumsteadville Fire Company and any rescue squad
operating in the township or the township emergency management organization; or
         (b)   The need for clean-up and/or abatement measures to be performed
by township employees, or other matters resulting in expense to the township.
      PUBLIC THOROUGHFARE. Bridges, state highways, township streets, any
navigable waterways or other roadways or watercourses owned by a township
governmental unit, or other privately owned street, parking lot or accessway to
which the public has access.
   (B)   Cost of industrial accidents.
      (1)   The business on whose premises an industrial accident occurs shall
bear all costs that occur as a direct or consequential result of such
industrial accident. In the event an industrial accident occurs during
transportation on a public thoroughfare, or in delivery to an entity other than
a business as defined in division (A) above, the entity or which who owns or
had custody and/or control of the vehicle and/or substance involved in the
industrial accident shall bear all costs that occur as a direct or
consequential result of such accident. Nothing contained herein shall prevent
such business or entity from recovering any incurred or subsequent costs from a
third party whose negligence may have caused such industrial accident.
      (2)   In the event that any person undertakes, either voluntarily or upon
order of the Environmental Officer or other township official to clean-up or
abate the effects of an industrial accident, the Environmental Officer may take
such action as is necessary to supervise or verify the adequacy of the clean-up
or abatement. The business or entity described in division (B)(1) above shall
be liable to the township for all costs incurred as a result of such
supervision or verification.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, costs of an industrial accident
shall include, but is not limited to, the following: expenses incurred by
police, fire and/or emergency medical services; actual labor costs of township
personnel, including benefits and administrative overhead; costs of consultants
or others preparing reports concerning the industrial accident; costs of
equipment operations; costs of materials obtained directly by the township;
cost of any contractual labor and materials for clean-up and/or abatement;
costs of the Township Solicitor and/or Township Engineer connected with the
industrial accident.
      (4)   The costs of such industrial accident as set forth in division (B)
(3) above shall be determined by the township representative designated by the
Board of Supervisors.
      (5)   Such costs when determined shall be paid to the township within 30
days from the date on which the township issues an invoice for such charges.
(Ord. 100, passed 5-9-1990)
CHAPTER 12: PARKLAND RULES AND REGULATIONS
Section
   
12.01   Definitions
   
12.02   Park use application and permit
   
12.03   Hours
   
12.04   Destroying, vandalizing, defacing and altering property
   
12.05   Vehicle operation, parking
   
12.06   Solicitation
   
12.07   Fees and charges
   
12.08   Personal conduct
   
12.09   Prohibited activity
   
12.10   Drugs and alcohol
   
12.11   Fires, smoking
   
12.12   Littering and trash disposal
   
12.13   Pets
   
12.14   Hindering employees
   
12.15   Bicycles, rollerblades, skateboards and the like
   
12.16   Playgrounds
   
12.17   Township authority
   
12.18   Enforcement
 
   
12.99   Penalty
§ 12.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FACILITY. All areas and amenities within the park system boundaries which
are available for public use.
   PARK SYSTEM. Any and all land or facilities owned or leased by the township
and designated or used for park or recreation purposes.
   PARK USE PERMIT. The original written authorization issued by the township
granting permission for the use of a requested facility.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association,
unincorporated association, organization, individual or collective
representative(s) of any group(s).
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020)
§ 12.02 PARK USE APPLICATION AND PERMIT.
   (A)   All persons must comply with all rules and regulations established by
the township, whether or not a permit is required or obtained.
   (B)   All applications for park use permits shall be made upon the official
forms designated by the township, and shall be accompanied by the required
fees, when applicable. No other form shall be accepted. Applications are
available at the township office during normal business hours.
   (C)    Proof of insurance listing the township as an additional insured
should be submitted along with the park use application, and must be submitted
prior to issuance of a park use permit by the township. All groups and/or
organizations applying for a park use permit are required to carry a minimum
aggregate of $2,000,000 and $1,000,000 liability coverage for each occurrence.
   (D)   Any gathering or group of 15 or more persons shall be required to
obtain a park use permit.
   (E)   Park use permits issued must be available for inspection by a the
township employee or representative at all times during park occupancy.
   (F)   The township will make park use permits available without
discrimination to race, creed or gender. Permits will be issued as equitably as
possible, so that all age and interest groups are afforded available playing
time. It is the policy of the township to make its fields first available to
groups and organizations representing township residents, or with the greatest
percentage of township residents, and in consideration of the varied uses, age
groups and blending of uses.
   (G)   Except by special circumstance, facilities will not be reserved for
teams or organizations based outside of the township and which are primarily
comprised of non-township residents. The township reserves the right to accept
applications only from persons in good standing.
   (H)   All persons applying for a park use permit on behalf of a club, team
or organization must submit a roster with each club, team or organization
member’s full name, address, telephone number and age, along with the proposed
schedule of meeting, gatherings, games, tournaments and/or practice times with
their application.
   (I)   All persons applying for a park use permit on behalf of a club, team
or organization must submit a signed verification (on a form provided by the
township) stating that the club, team or organization is in full compliance
with the State’s Child Protective Services Law and that all of the club, team
or organization’s employees, volunteers, board members, directors, agents and
contractors have obtained and will maintain all the clearances necessary to
supervise and interact with children in compliance with state law, including,
but not limited to, the State Child Abuse History Clearance, the State Police
Criminal Record Check and the Federal Bureau of Investigation Criminal
Background Check.
   (J)   A person applying for a park use permit must be at least 18 years of
age.
   (K)   Persons to whom park use permits are issued will be held responsible
for the actions and
conduct of all those associated with the permit holder and with the authorized
facility use.
   (L)   Persons in receipt of a park use permit may not prevent other park
system users from making use of available facilities.
   (M)   Playing fields are to be used only for their intended purpose and a
permit holder may not transfer, set-over or permit any other individual and or
users to make use of the rights and privileges afforded to the permit holder as
a result of the issuance of the park use permit by the township.
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
12.99
§ 12.03 HOURS.
   The public can utilize the park system during the hours of sunrise to
sunset, except as otherwise posted by the township. It shall be unlawful for
any person, other than township personnel conducting township business therein,
to occupy or be present within a facility during any hours which the park
system is not open to the public.
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
12.99
§ 12.04 DESTROYING, VANDALIZING, DEFACING AND ALTERING PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall injure, deface or destroy any notice, sign, rule or
regulation posted within the park system, nor shall any person post any notices
or placards in the park system without first obtaining written permission from
the township.
   (B)   The removal, relocation, defacing, damaging or vandalism of park
system property, amenities, fixtures and structures is prohibited.
   (C)   No person shall utilize park amenities, fixtures or structures in a
manner for which the said items are not designated or intended.
   (D)   Any township equipment (mowers, tractors, gas pumps, snow fences and
the like) located or used within the park system shall not be disturbed,
damaged or vandalized.
   (E)   (1)   There shall be no installation of equipment or alterations to
playing fields or other facilities without the specific prior written approval
of the township for these installations or alterations.
      (2)   No portable lights shall be utilized with the park system without
the prior written approval by the township.
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
12.99
§ 12.05 VEHICLE OPERATION, PARKING.
   (A)   Within the park system, all motorized vehicles are to be parked and
operated only in the designated public parking areas and drives. Other than
official township vehicles, no motorized vehicles are allowed on any other part
of a township park, including trails or paths.
   (B)   Motorists shall refrain from obstructing traffic on any park system
roadway or parking area.
   (C)   All unlicensed motor vehicles are prohibited anywhere within the park
system.
   (D)   No person shall wash or perform mechanical work on any vehicle within
the park system.
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
12.99
§ 12.06 SOLICITATION.
   (A)   Unless pre-approved in writing by the township, peddling or
solicitation of any kind is prohibited within the park system.
   (B)   Unless pre-approved in writing by the township, no person shall set up
any booth, table or structure within the park system.
   (C)   Unless pre-approved in writing by the township, the sale of food and/
or beverages of any kind is prohibited within the park system.
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
12.99
Cross-reference:
   Solicitation and peddling, see
Chapter 110
§ 12.07 FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Any club, team or organization using the facilities within the park
system shall pay fees in accordance with the fee schedule approved by the
township’s Board of Supervisors. These fees may be changed from time to time. A
club, team or organization’s liability is not limited to the amount of this
fee.
   (B)   (1)   The sponsors of any gatherings (not sponsored by the township)
which require police, maintenance or other township personnel and/or equipment
shall be responsible for all associated costs, as determined by the township.
      (2)   The township may require a deposit in accordance with the fee
schedule as approved by the Board of Supervisors prior to issuing any permits
for such gatherings.
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020)
§ 12.08 PERSONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall conduct themselves in any violent, loud, boisterous,
abusive, immoral or otherwise disorderly fashion tending to create a breach of
peace, constitute a nuisance or disturb or annoy others while within the park
system.
   (B)   No person shall commit any indecent or immoral act tending to corrupt
the morals or manners of the public while within the park system.
   (C)   No person shall operate any amplification equipment within the park
system, unless otherwise authorized by the township in writing.
   (D)   Possession or use of any type of weapon, including, but not limited
to, offensive weapons as defined in the Pennsylvania Crimes Code, 18 Pa.C.S.A.
§ 908, as it may be amended, is prohibited within a township park. Firearms,
when carried or transported for purposes not prohibited by the laws of the
commonwealth of the state, shall be specifically allowed, however, and shall be
excepted from this prohibition.
   (E)   No person shall endanger the safety of any person or animal within the
park system by any conduct or act.
   (F)   Persons shall only access the park system by way of the township-
approved access points; shall not enter, exit or establish access to the park
system through neighboring properties; and shall not create new trails or paths
within the park system.
   (G)   Persons using facilities assume personal responsibility and risk for
their actions and activities within the park system.
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
12.99
§ 12.09 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Hunting, trapping, archery, target practice, camping, horseback
riding, driving golf balls,
skateboarding, operating off-road vehicles (e.g., ATVS, four-wheelers,
motorcycles and snowmobiles) and setting off fireworks are prohibited within
the park system.
   (B)   Injuring, killing or otherwise disturbing any birds or animals, and
the damaging, destroying or removal of any nest or habitat is prohibited within
the park system.
   (C)   The cutting, mutilating or taking away of trees, shrubs and/or flowers
is prohibited within the park system.
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
12.99
§ 12.10 DRUGS AND ALCOHOL.
   The possession, consumption or distribution of any alcoholic beverages or
any controlled substance as defined by the laws of the commonwealth of states
or the United States within the park system is prohibited.
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
12.99
§ 12.11 FIRES, SMOKING.
   (A)   Unless otherwise authorized by a park use permit, open fires are
prohibited within the park system.
   (B)   For the promotion of cleanliness, health and wellness, the use of
tobacco products, smoking and/or vaping is not permitted anywhere within the
park system.
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
12.99
§ 12.12 LITTERING AND TRASH DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The discarding, dumping or littering of trash or rubbish of any kind
is prohibited within the park system. All trash or rubbish shall be disposed of
in trash containers provided for such purpose.
   (B)   Disposal within the park system of any type of trash or rubbish
brought to the park system or that did not result from park usage is
prohibited, whether disposed of in receptacles or not.
   (C)   For safety reasons, glass containers of any kind are prohibited within
the park system.
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
12.99
§ 12.13 PETS.
   (A)   All pets brought to the park system must be kept on leash no longer
than eight feet, under control at all times and not be a nuisance or a danger
to other park users.
   (B)   Persons with pets shall be required to immediately clean up and
dispose of all their pet’s fecal material appropriately.
   (C)   Pets are prohibited from entering or being on any playing field and
other areas specifically designated as pet free by the township.
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
12.99
§ 12.14 HINDERING EMPLOYEES.
   No person shall interfere with use profanity towards, or in any manner
hinder any township employee, official or agent who is performing his or her
official duties within the park system.
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
12.99
§ 12.15 BICYCLES, ROLLERBLADES, SKATEBOARDS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The use of human-powered transportation devices, such as bicycles,
non-motorized scooters, skateboards and rollerblades, is permitted within the
park system, except in areas where such usage is specifically prohibited by the
township. All users of such devices shall yield right-of-way to other trail and
path users.
   (B)   Use or operation of a human-powered transportation device in an
unsafe, dangerous, hazardous or threatening manner is prohibited. Helmets and
appropriate safety equipment are required at all times.
   (C)   The operation of human-powered transportation devices on any grass
area is prohibited.
   (D)   The jumping of or sliding (grinding) along curbs, tables, walls,
stairs, railings and other structures or objects is prohibited, except in areas
where such activities are specifically allowed by the township.
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
12.99
§ 12.16 PLAYGROUNDS.
   (A)   Playgrounds shall be limited to use by pre-school and school-age
children.
   (B)   Supervision of all children shall be the sole responsibility of
parents/legal guardians or a designated adult supervisor.
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
12.99
§ 12.17 TOWNSHIP AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The rules and regulations set forth in this chapter do not apply to
township activities, employees, vehicles and equipment, nor to emergency
activities or situations.
   (B)   The township has the right to supersede all or any of the rules and
regulations set forth in this chapter in conjunction with any township-
sponsored event, maintenance activity or emergency situation.
   (C)   Township sponsored events shall take precedence over any approved or
non-approved use of the park system, and the township reserves the right to
revoke and/or cancel any approved or non-approved activity at any time.
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
12.99
§ 12.18 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Township Police Department is hereby authorized to enforce these
rules and regulations.
   (B)   Violations of any of the rules and regulations herein may result in
the revocation of any permits or approvals granted for the use of any portion
of the park system.
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
12.99
§ 12.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the rules and regulations set forth in this
chapter shall, upon conviction in a summary proceeding before any Magisterial
District Judge, be liable for a fine or penalty not to exceed $500 for each and
every offense. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offence punishable by the aforementioned fines and penalties.
(Ord. 237, passed 1-8-2020)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWNSHIP MANAGER
      
31.   TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   POLICE
      
33.   TOWNSHIP EMPLOYEES
      
34.   TAXATION AND FINANCES
CHAPTER 30: TOWNSHIP MANAGER
Section
   
30.01   Creation of office
   
30.02   Appointment and removal
   
30.03   Qualifications
   
30.04   Bond
   
30.05   Manager’s compensation
   
30.06   Powers and duties
   
30.07   Other offices
   
30.08   Disability or absence of the Manager
§ 30.01 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   The office of Township Manager is hereby created by the Board of
Supervisors.
(Ord. 168, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 30.02 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Manager shall be appointed for an indefinite term by a majority of
all members of the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   (1)   The Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of
Supervisors, and he or she may be removed at any time by a majority vote of all
its members.
      (2)   At least 30 days before such removal is to become effective, the
Board of Supervisors shall furnish the Manager with a written statement setting
forth its intention to remove him or her, or shall provide the Manager with 30
days’ severance pay.
(Ord. 168, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 30.03 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Manager shall be chosen solely on the basis of his or her executive and
administrative abilities, with special reference to the duties of the office as
herein outlined.
(Ord. 168, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 30.04 BOND.
   Before entering upon his or her duties, the Manager shall give a bond in the
sum established annually pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Supervisors,
with a bonding company as surety, to be approved by the Board of Supervisors,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties, the premium for
said bond to be paid by the township.
(Ord. 168, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 30.05 MANAGER’S COMPENSATION.
   The salary of the Township Manager shall be fixed from time to time by the
Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 168, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 30.06 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the township
and shall be responsible to the Board of Supervisors as a whole for the proper
and efficient administration of the affairs of the township placed in his or
her charge. The powers and duties for administration of all township business
shall be vested in the Manager, unless expressly imposed or conferred by
statute or ordinance upon other township officers.
   (B)   Subject to recall by ordinance, the powers and duties of the Township
Manager shall include the following:
      (1)   Supervise and be responsible for the activities of all municipal
departments;
      (2)   Hire and, when necessary for the good of the township, suspend or
discharge any employee under his or her supervision with the advice and consent
of the Board of Supervisors;
      (3)   Fix wages and salaries of all personnel under his or her
supervision, within a range previously determined by the Board of Supervisors;
      (4)   Prepare and submit to the Board of Supervisors, a budget for the
next fiscal year and an explanatory budget message, in such a timely fashion as
will enable the Board of Supervisors to consider and adopt the budget and
related tax ordinances according to the requirements of law. In preparing the
budget, the Manager, or an officer designated by him or her, shall obtain from
the head of each department, agency or board, or any qualified officer thereof,
estimates or revenues and expenditures and such other supporting data as is
required. The Manager shall review such estimates and may revise them before
submitting the budget to the Board of Supervisors;
      (5)   Be responsible for the administration of the budget after its
adoption by the Board of Supervisors;
      (6)   Develop, in conjunction with the preparation of the budget, long-
range fiscal plans for the township, such plans to be presented annually to the
Board of Supervisors for its review and adoption;
      (7)   Hold such other township offices and head such township departments
as the Board of Supervisors may from time to time direct;
      (8)   Attend meetings of the Board of Supervisors and its committees,
upon request of the Board of Supervisors with the right to take part in the
discussions;
      (9)   Prepare the agenda for each meeting of the Board of Supervisors and
supply facts pertinent thereto;
      (10)   Keep the Board of Supervisors informed as to the conduct of the
township affairs; submit periodic reports on the condition of the township
finances and such other reports as the Board of Supervisors requests; and make
such recommendations to the Board of Supervisors as deemed advisable;
      (11)   Submit to the Board of Supervisors, as soon as possible after the
close of the fiscal year, a complete report on the finances and administration
activities of the township for the preceding year;
      (12)   See that the provisions of all franchises, leases, permits and
privileges granted by the Board of Supervisors are observed;
      (13)   Employ, by and with the approval of the Board of Supervisors,
experts and consultants to perform work and to advise;
      (14)   Attend to the lettering of contracts in due form of law. The
Manager shall supervise the performance and faithful execution of the same,
except insofar as such duties are expressly imposed by statute upon some other
township officer;
      (15)   Be responsible for all accounts payable and receivable;
      (16)   Serve as purchasing officer of the township and purchase, in
accordance with the provisions of the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code,
53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., all supplies and equipment for the agencies, boards,
departments and other offices of the township. The Manager shall keep an
account of all purchases and shall, from time to time, or when directed by the
Board of Supervisors, make a full written report thereof. He or she shall also
issue rules and regulations, subject to the approval of the Board of
Supervisors, governing the procurement of all municipal supplies and equipment;
      (17)   Investigate and dispose of, or designate an officer to investigate
and dispose of, all complaints regarding township service and personnel, and to
report to the Board of Supervisors thereon. All complaints regarding township
services shall be referred to the Manager;
      (18)   Enforce the Township Personnel Manual as well as ordinances,
resolutions, rules and regulations of the township;
      (19)   No less than annually, review the performance of department heads;
      (20)   Shall supervise the routing of all reports and correspondence;
      (21)   Shall perform such other duties as may be required by the Board of
Supervisors, not inconsistent with the law or ordinances; and
      (22)   The Manager shall cooperate with the Board of Supervisors at all
times and in all matters that are in the best interest of the township and of
the general public may be maintained.
(Ord. 168, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 30.07 OTHER OFFICES.
   The office of Township Manager shall not be deemed incompatible with the
office of Township Secretary, Township Treasurer, Township Zoning Officer or
any other township office, except any member of the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 168, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 30.08 DISABILITY OR ABSENCE OF THE MANAGER.
   If the Manager becomes ill or needs to be absent from the township, he or
she shall designate one qualified member of his or her staff or the Board of
Supervisors to perform the duties of the Manager during his or her absence or
disability. The person so designated shall not perform these duties for a
period longer than two weeks without the approval of the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 168, passed 12-14-2005)
CHAPTER 31: TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Township Planning Commission
   
31.01   Creation
   
31.02   Members; term
   
31.03   Other township office
   
31.04   Vacancies
   
31.05   Powers and duties
Building Code Board of Appeals
   
31.20   Creation of Appeals Board
   
31.21   Appointment of members
   
31.22   Qualification of members
   
31.23   Alternate members
   
31.24   Intergovernmental cooperation
   
31.25   Chairperson and Secretary
   
31.26   Disqualification of member
   
31.27   Operation of Board of Appeals
TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.01 CREATION.
   A township planning commission for the township is hereby created and
established pursuant to Article XX-A - “Township Planning Commission” of the
Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., Act of May
1, 1933 P.L. 103 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 2, passed 4-12-1961)
§ 31.02 MEMBERS; TERM.
   The Township Planning Commission shall consist of five members appointed by
the Board of Supervisors. The members shall serve for a term of five years,
except that the terms of the members first appointed shall be so fixed that one
member shall serve for one year, one for two years, one for three years, one
for four years and one for five years. Annually thereafter, a member shall be
appointed for a term of five years, by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 2, passed 4-12-1961)
§ 31.03 OTHER TOWNSHIP OFFICE.
   Members of the Township Planning Commission shall hold no other township
office. All members shall reside within the township. The members shall serve
without compensation, but may be reimbursed for necessary expenses.
(Ord. 2, passed 4-12-1961)
§ 31.04 VACANCIES.
   Any vacancies on the said Commission shall be filled in accordance with
Municipalities Planning Code § 203, 53 P.S. § 10203.
(Ord. 2, passed 4-12-1961)
§ 31.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Township Planning Commission shall have all the power and duties
conferred upon and provided by law for planning commissions of municipalities
as set forth in Municipalities Planning Code § 209.1, 53 P.S. § 10209.1.
(Ord. 2, passed 4-12-1961)
BUILDING CODE BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 31.20 CREATION OF APPEALS BOARD.
   A Building Code Board of Appeals (hereinafter “Appeals Board”) is hereby
established in conformity with the requirements of the Pennsylvania
Construction Code Act, Act 45 of 1999, 35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 through 7210.1103, §
501(c) and 34 Pa. Code § 403.121. The Appeals Board shall hear and rule on
appeals, requests for variances and requests for extensions of time.
(Ord. 155, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 31.21 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   The Appeals Board shall consist of three members appointed by the Board of
Supervisors as follows: one member shall be appointed to serve a three-year
term; one member shall serve a two-year term; and one member shall serve a one-
year term. After the initial appointments, each new member shall serve for
three years or until a successor has been appointed.
(Ord. 155, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 31.22 QUALIFICATION OF MEMBERS.
   The members of the Appeals Board shall, in the discretion of the Board of
Supervisors, be qualified by training and experience to pass on matters
pertaining to building construction. Training and experience may consist of
licensure as an architect or engineer, experience in the construction industry,
or training or experience as an inspector or plan reviewer. No member of the
Board of Supervisors nor any code inspector employed by the township may serve
on the Appeals Board. If the Board of Supervisors is unable to find a
sufficient number of qualified individuals who reside within the township, it
may appoint a qualified person who resides outside of the township to fill a
position.
(Ord. 155, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 31.23 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The Board of Supervisors shall appoint two alternate members who shall be
called by the Appeals Board Chairperson to hear appeals in the event of the
absence or disqualification of a member. Alternate members shall possess the
qualifications required for Board membership, and shall be appointed for three
years or until a successor has been appointed.
(Ord. 155, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 31.24 INTERGOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION.
   The Board of Supervisors is hereby authorized to enter into an
intergovernmental cooperation agreement with one or more municipalities to
create an Appeals Board.
(Ord. 155, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 31.25 CHAIRPERSON AND SECRETARY.
   The Appeals Board shall annually select one of its members to serve as
Chairperson and Secretary. The Secretary shall file a detailed record of all
proceedings in the office of the Township Manager.
(Ord. 155, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 31.26 DISQUALIFICATION OF MEMBER.
   A member of the Appeals Board shall not hear an appeal in which that member
has any personal, professional or financial interest.
(Ord. 155, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 31.27 OPERATION OF BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The procedure for conduct of hearing and notices of hearings, shall be
established by resolution of the Board of Supervisors and shall be consistent
with state law and regulations of the State Department of Labor and Industry.
(Ord. 155, passed 6-9-2004)
CHAPTER 32: POLICE
Section
   
32.01   Participation of Police Department for an emergency response team
   
32.02   Police pension plan
§ 32.01 PARTICIPATION OF POLICE DEPARTMENT FOR AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE TEAM.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors of the township hereby approves, and the
appropriate officers of the township are hereby authorized and directed to
execute, the mutual aid agreement which is attached to the ordinance codified
herein as Exhibit “A” and incorporated by reference as if set out at length
herein. A copy of the mutual aid agreement is available for inspection and
review at the township offices. The mutual aid agreement may be amended, from
time to time, subsequent to the enactment of this section, in order to conform
to any requirements imposed by any laws and/or regulations of the commonwealth
or the United States.
   (B)   The duration of the term of the said agreement is for a period of one
year and thereafter from year to year until terminated as provided for therein.
   (C)   The purpose and objective of the said agreement is to provide for the
creation of a response team composed of police officers from the township and
the other member police departments from the county that are parties to the
said agreement in order to respond to high risk emergency situations which
exist within the geographical boundaries of said participating municipalities,
and to otherwise back up an established team on the scene of an existing high
risk emergency.
   (D)   Each participating municipality shall be responsible for providing
workers’ compensation, errors and omissions insurance, law enforcement
liability and general liability insurance coverage, at its own cost, on each of
its respective police officers participating pursuant to the mutual aid
agreement. All other costs and expenses associated with the said agreement
shall be equally shared and paid by the participating municipalities.
   (E)   Each participating municipality may contribute property to be used to
carry out the purpose and objective of the said agreement, which property shall
be itemized and listed as an exhibit to the said agreement and shall be
returned to the contributing municipality, in its then existing condition, upon
withdrawal of such municipality from the said agreement in accordance with the
terms thereof.
   (F)   This section is being enacted pursuant to the provisions of the Act 60
1995, the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq.,
re-enacting and amending the Act of May 1, 1933 (P.L. 103, No. 69) entitled “An
Act Concerning Townships of the Second Class,” and the State Intergovernmental
Cooperation Law, 53 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 2301 et seq.
(Ord. 167a, passed 3-8-2006)
§ 32.02 POLICE PENSION PLAN.
   (A)   The township, being a member municipality of the Pennsylvania
Municipal Retirement System, hereby elects to amend its police pension plan
administered by the System in accordance with Article IV of the State Municipal
Retirement Law, 53 P.S. §§ 881.101 et seq. (retirement law), and does hereby
agree to be bound by all the requirements and provisions of the retirement law
and the Municipal Pension Plan Funding Standard and Recovery Act, 53 P.S. §§
895.101 et seq., and to assume all obligations, financial and otherwise, placed
upon member municipalities.
   (B)   As part of this section, the township agrees that the System shall
administer and provide the benefits set forth in the amended police pension
plan contract entered into between the State Municipal Retirement Board and the
township effective March 1, 2013.
   (C)   The passage and adoption of this section by the township is an
official acceptance of the contract and the financial obligations resulting
from the administration of the contract, a copy of which is attached to the
ordinance codified herein as Exhibit “A” and incorporated in this section as if
fully set out herein.
   (D)   Payment for any obligation established by the adoption of this section
and the contract shall be made by the township in accordance with the
Retirement Law and the Municipal Pension Plan Funding Standard and Recovery
Act. The township hereby assumes all liability for any unfundedness created due
to the benefit structure set forth in the contract.
   (E)   The township intends this section to be the complete authorization of
the contract.
(Ord. 215, passed 12-27-2013)
CHAPTER 33: TOWNSHIP EMPLOYEES
Section
   
33.01   Participation in the Delaware Valley Workers’ Compensation Trust
   
33.02   Participation in the Delaware Valley Insurance Trust
   
33.03   Municipal retirement system
§ 33.01 PARTICIPATION IN THE DELAWARE VALLEY WORKERS’ COMPENSATION TRUST.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors of the township is hereby authorized to
execute the Delaware Valley Workers’ Compensation Trust agreement for the
participation of the township in the Delaware Valley Workers’ Compensation
Trust, which agreement is attached to the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit
“A,” adopted by reference as if set out in full herein and is on file for
inspection and review at the offices of the township. This agreement may be
amended after the enactment of this section to conform to any requirements
imposed by the commonwealth and any of its agencies, including the Department
of Labor and Industry, Bureau of Workers’ Compensation.
   (B)   The participation of the township in the Delaware Valley Workers’
Compensation Trust is authorized for the purposes of enabling the township to
reduce the cost or workers’ compensation claims through its participation in a
group self-insurance fund.
   (C)   The township delegates to the Delaware Valley Workers’ Compensation
Trust the authority to pay workers’ compensation benefits on its behalf in
accordance with the State Workers’ Compensation Act and the Pennsylvania
Occupational Disease Act, 77 P.S. §§ 1201 et seq.
   (D)   The commonwealth’s Department of Labor and Industry Bureau of Workers’
Compensation has approved the issuance of a permit to the Delaware Valley
Workers’ Compensation Trust to operate as a group self-insurance fund subject
to certain conditions.
   (E)   As an approved self-insurance fund, the Delaware Valley Workers’
Compensation Trust will be responsible for the payment of workers’ compensation
claims on behalf of all trust participants.
   (F)   As set forth in the Delaware Valley Workers’ Compensation Trust
agreement, the following conditions, among others, apply to the participation
of the township in the Delaware Valley Workers’ Compensation Trust:
      (1)   The trust shall consist of at least five homogeneous municipal
participants organized as local government agencies under state law;
      (2)   Each participant satisfies all eligibility and admission
requirements for membership in the trust;
      (3)   Each participant pledges and agrees to appropriate funds to pay all
its annual contributions and assessments which are required for the creation of
a fund maintained at a level sufficient to pay all workers’ compensation claims
and related expense incurred by the trust participants;
      (4)   Each participant agrees to jointly and severally assume and
discharge the workers’ compensation liabilities of each and every other
participant in accordance with the Delaware Valley Workers’ Compensation Trust
agreement when required to do so by the Department of Labor and Industry Bureau
of Workers’ Compensation;
      (5)   Each participant will institute any and all safety regulations,
loss prevention measures or risk management procedures as may be required for
the purpose of minimizing or eliminating work place risks to its employees;
      (6)   Each participant cooperate fully with the trust’s service and
fiscal agents, attorneys, claims adjusters and any agents or employees of the
trust with respect to the investigation, defense and settlement of claims;
      (7)   Each participant designate a person to be responsible for all
contacts with the trust;
      (8)   Each participant provide any information to the Administrator or
Board of Trustees as may be required to effect the purposes and objectives of
the trust; and
      (9)   Each participant comply with all applicable statutes and
regulations governing the payment of workers’ compensation claims, including,
but not limited to, the Pennsylvania Workers’ Compensation Act, 77 P.S., and
any regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (G)   The township agrees to participate in the Delaware Valley Workers’
Compensation Trust for a minimum period of two years, subject to the terms and
conditions of the Delaware Valley Workers’ Compensation Trust agreement. After
the expiration of that minimum two-year period, each participant may withdraw
under the following conditions, subject to the right of arbitration as provided
in the Delaware Valley Workers’ Compensation Trust agreement:
      (1)   An opinion is rendered by the trust certified actuary that
withdrawal will not result in the number of participants falling below the
minimum required to assure the fiscal and actuarial soundness of the trust
itself;
      (2)   The withdrawing participant is not then in default of its
obligation to pay premiums, contributions or assessments;
      (3)   The withdrawing participant shall pay the full amount of a
termination contribution or any additional assessments as determined by the
Board of Trustees in accordance with the Trust agreement and by-laws; and
      (4)   The Board of Trustees shall have received a certification from the
trust actuary that the withdrawal of the participant will not impair the
actuarial soundness of the trust and, if any municipal debt has been incurred
by the participants to finance any portion of the trust reserves, an opinion is
obtained from bond counsel that such withdrawal will not adversely affect the
tax-exempt status of any interest paid and any debt incurred by the
participants, or any legal entity created for the purpose of incurring such
debt. As used herein, the term DEBT includes any municipal bonds, certificate,
letters of credit or other instruments of municipal indebtedness.
   (H)   The organizational structure of the trust shall consist of a Board of
Trustees, an Administrator, a claims administrator/loss control consultant and
various service agents appointed by the Board of Trustees in accordance with
the Delaware Valley Workers’ Compensation Trust agreement and any by-laws
adopted pursuant thereto.
   (I)   As set forth in the Delaware Valley Workers’ Compensation Trust
agreement, the funds required for the creation and operation of the trust shall
be provided by the participating municipalities through annual appropriations.
   (J)   The Delaware Valley Workers’ Compensation Trust is empowered to enter
into contracts for policies of group insurance and employee benefits, including
Social Security, for any of its employees.
   (K)   The participation of the township in the Delaware Valley Workers’
Compensation Trust will be effective by January 1, 2014 or thereafter, as
approved by the Trust Board.
   (L)   All contributions and assessments paid by the township shall be made
with funds appropriated by the township for that purpose.
   (M)   As a condition of participating in the Delaware Valley Workers’
Compensation Trust, the township agrees to:
      (1)   Pay all annual contributions and assessments as may be required by
the Board of Trustees;
      (2)   Appoint a representative to sit on the Board of Trustees and
designate a contact person for the purpose of communicating with the trust or
its representatives;
      (3)   Not withdraw from the trust for a period of two years following its
admission to the trust, subject to the terms and conditions of the Delaware
Valley Workers’ Compensation Trust agreement;
      (4)   Withdraw from the trust only upon satisfaction of the conditions
set forth in the Delaware Valley Workers’ Compensation Trust agreement;
      (5)   Perform all covenants contained in the Delaware Valley Workers’
Compensation Trust agreement and delegate to the Board of Trustees the powers
and authorities enumerated in that agreement;
      (6)   Comply with all the conditions set forth in the Delaware Valley
Workers’ Compensation Trust agreement governing the handling and payment of
claims, including the defense and settlement thereof;
      (7)   Appropriate the funds needed to pay all contributions and
assessments as may be required by the Board of Trustees in accordance with the
Delaware Valley Workers’ Compensation Trust agreement; and
      (8)   Cooperate with the trust, its agents or employees and provide the
trust with all information it needs for the operation of the trust, including
any underwriting or claims data which it may be requested by the Board of
Trustees or its designee.
   (N)    This section is being enacted pursuant to Pennsylvania
Intergovernmental Cooperation Act, 53 Pa.C.S.A. § 2301 et seq.
(Ord. 218, passed 1-8-2014)
§ 33.02 PARTICIPATION IN THE DELAWARE VALLEY INSURANCE TRUST.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Supervisors of the township is hereby authorized to
execute the trust agreement and any other agreements necessary for its
participation in the Delaware Valley Insurance Trust. The Delaware Valley
Insurance Trust agreement is attached here to the ordinance codified herein as
Exhibit “A” and incorporated by reference as if set out at length herein.
      (2)   The trust agreement attached hereto is on file for inspection and
review at the offices of township. This trust agreement may be subsequently
modified or amended but in no event shall such amendments or modifications
materially adversely affect the right of the township to participate in the
Delaware Valley Insurance Trust.
   (B)   The participation of the township in the Delaware Valley Insurance
Trust is authorized for the following purposes:
      (1)   To provide adequate and affordable insurance coverage to each
participating municipality at the lowest possible cost by pooling or sharing of
certain liability risks;
      (2)   To reduce the amount and frequency of losses incurred by each
participating municipality which are covered under the trust coverage document,
which is attached here to the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit “B” and
incorporated by reference as if set out at length herein and on file for
inspection and review at the township office;
      (3)   To minimize costs incurred by participating municipalities in the
handling and litigation of claims; and
      (4)   To protect each participating municipality from the volatility and
high premiums of the commercial insurance market.
   (C)   As set forth in the trust agreement and as otherwise stated herein,
the following conditions apply to the participation of the township in the
Delaware Valley Insurance Trust:
      (1)   Each participating municipality must meet the admission and
eligibility requirements set forth therein;
      (2)   Each participating municipality agrees to pay all annual premiums,
contributions and assessments when due as provided in the trust agreement and
by-laws;
      (3)   Each participating municipality uses its best efforts to provide
appropriations for the payment of any contributions, premiums and assessments
required by the trust;
      (4)   Each participating municipality institute any and all safety
regulations, loss prevention measures or risk management procedures as may be
required for the purpose of minimizing or eliminating hazards or risk that
could contribute to losses;
      (5)   Each participating municipality cooperate fully with the trust’s
service and fiscal agents, attorneys, claims adjusters and any agents or
employees of the trust with respect to the investigation, defense and
settlement of claims;
      (6)   The participating municipality designate a contact person to be
responsible for all contacts with the trust; and
      (7)   Each participating municipality provide any information to the
Administrator or Board of Trustees as may be required to effect the purposes
and objectives of the trust.
   (D)   The township agrees to participate in the Delaware Valley Insurance
Trust for a minimum period of two years and thereafter may withdraw under the
following conditions, subject to the right of arbitration, under the trust
agreement:
      (1)   An opinion is rendered by the trust certified actuary that
withdrawal will not result in the number of participants falling below the
minimum required to assure the fiscal and actuarial soundness of the trust
itself;
      (2)   The withdrawing municipality is not then in default of its
obligation to pay premiums, contributions or assessments;
      (3)   The withdrawing municipality shall pay the full amount of a
termination premium, as determined by the Board of Trustees in accordance with
the trust agreement and by-laws; and
      (4)   The Board of Trustees shall have received a certification from the
trust actuary that the withdrawal of the municipality will not reduce the
actuarial soundness of the trust and, if any municipal debt has been incurred
by the participants to finance any portion of the trust reserves, an opinion is
obtained from bond counsel that such withdrawal will not adversely affect the
tax-exempt status of any interest paid and any debt incurred by the
participating municipalities or any legal entity created for the purpose of
incurring such debt.
   (E)   The effective date of the participation of the township in the
Delaware Valley Insurance Trust will be January 1, 2014 or thereafter.
   (F)   Each participating municipality delegates to the Board of Trustees of
the Delaware Valley Insurance Trust the powers enumerated in the trust
agreement, including the right to expel participants under certain conditions.
   (G)   As set forth in the trust coverage document, the township shall be
provided coverage for the following risks:
      (1)   Commercial general liability;
      (2)   Business automobile liability;
      (3)   Police professional/law enforcement;
      (4)   Public officials liability; and
      (5)   Any other risks specified in the trust coverage document.
   (H)   All contributions, premiums and assessments paid by the township shall
be made with funds appropriated by the township for that purpose. If permitted
under state and federal law, the township may incur debt for the purpose of
financing any excess insurance coverage, as set forth in the trust agreement.
   (I)   The organizational structure of the trust shall consist of a Board of
Trustees, an administrator, a claims administrator/loss control consultant and
various service agents appointed by the Board of Directors in accordance with
the trust agreement.
   (J)   As set forth in the trust agreement, the funds required for the
operation of the trust shall be provided by the participating municipalities
through annual appropriations.
   (K)   The Delaware Valley Insurance Trust commenced operations on January 1,
1989 and will continue until terminated by two-thirds vote of all participating
municipalities.
   (L)   Coverage under the trust shall be provided from January 1 through
December 31 of each trust year to all participating municipalities in
accordance with the trust agreement.
   (M)   As a condition of participating in the Delaware Valley Insurance
Trust, the township of agrees to comply with the following conditions:
      (1)   It will make its initial contribution upon admission to the trust
for creation of the restricted surplus fund needed to protect participating
municipalities against potentially catastrophic losses;
      (2)   It will timely pay all annual premiums and assessments as may be
required by the Board of Trustees;
      (3)   It will appoint a representative to sit on the Board of Trustees
and designate a contact person for the purpose of communicating with the trust
or its representatives;
      (4)   It will not withdraw from the trust for a period of two years
following its admission to the trust;
      (5)   It may withdraw from the trust only upon satisfaction of the
conditions set forth in the trust agreement;
      (6)   It agrees to perform all covenants contained in the trust agreement
and delegate to the Board of Trustees the powers and authorities enumerated in/
of the trust agreement;
      (7)   It will comply with all the conditions set forth in the trust
coverage document governing the handling of claims, including the defense and
settlement thereof;
      (8)   It will appropriate the funds needed to pay all contributions,
premiums and assessments as may be required by the Board of Trustees in
accordance with the trust agreement; and
      (9)   It will cooperate with the trust, its agents or employees and
provide the trust with all information it needs for the operation of the trust,
including any underwriting or claims data which it may be requested by the
Board of Trustees or its designee.
   (N)   The Delaware Valley Insurance Trust is empowered to enter into
contracts for policies of group insurance and employee benefits, including
Social Security, for its employees.
   (O)   This section is being enacted pursuant to 53 Pa.C.S.A. § 46006.
(Ord. 217, passed 1-8-2014)
§ 33.03 MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)    The township hereby elects to join the State Municipal Retirement
System, established by the State Municipal Retirement Law, Act 15 of 1974, 53
P.S. §§ 888.101 et seq., as amended, and does hereby agree to be bound by the
State Municipal Retirement Law and the amendments and to assume all
obligations, financial and otherwise, placed upon member municipalities by said
law and amendment. All references hereafter shall be based on benefits
negotiated between the Board and the municipality under the provisions of
Article IV and reflected in the agreement dated May 14, 1986.
   (B)   Membership in the State Municipal Retirement System shall be mandatory
for all permanent employees. Membership for employees hired on a temporary or
seasonal basis shall be prohibited. Officers and employees paid wholly on a fee
basis shall not be eligible for membership in the system.
   (C)   Credited service for each member shall begin effective January 1,
1986. No credit shall be given or provided for the service rendered to the
township prior to this time.
   (D)   As part of this section, the township agrees to the outline of
benefits set forth in the agreement between the Board and the township dated
May 14, 1986. The passage and adoption of this section by the Supervisors of
the township is an official acceptance of said benefit structure and the
accompanying financial obligations contained in the administration of said
benefit package.
   (E)   A duly certified copy of this section and the accompanying agreement
shall be filed with the State Municipal Retirement Board of the commonwealth.
Membership for the non-uniformed employees of the township in the state
municipal retirement system shall be effective January 1, 1986.
   (F)   (1)   The township, being a member municipality of the state municipal
retirement system, hereby elects to amend its municipal pension plan
administered by the system in accordance with Article IV of the State Municipal
Retirement Law, 53 P.S. §§ 881.101 et seq., and does hereby agree to be bound
by all the requirements and provisions of the retirement law and the Municipal
Pension Plan Funding Standard and Recovery Act, 53 P.S. §§ 895.101 et seq., and
to assume all obligations, financial and otherwise, placed upon member
municipalities.
      (2)   As part of this division (F), the township agrees that the system
shall administer and provide the benefits set forth in the amended municipal
pension plan contract entered into between the State Municipal Retirement Board
and the township effective March 1, 2013.
(Ord. 77, passed 6-11-1986; Ord. 101, passed 7-11-1990; Ord. 213, passed 12-27-
2013)
CHAPTER 34: TAXATION AND FINANCES
Section
Realty Transfer Tax
   
34.001   Imposition of tax
   
34.002   Administration
   
34.003   Interest
Real Property Taxes
   
34.015   Freeze in real property taxes
Earned Income Tax
   
34.030   Incorporation of statutes
   
34.031   Imposition of tax
   
34.032   Declarations, returns and payment of tax
   
34.033   Collection at source
   
34.034   Administration
   
34.035   Interest and penalties for late payment
Per Capita Tax
   
34.050   Levy of tax
   
34.051   Collection of tax
   
34.052   Tax Collector bond
   
34.053   Entry of tax into tax duplicate
   
34.054   Notice to taxpayers
   
34.055   Report of names to Assessor
   
34.056   Due and payable
   
34.057   Unpaid tax
Amusement Tax
   
34.070   Title
   
34.071   Definitions
   
34.072   Imposition of tax
   
34.073   Written notice
   
34.074   Written report
   
34.075   Producer of place of amusement; duties
   
34.076   Penalty
   
34.077   Authority to examine books, papers, records and the like
 
   
34.999   Penalty
REALTY TRANSFER TAX
§ 34.001 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   The township adopts the provisions of Article XI-D of the Tax Reform Code of
1971 and imposes a realty transfer tax as authorized under that Article,
subject to the rate limitations therein. The tax imposed under this section
shall be at the rate of 1%.
(Ord. 176, passed 10-11-2006)
§ 34.002 ADMINISTRATION.
   The tax imposed under §
34.015, and all applicable interest and penalties, shall be administered,
collected and enforced under the Act of December 31, 1965 (P.L. 1257, No. 511,
as amended, known as the Local Tax Enabling Act); provided, that if the correct
amount of the tax is not paid by the last date prescribed for timely payment,
the township, pursuant to § 1102-D of the Tax Reform Code of 1971, 72 P.S. §
8102-D, authorizes and directs the Department of Revenue of the commonwealth to
determine, collect and enforce the tax, interest and penalties.
(Ord. 176, passed 10-11-2006)
§ 34.003 INTEREST.
   (A)   Any tax imposed under §
34.015 that is not paid by the date the tax is due shall bear interest as
prescribed for interest on delinquent municipal claims under the Act of May 16,
1923 (P.L. 207, No. 153), 53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq., as amended, known as the
Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act.
   (B)   The interest rate shall be the lesser of the interest rate imposed
upon delinquent commonwealth taxes as provided in § 806 of the Act of April 9,
1929 (P.L. 343, No. 176), 72 P.S. § 806, as amended, known as the Fiscal Code,
or the maximum interest rate permitted under the Municipal Claims and Tax Liens
Act for tax claims.
(Ord. 176, passed 10-11-2006)
REAL PROPERTY TAXES
§ 34.015 FREEZE IN REAL PROPERTY TAXES.
   (A)   Exemption. Pursuant to the Open Space Lands Act, Act of January 19,
1968, P.L. 992, No. 442, 32 P.S. § 5007.1, as amended, the Board of Supervisors
hereby exempt the following from further millage increases imposed on real
property in the township:
      (1)   Real property in which the open space property interests have been
acquired by the township or by the county in accordance with the Open Space
Lands Act, Act of January 19, 1968, P.L. 992, No. 442, 32 P.S. §§ 5001 et seq.;
and
      (2)   Real property that is subject to an easement acquired in accordance
with the Act of June 30, 1981, P.L. 128, No. 43, known as the Agricultural Area
Security Law.
   (B)   Date of exemption.
      (1)   The millage freeze authorized by this section shall apply to all
eligible real property in the township, whether the real property met the
criteria of this section prior to or subsequent to the date of this section.
      (2)   The date of which the millage rate shall be frozen is as follows:
         (a)   For property or easements acquired prior to the date of the
section, the millage rate shall be frozen as of the effective date of this
section; and
         (b)   For property or easement acquired subsequent to the date of the
section, the millage rate shall be frozen as of the date of the acquisition of
said property or easement.
(Ord. 170, passed 6-14-2006)
EARNED INCOME TAX
§ 34.030 INCORPORATION OF STATUTES.
    The provisions of the Open Space Lands Act, Act 153 of 1996, 32 P.S. §§
5001 et seq., as hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or reenacted by the
General Assembly of the state, are incorporated herein by reference thereto.
Additionally, the provisions of § 6924.502 of the Local Tax Enabling Act, P.L.
1257, No. 511, December 31, 1965, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq., as hereafter
amended, supplemented, modified or reenacted by the General Assembly of the
state, are incorporated herein by reference thereto; except to the extent that
options are provided in said § 6924.502, this subchapter designates the option
selected, and except as and where hereinafter specifically provided otherwise.
(Ord. 167, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 34.031 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   A tax for the purpose of purchasing interest in real property for the
purpose of securing open space pursuant to the Open Space Lands Act, Act 153 of
1996, 32 P.S. §§ 5001 et seq., of 0.250% is hereby imposed on:
      (1)   Salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation earned or paid
on or after January 1, 2006 by residents of the township; and
      (2)   On the net profits earned on or after January 1, 2006, of
businesses, professions or other activities conducted by such residents.
   (B)   The tax levied under division (A)(1) above shall relate to and be
imposed upon salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation paid by an
employer or on its behalf to any person who is employed by or renders services
to it. The tax levied under division (A)(2) above will relate to and be imposed
on the net profits of any business, profession or enterprise carried on by any
person as owner or proprietor, either individually or in an association with
some other person or persons.
(Ord. 167, passed 12-14-2005) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.032 DECLARATIONS, RETURNS AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Every taxpayer whose net profits are subject to the tax imposed by
this subchapter shall file a declaration of his or her net profits for the
current year and shall pay the tax due thereon in annual installments, all as
provided in § 6913, III.A.(1)(I) of the Local Tax Enabling Act, or estimated
net profits for the current year and shall pay the tax due thereon in quarterly
installments, all as provided in § 6913, III.A.(1)(ii) of the Local Tax
Enabling Act.
   (B)   Every taxpayer whose earnings are subject to the tax imposed by this
subchapter shall make and file final returns and to the officer the balance of
the tax due, as provided in § 6913, III.B. of the Local Tax Enabling Act.
   (C)   Every taxpayer whose earnings are not subject to collection at the
source, shall file with the officer quarterly returns and shall pay quarter-
annually the amount of tax shown as due on such returns all as provided in §
6913, III.B.(2) of the Local Tax Enabling Act.
   (D)   The officer is hereby authorized to provide by regulation, subject to
the approval of the Township Board of Supervisors, that the return of an
employer or employers, showing the amount of tax deducted by said employer or
employers from the salaries, wages or commissions of any employee, and paid by
him, her or them to the officer shall be accepted as the return required of any
employee whose sole income, subject to the tax or taxes under this subchapter,
is such salary, wages or commissions.
(Ord. 167, passed 12-14-2005) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.033 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
   Every employer having an office, factory, workshop, branch, warehouse or
other place of business within the township who employs one or more persons,
other than domestic servants, for a salary, wage, commission or other
compensation, shall register with the officer, deduct the tax imposed by this
subchapter on the earned income of his or her employee or employees and shall
make and file quarterly returns and final returns and pay quarterly to the
officer the amount of taxes deducted, all as provided in § 6913, IV, of the
Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Ord. 167, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 34.034 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Earned Income Tax Officer shall be the same person or corporation
appointed by the Board of Supervisors of the township to collect the existing
general revenue earned income tax.
(Ord. 167, passed 12-14-2005)
§ 34.035 INTEREST AND PENALTIES FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate of 6%
per annum on the amount of said tax, and an additional penalty of 1.5% of the
amount of the unpaid tax for each month or fraction thereof which the tax
remains unpaid, shall be added and collected. Where suit is brought for
recovery of any such tax, the person liable therefore shall, in addition, be
liable for the costs of collection and the interest and penalties herein
imposed.
(Ord. 167, passed 12-14-2005)
PER CAPITA TAX
§ 34.050 LEVY OF TAX.
   A per capita tax of $5, for general township purposes, is hereby levied and
assessed under the authority of the Act of December 31, 1965 (Act No. 511),
upon each resident or inhabitant of the township over the age of 21 years,
which tax shall be in addition to all other taxes levied and assessed by the
said township pursuant to any other law of the commonwealth.
(Ord. 27, passed - -1967) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.051 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   Such tax shall be collected by the duly elected or appointed Tax Collector
of the township in the same manner and at the same time as other township taxes
are collected.
(Ord. 27, passed - -1967) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.052 TAX COLLECTOR BOND.
   The Tax Collector shall give bond secured and conditioned for the collection
and payment of such taxes as provided by law for other township taxes.
(Ord. 27, passed - -1967)
§ 34.053 ENTRY OF TAX INTO TAX DUPLICATE.
   The entry of the per capita tax in the tax duplicate and the issuance of
such duplicate to the Tax Collector shall constitute his or her warrant for
collection of the per capita tax hereby levied and assessed.
(Ord. 27, passed - -1967)
§ 34.054 NOTICE TO TAXPAYERS.
   The Tax Collector shall give notice to the taxpayers of the amount of the
per capita tax under this subchapter, at the same time and in the same manner
as provided by the Local Tax Collection Law of 1945, being 72 P.S. § 5511.1 et
seq., as amended and supplemented.
(Ord. 27, passed - -1967)
§ 34.055 REPORT OF NAMES TO ASSESSOR.
   In case the Tax Collector shall at any time find within the township any
resident or inhabitant above the age of 21 years whose name does not appear
upon the tax duplicate, he or she shall report the name of such person
forthwith to the Assessor, who shall thereupon certify the same unto the
Township Supervisors, who shall promptly certify the same to the Tax Collector
reporting such name, whereupon the Tax Collector shall add such name and the
assessment of this per capita tax against such person to the duplicate of the
township and shall proceed to collect the same.
(Ord. 27, passed - -1967) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.056 DUE AND PAYABLE.
   The per capita tax imposed under this subchapter shall become due and
payable at the same time as are the real estate taxes imposed by the township
and shall be subject to the same discount for prepayment and the same penalty
for late payment as is a allowed or imposed in the case of the said real estate
tax.
(Ord. 27, passed - -1967)
§ 34.057 UNPAID TAX.
   All per capita taxes levied and assessed under this subchapter which shall
remain unpaid as of November 1 in any given year shall be collected by the
Township Solicitor in the same manner as other debts are collectible.
(Ord. 27, passed - -1967) Penalty, see §
34.999
AMUSEMENT TAX
§ 34.070 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Bedminster Township Amusement Tax
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 26, passed 12-13-1967)
§ 34.071 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADMISSION. The monetary charges of any character whatsoever including
donations, contributions, dues, fees, rentals, service charges, membership
fees, periodical or otherwise, charged by or in any manner received by a
producer as herein defined to the general public or a limited or selected
number thereof directly or indirectly for the privilege of attending, engaging
or participating in any amusement as herein defined, as a spectator,
participant, contestant or otherwise. ADMISSION shall not include any tax added
to the charge. ADMISSION shall include the established monetary charge made
even where certain persons are admitted free or at reduced rates, excepting,
however, bona fide employees of the producer or public officials engaged upon
public duties.
      AMUSEMENT. Any and all forms of entertainment, recreation and sport
engaged in, participated in or attended as a spectator or otherwise by any
person for which an admission is charged or other fee or charge imposed or paid
including, but not limited to, the following activities: theatrical
performance; operatic performance; motion picture exhibitions; carnival;
circus; show; musical concert; sports event; swimming or bathing pool;
vaudeville; sideshow; automobile race contest or exhibition; skiing areas;
amusement park; dancing; golfing; bowling; billiards; athletic events; and
contests of all kind and any and all other forms of diversion, sport, pastime
or recreation for which an admission is charged or paid; or for which any
charge is made for the rental or use of any equipment, property or land for the
purpose of amusement as herein defined. AMUSEMENT shall not include any form of
entertainment accompanying or incidental to the serving of food or drink or the
sale of merchandise where the charge is wholly included in the price charged
for such food, drink or merchandise. AMUSEMENT shall not include anything
wherein the proceeds after payment of reasonable expenses inures exclusively to
the benefit of any purely religious, educational or public charitable
institution, society or organization.
      PERSON. Any natural person, co-partnership, association, firm, business
corporation or non- profit corporation or any other legal entity whatsoever. As
applied to a partnership, the term PERSON shall include every partner or member
thereof and as applied to a corporation shall mean the corporate officers and
directors thereof as to any duties or penalties imposed herein.
      PRODUCER. Any person as herein defined who shall conduct, operate,
produce, carry on or maintain any amusement in the township; or any person who
shall receive any admission for any amusement within the township.
   (B)   The singular shall include the plural and the masculine shall include
the feminine and neuter.
(Ord. 26, passed 12-13-1967)
§ 34.072 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed for the township at the rate of 10% (being
$0.01 for each $0.10) of the price of admission or other charge as herein
defined to each and every amusement within the township.
   (B)   The producer of such amusement shall be responsible for the collection
and payment of the tax to the Secretary of the Board of Supervisors.
   (C)   In the event no fixed admission is charged, the tax shall be based
upon the gross admissions collected by the producer and shall be paid by the
producer to the Secretary of the Township Supervisors.
(Ord. 26, passed 12-13-1967) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.073 WRITTEN NOTICE.
   On and after the effective date of this subchapter, any person conducting,
operating, producing, carrying on or maintaining any amusement within the
township, or desiring to do so, shall file written notice thereof with the
Secretary of the Board of Supervisors setting forth the nature of the amusement
to be conducted by the producer, the length of time the amusement is to be
continued and the rates or charges to be imposed by the producer.
(Ord. 26, passed 12-13-1967)
§ 34.074 WRITTEN REPORT.
   Every producer of an amusement that is to be conducted, operated, produced,
carried on or maintained for a period in excess of 30 days shall, within ten
days from the end of each calendar month, transmit to the Secretary of the
Board of Supervisors a written report of the total admissions, as herein
defined, collected and the total amount of the tax due thereof and pay to the
Secretary of the Board of Supervisors the said tax in full.
(Ord. 26, passed 12-13-1967)
§ 34.075 PRODUCER OF PLACE OF AMUSEMENT; DUTIES.
   Every producer of a place of amusement intended to be conducted, operated,
produced, carried on or maintained for less than a period of 30 days shall at
the close of each day of operation of such amusement transmit to the Secretary
of the Board of Supervisors a report of the total admissions collected, and
shall pay at the close of each day the tax due in full; provided, however, that
the Secretary of the Board of Supervisors, or any other person employed by the
Board of Supervisors for such purpose, shall have the right to attend any place
of amusement and to collect from the producer the tax due thereon immediately
upon and from each and every admission charged.
(Ord. 26, passed 12-13-1967)
§ 34.076 PENALTY.
   If any tax levied pursuant to this subchapter shall not be paid when due a
penalty of 10% of the amount due and unpaid shall be added thereto plus an
additional penalty of 0.05% per month on the initial tax liability until the
same is paid in full. All taxes, penalties, interest and costs may be recovered
by the Supervisors of the township from the producer of any amusement the same
as other taxes and debts are by law recoverable.
(Ord. 26, passed 12-13-1967) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.077 AUTHORITY TO EXAMINE BOOKS, PAPERS, RECORDS AND THE LIKE.
   If any report or notice required by this subchapter to be filed by the
producer is not filed or is erroneous, inaccurate or incomplete, the Secretary
of the Board of Supervisors may and is hereby authorized and empowered to make
a determination of the tax due by the producer upon the information available
to him or her, and for this purpose the Secretary of the Board of Supervisors,
or any other person appointed by the Board of Supervisors, is authorized to
examine the books, papers, tickets, receipts and records of any producer
subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter, and to ascertain and assess the
tax due thereon.
(Ord. 26, passed 12-13-1967)
§ 34.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)    (1)   Any person who fails, neglects or refuses to make any
declaration or return required by §§
34.030 through
34.035; any employer who fails, neglects or refuses to register or to pay the
tax deducted from his or her employees, or fails, neglects or refuses to deduct
or withhold the tax from his or her employees; any person who refuses to permit
the officer or any agent designated by him or her to examine his or her books,
records and papers; and any person who knowingly makes any incomplete, false or
fraudulent return; or attempts to do anything whatsoever to avoid the full
disclosure of the amount of his or her net profits or earned income in order to
avoid the payment of the whole or any part of the tax imposed by §§
34.030 through
34.035, shall, upon conviction thereof before the Magisterial District Judge or
other court of competent jurisdiction and in accordance with the procedures set
forth in the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq.,
be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $500 plus the costs of prosecution,
including, but not limited to, all court costs and reasonable attorney fees
incurred by the township in enforcing the violation. Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense, and each provision violated
shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person who divulges any information which is confidential under
the provisions of §§
34.030 through
34.035, shall, upon conviction thereof, before the Magisterial District Judge
or other court of competent jurisdiction and in accordance with the procedures
set forth in the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et
seq., be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $500 plus the costs of
prosecution, including, but not limited to, all court costs and reasonable
attorney fees incurred by the township in enforcing the violation. Each day a
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense, and each provision
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   The penalties imposed under this division (B) shall be in addition
to any other penalty imposed by any other section of §§
34.030 through
34.035 or any other ordinance.
      (4)   The failure of any person to receive or procure forms required for
making the declaration or returns required by §§
34.030 through
34.035 shall not excuse him or her from making such declaration or return.
   (C)   Any person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with any of the
terms or provisions of § §
34.050 through
34.057 shall, upon conviction before the Magisterial District Judge or other
court of competent jurisdiction and in accordance with the procedures set forth
in the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. § § 65101 et seq., be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $500 plus the costs of prosecution,
including, but not limited to, all court costs and reasonable attorney fees
incurred by the township in enforcing the violation. Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense, and each provision violated
shall constitute a separate offense. These penalties are in addition to any
other penalties provided by law.
   (D)   Any person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with any of the
terms or provisions of §§
34.070 through
34.077 shall, upon conviction before the Magisterial District Judge or other
court of competent jurisdiction and in accordance with the procedures set forth
in the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $500 plus the costs of prosecution,
including, but not limited to, all court costs and reasonable attorney fees
incurred by the township in enforcing the violation. Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense, and each provision violated
shall constitute a separate offense. These penalties are in addition to any
other penalties provided by law.
(Ord. 26, passed 12-13-1967; Ord. 167, passed 12-14-2005)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE
      
51.   PUBLIC SEWERS
      
52.   PUBLIC WATER
      
53.   STREETS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      
54.   RIGHTS-OF-WAY MAINTENANCE
CHAPTER 50: MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE
Section
Municipal Waste Management
   
50.01   Short title; recycling
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Prohibited activities
   
50.04   Standards for collection and transportation
   
50.05   Disposal of refuse
   
50.06   Preparation of refuse for disposal
   
50.07   Collection practices
   
50.08   Registration requirements
   
50.09   Reporting requirements
Rubbish Disposal Dumps, Sanitary Landfills, Incinerators and the Like
   
50.20   Unlawful
   
50.21   Location
 
   
50.99   Penalty
MUNICIPAL WASTE MANAGEMENT
§ 50.01 SHORT TITLE; RECYCLING.
   This subchapter shall be known and referred to as the “Municipal Waste
Collection and Transportation Ordinance of Bedminster Township.”
(Ord. 185, passed 8-8-2007)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT 90. The Pennsylvania Waste Transportation Safety Act of 2002 (P.L.
596, No. 90, June 29, 2002).
      ACT 97. The Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management Act of 1980, 35 P.S. §§
6018.101 et seq., (P.L. 380, No. 97, July 7, 1980).
      ACT 101. The Pennsylvania Municipal Waste Planning, Recycling and Waste
Reduction Act of 1988 (Act 1988-101, July 28, 1988), as amended by Act 140 of
2006.
      APPROVED DISPOSAL SITE. Waste disposal facilities such as landfills or
trash-to-steam facilities which are licensed by and operated in accordance with
the laws and regulations of the commonwealth or the laws and regulations of the
state in which the disposal site is located.
      COLLECTOR or WASTE HAULER. Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
public agency who is engaged in the collection and/or transportation of
municipal waste and/or source-separated recyclable materials.
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment engaged in a nonmanufacturing
or nonprocessing business, including, but not limited to, stores, markets,
offices, restaurants, shopping centers and theaters.
      COUNTY. The County of Bucks, Pennsylvania.
      DISPOSAL. The deposition, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or
placing of solid waste into or on the land or water in a manner that the solid
waste or a constituent of the solid waste enters the environment, is emitted
into the air or is discharged to the waters of this commonwealth. DISPOSAL
FACILITIES include, but are not limited to, municipal waste landfills and
construction/demolition waste landfills as defined by Act 101, Act 97 and/or
PaDEP rules and regulations (25 Pa. Code Chapters 75 and 271).
      INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment engaged in manufacturing or
production activities, including, but not limited to, factories, foundries,
mills, processing plants, refineries, mines and slaughterhouses.
      INSTITUTIONAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment or facility engaged in
services, including, but not limited to, hospitals, nursing homes, schools and
universities.
      LEAF WASTE. Leaves, garden residues, shrubbery and tree trimmings, and
similar materials, but not including grass clippings.
      LICENSED COLLECTOR or LICENSED WASTE HAULER. A person who has written
authorization from the PaDEP under Act 90 to collect, haul, transport and
dispose of municipal waste.
      MUNICIPAL WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, industrial lunchroom or office
waste and other material including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained
gaseous material, resulting from operation of residential, municipal,
commercial or institutional establishments and from community activities, and
any sludge not meeting the definition of residual or hazardous waste under Act
97 from a municipal, commercial or institutional water supply treatment plant,
wastewater treatment plant, or air pollution control facility. The term does
not include any source-separated recyclable materials.
      MUNICIPALITY. Any of the 54 minor civil divisions in Bucks County,
Pennsylvania.
      PaDEP. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association,
institution, cooperative enterprise, municipality, municipal authority, federal
government or agency, state institution or agency or any other legal entity
recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties. In any provisions of
this subchapter prescribing a fine, imprisonment or penalty or any combination
of the foregoing, the term PERSON shall include the officers and directors of
any corporation or other legal entity having officers and directors.
      PROCESSING. Any technology used for the purpose of reducing the volume or
bulk of municipal or residual waste or any technology used to convert part or
all of such materials for off-site reuse. PROCESSING FACILITIES include, but
are not limited to, transfer facilities, recycling facilities, composting
facilities and resource recovery facilities.
      RECYCLING. The collection, separation, recovery and sale or reuse of
metals, glass, paper, leaf waste, plastics and other materials which would
otherwise be disposed or processed as municipal waste or the mechanized
separation and treatment of municipal waste (other than through combustion) and
creation and recovery of reusable materials other than a fuel for the
generation of energy.
      SCAVENGING. The unauthorized and uncontrolled removal of any material
stored or placed at a point for subsequent collection or from a processing or
disposal facility.
      SOURCE-SEPARATED RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Materials, including leaf waste,
that are separated from municipal waste at the point of origin or generation
for the purpose of recycling.
      TRANSPORTATION. The off-site removal of any municipal waste at any time
after generation.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the singular shall include the
plural and the masculine shall include the feminine and neuter.
(Ord. 185, passed 8-8-2007)
§ 50.03 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect and/or transport
municipal waste from any residential, public, commercial, industrial or
institutional establishment within the township without first securing written
authorization from the PaDEP in accordance with the provisions of Act 90.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, collect and/or transport
municipal waste or source-separated recyclable materials from any sources
within the township in a manner not in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter, any applicable municipal ordinance, the Revised County Plan, Act
90, Act 101, the minimum standards and requirements established in Chapter 285
of the PaDEP Municipal Waste Management Regulations, any applicable County
Department of Health regulations and/or any other federal, state or local
regulations.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to scavenge any material from any
municipal waste or source-separated recyclable materials that are stored or
placed for subsequent collection within the township without prior approval
from the municipality.
(Ord. 185, passed 8-8-2007) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 STANDARDS FOR COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   All collectors or waste haulers operating within the township must
comply with the minimum standards and regulations of this subchapter.
   (B)   All trucks or other vehicles used for collection and transportation of
municipal waste and/or source-separated recyclable materials must comply with
the applicable requirements of Act 90, Act 97, Act 101 and PaDEP regulations
adopted pursuant to Act 97 and Act 101, including the 25 Pa. Code Chapter 285,
Subchapter B regulations for the collection and transportation of municipal
waste.
   (C)   All collection vehicles conveying municipal waste and/or source-
separated recyclable materials shall be operated and maintained in a manner
that will prevent creation of a nuisance or a hazard to public health, safety
and welfare.
   (D)   All collection vehicles conveying putrescible municipal waste shall be
water-tight and suitably enclosed to prevent leakage, roadside littering,
attraction of vectors and the creation of odors and other nuisances.
   (E)   All collection vehicles conveying nonputrescible municipal waste and/
or source-separated recyclable materials shall be capable of being enclosed or
covered to prevent litter and other nuisances.
   (F)   All collection vehicles conveying municipal waste and/or source-
separated recyclable materials shall bear signs identifying the name and
business address of the person or municipality which owns the vehicle and the
specific type of material transported by the vehicle. All such signs shall have
lettering which is at least six inches in height as required by Act 101.
   (G)   All collection vehicles and equipment used by collectors or waste
haulers shall be subject to inspection by the township or its authorized agents
at any reasonable hour without prior notification.
(Ord. 185, passed 8-8-2007) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 DISPOSAL OF REFUSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to dump, destroy, burn or otherwise dispose of
refuse within the township, except at an approved disposal site. This
prohibition shall not extend to the composting of leaf waste.
   (B)   All refuse shall be deposited and disposed of at an approved disposal
site.
   (C)   All disposal regulations of the approved disposal site shall be
adhered to.
   (D)   All vehicles used for collection shall use, insofar as practical, only
state highways when proceeding to and from the approved disposal sites, except
when using roads or streets in the township where contracted to collect.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to dispose of live ashes, flammable liquids,
explosive substances, toxic chemicals or any other similar hazardous substances
in the township.
(Ord. 185, passed 8-8-2007) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 PREPARATION OF REFUSE FOR DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Refuse and recyclables shall be prepared as follows.
      (1)   Garbage shall be placed in suitable bags prior to depositing in
containers.
      (2)   All refuse shall be containerized or properly bundled so that it
may be handled by one man or woman.
      (3)   Recyclables other that leaf waste shall be separated at the curb
and containerized as required by the collector. Recyclables shall not be mixed
with municipal waste but shall be placed in separate containers for collection.
Recyclables required for collection by residential users and organizers of
community events shall include cardboard, aluminum, bi-metal, steel, corrugated
paper, newsprint, plastics, colored glass and clear glass. Commercial,
institutional and municipal users shall separate corrugated paper, newsprint,
office paper, aluminum and leaf waste.
      (4)   Leaf waste, including leaves, shrubbery, Christmas trees, tree
trimmings and similar vegetative materials shall be separated, prepared and
bundled as directed by the collector.
   (B)   Refuse containers shall be as follows.
      (1)   Refuse containers shall be made of durable, water-tight, rust-
resistant material, having close-fitting lids and handles to facilitate
collections.
      (2)   Refuse containers for residences shall be of not more than 32
gallons in capacity.
      (3)   Refuse containers for commercial establishments, except dumpsters,
shall not exceed 40 gallons in capacity.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to permit the accumulation or residue of liquids,
solids or a combination of such materials on the bottoms or sides of refuse
containers; the interiors of refuse containers shall be kept clean by thorough
rinsing and draining as often as necessary.
(Ord. 185, passed 8-8-2007) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Refuse containers shall, for the purpose of collection, be placed at
ground level and be made readily accessible to the collector.
   (B)   Notwithstanding §
50.06(A)(1), householders, commercial establishments or other persons may, by
contract with collectors, be permitted to place containers at agreed places
upon their premises.
   (C)   Collections shall be made from all properties throughout the township,
including all streets, accepted or otherwise, and including those streets that
are temporarily closed for repairs or construction. In the latter case, special
collection points shall be designated by the Board or its designee if the
condition of the street would prevent access thereto by the collector’s truck.
   (D)   All licensed collectors or licensed waste haulers shall offer to their
residential customers commingled recyclables collection service as a part of
the normal collection fee for residential trash collection. Recyclables
collection shall include, at a minimum, the following: cardboard; aluminum; bi-
metal; steel; corrugated paper; newsprint; plastics; colored glass; and clear
glass. Recyclables shall be collected from each residential customer at a
minimum of bi-weekly. All licensed collectors or haulers shall provide
collection of those recyclables designated in §
50.06(A)(3) from commercial, institutional and municipal establishments and
community activities. All recyclables shall be delivered to a recycling
facility as defined in Act 101 or shall be marketed by the hauler.
   (E)   Each licensed collector or waste hauler operating in the township
shall provide for at least one collection of leaves, garden residue and similar
vegetative materials monthly.
   (F)   Each licensed collector or waste hauler operating in the township
shall provide for at least one collection of shrubbery, tree trimmings and
similar vegetative materials monthly.
   (G)   Each licensed collector or waste hauler operating in the township
shall provide for at least one collection of Christmas trees between January 7
and January 31 of each year.
   (H)   The licensed collector or waste hauler shall collect garbage, paper,
ashes, trash, rubbish, recyclables, leaf waste, shrubbery, Christmas trees,
tree trimmings and similar vegetative materials throughout the township on
routes and according to schedules approved by the Board or its designee.
   (I)   Collections shall not be made on the following holidays: New Year’s
Day; Memorial Day; Independence Day; Labor Day; Thanksgiving Day; or Christmas
Day.
   (J)   Collections shall be made at those hours mutually agreed upon between
the authorized collector and the Board or its designee. Hours agreed upon shall
be so indicated within the collection contracts.
   (K)   All routes, schedules and traffic of collection trucks upon streets
and highways shall be subject to the approval of the Board or its designee. No
change in the service area or schedules shall be made unless the Board or its
designee and all affected customers receive at least two weeks’ written notice.
   (L)   The licensed collector or waste hauler shall, on scheduled routes,
cooperate with special cleanup drives or weeks as may be promulgated by the
township, which shall not exceed two in number in any one year. In addition
thereto, upon request, the authorized collector shall provide a separate and
special collection on a day or days as may be required in order to collect
abandoned Christmas trees.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any refuse or other
waste material at the roadside for collection more that 24 hours prior to the
time prescribed by collectors or to leave any refuse containers at the roadside
for more than 24 hours after collection of such refuse or other waste material.
   (N)   Notwithstanding the collection requirements for vegetative materials
set forth in §
50.06(A)(4) above, if the township maintains, now or in the future, a drop-off
location in or near the municipality where residents and commercial,
industrial, and municipal establishments are provided the opportunity, at least
weekly, to drop off leaf waste, the collections mandated by divisions (E) and
(F) above may be reduced as allowed by Act 140.
(Ord. 185, passed 8-8-2007) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall collect, or remove any municipal waste from within the
township without first obtaining written authorization from PaDEP in accordance
with the provisions of Act 90 and providing a copy of such written
authorization to the township. This section shall not apply to private
individuals (e.g., homeowners) who wish to transport their own household waste
to PADEP-approved facilities or recyclables to appropriate recycling centers,
nor to farmers, landscapers or nurserymen, who collect, remove, haul or
otherwise, transport agricultural or other organic waste associated with their
respective business activities.
   (B)   For a collector or waste hauler to collect and transport municipal
waste within the township, a collector or waste hauler shall submit a
registration form to the township which shall include a copy of their state
issued written authorization, and a copy of their municipal and residual waste
transporter authorization application (DEP form 2500-PM-BWM0015) along with any
information that may be deemed appropriate by the municipality.
   (C)   Any person who fails to satisfy the minimum standards and requirements
of this subchapter or is in violation of the provisions of this subchapter may
not lawfully collect municipal waste or source-separated material in the
township.
   (D)   All licensed collectors and licensed waste haulers shall meet the
requirements of Act 90, Act 97, Act 101, the county municipal waste management
plan, and all PaDEP rules and regulations (25 Pa. Code Chapter 285).
(Ord. 185, passed 8-8-2007) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All licensed collectors and licensed waste haulers and collectors and
haulers of source-separated recyclable materials operating within the township
shall participate in the county municipal recycling documentation program. The
program will provide a system for documenting the origin of municipal waste and
source-separated recyclable material by municipality and the ultimate disposal
point of said waste and recyclables. Each licensed collector and licensed waste
hauler and collectors and haulers of source-separated recyclable materials
operating in the township shall prepare and submit an annual report to the
municipality on the official collectors and haulers recyclables documentation
reporting form. The report shall be submitted by the PaDEP licensed collector
or licensed waste hauler and collectors and haulers of source-separated
recyclable materials to the township by January 31 of each year and include all
of the required information pertaining to the preceding calendar year.
   (B)   All annual reports submitted to the municipality from licensed
collectors and licensed waste haulers and collectors and haulers of source-
separated recyclable materials shall be combined into a single report and
submitted by the municipality on the official municipal recyclables
documentation reporting form to the county by February 28 of the year following
the reporting period.
(Ord. 185, passed 8-8-2007) Penalty, see §
50.99
RUBBISH DISPOSAL DUMPS, SANITARY LANDFILLS, INCINERATORS AND THE LIKE
§ 50.20 UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, co-partnership or corporation to use or
occupy any premises as or for a rubbish disposal dump, garbage disposal dump,
sanitary landfill, incineration plant or other similar use within the township,
whereby any noxious or offensive odors, putrid or polluted water or other
discharge, smoke, soot, ash, refuse, rubbish or filth of any nature whatever is
blown, carried or discharged in any manner into the public roads or upon the
premises of other persons, co-partnerships or corporations. The use or
occupation of any premises within the township in a manner so as to violate the
provisions of this section is hereby declared to constitute a nuisance per se.
(Ord. 8, passed 7-6-1963) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 LOCATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, co-partnership or corporation to
dispose, keep, place or store, or permit to be disposed, kept, placed or stored
on any premises whatever, any rubbish, garbage, ashes, manure or refuse of any
kind whatever within 100 feet of the cartway of any public road, or within 100
feet of any creek or stream, or within 100 feet of any premises of any other
person, co-partnership or corporation. The use or occupation of any premises
within the township in a manner so as to violate the provisions of this section
is hereby declared to constitute a nuisance per se.
(Ord. 8, passed 7-6-1963) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
50.01 through
50.09 shall, upon conviction before the Magisterial District Judge or other
court of competent jurisdiction and in accordance with the procedures set forth
in the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $1,000 per day during which such
violation shall continue, plus all court costs and reasonable attorney fees
incurred by the township in enforcing the violation. Each day that a violation
of §§
50.01 through
50.09 continues shall constitute a separate offense, and each section of §§
50.01 through
50.09 found to have been violated shall constitute a separate offense. For
purposes of this division (B), the doing of any act or thing prohibited by any
provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.09, or the failure to do any act or thing as to which any provision of §§
50.01 through
50.09 creates any affirmative duty, shall constitute a violation punishable as
herein stated. Licensed collectors and licensed waste haulers who shall violate
any provision §§
50.01 through
50.09 may be reported to the Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) by
the township and may be subject to the revocation of the state authorization to
transport municipal waste, as described in Act 90.
      (2)   The township may petition the County Court of Common Pleas for an
injunction, either mandatory or prohibitive, in order to enforce any of the
provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.09.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, co-partnership or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §§
50.20 and
50.21 shall, upon summary proceeding brought in the name of the township before
any Magisterial District Judge, be fined upon conviction in an amount not
exceeding $300, or in default thereof be sentenced and committed to the county
jail for a period not exceeding 30 days.
      (2)   The township may institute proceedings in equity for the purpose of
enforcing the provisions of §§
50.20 and
50.21.
(Ord. 8, passed 7-6-1963; Ord. 185, passed 8-8-2007)
CHAPTER 51: PUBLIC SEWERS
Section
Commercial and Industrial Connections to the Public Sewage System
   
51.001   Purpose and policy
   
51.002   Administration
   
51.003   Definitions
   
51.004   Abbreviations and acronyms
   
51.005   General discharge prohibitions and standards
   
51.006   Specific prohibitions
   
51.007   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
51.008   State requirements
   
51.009   Authority’s right of revision
   
51.010   Dilution
   
51.011   Accidental discharges
   
51.012   Local limits
   
51.013   Pretreatment facilities
   
51.014   Additional pretreatment measures
   
51.015   Accidental discharge/slug control plans
   
51.016   Hauled wastewater
   
51.017   Wastewater dischargers
   
51.018   Wastewater analysis
   
51.019   Wastewater discharge permit requirement
   
51.020   Wastewater discharge permitting; existing connections
   
51.021   Wastewater discharge permitting; new connections
   
51.022   Wastewater discharge permit applications contents
   
51.023   Application signatories and certification
   
51.024   Wastewater discharge permit decisions
   
51.025   Wastewater discharge permit duration
   
51.026   Wastewater discharge permit contents
   
51.027   Wastewater discharge permit appeals
   
51.028   Wastewater discharge permit modification
   
51.029   Wastewater discharge permit transfer
   
51.030   Wastewater discharge permit revocation
   
51.031   Wastewater discharge permit reissuance
   
51.032   Baseline monitoring reports
   
51.033   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
51.034   Report on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
51.035   Periodic compliance reports
   
51.036   Reports of changed conditions
   
51.037   Reports of potential problems
   
51.038   Reports from unpermitted users
   
51.039   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
51.040   Analytical requirements
   
51.041   Sample collection
   
51.042   Timing
   
51.043   Recordkeeping
   
51.044   Notification of discharge of hazardous waste
   
51.045   Compliance monitoring
   
51.046   Confidential information
   
51.047   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
   
51.048   Administrative enforcement remedies
   
51.049   Judicial enforcement remedies; injunctive relief
   
51.050   Supplemental enforcement action
   
51.051   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
   
51.052   Fees
   
51.053   Remedies
Private Sewer Service Laterals
   
51.065   Recitals
   
51.066   Definitions
   
51.067   Inspections
   
51.068   Results of inspections
   
51.069   Replacement of clay laterals
   
51.070   Maintenance, repair and replacement of clean-outs
   
51.071   Authority rules and regulations
   
51.072   Violations
   
51.073   Remedies
Connections to the Public Sewage Systems
   
51.085   Definitions
   
51.086   Requirement to connect to public sewer
   
51.087   Notice to owner
   
51.088   Authority or township may make connections and collect costs
   
51.089   Owners required to connect upon expansion of system
   
51.090   Access to premises by agents
   
51.091   Building sewers and connections
   
51.092   Costs and expenses
   
51.093   Place of connection
   
51.094   Authority rules and regulations
   
51.095   Prohibition on unauthorized connections
   
51.096   Permit required to open or disturb sewer
   
51.097   Sewer permit fees
   
51.098   Owner responsible for connection costs
   
51.099   Separate connections required; exception
   
51.100   Status of old building sewers
   
51.101   Material and specification for sewer pipes and joints
   
51.102   Size and slope of building sewer
   
51.103   Elevation, grade and depth of building sewer
   
51.104   Discharge by artificial means when gravity flow insufficient
   
51.105   Excavations for building sewer
   
51.106   Joints and connections
   
51.107   Connection of building sewer to public sewage system
   
51.108   Notification prior to connection
   
51.109   Safety and warning facilities
   
51.110   Imposition of sewer rental charges
   
51.111   Payment of charges; penalty for late payment
   
51.112   Unpaid charges constitutes lien
Inspections of Sewer Laterals
   
51.125   Definitions
   
51.126   Protection of public health, safety and welfare
   
51.127   Purpose of subchapter
   
51.128   Requirement for lateral inspection connected to public sewer
   
51.129   Notice from owner
   
51.130   Costs of lateral inspection
   
51.131   Authority permit
   
51.132   Inflow and infiltration and/or damage to laterals
   
51.133   Access to premises by agents
   
51.134   Costs and expenses
   
51.135   Authority rules and regulations
   
51.136   Prohibition on transfer or conveyance of improved property connected
to public sewage system without a lateral inspection permit
Sewage Grinder Pumps
   
51.150   Definitions
   
51.151   Planning requirements
   
51.152   Powers of the authority and township
   
51.153   Duties and responsibilities of the authority and township
   
51.154   Maintenance agreements
   
51.155   Rules and regulations
   
51.156   Connection in compliance with rules and regulations
   
51.157   No responsibility of authority or township
   
51.158   Duties and responsibilities of others
   
51.159   Responsibility of property owner
   
51.160   Shared low-pressure force main or lateral
   
51.161   Abatement of nuisances
   
51.162   Rules and regulations to be in conformity with applicable law
 
   
51.999   Penalty
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL CONNECTIONS TO THE PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM
§ 51.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This subchapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the
wastewater collection system of the authority and enables the authority to
comply with all applicable state and federal laws required by the Clean Water
Act of 1977, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and the general pretreatment
regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
systems of this authority that will interfere with the operation of the system
or contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
systems which will pass through the system, inadequately treated, into
receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system;
      (3)   To protect the authority’s publicly owned treatment works personnel
who may be affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment
and the general public;
      (4)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reuse industrial
wastewaters and sludge from the system;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance and improvement of the POTW’s wastewater systems; and
      (6)   To enable the authority POTW to comply with its national pollutant
discharge elimination system permit conditions, sludge use and disposal
requirements and any other federal or state laws to which the authority’s
publicly owned treatment works is subject.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.002 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   This subchapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain nondomestic users and through enforcement of general requirements
for users; authorizes monitoring, compliance and enforcement activities;
requires user reporting; assumes that existing customer’s capacity will not be
preempted; and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution
of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the authority, as the “control
authority” shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
subchapter. The control authority shall administer this subchapter according to
the provisions of 40 C.F.R. part 403, § 403.8(f), with respect to program
development and implementation by the POTW.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Regional Administrator of the EPA.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   Includes:
         (a)   If the user is a corporation:
            1.   The president, secretary, treasurer or vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision making functions for the corporation; or
            2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operation facilities, if authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
         (b)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively; and
         (c)   If the user is a federal, state or local governmental facility:
a director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility or its designee.
      (2)   The individuals described in divisions (1)(a), (1)(b) and (1)(c)
above may designate another AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization is
in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible
for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates
or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company and
the written authorization is submitted to the authority.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. Schedules of activities, prohibition of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) and (b). BMPs also include
treatment requirements, operating procedures and practices to control plant
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal or drainage from raw
materials storage. The control authority, at its sole discretion, may develop
BMPs to comply with 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(c)(1) and (2). Such BMPs shall be
considered local limits and pretreatment standards for the purposes of 40
C.F.R. part 403 and § 307(d) of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
The control authority, at its sole discretion, may allow a user to implement
BMPs to meet the prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
Noncompliance with BMPs shall be considered exceeding permit limits and
enforcement will be implemented in accordance with the steps shown for
discharge limit violations in the summary of enforcement response procedures.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
for five days at 20°C expressed in terms of concentration (milligrams per liter
(mg/l)).
   BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user to
the POTW.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS or CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. National
categorical pretreatment standards, being any regulation heretofore or
hereafter adopted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, being
any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which apply to a
specific category of users and which now appear or hereafter appear in 40
C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N.
   CONTRIBUTING JURISDICTION. Bedminster Township.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. Bedminster municipal authority.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the state.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The United States Environmental
Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a
designation for the Administrator or other duly authorized official of said
agency, including the Regional Water Management Division Director.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication by EPA of proposed categorical
pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to such source if the standard
is thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307 of the Act.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to
exceed 15 minutes.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of
pollution from any nondomestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c) or (d) of
the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) into the POTW (including holding tank waste
discharge into the system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute a
“discharge of pollutants” under regulations issued pursuant to § 402 of the
Act. In addition, INDUSTRIAL USER shall also be defined as an establishment
which discharges or introduces industrial wastes into the POTW.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The meaning ascribed to it in the Act of June 22, 1937
(P.L. 1987, No. 394), known as the Clean Stream Law. See 35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et
seq. and the regulations adopted thereunder.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum concentration
of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the
analysis of any discrete or composited sample collected, independent of the
industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, causes the inhibition or disruption of the POTW
treatment process or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefore is the cause of a violation of the authority’s POTW’s NPDES permits
or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of
the following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder or
any more stringent state or local regulations: § 405 of the Act; the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.; any state
regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to
Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; 42 U.S.C. §§
7651 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the Marine Protection,
Research and Sanctuaries Act.
   MAY. Permissive.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation heretofore or
hereafter adopted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
containing any pollutant discharge limits heretofore or hereafter promulgated
by the EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317)
which applies to a specific category of industrial users, as set forth in 40
C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.
Any regulation developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act and 40
C.F.R. § 403.5.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of the proposed pretreatment standards pursuant to the §
307(c) of the Act, which will be applicable to such source if the standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source is totally replaced; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes are
substantially independent of an existing source at the same site. In
determining whether these are substantially independent, factors such as the
extent to which the new facility is integrated with the existing plan and the
extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same general type of
activity as the existing source should be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of divisions (1)(b) or (1)(c) above, but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE, as defined under this section, has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work, including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial losses and contracts for
feasibility, engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual
obligation under this definition.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into the waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of the
authority’s POTW’s national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES)
permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint-stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution; a measure of the
acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged soil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or
discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, industrial, municipal and
agricultural wastes and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH,
temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor).
   POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological and radiological integrity of water.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration
can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes or by other
means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by
an applicable pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, imposed on a user. Any
substantive or procedural provision of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
(62 Stat. 115, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) or the Act of June 22, 1937 (P.L.
1987, No. 394), known as the Clean Streams Law. See 35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq. or
any rule or regulation, ordinance or term or condition of a permit or order
adopted or issued by the commonwealth or a POTW for the implementation or
enforcement of an industrial waste pretreatment program established under the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act or the Clean Streams Law.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Prohibited discharge standards, categorical
pretreatment standards and local limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
51.005.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is operated by the authority. This
definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW treatment
plan but does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not connected to a
facility providing treatment. For the purposes of this subchapter, POTW shall
also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons
outside the township who are, by contract or agreement with the authority,
users of the authority’s POTW. This definition includes any devices or systems
used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of sewage
or industrial wastes of a liquid nature and any conveyances which convey
wastewater to a treatment plant.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations and the like).
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
      (2)   A user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day (gpd) or more of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the control authority on the basis that
it has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or
for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (3)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in division (2)
above has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation
or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the authority may at
any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from a
user and in accordance with procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6), determine
that such user should not be considered a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. An industrial user is in SIGNIFICANT
NONCOMPLIANCE if its violation meets one or more of the specific criteria set
forth in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(2)(viii). For purposes of this definition, and
industrial user is in SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE if its violation meets one or
more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all of wastewater measurements taken during a
six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or
requirement, including instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3
(1);
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of all of wastewater measurements for each pollutant
parameter taken during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits,
as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1) multiplied by the applicable criterion (1.4
for BOD, CBOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease and 1.2 for all other pollutants
except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1) (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit or narrative standard) that the control authority
determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass-through (including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public health and welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the
POTW’s exercise of its emergency authority under of this subchapter to halt or
prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained wastewater discharge permit or in an
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include
violation of best management practices, which the POTW determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
   SLUG DISCHARGE. Any pollutant release in a discharge at a flow rate or
concentration which will cause a violation of the specific discharge
prohibitions in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(b) and/or any discharge of non-routine
nature, episodic nature, including, but not limited to, accidental spills or
non-customary batch discharges, which has a reasonable potential to cause
interference or pass through, or in any other way violate the POTW’s
regulations, prohibited discharge standards in this subchapter, local limits or
NPDES permit conditions.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the United States Office of
Management and Budget.
   STATE. The State of Pennsylvania.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom, including snow melt.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the authority to supervise the
operation of the publicly owned treatment works.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of
or is suspended in water, wastewater or other liquids and which is removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOWNSHIP. Bedminster Township or the Board of Supervisors of Bedminster
Township.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency under the provision of CWA § 307(a) or other Acts.
   USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the
indirect discharge of wastewater into the authority’s POTWs.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial and domestic wastes and
sewage from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed
into or permitted to enter the authority’s POTWs.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the
authority’s POTW which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and
industrial waste.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.004 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS.
   The following abbreviations or acronyms shall have the designated meanings:
AO     Administrative order
BAT    Best available treatment
BATEA  Best available technology economically achievable
BCT    Best control technology
BMP    Best management practices
BMR    Baseline monitoring report
B/N    Base/neutral
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
BPJ    Best professional judgment
BPT    Best professional technology
CERCLA Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
CIU    Categorical industrial user
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
CSO    Combined sewer overflow
CWA    Clean Water Act
CWF    Combined waste stream formula
DMR    Discharge monitoring report
DSS    Domestic sewage study
EMS    Enforcement management system
EP     Extraction procedure
EPA    Environmental Protection Agency of the United States
FDF    Fundamentally different factor
FOV    Finding of violation
FOG    Fats, oil and grease
FR     Federal Register
FTE    Full-time equivalent
FWA    Flow-weighted averaging
FWPCA  Federal Water Pollution Control Act
GC/MS  Gas chromatograph/mass spectrophotometry
gpd    Gallons per day
I+I    Infiltration and inflow
IU     Industrial user
IWS    Industrial waste survey
MAHL   Maximum allowable headworks loading
MGD    Million gallons per day
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
MOU    Memorandum of understanding
MSDS   Material safety data sheet
NIOSH  National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health
NMP    National Municipal Policy
NPDES  National pollutant discharge elimination system
NON    Notice of noncompliance
NOV    Notice of violation
O&G    Oil and grease
O&M    Operations and maintenance
OCPSF  Organic chemicals, plastics and synthetic fibers
OSHA   Occupational Safety and Health Administration
OWEC   Office of Water Enforcement and Compliance
PAD    Proportioned actual domestic flow
PAH    Polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons
PAI    Proportioned actual industrial flow
PASS   Pretreatment audit summary system
PCB    Polychlorinated biphenols
PCI    Pretreatment compliance inspection
PCME   Pretreatment compliance monitoring and enforcement
PCS    Permit compliance system
PIRT   Pretreatment Implementation Review Task Force
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
ppb    Parts per billion
ppd    Pounds per day
PPETS  Pretreatment permits enforcement tracking system
ppm    Parts per million
PQR    Permit quality review
PSES   Pretreatment standards for existing sources
PSNS   Pretreatment standards for new sources
QA/QC  Quality assurance/quality control
QNCR   Quarterly noncompliance report
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
RNC    Reportable noncompliance
SARA   Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act
SIC    Standard industrial classification
SIU    Significant industrial user
SMP    Solvent management plan
SNC    Significant noncompliance
SPCC   Spill prevention control and countermeasures
SPMS   Strategic planning and management system
STLC   Soluble threshold limit concentration
STP    Sewage treatment plant
SUO    Sewer use ordinance
SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act
TCLP   Toxicity characteristic leachate procedure
TDS    Total dissolved solids
TICH   Total identifiable chlorinated hydrocarbons
TOMP   Toxic organic management plan
TRC    Technical review criteria
TRE    Toxicity reduction evaluations
TSS    Total suspended solids
TTLC   Total threshold limit concentration
TTO    Total toxic organics
U.S.C. United States Code
VOA    Volatile organic analysis
VOC    Volatile organic compounds
VSS    Volatile suspended solids
WENDB  Water Enforcement National Data Base
WQA    Water Quality Act
WQS    Water quality standards
WWTP   Wastewater treatment plant
 
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.005 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS AND STANDARDS.
   No user shall contribute, introduce or cause to be contributed or
introduced, directly or indirectly, into the authority’s wastewater collection
system, including the authority’s POTW, any pollutant or wastewater which
causes pass-through or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all
users of the POTW whether or not the user is subject to categorical
pretreatment standards or any other national, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.006 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the authority’s
wastewater collection system, including the authority’s POTW, the following
pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the text methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or more than 10.0 or otherwise
causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference (but in no case solids
greater than one-half inch in any dimension);
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, COD and the
like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the POTW;
      (5)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 104°F (40°C) or which
will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (6)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the control authority in accordance with this subchapter;
      (9)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      (10)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating the authority’s NPDES permits;
      (11)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (12)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the control authority;
      (13)   Sludge, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (14)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the control
authority;
      (15)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the POTW’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (16)   Detergents, surface-active agents, phosphates or other substances
which may cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
      (17)   Fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l;
      (18)   Wastewater causing two readings on an explosion hazard meter at
the point of discharge into the POTW or at any point in the POTW of more than
5% or any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive limit of the meter;
      (19)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES and/
or state disposal system permit or the receiving water quality standards;
      (20)   In no case shall a slug load have a flow rate or contain
concentration or qualities of pollutants that exceed any time period longer
than 15 minutes or contain more than five times the average 24-hour
concentration of flow during normal operation or otherwise constitutes a slug
discharge; and
      (21)   The discharge of toxic or hazardous wastes, as defined in the Act
or RCRA.
   (B)   When the control authority determines that a user(s) is contributing
to the POTW any of the above-enumerated substances in such amounts as to
interfere with the operation of the POTW, the control authority shall advise
the township and the user(s) of the impact of the contribution on the POTW;
develop effluent limitation(s) for such user to correct the interference with
the POTW; and proceed with enforcement pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section shall
not be processed or stored in a manner that they could be discharged to the
POTW.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.007 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   The categorical pretreatment standards now found or hereafter found at 40
C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N, are hereby incorporated in this subchapter by
reference as though set forth in full and shall apply to significant industrial
users, including categorical industrial users.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
authority may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the authority shall
impose an alternate limit using the combined waste stream formula in 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions of
40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by the EPA when developing the
categorical pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.008 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this subchapter.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.009 AUTHORITY’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The authority reserves the right to establish by ordinance more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the wastewater disposal system if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
51.001.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.010 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The control
authority may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to meet
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements or in other cases when the
imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.011 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Generally. Each user shall provide protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this
subchapter. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner or user’s own cost and expense.
Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this
protection shall be submitted to the control authority and the township for
review and shall be approved by the control authority under the terms of this
subchapter and by the township under other applicable ordinances before
construction of the facility. No user shall be permitted to introduce
pollutants into the system until accidental discharge procedures have been
approved by the control authority and the township. Review and approval of such
plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the industrial user from the
responsibility to modify the user’s facility as necessary to meet the
requirements of this subchapter. In the case of an accidental discharge, it is
the responsibility of the user to immediately notify the control authority and
the township of the incident. The notification shall include location of
discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume and corrective actions.
   (B)   Written notice. Within five days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the control authority and the township a detailed
written report describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be
taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification
shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability
which may be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills or any
other damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the
user of any fines, civil penalties or other liability which may be imposed by
this subchapter or other applicable law.
   (C)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of an accidental discharge. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such an accidental discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedures.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.012 LOCAL LIMITS.
   Local limits shall be established by the control authority by ordinance. The
local limits shall be on a uniform concentration limit basis or selected
reductions for specific industrial users. The pollutant limits established by
the local limits are established to protect against pass-through and
interference. No person shall discharge wastewater containing in excess of
instantaneous maximum allowable discharge limits as established by authority
ordinance. The local limits as established by the control authority ordinance
shall apply at the point where the wastewater is discharged to the POTW. All
concentrations for metallic substances are for “total” metal unless indicated
otherwise. The control authority may impose mass limitations in addition to or
in place of the concentration-based limitations.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.013 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with
this subchapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out in §§
51.005 and
51.006 within the time limitations specified by the EPA, the state or the
control authority, whichever is more stringent.
   (B)   Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated
and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities
and operating procedures shall be submitted to the control authority and the
township for review and shall be acceptable to the control authority and the
township before such facilities are constructed.
   (C)   The review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying such facilities as
necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the control authority under the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.014 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the control authority may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste
streams and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and
determine the user’s compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   The control authority may require any person discharging into the POTW
to install and maintain, on his or her property and at his or her expense, a
suitable storage and flow control facility to ensure equation of flow. A
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (C)   (1)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided by the user
when, in the opinion of the control authority, they are necessary for the
proper handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil or
sand; except that such interceptors shall not be required for residential
users.
      (2)   All interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by
the control authority and the township and shall be so located to be easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected,
cleaned and repaired regularly, as needed, by the user at their expense.
   (D)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.015 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   At least once every two years, the control authority shall evaluate
whether each significant industrial user needs an accidental discharge/slug
control plan. The control authority may require any user to develop, submit for
approval and implement such a plan. Alternatively, the control authority may
develop such a plan for any user.
   (B)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the control authority and the
township of any accidental or slug discharge, as required by this subchapter;
and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.016 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the control authority and at such times as are established by the
control authority. Such waste shall not violate this subchapter or any other
requirements established by the control authority. The control authority may
require septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   The control authority shall require haulers of industrial waste to
obtain wastewater discharge permits. The control authority may require
generators of hauled industrial waste to apply for wastewater discharge
permits. The control authority may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial
waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other
requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designed by the control authority. No load may be discharged without prior
written consent of the control authority. The control authority may collect
samples of each hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The
control authority may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste
analysis of any load prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste and volume and characteristics of waste. The form
shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste constituents and
whether any wastes are RCRA hazard wastes.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.017 WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge within any area under the jurisdiction of
the authority and/or to the POTW any wastewater except as authorized by the
control authority in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, subject
to state and federal laws and regulations.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.018 WASTEWATER ANALYSIS.
   When requested by the control authority and with just cause, a user must
submit information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within
30 days of the request. The control authority is authorized to prepare a form
for this purpose and may periodically require users to update this information.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.019 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the control
authority. A permitted user may discharge for the time period specified in the
permit.
   (B)   The control authority may require other users to obtain wastewater
discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter and subjects the
wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in this subchapter.
Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of its
obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or
requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state and local law.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.020 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING; EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who was
discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
subchapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future shall,
within 30 days after said date, apply to the control authority for a wastewater
discharge permit in accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   Said user shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue
after 30 days of the effective date of this subchapter except in accordance
with a wastewater discharge permit issued by the control authority.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING; NEW CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who proposes
to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit from
the control authority prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge.
   (B)   An application for this wastewater discharge permit, in accordance
with this subchapter, must be filed at least 90 days prior to the date upon
which any discharge will begin or recommence.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.022 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATIONS CONTENTS.
   (A)   Users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall complete
and file with the control authority, and with a copy to the township, an
application in the form prescribed in this subchapter. The control authority
may require all users to submit as part of an application the following
information:
      (1)   All information required by §§
51.032 through
51.044;
      (2)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are or could accidentally or intentionally be discharged to
the POTW;
      (3)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation and proposed and
actual hours of operation;
      (4)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (5)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, floor drains and appurtenances by size, location and
elevation and all points of discharge;
      (7)   Time and duration of discharges;
      (8)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics sampling and analysis
shall be performed in accordance with § 304(g) of the Act and 40 C.F.R. part
136, as amended; and
      (9)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the control
authority and the township to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit
application.
   (B)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.023 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATION.
   All wastewater discharge permit applications and user reports must be signed
by an authorized representative of the user and contain the following
certification statement:
“I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.024 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DECISIONS.
   The control authority will evaluate the data furnished by the user, in
consultation with the township, and may require additional information. Within
60 days of receipt of a complete wastewater discharge permit application, the
control authority will determine whether or not to issue a wastewater discharge
permit. The control authority may deny any application for a wastewater
discharge permit, which does not comply with the requirements of this
subchapter or applicable federal and state statutes and regulations.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.025 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DURATION.
   A wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years from the effective date of the permit. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued for a period less than five years, at the
discretion of the control authority. Each wastewater discharge permit will
indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.026 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT CONTENTS.
   A wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the control authority to prevent pass-through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration,
which in no event shall exceed five years;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the control authority and the township in
accordance with §§
51.027 and
51.029 and provisions for furnishing the new owners or operator with a copy of
the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits based on applicable pretreatment standards;
      (4)   Self monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and
recordkeeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law; and
      (5)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state or local law.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited to,
the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of SPCC plans
or other special conditions, including management practices necessary to
adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated or non-routine discharges;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
      (8)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the control authority,
after consultation with the township, to ensure compliance with this subchapter
and state and federal laws, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.027 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPEALS.
   (A)   The control authority shall provide public notice of the issuance of a
wastewater discharge permit.
   (B)   Any person, including the user, may petition the control authority to
reconsider the terms of a wastewater discharge permit within 30 days of notice
of its issuance.
      (1)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to
be a waiver of the administrative appeal.
      (2)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection and the
alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater discharge
permit.
      (3)   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
      (4)   If the control authority fails to act within 30 days, a request for
reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider a
wastewater discharge permit, not to issue a wastewater discharge permit or not
to modify a wastewater discharge permit shall be considered final
administrative actions for purposes of judicial review.
      (5)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final
administrative wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by filing a
complaint with the Court of Common Pleas of the county within 30 days of the
final administrative wastewater discharge permit decision.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.028 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   The control authority may modify a wastewater discharge permit for good
cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   (C)   A change in the POTW or its NPDES permit that requires either a
temporary or permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the POTW, township or control authority personnel or the receiving waters;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13;
   (H)   To correct typographical or other efforts in the wastewater discharge
permit; and
   (I)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner or operator.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.029 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a
specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or
changed operation without approval of the control authority and the township.
Any succeeding owner or user shall also comply with the terms and conditions of
the existing permit, as well as any additional terms and conditions which may
be required, as a result of the proposed transfer.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or
operator only if the permittee gives at least 90 days’ advance notice to the
control authority and the township and the control authority approves the
wastewater discharge permit transfer. The notice to the control authority must
include a written certification by the new owner or operator which:
      (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent
to change the facility’s operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur;
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit; and
      (4)   A completed application pursuant to §§
51.026 and
51.027.
   (C)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the wastewater
discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.030 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The control authority may revoke a wastewater discharge permit for
good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the control authority and the township of
significant changes to the wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to the control authority and
the township of changed conditions pursuant to §
51.036;
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the control authority or his or her designated
representative or the township timely access to the facility premises and
records;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (12)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; and
      (13)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement or any terms
of the wastewater discharge permit or this subchapter.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business ownership. All wastewater discharge permits
issued to a particular user are void upon the issuance of a new wastewater
discharge permit to that user.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.031 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   A user with an expiring wastewater discharge permit shall apply for
wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit
application, in accordance with §§
51.026 and
51.027, a minimum of 90 days prior to the expiration of user’s existing
wastewater discharge permit. It is the responsibility of the user to request a
permit application form no less than 120 days prior to the expiration of the
existing permit. The application shall include calibration reports on flow
monitoring devices used during the term of the prior permit.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.032 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the control authority and the township a report which
contains the information listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior
to commencement of their discharge, new sources and sources that become
categorical users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical
standard shall submit to the control authority and the township a report which
contains the information listed in division (B) below. A new source shall
report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable
categorical standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner;
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility;
      (3)   Description operations. A brief description of the nature, average
rate of production and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s)
carried out by such user. This description should include a schematic process
diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated
processes;
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e). Flow measuring devices shall be
approved by the control authority prior to installation. The flow measuring
device shall be compatible with the process involved and shall be accurate. All
flow measuring devices shall be calibrated semiannually, which calibration
report shall be included as part of the permit application.
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process;
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the control
authority, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process. Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average concentrations or
mass, where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of
daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
§
51.040; and
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
51.041.
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s authorized
representative and certified to by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, whether
additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is
required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
division (B)(7) must meet the requirements set out in §
51.033; and
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
51.023.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.033 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the schedule required by §
51.032(B)(7).
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments (milestones) in the
form of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to
the construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user
to meet the applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not
limited to, hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans,
executing contracts for major components, commencing and completing
construction and beginning and conducting routine operation).
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed six months.
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the control authority and
the township no later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the
final date for compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied
with the increment of progress, the reason for any delay and, if appropriate,
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the established
schedule.
   (D)   In no event shall more than one month elapse between such progress
reports to the control authority and the township.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.034 REPORT ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the control
authority and the township a report containing the information described in §
51.032(B)(4) through (B)(6). For users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-
term production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
51.023.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.035 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the control authority but in no case less than quarterly, submit a report to
the control authority and the township indicating the nature and concentration
of pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and
the measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting
period. All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with §
51.023.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of the user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (C)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the control authority,
using the procedures prescribed in §
51.041, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.036 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Each user must notify the control authority and the township of any
planned significant changes to the user’s operations or system which might
alter the nature, quality or volume of its wastewater at least 90 days before
the change.
   (B)   The control authority or the township may require the user to submit
such information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition,
including the submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
51.022.
   (C)   The control authority may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
51.024 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
51.028 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (D)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow increases of 20% or greater and the discharge of any
previously unreported pollutants.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.037 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge or a slug load, that may cause potential problems for
the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the control authority
and the township of the incident. This notification shall include the location
of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and
collective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall submit a
detailed written report to the township and control authority describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this subchapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause such a discharge to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.038 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   When just cause exists, all users not required to obtain a wastewater
discharge permit shall provide appropriate reports to the control authority as
the control authority may require.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.039 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
the control authority and the township within 24 hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
result of the repeat analysis to the control authority and the township within
30 days after becoming aware of the violation. The user is not required to
resample if the control authority monitors at the user’s facility at least once
a month or if the control authority samples between the user’s initial sample
and when the user receives the results of this sampling.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.040 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All pollutant analyses, including sample techniques, to be submitted
as a part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be
performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136,
unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard.
   (B)   If 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical
techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be
performed in accordance with procedures approved by EPA.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.041 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   Except as indicated in division (B) below, the user must collect wastewater
samples using flow proportional composite collection techniques. In the event
that flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the control authority may
authorize the use of time proportional sampling or a minimum of four grab
samples where the user demonstrates that this will provide a representative
sample of the effluent being discharged. In addition, grab samples may be
required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits. Samples for
oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols, sulfides and volatile
organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection techniques.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.042 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States postal service, the date or receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.043 RECORDKEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this subchapter shall retain
and make available for inspection and copying all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this subchapter and
any additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring
activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records
shall include the date, exact place, method and time of sampling and the name
of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who
performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or the methods used; and the
results of such analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of
at least three years. This period shall be automatically extended for the
duration of any litigation concerning the user, township or the control
authority or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the control authority or his or her designated
representative.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.044 NOTIFICATION OF DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the control authority, township, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division
Director and state hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge
into the POTW of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a
hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. part 261. Such notification must include the
name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, the EPA
hazardous waste number and the type of discharge (continuous, batch or other).
If the user discharges more than 100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month
to the POTW, the notification also shall contain the following information to
the extent such information is known and readily available to the user: an
identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes; an
estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the waste
stream discharged during the calendar month; and an estimation of the mass of
constituents in the waste stream expected to be discharged during the following
12 months.
      (1)   All notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the
discharge commences. Any notification under this division (A) need be submitted
only once for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of
changed conditions must be submitted under §
51.026.
      (2)   The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
51.022, 51.024 and 51.025.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) above
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of
non-acute hazardous wastes a calendar month or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e) requires
a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges
more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the control authority,
township, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director and state
hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days
of the effective date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   The provisions in this section do not create a right to discharge any
substance not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this subchapter, a permit
issued thereunder or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.045 COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
   (A)   Right of entry: inspection and sampling. The control authority and
township shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to determine
whether the user is complying with all requirements of this subchapter and any
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the
control authority and township access to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying and the
performance of any additional duties. A user shall not obstruct block or
otherwise interfere with access to the sampling point(s).
      (1)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that upon presentation
of suitable identification, the control authority and township will be
permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific
responsibilities.
      (2)   The control authority shall have the right to set up on the user’s
property or require installation of such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user’s operations.
      (3)   The control authority, after consultation with the township, may
require the user to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s
sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe
and proper operating condition by the user at its own expense. All devices used
to measure wastewater flow and quality shall be calibrated semiannually to
ensure their accuracy.
      (4)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction of safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the control authority and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the user.
      (5)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the control authority and township
access to the user’s premises shall be a violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   Search warrants. If the control authority and township has been
refused access to a building, structure or property or any part thereof and is
able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of
this subchapter or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a
routine inspection and sampling program of the control authority designed to
verify compliance with this subchapter or any permit or order issued hereunder
or to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community,
then the control authority or township may seek issuance of a search warrant
from the Court of Common Pleas of the county or other court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.046 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys,
wastewater discharge permit applications, monitoring programs and from the
control authority or township’s inspection and sampling activities shall be
available to the public without restriction, unless the user specifically
requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the control
authority that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets
under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted at the time of
submission of the information or data.
   (B)   When requested and demonstrated by the user using a report that such
information should be held confidential, the portions of a report which might
disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for
inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately upon request
to governmental agencies for uses related to NPDES program or pretreatment
program and in enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other effluent data, as
defined by 40 C.F.R. § 2.302, will not be recognized as confidential
information and will be available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.047 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The control authority shall publish annually, in a newspaper of
general circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the
jurisdiction served by the POTW, a list of the users which, during the previous
12 months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements.
   (B)   The term SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE shall mean:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of wastewater measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed the daily maximum limit or average limit for the same pollutant
parameter by any amount;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the daily
maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4
for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease and 1.2 for all other pollutants except
pH);
      (3)   Any other discharge violation that the control authority believes
has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or
pass-through, including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general
public;
      (4)   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public or to the environment or has resulted in the control authority’s
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 30 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or enforcement
order for starting construction, completing construction or attaining final
compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide within 30 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
      (8)   Any other violation(s) which the control authority determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.048 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation. When the control authority finds that a
user has violated or continues to violate any provision of this subchapter, a
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment
standard or requirement, the control authority may serve upon that user a
written notice of violation. Within 30 days of the receipt of this notice, an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by
the user to the control authority. Submission of this plan in no way relieves
the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of
the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of
the control authority to take any action, including emergency actions or any
other enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The control authority may enter into consent orders,
assurances of voluntary compliance or other similar documents establishing an
agreement with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will
include specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance
within a time period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the
same force and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to divisions
(D) and (E) below.
   (C)   Show cause hearing. The control authority may order a user which has
violated or continues to violate any provision of this subchapter, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement to appear before the control authority and show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the
user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement
action, the reasons for such action and a request that the user show cause why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least ten days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on
any authorized representative of the user. A show cause hearing shall not be a
bar against or prerequisite for taking any other action against the user.
   (D)   Compliance orders. When the control authority finds that a user has
violated or continues to violate any provision of this subchapter, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the control authority may issue an order to the user
responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into compliance
within a specified time. If the user does not come into compliance within the
time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are installed and properly
operated. Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to address the
noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management practices
designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A
compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a
pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the
user of liability for any violation, including any continuing violation.
Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against or a prerequisite for
taking any other action against the user.
   (E)   Cease and desist orders.
      (1)   When the control authority finds that a user has violated or
continues to violate any provision of this subchapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement or that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the control
authority may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist all
such violations and directing the user to:
         (a)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
         (b)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
      (2)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against or
a prerequisite for taking any other action against the user.
   (F)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The control authority may immediately suspend a user’s discharge,
after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to
stop an actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or
cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons. The control authority may also immediately suspend a user’s discharge,
after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW or which represents or may present an endangerment to the
environment.
         (a)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
control authority may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream or endangerment to any individuals. The control authority
may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the control authority that the period of endangerment
has passed, unless the termination proceedings in division (G) below are
initiated against the user.
         (b)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any
discharge presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written
statement, describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures
taken to prevent any future occurrence, to the control authority prior to the
date of any show cause or termination hearing under division (C) above or
division (G) below.
      (2)   Nothing in this division (F) shall be interpreted as requiring a
hearing prior to any emergency suspension under this section. Nothing in this
division (F) shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing prior to any emergency
suspension under this section.
   (G)   Termination of discharge.
      (1)   In addition to the provisions in §
51.030, any user who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge
termination:
         (a)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
         (b)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
         (c)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
         (d)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection, monitoring or sampling; and
         (e)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
51.007 through
51.014.
      (2)   Such user will be notified of proposed termination of its discharge
and be offered an opportunity to show cause under division (C) above why the
proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by the control
authority shall not be a bar to or a prerequisite for taking any other action
against the user.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.049 JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When the control authority finds that a user has violated or continues to
violate any provision of this subchapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
control authority may petition the Court of Common Pleas of the county or other
competent jurisdiction for appropriate legal and equitable relief, including
the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which
restrains or compels the specific performance of the wastewater discharge
permit order or other requirement imposed by this subchapter on activities of
the user. Relief requested may also include requirements for environmental
remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against or a
prerequisite for taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.050 SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   (A)   Performance bonds. The control authority may decline to issue or
reissue a wastewater discharge permit to any user who has failed to comply with
any provision of this subchapter, a previous wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or requirement,
unless such user first files a satisfactory bond, payable to the authority, in
a sum not to exceed a valued determined by the control authority to be
necessary to achieve consistent compliance.
   (B)   Liability insurance. The control authority may decline to issue or
reissue a wastewater discharge permit to any user who has failed to comply with
any provision of this subchapter, a previous wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or requirement,
unless the user submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances
sufficient to restore or repair damage to the POTW caused by its discharge.
   (C)   Public nuisances. A violation of any provision of this subchapter, a
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment
standard or requirement is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be
corrected or abated as directed by the control authority or the Township. Any
person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of the
Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., and
applicable township ordinances governing such nuisances, including reimbursing
the control authority or township for any costs incurred in removing, abating
or remedying said nuisance.
   (D)   Assessment of civil penalties.
      (1)   Generally. Pursuant to the provisions of Act 9 of 1992, 35 P.S. §§
752.1 et seq., providing for enhanced penalty authority for publicly owned
treatment works which are authorized to enforce industrial pretreatment
standards for industrial waste discharges, and in addition to proceeding under
any other remedy available at law or equity for violation of pretreatment
standards and/or requirements, the control authority, as the operator of a
publicly owned treatment works, may assess a civil penalty upon an industrial
user for violation of any of the terms and provisions of this subchapter. The
penalty may be assessed whether or not the violation was willful or negligent.
The civil penalty shall not exceed $25,000 per day for each violation,
regardless of jurisdictional boundaries. Each violation for each separate day
shall constitute a separate and distinct defense under this section.
      (2)   Description of the applicable appeals process. As part of any
notice of assessment of civil penalties issued by the control authority to an
industrial user, there shall also be included a description of the applicable
appeals process to be followed, including the name, address and telephone
number of the person responsible for accepting such appeal on behalf of the
control authority.
      (3)   Single violation. For purposes of this section, a single
operational upset which leads to simultaneous violations of more than one
pretreatment standard or requirement shall be treated as a single violation as
required by Federal Water Pollution Control Act. The control authority may,
however, recover its costs for reestablishing the operation of the treatment
works in addition to any civil penalty imposed under this section.
      (4)   Considerations. Each industrial discharger participating in the
pretreatment program shall be given written notice of this subchapter. The
penalty assessment by the authority under this subchapter shall consider:
         (a)   Damage to air, water, land or other natural resources of the
commonwealth and their uses;
         (b)   Costs of restoration and abatement;
         (c)   Savings resulting to the person in consequence of the violation;
         (d)   History of past violations;
         (e)   Deterrence of future violations; and
         (f)   Other relevant factors.
      (5)   Uses for penalties. All civil penalties collected pursuant to this
section shall be placed by the control authority in a restricted account and
shall only be used by the control authority and the publicly owned treatment
works for the following uses:
         (a)   The repair of damage and any additional maintenance needed or
any additional costs imposed as a result of the violation for which the penalty
was imposed;
         (b)   Pay any penalties imposed on the control authority or the
publicly owned treatment works by the federal or state government for violation
of pretreatment standards;
         (c)   For the costs incurred by the control authority, the township or
publicly owned treatment works to investigate and take the enforcement action
that resulted in a penalty being imposed;
         (d)   For the monitoring of discharges in the pretreatment program and
for capital improvements to the treatment works, including sewage collection
lines, which may be required by the pretreatment program; and
         (e)   Any remaining funds may be used for capital improvements to the
treatment works, including collection lines owned by the control authority or
the township.
      (6)   Injunctive relief.
         (a)   The control authority shall have the power to obtain injunctive
relief to enforce compliance with or restrain any violation of any pretreatment
requirement or standard pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of
Act 9 of 1992, 35 P.S. §§ 752.1 et seq., and 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(l)(vi)(A).
Injunctive relief shall be available upon the showing of one or more of the
following:
            1.   A discharge from an industrial user presents an imminent
danger or substantial harm to the POTW or the public;
            2.   A discharge from an industrial user presents an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the environment;
            3.   A discharge from an industrial user causes the POTW to violate
any condition of its discharge permit; and/or
            4.   The industrial user has shown a lack of ability or intention
to comply with a pretreatment standard.
         (b)   Notwithstanding division (D)(6)(a) above, an injunction
affecting an industrial operation not directly related to the condition or
violation in question may be issued if the court determines that other
enforcement procedures would not be adequate to affect prompt correction of the
condition or violation. In addition to an injunction, the court in any such
proceedings may levy civil penalties in accordance with Act 9 of 1992, 35 P.S.
§§ 752.1 et seq., and this subchapter.
      (7)   Appeal. An industrial user assessed with a civil penalty under the
terms of this section shall have the right to file an appeal to contest either
the amount of the penalty or the fact of the violation, within 30 days of the
assessment of the civil penalty, pursuant to 2 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq.
(relating to administrative law and procedure). Failure to appeal within this
period shall result in a waiver of all legal rights to contest the violation or
the amount of the penalty.
      (8)   Concurrent; cumulative. The penalty authorized in this section is
intended to be concurrent and cumulative and the provisions of this section
shall not abridge or alter any right of action or remedy, now or hereafter
existing in equity or under the common law or statutory law, criminal or civil,
available to a person, the control authority or township or the commonwealth.
   (E)   Falsifying information. Any person who knowingly makes any false
statements, representation or certification in any application, record, report,
plan or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this
subchapter or wastewater discharge permit or who falsifies, tampers with or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this subchapter shall be prosecuted in accordance with the provisions of the
Pennsylvania Crimes Code pertaining to perjury and falsification in official
matters pursuant to 18 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 4901 et seq.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.051 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   For the purposes of this division (A), UPSET means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent
caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or careless or
improper operation.
      (2)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of division (A)(3) below are met.
      (3)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or
other relevant evidence, that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the control
authority and the township within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if
this information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided
within five days):
            1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (4)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (5)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      (6)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in situations where, among other things, the primary source of power of
the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards. A user shall have an affirmative
defense to an enforcement action brought against it for noncompliance with the
general prohibitions in §
51.005 or the specific prohibitions in §
51.006, except §
51.006(A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(8), if it can prove that it did not know or have
reason to know that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from
other sources, would cause pass-through or interference and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to and during the pass-through or
interference; or
      (2)   No local limits exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when
the control authority was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit and, in
the case of interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or
disposal requirements.
   (C)   Bypass.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (C), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of
a user’s treatment facility.
         SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property,
damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      (2)   Generally. A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not
cause pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it
also is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses
are not subject to the provision of divisions (C)(3) and (C)(4) below.
      (3)   Notice.
         (a)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the control authority at least ten days before the date
of the bypass, if possible.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the control authority of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times; and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass.
      (4)   Enforcement.
         (a)   Bypass is prohibited and the control authority may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass unless:
            1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury or severe property damage;
            2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal period of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            3.   The user submitted notices as required under division (C)(3)
above.
         (b)   The control authority, after consultation with the township, may
approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its adverse effects, if the
control authority determines that it will meet the three conditions listed in
division (C)(4)(a) above.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.052 FEES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the
recovery of costs from users of the control authority and township’s wastewater
disposal system for the implementation of the program established herein. The
applicable charges or fees shall be set forth in the control authority’s
schedule of charges and fees.
   (B)   Charges and fees.
      (1)   The authority may adopt by resolution charges and fees which may
include:
         (a)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
control authority’s pretreatment program;
         (b)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
         (c)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
         (d)   Fees for permit applications;
         (e)   Fees for filing appeals;
         (f)   Fees for consistent removal of pollutants otherwise subject to
federal pretreatment standards; and
         (g)   Other fees as the authority may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements herein.
      (2)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this subchapter
and are separate from all other fees or sewer rentals chargeable by the control
authority or township.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 51.053 REMEDIES.
   The authority shall have full power and authority to invoke any legal,
equitable or special remedy in conjunction with the enforcement of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
PRIVATE SEWER SERVICE LATERALS
§ 51.065 RECITALS.
   The recitals contained in Ord. 197 are adopted by reference and shall form a
part of this subchapter as though the same were set forth at length herein.
(Ord. 197, passed 4-14-2010)
§ 51.066 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORITY. The Bedminster Municipal Authority.
      BOARD. The Bedminster Township Board of Supervisors.
      COMPLIANCE. Compliance with the provisions of this subchapter as set
forth herein and any amendments thereto, as well as §§
51.085 through
51.112 and 51.113 through 51.124, and all rules, regulations and resolutions of
the township municipal authority.
      EMPLOYEES. Includes such employees and designated representatives or
officials of the township or the municipal authority as the township or the
authority shall, from time to time, designate and utilize in the making of the
inspection and/or tests hereafter described in carrying out the duties as
prescribed herein to be performed on behalf of the township and/or the
authority.
      NONCOMPLIANCE. Failure to comply with §§
51.067 through
51.071.
      NOTICE. Advising users of inspections and tests of the system that will
be performed by the township or the authority.
      PRIVATE SEWER SERVICE LATERAL. The lateral extending from a building to
the edge of the public right-of-way, the curb line or the edge of the public
road, whichever distance is longest.
      SUMP PUMP. Any pump connected to the system or to any lateral connected
to the system that is being used to pump ground/stormwater into the system.
      SYSTEM. All the facilities for collecting, pumping and disposing of
sanitary sewer that are owned by the municipal authority within the sanitary
sewer service area of township.
      USER. The owner, lessee or occupant of a property which contains
buildings and/or appurtenances that are connected to the system.
      TOWNSHIP. Bedminster Township.
   (B)   Throughout this subchapter, the masculine gender shall be deemed to
include the feminine and/or the neuter, the singular, the plural and vice
versa, wherever required by the context.
(Ord. 197, passed 4-14-2010)
§ 51.067 INSPECTIONS.
   Following the passage and adoption of this subchapter by the Board, all
users of the system shall upon notice from the authority that it intends to
replace a sewer conveyance line to which the user’s private sewer service
lateral is connected, make an appointment, within 30 days of being notified,
with the authority to allow the user’s private sewer service lateral to be
inspected in accordance with the terms and conditions of the ordinances of the
township governing connection to and use of the sanitary sewage collection
system of the authority including, but not limited to, the requirements of this
subchapter as set forth herein, §§
51.085 through
51.112 and 51.113 through 51.124 as well as the rules, regulations and
resolutions of the authority.
(Ord. 197, passed 4-14-2010)
§ 51.068 RESULTS OF INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   If upon completion of an inspection the lateral is found to be
defective, based upon the authority’s rules, regulations and resolutions and/or
sound engineering practice, the lateral pipe shall be replaced or realigned. At
the discretion of the authority, there may be limited permission granted for
spot repairs. The pipe replacement/realigning/spot repair shall be performed by
a master plumber in accordance with State Uniform Construction Code
requirements as adopted by the township.
   (B)   The purpose of the inspection required by this subchapter is to locate
any inflow and infiltration into the private sewer service lateral; to make
sure that there are not any holes or damage in or to the private sewer service
lateral; to verify that all clean-outs and/or vents are properly capped and not
damaged; and to identify any clay private sewer service laterals.
   (C)   The authority shall not charge the user for the inspection required by
this subchapter.
(Ord. 197, passed 4-14-2010)
§ 51.069 REPLACEMENT OF CLAY LATERALS.
   (A)   Any private sewer service lateral connected to the system found to be
made of clay shall be replaced by a master plumber at the cost and expense of
the owner of the property. The replacement of the private sewer service lateral
shall be in accordance with the rules, regulations and resolutions of the
authority as well as the State Uniform Construction Code as adopted by the
township. The replacement of the private sewer service lateral shall occur
within 30 days of the property owner being notified by the authority of the
requirement to replace the said lateral.
   (B)   In the event the property owner fails to replace the private sewer
service lateral as required by division (A) above, the authority shall be
authorized to go onto the property and replace the private sewer service
lateral and charge the property owner for the cost and expenses incurred by the
authority to replace the private sewer service lateral.
   (C)   The agents of the authority or designated employees of the authority
shall have access at all reasonable hours of the day to all parts of an user’s
property so as to be able to make necessary inspections and observations.
(Ord. 197, passed 4-14-2010)
§ 51.070 MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT OF CLEAN-OUTS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the user to maintain, repair and replace
all the clean-outs along his or her private sewer service lateral, including
the clean-out at the right-of-way, or curb line or the edge of the pavement,
whichever applies.
(Ord. 197, passed 4-14-2010)
§ 51.071 AUTHORITY RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The authority is hereby granted the right to adopt, from time to time, by
resolution, additional rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary and
proper relating to inspections and repairs of private sewer service laterals
that are connected to the system, which additional rules and regulations, to
the extent appropriate, shall be construed as part of this subchapter. Any
rules and regulations adopted by the authority prior to the adoption of this
subchapter shall be deemed rules and regulations adopted pursuant hereto. Only
the authority shall have the power to grant relief from or waive any of the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 197, passed 4-14-2010)
§ 51.072 VIOLATIONS.
   Any user violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be liable
to the township and/or the authority for any expenses, costs and fees
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees, occasioned by or
caused to the township and or the authority by reason of seeking enforcement of
such against the violator, as well as for any losses or damages occasioned or
caused to the township or the authority by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 197, passed 4-14-2010) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.073 REMEDIES.
   The township and the authority shall have full power and authority to invoke
any legal, equitable or special remedy in conjunction with the enforcement of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 197, passed 4-14-2010) Penalty, see §
51.999
CONNECTIONS TO THE PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEMS
§ 51.085 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORITY. The Bedminster Township Municipal Authority, a Pennsylvania
municipal authority, incorporated by Bedminster Township.
      BUILDING DRAIN. Part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet outside the interface of the building wall.
      BUILDING SEWER. Piping carrying liquid wastes from a building to the
treatment or holding tank or to the public sewer main. The extension from the
sewage drainage system of any improved property to the lateral of a sewer.
      COMMUNITY SEWAGE SYSTEM. Any system, whether publicly or privately owned,
for the collection and disposal of sewage or industrial waste of a liquid
nature, or both, including various devices for the treatment of such sewage or
industrial waste serving three or more individual lots.
      DEPARTMENT. Department of Environmental Protection of the commonwealth.
      IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property within this township upon which there is
erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy
or use by human beings or animals and from which structure, sewage and/or
industrial waste shall be or may be discharged.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gases substance or water-borne
waste or form of energy rejected or escaping in the course of any industrial
manufacturing, trade or business process or in the course of the development,
recovery or processing of natural resources, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
      LATERAL. The part of sewer system extending from a sewer to the curb line
or, if there shall be no curb, to the edge of the pavement or to the edge of
the cartway, if not paved, or, if no such LATERAL shall be provided, then
LATERAL shall mean that portion of, or place in a sewer which is provided for
connection of any building sewer.
      LOT. A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by a plat or
otherwise as permitted by law and to be used, developed or built upon as a
unit.
      OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, or any property located in this township.
      PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, association or corporation.
Whenever used in any division prescribing and imposing a penalty, or imposing a
fine or imprisonment, or both, the term PERSON shall include the members of an
association and the officers of a corporation.
      PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM. Sewer system and the treatment facility owned,
operated or maintained by the authority approved by the Department under a
permit issued pursuant to the Clean Streams Law, 35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq., as
hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or reenacted by the General Assembly
of the state.
      SEWAGE. Any substance that contains any of the waste products or
excrementitious or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals,
and any noxious or deleterious substances being harmful or inimical to the
public health, or to animal or aquatic life, or to the use of water for
domestic water supply or for recreation.
      SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used
for treating sewage.
      SEWER. Any pipe or conduit constituting a part of the sewer system used
or usable for sewage collection purposes.
      SEWER SYSTEM. All temporary and permanent facilities at any time and from
time to time owned or leased by or to and operated by the authority and used or
usable for in connection with the collection, treatment and disposal of any
sanitary sewage and acceptable industrial waste.
      STORM SEWER. Sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial waste.
   (B)   In this subchapter, the singular shall include the plural; the plural
shall include the singular; and the masculine shall include the feminine and
the neuter.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.086 REQUIREMENT TO CONNECT TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The owner of any improved property located in this township whose property
lines are within 150 feet of any public sewage line now existing or
subsequently installed, shall make connection therewith, in such manner as this
township and the authority may require, within 60 days after notice to such
owner from this township or the authority to make such connection, for the
purpose of discharge of all sewage and acceptable industrial wastes from such
improved property, subject to such limitations and restrictions as shall be
established herein or otherwise established by this township or the authority,
from time to time.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.087 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   The notice by this township or the authority to make a connection to a
sewer, referred to in §
51.086, shall consist of a copy of §§
51.086 through
51.095, including any amendments at the time in effect, and a written or
printed document requiring the connection, and may be given at any time after a
sewer is in place which can receive and convey sewage and industrial wastes for
treatment and disposal from the particular improved property. Such notice shall
be served upon the owner either by personal service or by registered or
certified mail, as provided by law.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.088 AUTHORITY OR TOWNSHIP MAY MAKE CONNECTIONS AND COLLECT COSTS.
   If the owner of any property, after 90 days’ notice from the township or the
authority to make connection of such property with the public sewage system
shall fail to make such connection, the township or the authority may make the
connection and collect the costs thereof in the manner provided by law. In such
case, the township or the authority, as the case may be, shall forthwith, upon
completion of the work, send an itemized bill of the cost of construction of
such connection to the owner of improved property to which connection has been
so made, which bill shall be payable forthwith.
In case of neglect or refusal by the owner of such improved property to pay
said bill, the township or the authority, as the case may be, shall file
municipal liens for said construction within six months of the date of
completion of the construction of said connection, the same to be subject in
all respects to the general law provided for filing and recovering of municipal
liens.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.089 OWNERS REQUIRED TO CONNECT UPON EXPANSION OF SYSTEM.
   From time to time in the future, as public sewage services become available
to additional properties within the township by reason of additions to the
public sewage system or improvements on abutting properties, each and every
owner of such property shall be required to make the necessary connection to
the abutting or adjoining sewer lines, and any septic tanks, cesspools, holding
tanks and similar devices connected to an individual sewage system shall be
abandoned and filled with new material.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.090 ACCESS TO PREMISES BY AGENTS.
   The township, or its authorized agent, and the agents of the authority shall
have access at all reasonable hours of the day to all parts of the premises to
which sewage service is supplied to make necessary inspections.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.091 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in §§
51.086 through
51.095, each improved property shall be connected separately and independently
with a sewer through a building sewer. Grouping of more than one improved
property on one building sewer shall not be permitted except under special
circumstances and for good sanitary reasons or other good cause shown, but then
only after special permission of this township and the authority, in writing,
shall have been secured.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.092 COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   All costs and expenses of construction of a building sewer and all costs and
expenses of connection of a building sewer to a lateral or sewer shall be borne
by the owner of the improved property to be connected; and such owner shall
indemnify and save harmless this township and the authority from all loss or
damage that may be occasioned, directly or indirectly, as a result of
construction of a building sewer or of connection of a building sewer to a
lateral or sewer.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.093 PLACE OF CONNECTION.
   (A)   A building sewer shall be connected to a sewer at the place designated
by the authority or where the lateral is provided.
   (B)   The invert of a building sewer at the point of connection shall be at
the same or a higher elevation than the invert of the lateral or sewer.
   (C)   A smooth, neat joint shall be made and the connection of a building
sewer to the lateral shall be made secure and water-tight.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.094 AUTHORITY RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The authority is hereby granted the right to adopt, from time to time, by
resolution additional rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary and
proper relating to connections with a sewer and the sewer system, which
additional rules and regulations, to the extent appropriate, shall be and shall
be construed as part of §§
51.086 through
51.095. Any rules and regulations adopted by the authority prior to the
adoption of this subchapter shall be deemed rules and regulations adopted
pursuant hereto.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.095 PROHIBITION ON UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make connection of sump pumps, roof downspouts, foundation
drains, area way drains, floor drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sanitary drainage system or building drain which in
rum is connected directly or indirectly to an authority sanitary sewer main.
Any such connection existing as of the date of the adoption of this subchapter
shall be deemed an unauthorized connection and the owner shall immediately and
permanently disconnect any such connection. Upon discovery of an unauthorized
connection, the authority or the township shall give the owner 30 days’ written
notice which shall be delivered either in person or by certified mail, return
receipt requested to disconnect the unauthorized connection immediately.
Failure to disconnect the unauthorized connection within 30 days of receipt of
such notice shall be deemed authorization by the owner for the township or the
authority, or their respective agents, to enter upon the property and
permanently disconnect the unauthorized connection and collect all costs to do
so as set forth in §
51.088.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.096 PERMIT REQUIRED TO OPEN OR DISTURB SEWER.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any part of the public sewage system or
appurtenants thereto without first obtaining a permit from the authority.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.097 SEWER PERMIT FEES.
   Before making a connection with the sewer system, each property owner shall
make a written application therefor in the manner prescribed by the authority
and pay the permit fees, such as a connection fee, customer facilities fee and/
or a tapping fee, established pursuant to a resolution of the authority. The
connection fee shall not exceed an amount based upon the actual cost of the
connection of the property extending from the authority’s main to the property
line or curb stop of the property so connected. The authority may also base
such fee upon an average cost for previously installed connections of similar
type and size. In lieu of the payment of the fees, the authority may require
the construction and dedication of those facilities by the property owner or
owners requesting such connection. A customer facilities fee shall not exceed
an amount based upon the actual cost of facilities serving the connected
property from the property line or curb stop to the proposed dwelling or
building to be served. The fee shall be chargeable only in the event that the
authority and not the property owner or owners installs the customer
facilities. In lieu of payment of the customer facilities fee, the authority
may require the construction of those facilities by the property owner or
owners requesting customer facilities. In any situation where the property
owner or owners performs the construction, the authority is authorized to
charge an inspection fee to inspect the construction and test the connections
before they are covered over. Any tapping fee shall be established pursuant to
the law of the commonwealth.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.098 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR CONNECTION COSTS.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
authority and the township from any loss or damage that may be directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the builder sewer.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.099 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building. Exceptions to this provision shall be made where one building stands
to the rear of another on an interior lot and no sewer line is available or can
be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, yard or
driveway, in which case the building sewer from the front building may be
extended to the rear building only on approval by the authority. Such
connection of the two buildings to the sewer lines shall be considered as two
building sewers.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.100 STATUS OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with a building only when such
connection is approved by the authority, and they meet the requirements of this
subchapter or the rules and regulations adopted by the authority pursuant
hereto.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.101 MATERIAL AND SPECIFICATION FOR SEWER PIPES AND JOINTS.
   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM specifications or
equal; vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM specifications or equal; or other
suitable material approved by the authority as listed in its approved
specifications. Joints shall be tight and water-proof. Any part of a building
sewer that is located within ten feet of a water service pipe shall be
constructed of cast iron soil pipe with leaded joints. Cast iron pipe with
leaded joints may be required by the authority where the building sewer is
exposed to damage by tree roots. If installed and filled or unstable ground,
the building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, except that non-metallic
material may be accepted if laid on a suitable concrete bed or cradle as
approved by the authority.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.102 SIZE AND SLOPE OF BUILDING SEWER.
   (A)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the authority, but in no event shall the diameter be less than six
inches.
   (B)   The slope of such six-inch pipe shall not be less than one-eighth inch
per foot.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.103 ELEVATION, GRADE AND DEPTH OF BUILDING SEWER.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to
or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be weakened. The
depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The building sewer
shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible.
Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe and fittings.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.104 DISCHARGE BY ARTIFICIAL MEANS WHEN GRAVITY FLOW INSUFFICIENT.
   In a building in which the building drain is too low to permit gravity flow
to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall be lifted by
approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.105 EXCAVATIONS FOR BUILDING SEWER.
   (A)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the authority.
   (B)   Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM
specifications, and as approved by the authority, except that no backfill shall
be placed until the work has been inspected and approved.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.106 JOINTS AND CONNECTIONS.
   All joints and connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Cast
iron pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or hemp and filled with
molten lead according to federal specifications, not less than one inch deep.
Lead shall be run in one pouring and caulked tight. No paint, varnish or other
coatings shall be permitted on the jointing material until after the joint has
been tested and approved. All joints in vitrified clay pipe or between such
pipe and metals shall be made with approved hot-poured jointing materials or
cement mortar. Other jointing materials and methods may be used only after
approval from the authority.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.107 CONNECTION OF BUILDING SEWER TO PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The connection of the building sewer to the public sewage system shall
be made at the “Y” branch if such branch is available at a suitable location.
If the public sewer line is 12 inches in diameter or less, and no properly
located “Y” branch is available, the owner shall at his or her expense install
a “Y” branch in the public sewer at the location specified by the authority.
Where the public sewer is greater than 12 inches in diameter, and no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a neat hole may be cut into the public sewer
to receive the building sewer with entry in the downstream direction at an
angle of 45 degrees.
   (B)   A 45-degree angle may be used to make such connection, with the spigot
and sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or at a higher
elevation than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be
made, and the connection made secure and water-tight by encasement in concrete.
Special fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the
authority.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.108 NOTIFICATION PRIOR TO CONNECTION.
   The permit holder shall notify the authority when the building sewer is
ready for inspection and connection with the public sewer, and the connection
shall be made under the authority’s supervision.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.109 SAFETY AND WARNING FACILITIES.
   All excavations for building sewer installation and connection shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks and parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the
township.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.110 IMPOSITION OF SEWER RENTAL CHARGES.
   All owners of property connected or connecting with the sewer lines in the
public sewage system, and all of the owners of property who may hereafter
connect with and use the same shall pay annual sewer rentals or charges in
quarterly installments as provided by separate resolution by the authority.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.111 PAYMENT OF CHARGES; PENALTY FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   Sewer rentals or charges shall be paid quarterly in accordance with billings
for sewage services. All charges for sewage service shall be subject to a
penalty if not paid within a certain time period all as established by
resolution of the authority. The authority is also authorized to establish by
resolution a rate of interest on all unpaid bills.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
§ 51.112 UNPAID CHARGES CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   Annual sewer rental charges shall be a lien on the properties charged with
payment thereof, and if not paid after 30 days’ notice, may be collected in any
manner provided by law, including attorney fees and costs. In the case where
the authority has agreed to provide sewer service to a residential dwelling
unit in which the owner does not reside, the authority shall notify the owner
and the tenant within 30 days after the tenant’s bill for that service first
becomes overdue. Such notification shall be provided by first class mail to the
address of the owner provided to the authority by the owner and to the billing
address of the tenant, respectively.
(Ord. 159, passed 2-9-2005)
INSPECTIONS OF SEWER LATERALS
§ 51.125 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORITY. The Bedminster Municipal Authority, a Pennsylvania municipal
authority incorporated by the Township of Bedminster.
      IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property within this township upon which there is
an erected structure intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy
or use by human beings or animals and from which structure, sewage and/or
industrial waste shall be or may be discharged.
      LATERAL. The part of sewer system extending from a structure to the curb
line, or if there shall be no curb, to the edge of the pavement or to the edge
of the cartway, if not paved, or, if no such LATERAL shall be provided, than
the LATERAL shall mean that portion of, or place in a sewer which is provided
for connection of any building sewer.
      OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, or any property located in this township.
      PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, association, corporation or like
entity. Whenever used in any division prescribing and imposing a penalty, or
imposing a fine or imprisonment, or both, the term PERSON shall include the
members of an association and the officers of a corporation.
      PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM. Sewer system and the treatment facility or
facilities owned, operated or maintained by the authority approved by the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection under a permit issued
pursuant to the Clean Streams Law, 35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq. as hereafter
amended, supplemented, modified or reenacted by the General Assembly of the
state.
      SEWAGE. Any substance that contains any of the waste products or
excrementitious or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals,
or any noxious or deleterious substances being harmful or inimical to the
public health, or to animal or aquatic life, or to the use of water for
domestic water supply or for recreation.
      SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used
for treating sewage.
      SEWER. Any pipe or conduit constituting a part of the sewer system use or
usable for sewage collection purposes.
      SEWER SYSTEM. All temporary and permanent facilities at any time and from
time to time owned or leased by or to and operated by the authority and used
and usable for in connection with the collection, treatment and disposal of any
sanitary sewage and acceptable industrial waste.
   (B)   In this subchapter, the singular shall include the plural; the plural
shall include the singular; and the masculine shall include the feminine and
the neuter.
(Ord. 179, passed 11-8-2006)
§ 51.126 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELFARE.
   The Township Board of Supervisors finds that the public health, safety and
welfare are detrimentally affected by laterals from improved properties
connected to a public sewage system in which inflow and infiltration into the
laterals cause excessive flows to sewage treatment plants thereby resulting in
overflows of sewage and discharges of untreated or improperly treated sewage
into waters of the commonwealth.
(Ord. 179, passed 11-8-2006)
§ 51.127 PURPOSE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to cause periodical inspections of
laterals from improved properties connected to a public sewage system to locate
and repair all inflow and infiltration into said laterals thereby protecting
the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 179, passed 11-8-2006)
§ 51.128 REQUIREMENT FOR LATERAL INSPECTION CONNECTED TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   The owner of any improved property located in this township whose
structure or building is connected to a public sewage system shall be obligated
prior to a transfer or a conveyance of the property, to cause the lateral to be
inspected by a pipeline televising contractor under the direction and
observation of the authority’s public sewage system operator or the authority
engineer.
   (B)   Access for the televised lateral inspection shall be at the clean-out
on the lateral at the property line or if such clean-out does not exist,
through the sewer main. The purpose of the televised lateral inspection is to
locate any inflow and infiltration into the lateral including illegal
connections.
   (C)   As an alternative to and in place of a televised inspection, the
authority, at its sole discretion, may perform a visual inspection at the
improved property to verify that there are no illegal connections and that all
clean-out vents are properly capped and not damaged.
(Ord. 179, passed 11-8-2006)
§ 51.129 NOTICE FROM OWNER.
   Upon entering into a written agreement to sell, transfer or convey an
improved property located within this township connected to a public sewage
system, the owner shall give notice to the authority and shall arrange with the
authority for the authority’s public sewage system operator or the authority
engineer to be present when the owner causes the televised lateral inspection
to occur.
(Ord. 179, passed 11-8-2006)
§ 51.130 COSTS OF LATERAL INSPECTION.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of an improved property
connected to the public sewage system to hire a firm, pre-approved by the
authority, to perform the televised inspection of the lateral. The cost and
expense for the televised inspection, including the firm that performs the
inspection, shall be the responsibility of the owner.
(Ord. 179, passed 11-8-2006)
§ 51.131 AUTHORITY PERMIT.
   The authority, upon payment of any application and inspection fee and upon
the authority’s public sewage system operator or authority engineer observation
of the televised inspection of the lateral noting no inflow and/or infiltration
into the lateral nor any holes or damage in or of the lateral, nor any illegal
connections, shall issue a lateral inspection permit to the owner who shall
transfer said permit to the person to whom the property is sold, conveyed or
transferred.
(Ord. 179, passed 11-8-2006)
§ 51.132 INFLOW AND INFILTRATION AND/OR DAMAGE TO LATERALS.
   (A)   If the authority’s public sewage system operator or its authority
engineer observe, during the televised inspection of the lateral, any inflow,
infiltration, illegal connection, damage or holes in or about the lateral or
clean-out, the owner of the improved property shall be obligated, prior to the
transfer or conveyance of title to a new owner, to repair the lateral as
directed by the authority under the observation of the authority.
   (B)   Upon successful repair of the lateral, the authority shall issue the
lateral inspection permit referred to in §
51.131.
(Ord. 179, passed 11-8-2006)
§ 51.133 ACCESS TO PREMISES BY AGENTS.
   The agents of the authority shall have access at all reasonable hours of the
day to all parts of the improved property to make necessary inspections and
observations.
(Ord. 179, passed 11-8-2006)
§ 51.134 COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   All costs and expenses in connection with the inspection of the lateral, and
any repairs resulting therefrom, shall be borne by the owner of the improved
property; and such owner shall indemnify and hold harmless this township and
the authority from all loss or damage that may be occasioned, directly or
indirectly, as a result of the inspection and any repairs resulting therefrom.
(Ord. 179, passed 11-8-2006)
§ 51.135 AUTHORITY RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The authority is hereby granted the right to adopt, from time to time,
by resolution additional rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary and
proper relating to inspections and repairs of laterals that are connected to
the public sewage system, which additional rules and regulations, to the extent
appropriate, shall be construed as part of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any rules and regulations adopted by the authority prior to the
adoption of this subchapter shall be deemed rules and regulations adopted
pursuant hereto.
(Ord. 179, passed 11-8-2006)
§ 51.136 PROHIBITION ON TRANSFER OR CONVEYANCE OF IMPROVED PROPERTY CONNECTED
TO PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM WITHOUT A LATERAL INSPECTION PERMIT.
   No person shall transfer title to an improved property that is connected to
a public sewage system without first obtaining from the authority a lateral
inspection permit. Any such transfer or conveyance of title to an improved
property without obtaining from the authority a lateral inspection permit shall
be deemed a violation of this subchapter. Upon discovery of a violation of this
subchapter, the Township Code Enforcement Officer shall be authorized to issue
a summary citation to the person who transferred or conveyed the property and
to the new owner of the property, and the authority shall have the
authorization but not the obligation to enter upon the property and perform the
inspection at the cost of the then owner of the property and to collect all
costs to do so from the then owner of the property. Any costs and charges shall
be a lien on the property charged with payment thereof, and if not paid after
30 days’ notice may be collected in any manner provided by law, including
attorney fees and costs.
(Ord. 179, passed 11-8-2006) Penalty, see §
51.999
SEWAGE GRINDER PUMPS
§ 51.150 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT 537. The Bedminster Township official plan as defined in the
Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act, Act of January 24, 1966, P.L. 135 (1965),
No. 537, as amended, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 through 750.20a (“Sewage Facilities Act”
or “Act 537”).
   AUTHORITY. The Bedminster Municipal Authority, as defined by the
Municipality Authorities Act of 2001 (June 19, 2001, P.L. 287, No. 22, and as
amended thereafter, 53 Pa.C.S. §§ 5601 et seq.).
   DEPARTMENT. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
   GRINDER PUMP. Any electric-motor-driven, submersible, centrifugal pump
capable of macerating all material found in normal domestic sanitary sewage,
including reasonable amounts of objects, such as plastics, sanitary napkins,
disposable diapers, rubber and the like, to a fine slurry, and pumping this
material through a small diameter discharge.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property within the township upon which there is
erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy
or use by human being or animals and from which structure sewage shall or may
be discharged.
   OFFICIAL PLAN REVISION. A change in the township’s Act 537 Plan to provide
for additional or newly identified future of existing sewage facility’s needs,
as defined fully in § 1 of the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 537), 35
P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Any person, combination of persons, corporation,
partnership, limited liability company, limited liability partnership, or a
combination thereof, trust, or any other entities vested with ownership, legal
or equitable, sole or partial, of any property located in the township.
   SEWAGE. Any substance that contains any of the waste products or excrement
or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals and any noxious
or deleterious substance being harmful or inimical to the public health or to
an animal or aquatic life or to the use of water for domestic water supply or
for recreation or any substance which constitutes pollution under the Clean
Stream Law, 35 P.S. §§ 691.1 through 691.1001, as amended.
   TOWNSHIP. Bedminster Township and/or its Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 182, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 51.151 PLANNING REQUIREMENTS.
   The connection of existing properties or proposed new land development to an
existing or proposed sewage system through the use of sewage grinder pumps,
their associated force mains or low-pressure laterals shall occur only after an
official plan revision to the township’s Act 537 Plan, as approved by the
township and Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, and the
development designates that the proposed properties be served by such
connection.
(Ord. 182, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 51.152 POWERS OF THE AUTHORITY AND TOWNSHIP.
   (A)   The authority and the township are hereby authorized and empowered to
adopt such rules and regulations concerning sewage which it may deem necessary
from time to time to effect the purposes herein.
   (B)   The authority and the township are further authorized and empowered to
take such actions as are necessary, including, but not limited to, entering
into agreements with property owners that assure proper operation and
maintenance of sewage facilities within the township’s borders, including, but
not limited to, sewage grinder pumps and any associated force mains or low-
pressure laterals.
(Ord. 182, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 51.153 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUTHORITY AND TOWNSHIP.
   The authority and the township shall exercise their powers and legal
authorities set forth herein and under all applicable statutes, ordinances and
other laws to affect the purposes of this subchapter.
(Ord. 182, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 51.154 MAINTENANCE AGREEMENTS.
   The authority and the township may enter into an agreement with each
property owner proposing to install or who has installed a sewage grinder pump
or low-pressure sewage system to assure the short- and long-term operation and
maintenance, use, service, repair or replacement of such systems.
(Ord. 182, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 51.155 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   All grinder pumps and low-pressure sewer systems (and the installation, use,
operation, maintenance, service, repair and replacement thereof) shall comply
with the rules and regulations of the authority and township in effect from
time to time.
(Ord. 182, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 51.156 CONNECTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   All grinder pumps and low-pressure sewer systems shall be connected to the
sewage collection and conveyance system in full compliance with the rules and
regulations of the authority and the township in effect from time to time.
(Ord. 182, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 51.157 NO RESPONSIBILITY OF AUTHORITY OR TOWNSHIP.
   Neither the authority nor the township shall bear any responsibility for the
purchase, installation, use, operation, maintenance, service, repair or
replacement of the grinder pump and/or its low-pressure force main or lateral,
except as otherwise set forth herein.
(Ord. 182, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 51.158 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OTHERS.
   Each property owner served by a grinder pump shall bear full responsibility
for providing, installing, using, operating, maintaining, servicing, repairing
and replacing his or her grinder pump and/or its low-pressure force main or
lateral, unless otherwise set forth herein.
(Ord. 182, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 51.159 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   Each property owner served by a grinder pump shall have full responsibility
for using the pump consistent with the manufacturer’s instructions and shall
avoid introducing into the sewage system materials that may damage the
impellers on the pump, including, but not limited to, items designated as
biodegradable in septic tanks.
(Ord. 182, passed 5-9-2007) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.160 SHARED LOW-PRESSURE FORCE MAIN OR LATERAL.
   (A)   Where the low-pressure force main or lateral is shared between
property owners, they shall submit to the authority and the township a
declaration of easements, covenants and restrictions in recordable form,
setting force the agreement of each benefitted property owner with respect to
installation, use, operation, maintenance, service, repair and replacement of
the low-pressure sewer system, which agreement shall bind all future property
owners.
   (B)   Following the approval of the low-pressure system by all applicable
agencies, the authority and/or the township will not issue a permit for its
installation until evidence is presented that the agreement has been recorded
in the office for the Recording of Deeds of the county.
(Ord. 182, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 51.161 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   In addition to any other remedies provided in this subchapter, any violation
of §§
51.158 through
51.160 shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated by the authority and the
township by either seeking mitigation of the nuisance or appropriate equitable
or legal relief from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 182, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 51.162 RULES AND REGULATIONS TO BE IN CONFORMITY WITH APPLICABLE LAW.
   All such rules and regulations adopted by the authority and the township to
effectuate this subchapter shall be in conformity with the provisions herein,
all other ordinances or resolutions of the authority and the township, and all
applicable laws, and applicable rules and regulations of administrative
agencies of the commonwealth.
(Ord. 182, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Administrative civil penalties.
         (a)    When the control authority finds that a user has violated or
continues to violate any provision of §§
51.001 through
51.053, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the control authority may fine such a
user in an amount not to exceed $25,000 per day for each violation, regardless
of jurisdictional boundaries. Such fines shall be assessed on a per-violation,
per-day basis. In the case of monthly or other long-term average discharge
limits, penalties shall be assessed for each day during the period of
violation. The foregoing administrative civil penalties shall be enforced in
accordance with the provisions of divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) below.
         (b)   A lien against the user’s property will be sought for unpaid
charges, fines and penalties.
         (c)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request
for the control authority to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the
fine amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has
merit, the control authority may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event
that the user’s appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest
accruing there on, shall be returned to the user. The control authority may add
the costs of preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and
orders, to the fine.
         (d)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against or
a prerequisite for taking any other action against the user.
      (2)   Civil penalties.
         (a)   A user who has violated or continues to violate any provision of
§§
51.001 through
51.053, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the control authority
for a maximum civil penalty of $25,000 per violation per day. In the case of a
monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for
each day during the period of the violation. Such penalty may be assessed in
accordance with §
51.050(D).
         (b)   The control authority or the township may recover reasonable
attorney fees, court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement
activities, including sampling and monitoring expenses and the cost of any
actual damages incurred by the control authority or the township.
         (c)   In determining the amount of civil liability, there shall be
taken into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to,
the extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user and any other factor as
justice requires.
         (d)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against or
a prerequisite for taking any other action against a user.
      (3)   Criminal prosecution. A user who willfully or negligently violates
any provision of §§
51.001 through
51.053, a wastewater discharge permit order issued hereunder, any other
pretreatment standard or requirement or who willfully or negligently introduces
any substance into the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage or
any user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to §§
51.001 through
51.053, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued under §§
51.001 through
51.053 or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device of method required under §§
51.001 through
51.053 may be subject to criminal prosecution in accordance with the applicable
provisions of the Pennsylvania Crimes Code, 18 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq.
      (4)   Remedies nonexclusive. The remedies provided for in §§
51.001 through
51.053 are not exclusive. The control authority may take any, all or any
combination of these actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of
pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance with the control
authority’s enforcement response plan. However, the control authority may take
other action against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the
control authority is empowered to take more than one enforcement action against
any noncompliant user.
   (C)   (1)   In the event a user is found to be in a state of noncompliance
regarding §§
51.065 through
51.073, then the user shall be liable for the payment of a sum equal to $1,000
per day for knowingly, willfully and/or intentionally permitting such violation
to commence and continue.
      (2)   Sections
51.065 through
51.073 shall be deemed supplemental to all other ordinances and provisions
thereof for enforcement and compliance purposes, and shall not be deemed to
amend or rescind said other ordinances and provisions; further that any fines,
fees, charges or penalties levied or imposed pursuant to §§
51.065 through
51.073 shall be in addition to any fines, fees, charges or penalties levied or
imposed pursuant to all other ordinances and provisions thereof.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
51.085 through
51.112, upon conviction thereof in an action brought before a Magisterial
District Judge in the manner provided for the enforcement of summary offences
under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, shall be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs. Each day that a violation of §§
51.085 through
51.112 continues or each section of §§
51.085 through
51.112 which shall be found to have been violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (E)    Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
51.125 through
51.136, upon conviction thereof and an action brought before a Magisterial
District Judge in the manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses
under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, shall be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs. Each day that a violation of §§
51.125 through
51.136 continues or each section of §§
51.125 through
51.136 which shall be found to have been violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (F)   Any person, firm, corporation or property owner who shall violate any
provision of §§
51.150 through
51.162, upon conviction thereof in any action brought before a District
Magisterial Justice in the manner provided for the enforcement of summary
offenses under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, shall be sentenced
to pay a fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs. Each day that a violation of
§§
51.150 through
51.162 continues or each section of §§
51.150 through
51.162 which shall be found to have been violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 72, passed 12-9-1983; Ord. 90, passed 7-13-1988; Ord. 159, passed 2-9-
2005; Ord. 179, passed 11-8-2006; Ord. 182, passed 5-9-2007; Ord. 197, passed
4-14-2010; Ord. 199, passed 10-13-2010)
CHAPTER 52: PUBLIC WATER
Section
Connections to Public Water System
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Building mains and connections
   
52.03   Connection and customer service fee
   
52.04   Regulations governing building mains and connection to mains
   
52.05   Access to premises
Potential Hazards to the Water Supply
   
52.20   Preamble
   
52.21   Permit
   
52.22   Regulations for permit
Water Use During Times of Drought Watch
   
52.35   Preamble
   
52.36   Definitions
   
52.37   Declaration of drought status
   
52.38   Drought contingency and water rationing plan
   
52.39   Drought watch restrictions
   
52.40   Implementation of water restrictions for drought warning
   
52.41   Implementation of water restrictions during drought emergency
Establishment of Water Conservation Requirements for All New Structures
   
52.55   Definitions
   
52.56   Water conservation requirements
 
   
52.99   Penalty
CONNECTIONS TO PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. Bedminster Municipal Authority, a Pennsylvania municipal
authority incorporated by the Township of Bedminster.
   BUILDING MAIN. Extension from the water system of any structure to the
service line of a main.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property within the township upon which there is
erected a structure intended for continuous or occupancy or use by human beings
or animals.
   MAIN. Any pipe or conduit constituting a part of the water system used or
usable for water distribution purposes.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, or any improved property.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, association, society, trust,
limited liability company, corporation, municipality, municipal authority or
other groups or entity.
   SERVICE LINE. Part of the water system extending from a main to the curb
line or, if there shall be no curb line, extending to the property line. If no
such SERVICE LINE shall be provided, SERVICE LINE shall mean that portion of or
place in, a main which is provided for connection of any building main.
   WATER SYSTEM. All facilities, as of any particular time, for production,
transmission, storage and distribution of water in the township owned by the
authority for maintenance, operation and use.
(Ord. 175, passed 10-11-2006)
§ 52.02 BUILDING MAINS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Permit. No person shall uncover, connect with, make any opening into,
use, alter or disturb, in any manner, any main or any part of the water system
without first obtaining a permit in writing from the authority and/or the
township as it may require, and pay the requisite fees.
   (B)   Application. Application for a permit required above shall be made by
the owner of the improved property served or to be served with notice as
provided herein, or by the duly authorized agent or agent of such owner.
   (C)   Connection. No person shall make or shall cause to be made a
connection of any improved property to a main until such person fulfills each
of the following conditions:
      (1)   Notify the authority and the township of the desire and intention
to connect such improved property to a main;
      (2)   Apply for and obtain a permit as required above;
      (3)   Give the township and the authority at least 24 hours’ notice
before such connection will be made in order that the authority and/or the
township may supervise and inspect or may cause to be supervised and inspected
the work of connection and necessary testing; and
      (4)   If applicable, furnish satisfactory evidence to the authority that
any connection or customer facility fees, which may be charged and imposed by
the authority against the owner of each improved property who connects such
improved property to a main, has been paid.
   (D)   Single connection. Except as otherwise provided in this section, each
improved property shall be connected separately and independently with a main
through a building main. Grouping of more than one improved property on one
building main shall not be permitted, except under special circumstances and
for good cause shown, but then only after special permission of the authority,
in writing, shall have been secured and only subject to such further rules,
regulations and conditions as may be prescribed by the authority.
   (E)   Costs and expenses. All costs and expenses of construction of a
building main to a main shall be borne by the owner of the improved property to
be connected; and such owner shall indemnify and shall save harmless the
authority and/or the township from all loss or damage that may be occasioned
directly or indirectly, as a result of construction of a building main or of
connection of a building main to a main.
   (F)   Main. A building main shall be connected to a main at the place
designated by the authority and where, if applicable, the service line is
provided. A smooth neat joint shall be made and the connection of a building
main to the service line shall be made secure and water-tight.
(Ord. 175, passed 10-11-2006) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 CONNECTION AND CUSTOMER SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   Connection fee. A fee, which shall not exceed an amount based upon the
actual cost of the connection of the property extending from the authority’s
main to the property line or curb stop of the property so connected, is hereby
authorized. The authority may also base such fee upon an average cost for
previously installed connections of similar type and size. In lieu of the
payment of the fees, the authority may require the construction and dedication
of those facilities by the property owner or owners requesting such connection.
   (B)   Customer facilities fee. A fee, which shall not exceed an amount based
upon the actual costs of facilities serving the connected property from the
property line or curb stop to the proposed dwelling or building to be served,
is hereby authorized.
      (1)   The fee shall be chargeable only in the event that the authority
and not the property owner or owners installs the customer facilities. In lieu
of the payment of the customer facilities fee, the authority may require the
construction of those facilities by the property owner or owners requesting
customer facilities. The fee may include the cost of a water meter and
installation if the authority provides or installs the same.
      (2)   Where the property connected or to be connected with the sewer
system of the authority is not equipped with a water meter, the authority may
install such a meter at the property owner’s costs and expense. In addition to
the above fees, the authority shall charge an inspection fee to inspect and
approve any work performed by the owner or the owner’s agents.
(Ord. 175, passed 10-11-2006)
§ 52.04 REGULATIONS GOVERNING BUILDING MAINS AND CONNECTION TO MAINS.
   (A)   Inspection. No building main shall be covered until it has been
inspected and approved by the authority. If any part of a building main is
covered before so being inspected and approved, it shall be uncovered for
inspection, at the cost and expense of the owner of the improved property to be
connected to a main.
   (B)   Maintenance. Every building main of any improved property shall be
maintained in a sanitary and safe operating condition by the owner of such
improved property.
   (C)   Safety. Every excavation for a building main shall be guarded
adequately with barricades and lights to protect all persons from damage and
injury. Any street, sidewalk or other public property disturbed in the course
of installation of a building main shall be restored, at the cost and expense
of the owner of the improved property being connection, in a manner
satisfactory to the township and/or the authority.
   (D)   Notice. If any person shall fail or refuse, upon receipt of a notice
in writing of the authority to remedy any unsatisfactory condition with respect
to a building main within 30 days of receipt of such notice, the authority may
refuse to permit such person to be served by the water system until such
satisfactory condition shall have been remedied to the satisfaction of the
authority.
   (E)   Authority. The authority may adopt, from time to time, additional
rules and regulations it shall deem necessary and proper relating to
connections with a main and with the water system, which additional rules and
regulations, to the extent appropriate, shall be and shall be construed as part
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 175, passed 10-11-2006) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   As long as water is piped to any building, the authority shall at all
reasonable times have free access to the meters or service pipes to inspect,
attest, read, repair, remove or replace the same whether or not the occupant of
the building is a water user, and such access shall not be impeded by coal,
ashes or rubbish, nor in any other manner. Failure to provide such free access
shall be cause for termination of service until suitable access is provided.
(Ord. 175, passed 10-11-2006) Penalty, see §
52.99
POTENTIAL HAZARDS TO THE WATER SUPPLY
§ 52.20 PREAMBLE.
   The Township Board of Supervisors, pursuant to the Pennsylvania Second Class
Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., and the mandate of the Constitution of
the commonwealth to protect the environment, enact this subchapter to provide a
fund from which payment can be made to clean ground or surface water that may
be contaminated from a sludge or sewerage spread operation.
(Ord. 59, passed 2-11-1981)
§ 52.21 PERMIT.
   Prior to the spreading of any material generated from a private or municipal
sewage treatment plant, generally known as sludge on any land in this township,
the owner of the land and the person(s) or corporation spreading shall in
addition to any permits required by any other governmental regulating agency
secure a permit from the township.
(Ord. 59, passed 2-11-1981)
§ 52.22 REGULATIONS FOR PERMIT.
   The township shall not issue a permit until all the following have been
fully complied with.
   (A)   Notice of intention to make application for a permit shall be
published once each week for two successive weeks in at least three newspapers
of general circulation in the township.
   (B)   The application, in a form to be prepared by the Township Solicitor
and approved by the Supervisors shall contain:
      (1)   The full legal description of the parcel where the sludge is to be
spread;
      (2)   A contour map of such scale as determined by the township engineer/
geologist;
      (3)   An affidavit by the property owner certifying the aforesaid
newspaper notice and notice by certified mail to all property owners within
1,000 feet from the edge of the parcel where the sludge is to be spread;
      (4)   A bond in a form to be prepared by the Solicitor providing for
payment to the township or to adjacent or affected property owners whose wells
might become contaminated;
      (5)   In addition, a cash guarantee of the bond or an insurance company
guarantee in the amount of $10,000,000 shall be provided;
      (6)   Placement of ground lycemeters and creek monitors as determined by
the Township Engineer/Geologist; and
      (7)   Creation of an escrow account in the amount of $10,000 initially
and to be replenished fully within 30 days when it is reduced to $5,000. This
fund shall be used at the township’s discretion to pay for laboratory reports
and labor expense in maintaining the aforesaid monitors. Failure to replenish
the fund shall be considered a breech of the bond.
   (C)   It is the legislative intent that the sections herein are severable
and if a court determines any portion to be illegal, the balance of the
subchapter shall continue in effect.
   (D)   The bond, guarantee and escrow shall continue in existence until such
time as the township shall be assured by its Engineer/Geologist that no
contamination to the environment can further occur from the site.
(Ord. 59, passed 2-11-1981)
WATER USE DURING TIMES OF DROUGHT WATCH
§ 52.35 PREAMBLE.
   The Township Board of Supervisors, upon recommendation of the Board of the
municipal authority, hereby enacts this subchapter imposing water use
restrictions in an effort to conserve water during periods of drought watches,
drought warnings and drought emergencies.
(Ord. 174, passed 10-11-2006)
§ 52.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. Bedminster Municipal Authority.
   DROUGHT CONTINGENCY AND WATER RATIONING PLAN. The drought contingency and
water rationing plan adopted by the municipal authority dated September 30,
2004 and all amendments and updates or replacements thereof that the authority
may adopt from time to time.
   DROUGHT EMERGENCY. The highest of three levels of drought status and
includes a mandatory reduction of at least 15% in water use by residents and it
may be declared by the Governor of the commonwealth, the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection or the Township Board of Supervisors.
   DROUGHT WARNING. The second or middle level of three levels of drought
status that includes a voluntary reduction of 10% to 15% in water use by
residents and that may be declared by the Governor of the commonwealth, the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection or the Township Board of
Supervisors.
   DROUGHT WATCH. The lowest of three levels of drought status that includes a
voluntary 5% reduction in water use by residents, a DROUGHT WATCH may be
declared by the Governor of the commonwealth, the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection or the Township Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 174, passed 10-11-2006)
§ 52.37 DECLARATION OF DROUGHT STATUS.
   A drought watch, drought warning or a drought emergency may be declared by
the Governor of the commonwealth, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection and/or the Township Board of Supervisors. If there is a conflict
between any of the entities that have made a declaration regarding a drought
status, the highest level of drought or most restrictive drought status shall
control.
(Ord. 174, passed 10-11-2006)
§ 52.38 DROUGHT CONTINGENCY AND WATER RATIONING PLAN.
   When Trigger Point I is reached in any of the wells of the authority, a
drought watch may be declared by the Township Board of Supervisors. Whenever
Trigger Point II in any of the authority’s wells is reached, the Township Board
of Supervisors may declare a drought warning. Whenever Trigger Point III is
reached in any of the authority’s wells, the Township Board of Supervisors may
declare a drought emergency.
(Ord. 174, passed 10-11-2006)
§ 52.39 DROUGHT WATCH RESTRICTIONS.
   Upon the declaration of a drought watch and throughout the duration of the
watch, the following voluntary water conservation measures shall be publicized
to all residents of the township through local media, the township newsletter
and the township website.
   (A)   Residents shall be asked to run dishwashers and washers only with full
loads.
   (B)   Residents shall be asked to take showers instead of baths.
   (C)   Residents shall be asked to install saving devices on all showers and
toilets, when possible.
   (D)   Residents shall be requested to repair any leaks which may occur, as
rapidly as possible.
   (E)   Residents shall be requested to limit all unnecessary outside use of
water, such as watering of lawns and gardens, washing of cars, sidewalks and
porches, filling of swimming pools and other such measures.
(Ord. 174, passed 10-11-2006) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.40 IMPLEMENTATION OF WATER RESTRICTIONS FOR DROUGHT WARNING.
   Whenever a drought warning is declared and throughout the duration of the
warning, the following mandatory water conservation measures shall be
publicized to all residents of the township through the local media, the
township newsletter and the township website.
   (A)   Residents shall eliminate all outside use of water for watering
gardens and lawns.
   (B)   Residents shall eliminate washing of cars, trucks and other vehicles.
   (C)   Residents shall eliminate the washing of sidewalks, driveways, streets
and porches.
   (D)   Residents shall eliminate the filling of swimming pools from well
water and authority water.
(Ord. 174, passed 10-11-2006) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.41 IMPLEMENTATION OF WATER RESTRICTIONS DURING DROUGHT EMERGENCY.
   Whenever there is a declaration of a drought emergency and throughout the
duration of the emergency, the following water conservation measures shall be
mandated.
   (A)   All watering of existing lawns is prohibited.
   (B)   Water of newly seeded lawns is restricted as follows.
      (1)   Watering may be done with only one sprinkler (five gallons per
minute maximum) at each house, only between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and
midnight.
      (2)   Watering of new lawns will not be permitted at any time on
Saturdays or Sundays.
   (C)   Washing of automobiles and commercial vehicles is prohibited.
   (D)   The washing of patios, sidewalks, driveways and street is prohibited.
   (E)   Horticultural gardens, shrubbery and other landscaped plants may be
watered only with a bucket.
   (F)   Vegetable gardens are not included in the restrictions under division
(E) above.
   (G)   The use of groundwater or authority water drawn from the soils of the
township and/or the use of authority water for initial annual filling of
residential swimming pools is prohibited.
   (H)   Customers of the authority may be subject to water rationing as set
forth under the drought contingency and water rationing plan adopted by the
authority and as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 174, passed 10-11-2006) Penalty, see §
52.99
ESTABLISHMENT OF WATER CONSERVATION REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL
NEW STRUCTURES
§ 52.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Includes commercial, industrial and professional activity.
   CONSUMER. Includes a person, partnership, association or corporation, and
shall mean anyone to whom water is supplied by the authority, whether as owner
or tenant.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Construction pursuant to a valid building permit issued
subsequent to date of enactment hereof.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   A building or enclosure occupied as a single dwelling unit or
business;
      (2)   A combination of buildings in common enclosure occupied as a single
dwelling or business;
      (3)   One side of a double house with a solid vertical partition wall
occupied as a single-dwelling unit; and
      (4)   Each dwelling unit, business or profession in addition to the first
dwelling unit, business or profession occupying the same building or enclosure,
regardless of whether or not any additional plumbing facilities are existing
with respect to such dwelling units, businesses or professions in addition to
those installed or existing in the first year thereof; provided, however, that
during the first year following the date upon which newly constructed or
reconstructed commonly owned multiple dwelling, business, or professional unit
in addition to the first such unit shall be considered as property for purposes
of this subchapter only upon its having been rented for occupancy. Upon the
expiration of such first year, such additional dwelling, business or
professional unit shall be considered a PROPERTY hereunder, regardless of
whether or not it has been so rented.
(Ord. 108, passed 3-11-1992)
§ 52.56 WATER CONSERVATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Water saving fixtures and devices shall be required in all new construction
regardless of public or private water supply pursuant to the following
specifications.
   (A)   Water closets operated by flush tanks. Water closets and associated
flushing mechanisms shall not exceed an average maximum volume of one and
sixth-tenths gallons per flushing cycle when tested in accordance with a
hydraulic performance requirements of ANSI A112.91.2m and ANSI A112.19.6m.
   (B)   Urinals and associates flushing mechanisms. Urinal water consumption
shall not exceed an average of one and one-half gallons per flush cycle over a
range of test pressures from 20 to 80 psi. The fixtures shall perform in
accordance with the test requirements of the ANSI A122.19.2M and ANSI
A112.19.6M.
   (C)   Special performance equipment. The performance standards of this
section shall not apply to fixtures and fittings such as emergency showers,
aspirator faucets and blowout fixtures that, in order to perform a specialized
function, cannot meet the specified standards.
   (D)   Showerheads. Showerhead discharge rates shall not exceed three gallons
of water per minute when tested in accordance with ANSI A112.18.1m.
   (E)   Sink faucets.
      (1)   Kitchen sink faucet discharge rates shall not exceed three gallons
of water per minute over a range of test pressure from 20 to 80 psig. The
fixture shall perform in accordance with the test requirements cited in the
ANSI 112.18.1m finished rough brass plumbing fixture fittings standard.
      (2)   Residential lavatory sink faucet discharge rates shall not exceed
three gallons of water per minute over a range of test pressures from 20 to 80
psig. The fixture shall perform in accordance with the test requirements cited
in the ANSI 112.18.1m finished rough brass plumbing fixture fittings standard.
(Ord. 108, passed 3-11-1992) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provisions of §§
52.01 through
52.05 shall be subject to pay a penalty of not more than $300 for each
consecutive day the violation continues, and if the violation continues in
excess of 30 days, the penalty shall be set at $1,000 per day commencing on the
thirty-first day until the violation has been corrected. Penalties shall be
assessed on the bills sent by the authority to the customer and shall be
payable and collected in the same manner that the bills are paid and collected.
The township shall have the authority to enforce the penalty provisions of §§
52.01 through
52.05 for violations of any provision of §§
52.01 through
52.05 by summary proceedings, and anyone found guilty of a violation shall be
subject to fines as set forth above.
   (C)   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity found guilty of
violating any provisions of §§
52.35 through
52.41 shall, upon conviction before the Magisterial District Judge or other
court of competent jurisdiction and in accordance with the procedures set forth
in the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., be
sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding $500 for a first offense and not
exceeding $1,000 for each subsequent offense committed during any drought
status, plus all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by the
township in enforcing the violation. Each day a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense, and each provision violated shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (D)   The provisions of §§
52.55 and
52.56 are declared to be for the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
the township and persons violating any provisions, upon conviction before the
Magisterial District Judge or other court of competent jurisdiction and in
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Pennsylvania Second Class
Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000 per day during which such violation shall continue, plus all court
costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by the township in enforcing the
violation. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense,
and each provision violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 174, passed 10-11-2006; Ord. 175, passed 10-11-2006)
CHAPTER 53: STREETS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
Rights-of-Way
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Registration
   
53.03   Grant of subchapter; exemptions
   
53.04   Standards of service
   
53.05   Rental
   
53.06   Insurance, indemnification and bonds or other surety
   
53.07   Enforcement
   
53.08   Compliance with applicable laws and ordinances; conflict
Public Streets
   
53.20   General
   
53.21   Rules and regulations
   
53.22   Procedure for obtaining a permit
   
53.23   Issuance of permit
   
53.24   Inspection
Standards of Construction
   
53.35   Standards of construction
 
   
53.99   Penalty
RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number and words
in the singular number include the plural number.
   AFFILIATE. A person:
      (1)   With a direct or indirect ownership interest in the subject entity
of 5% or more or which controls such interest, including forms of ownership
such as general, limited or other partnership interests, direct ownership
interests, limited liability companies and other forms of business
organizations and entities, but not including corporations;
      (2)   With a stock interest in the subject entity where the subject
entity is a corporation and such stockholder or its nominee is an officer or
director of the grantee or who directly or indirectly owns or controls 5% or
more of the outstanding stock, whether voting or non-voting; or
      (3)   Which controls the grantee and/or, is controlled by, or is under
common control with such person or entity.
   CABLE SERVICE. The same meaning as used in the Communications Act.
   COMMUNICATIONS ACT. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended as of the
time of enactment of this subchapter.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair or maintain a facility
in the public way.
   EXEMPT. A service which is provided to residences or businesses within the
service area, but which is exempt from the provisions of this subchapter under
§
53.03(B).
   FACILITY. Any tangible asset in the public way used or required to provide a
non-exempt service to residences or businesses within the service area. The
following are not a FACILITY: a railroad; street railway; gas pipe; water pipe;
electric conduit; electric piping; telephone pole; telegraph pole; electric
light pole; electric power pole; coal tipple; or obstruction to the public way.
   GRANTEE. A person who enjoys a non-exclusive privilege to occupy or use a
public way to provide non-exempt service under this subchapter and who is in
continuous compliance with this subchapter.
   GROSS REVENUE.
      (1)   All gross revenue of grantee or any affiliate of grantee derived
from the use or occupancy of public ways for the provision of non-exempt
services to persons having a residence or place of business in the service
area.
      (2)   Includes amounts earned, regardless of:
         (a)   Whether the amounts are paid in cash, in trade or by means of
some other benefit to grantee or its affiliates;
         (b)   Whether the services with which the revenue is associated are
provided at cost or the revenue amount can be matched against an equivalent
expenditure; and/or
         (c)   How the amounts are initially recorded by grantee or its
affiliates.
      (3)   Shall not be a net of:
         (a)   Expense, including, but not limited to: any operating expense;
capital expense; sales expense; or commission;
         (b)   Any accrual, including, without limitation, any accrual for
commissions; or
         (c)   Any other expenditure, regardless of whether such expense,
deduction, accrual or expenditure reflects a cash payment.
      (4)   GROSS REVENUE shall not be double counted, viz., GROSS REVENUE
which has been included as GROSS REVENUE of both grantee and an affiliate but
which sum is included in GROSS REVENUE due solely to a transfer of funds
between grantee and the affiliate shall not be counted for purposes of
determining GROSS REVENUE.
   NON-EXEMPT. A service which is provided to residences or businesses within
the service area, but which is not exempt from the provisions of this
subchapter under §
53.03(B).
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Any natural person, sole proprietorship, partnership,
association, limited liability company, corporation or other form of
organization authorized to do business in the commonwealth; and
         (b)   Provides or seeks to provide one or more non-exempt services to
residences or businesses in the service area.
      (2)   A governmental entity or a municipal authority is not a PERSON.
   PUBLIC WAY. The surface of, and the space above and below, any public
street, unopened right- of-way, highway, bridge, land path, alley, court,
boulevard, sidewalk, parkway, way, lane, public way, drive, circle or other
public right-of-way held by the township in the service area. PUBLIC WAY shall
also mean any easement now or hereafter held by the township within the service
area for the purpose of public travel and/or for utility and/or public service
use dedicated for compatible uses.
   SERVICE AREA. The present municipal boundaries of the township, and shall
include any additions thereto by annexation or other legal means.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Bedminster, County of Bucks, Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, or the lawful successor, transferee or assignee thereof.
(Ord. 166, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 53.02 REGISTRATION.
   Each person, other than on a transitory basis, who occupies or uses or seeks
to occupy or use a public way to provide a non-exempt service to residences or
businesses within the service area, or places any equipment or facility in a
public way other than on a transitory basis, including persons with
installation and maintenance responsibilities by lease, sublease or assignment,
must register with the township. Registration is accomplished by filing with
the township a completed provider certification in the form shown at Appendix
“A,” which is adopted by reference as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 166, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 53.03 GRANT OF SUBCHAPTER; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Grant. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, repair,
remove, relocate or perform any work on or use any facilities or any part
thereof in a public way unless in compliance with this subchapter. Continuous
compliance with this subchapter grants to the grantee a non-exclusive privilege
to construct, repair, remove, relocate or perform any work on or use any
facilities or any part thereof in the public ways within the service area and
to occupy or use the public ways for the purpose of providing non-exempt
service to residences or businesses within the service area.
   (B)   Exemptions. This subchapter shall not apply to occupation or use of
the public ways to provide:
      (1)   The transportation of passengers or property or both as a common
carrier by means of elevated street railway, inclined plane railway, railroad,
street railway or underground street railway, trackless-trolley omnibus or by
any combination of such means;
      (2)   The transportation of artificial or natural gas, electricity,
petroleum or petroleum products or water or any combination of such substances
for the public;
      (3)   The production, generation, manufacture, transmission, storage,
distribution or furnishing of natural or artificial gas, electricity, steam,
air conditioning or refrigerating service or any combination thereof to or for
the public;
      (4)   The diverting, developing, pumping, impounding, distributing or
furnishing of water from either surface or subsurface sources to or for the
public;
      (5)   The collection, treatment or disposal of sewage for the public;
      (6)   The conveyance or transmission of messages or communications by
telephone or telegraph for the public, if all facilities are placed
underground. No aboveground facilities are permitted unless in full compliance
with the township zoning ordinance provisions with respect to telecommunication
uses;
      (7)   The diverting, pumping or impounding of water for the development
or furnishing of hydroelectric power to or for the public;
      (8)   The transportation of oxygen or nitrogen, or both, by pipeline or
conduit for the public;
      (9)   Any ancillary service reasonably necessary or appropriate for the
accomplishment of services specified in division (B)(1) through (B)(8) above;
and
      (10)   Cable service.
   (C)   Not a cable system. This subchapter does not authorize a person to
provide cable service. A person seeking to provide cable service must obtain
permission from the township under separate legislation of the township.
   (D)   Not a pole attachment agreement. This subchapter does not authorize
the grantee to attach to any pole or other structure in a public way devices
for the intentional transmission or radiation of radio frequency emissions or
energy through the ether by any means now known or hereafter developed.
(Ord. 166, passed 11-9-2005; Ord. 214, passed 12-11-2013) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 STANDARDS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Conditions of street occupancy. All facilities and equipment installed
or erected by the grantee pursuant to the terms hereof shall be located so as
to cause a minimum of interference with the proper use of public ways and with
the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who own property that
adjoins any of said public ways.
   (B)   Restoration of public ways. If during the course of the grantee’s
construction, operation, and/or maintenance of its facilities and equipment
there occurs a disturbance of any public way by the grantee, the grantee shall,
at its expense, replace and restore such public way to a condition which
existed immediately prior to such disturbance. If the grantee excavates the
surface of any public way, grantee shall be responsible for restoration of the
public way and its surface within the area affected by the excavation. The
township reserves the right, after providing notice to the grantee, to remove
and/or repair any work done by the grantee which is inadequate. The reasonable
cost thereof, including the cost of inspection and supervision, shall be paid
by the grantee. All excavations made by the grantee in the public way shall be
properly safeguarded for the prevention of accidents.
   (C)   Trees and shrubbery. The grantee shall notify township and all
affected property owners regarding the grantee’s need to trim trees or other
natural growth upon and overhanging public ways so as to prevent the branches
of such trees from coming in contact with its facilities or equipment. Trimming
shall be limited to the area required to clear its facilities or equipment.
   (D)   Safety requirements. All such work in the public ways shall be
performed in accordance with applicable safety codes and technical
requirements.
   (E)   Maps. Prior to beginning any construction of facilities, the grantee
shall provide the township with a construction schedule for work in the pubic
ways which schedule shall be updated as changed. Upon completion of initial
construction and upon completion of construction of any modification to its
facilities, the grantee shall provide the township with a map showing the
location of its installed facilities in the public ways. Such maps shall be
provided in both paper form, as well as in an electronic format for placement
on the township’s GIS system. Annually thereafter, the grantee shall provide a
map to the township showing the location of the grantee’s facilities in the
public ways on a scale of 150 feet per inch or whatever standard scale the
township adopts for general use.
   (F)   Excavations. The grantee may make excavations in public ways for any
facility subject to obtaining excavation permits from the township. Prior to
doing such work, the grantee must apply for, and obtain, appropriate permits
from the township, and give appropriate notices to any other licensees and/or
permittees of the township, and/or other units of government owning or
maintaining facilities which may be affected by the proposed excavation.
   (G)   Reservation of township public ways. Nothing in this subchapter shall
be construed to prevent the Township or other agency of government or municipal
authority from constructing sewers, grading, paving, repairing and/or altering
any street and/or laying down, repairing and/or removing water mains and/or
constructing and/or establishing any other public work or improvement. If any
of the grantee’s facilities or equipment interferes with the construction or
repair of any street or public improvement, including construction, repair or
removal of a sewer or water main, the grantee’s facilities or equipment shall
be removed or replaced in the manner the respective township or other agency of
government or municipal authority shall direct. Any and all such removal or
replacement shall be at the expense of the grantee. Should the grantee fail to
remove, adjust or relocate its facilities by the date established by the
township or other agency of government or municipal authority, the township or
other agency of government or municipal authority may cause and/or effect such
removal, adjustment or relocation, and the expense thereof shall be paid by the
grantee, including all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the township
or other agency of government or municipal authority due to the grantee’s
delay.
(Ord. 166, passed 11-9-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 RENTAL.
   (A)   In consideration of occupying or using the public ways under this
subchapter, the grantee shall pay to township a rental equal to 5% of gross
revenue.
   (B)   The rental shall be assessed on a calendar quarterly basis and shall
be payable to the township no later than 45 days after the expiration of the
calendar quarter for which payment is due. The grantee shall file with the
township a complete and accurate statement, under notarial seal, at the end of
each calendar year quarter certified as true and correct by a representative of
the grantee, authorized to make such certification, explaining how the payment
was calculated. In connection with the rental payment due on February 14, the
grantee shall also submit to the township, on that date or no later than six
months thereafter, a detailed statement by an officer of the grantee certified
by the grantee’s independent certified public accountant verifying the accuracy
of the gross revenue and rental payments for the previous calendar year, with a
detailed breakdown and explanation of the calculation by each month.
   (C)   (1)   The grantee shall keep accurate books of account which shall
clearly support the calculation of rentals and describe in sufficient detail
the amounts attributable to each specific component of gross revenue. Such
books of account and all supplemental information and source documents in
support thereof including, but not limited to, third party remittances and
contract documents, shall be made available to the township and its authorized
representatives for examination at a location in the county, at any time during
regular business hours on ten days’ prior written notice and from time to time
for the purpose of verifying or identifying rentals owed to the township. The
grantee shall exercise its best efforts to obtain financial records of
affiliates for the township for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of the
rental payments.
      (2)   The township shall have the right to examine and to recompute any
amounts determined to be payable under this subchapter; provided, however, that
such examination shall take place within 48 months following the close of each
year. Any additional amount due to township as a result of the examination and
recomputation shall be paid within 30 days following written notice to the
grantee by the township, which notice shall include a copy of the examination
report. In the event that said examination determines that funds are owed to
the township in an amount in excess of 2%, the cost of said examination shall
be borne by the grantee and reimbursed to township within 30 days following
written notice to the grantee.
   (D)   In the event that any rental or other payment is not made or the
requisite documentation and certification is not provided on or before the
applicable dates heretofore specified, interest shall be compounded daily and
set at the one-year United States treasury bill rate existent on the date
payment was due, plus three percentage points. Any amount recomputed to reflect
correct payment due shall bear interest as described from the date such payment
was originally due.
(Ord. 166, passed 11-9-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 INSURANCE, INDEMNIFICATION AND BONDS OR OTHER SURETY.
   (A)   The grantee shall save the township, its agents, employees and elected
and appointed officials, harmless from and against all claims, damages, losses
and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees, sustained on account of any
suit, judgment, execution, claim or demand whatsoever arising out of the
construction, leasing, operation or maintenance of the grantee’s equipment,
facilities and services specified by this subchapter, whether or not any act or
omission complained of is authorized, allowed and/or prohibited by the
subchapter and the rights granted thereunder.
   (B)   (1) The grantee shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect
throughout the term of this subchapter insurance with an insurance company
licensed to do business and doing business in the commonwealth and acceptable
to the township. All companies will be required to be rated A-VH or better by
A.M. Best or A better by Standard and Poors. The grantee shall provide township
with proof of such insurance so required.
      (2)   The grantee shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect, at
the grantee’s sole expense, insurance coverage in the following types and
minimum amounts:
Type Amount
Type                                               Amount
Commercial general (public) liability to include
coverage, for the following where exposure exists:  
   Contractual liability                         
   Explosion, collapse and underground property  
damage                                              
   Independent contractors                      Combined single limit for
   Personal injury                              bodily injury and property
   Premises operations                          damages $2,000,000 per
   Products/completed operations                occurrence or its equivalent

Comprehensive vehicle insurance coverage for
loading and unloading hazards, for:                 
   Hired vehicles                                
   Non-owned vehicles                           Combined single limit of
                                                   bodily injury and property
   Owned/leased vehicles                        damage $1,000,000 per
                                                   occurrence or its equivalent

Workers’ compensation and statutory employers    $100,000/$500,000/$100,000
liability
 
      (3)   The township shall receive without expense copies of certificates
of insurance evidencing coverage stated above.
      (4)   The grantee agrees that with respect to the above-required
insurance, all insurance certificates will contain the following required
provisions:
         (a)   Name the township and its officers, employees, board members and
elected and appointed officials as additional insured parties (as the interests
of each insured may appear) as to all applicable coverage (except workers’
compensation);
         (b)   Provide for 60 days’ written notice to the township for
cancellation, non-renewal or material change; and
         (c)   Provide that all provisions of this subchapter concerning
liability, duty and standard of care, including the indemnity provisions, shall
be underwritten by contractual coverage sufficient to include such obligations
within applicable policies, subject to policy terms and conditions.
      (5)   Companies issuing the insurance policies shall have no recourse
against the township for payment of any premiums or assessments which all are
set at the sole risk of the grantee. Insurance policies obtained by the grantee
shall provide that the issuing company waives all right of recovery by way of
subrogation against the township in connection with any damage covered by these
policies.
   (C)   The grantee shall obtain and maintain, at its sole cost and expense,
and file with the township, a corporate surety bond with a surety company
authorized to do business in the commonwealth in the amount of 15% of the
grantee’s estimated costs to secure the grantee’s performance of its
obligations and faithful adherence to all requirements of this subchapter.
      (1)   No action, proceeding or exercise of a right with respect to such
bond shall affect the township’s rights to demand full and faithful performance
under this subchapter or limit the grantee’s liability for damages.
      (2)   The bond shall contain the following endorsement:
“It is hereby understood and agreed that this bond may not be cancelled by the
surety nor any intention not to renew be exercised by the surety until 60 days
after receipt by the Township of Bedminster, by registered mail, of written
notice of such intent.”
   (D)   All expenses of the above-noted insurance and bond shall be paid by
the grantee.
   (E)   The insurance policies mentioned herein shall contain an endorsement
stating the following:
“Should any policies of insurance be cancelled or coverages be reduced, before
the expiration date of said policies of insurance, the issuer shall deliver 60
days’ advance written notice to the township.”
   (F)   Neither the provisions of this subchapter nor any insurance accepted
by the township pursuant hereto, nor any damages recovered by the township
thereunder, shall be construed to excuse faithful performance by the grantee
and/or limit the liability of the grantee under the subchapter issued hereunder
and/or for damages, either to the full amount of the bond or otherwise.
(Ord. 166, passed 11-9-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   In addition to all other rights, remedies and powers reserved and/or
retained by the township under this subchapter or otherwise, the township
reserves the right to bring a civil action to collect any sums due to township
by the grantee and/or forfeit or revoke all privileges of the grantee under
this subchapter in the event of willful or repeated violation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 166, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 53.08 COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND ORDINANCES; CONFLICT.
   (A)   Compliance with applicable laws and ordinances. The grantee shall at
all times be subject to the exercise of the police power of the township. The
grantee shall comply with all lawful ordinances, codes, laws, rules and
regulations of the township and the United States of America which are now in
effect or hereafter enacted.
   (B)   Conflict. Whenever the requirements of this subchapter are in conflict
with other requirements of the ordinances of the township, the most
restrictive, or those imposing the highest standards shall govern. Privileges
granted by this subchapter do not constitute a waiver or impairment of the
rights of the township at law or equity now or henceforth existing to proceed
versus the grantee for enforcement of the ordinance or violation of this
subchapter or ordinances of the township.
(Ord. 166, passed 11-9-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
PUBLIC STREETS
§ 53.20 GENERAL.
   In accordance with provisions of § 2322, Act 60 of 1995, 53 P.S. § 67322, no
railroad or street railway shall be constructed upon any township road, nor
shall any railroad or street railway crossing, driveway connection, gas pipe,
water pipe, electric conduits or other piping, be laid upon or in, nor shall
any telephone, telegraph or electric light or power poles or any coal tipples,
or any other obstructions be erected upon or in, any portion of a township road
except under such conditions, restrictions and regulations specified by the
township for that purpose.
(Ord. 138, passed 5-9-2001) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.21 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Supervisors are hereby authorized and empowered to adopt such
rules and regulations by resolution concerning construction of facilities,
driveways and occupancy of township road rights-of-way.
   (B)   All such rules and regulations adopted by the township shall be in
conformity with the provisions herein, and all other applicable laws, and
regulations of the administrative agencies of the commonwealth.
(Ord. 138, passed 5-9-2001)
§ 53.22 PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING A PERMIT.
   Each application shall be submitted to the township in triplicate on forms
prescribed by the township. The application shall be accompanied by a fee set
by the Board of Supervisors by separate resolution, and the applicant shall
establish an escrow account with the township to guarantee satisfactory
restoration of the township roadway and to cover the costs of township
inspections required by 53 P.S. § 67322.
(Ord. 138, passed 5-9-2001)
§ 53.23 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   A permit shall be issued to the applicant after all the aforementioned
requirements have been filed and found in conformance to applicable rules and
regulations of the township.
(Ord. 138, passed 5-9-2001)
§ 53.24 INSPECTION.
   Upon completion of the work authorized by the permit, the township shall
inspect the work authorized by the permit, and when necessary, enforce
compliance with the conditions, restrictions and regulations prescribed by the
township. In addition to such inspection, the Township Supervisors may re-
inspect the work not more than two years after its completion, and if any
settlement of the road surface or other defects shall appear in the work
contrary to the conditions, restrictions and regulations of the township, it
may enforce compliance therewith. If the applicant shall fail to rectify any
such settlement or other defect, within 60 days after written notice from the
Township Supervisors to do so, the Township Supervisors may do the work and
impose upon the applicant the costs thereof, together with an additional 20% of
such costs, which may be recovered by an action in assumpsit in the Court of
Common Pleas of the county.
(Ord. 138, passed 5-9-2001)
STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION
§ 53.35 STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The intent of this section is to make specific the requirements of the
township’s comprehensive plan and to amplify and particularize the engineering
features of the township subdivision and land development ordinance.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-9-1974)
Cross-reference:
   Subdivisions and land development ordinance, see
Chapter 152
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person which commits or suffers the violation of §§
53.01 through
53.08, shall, upon being found liable in a civil enforcement proceeding
commenced by the township, pay a fine of $600 plus all court costs, including
reasonable attorney fees incurred by the township. A separate offense shall
arise for each day or portion thereof in which a violation is found to exist or
for each section of §§
53.01 through
53.08 which is found to have been violated. In addition, the township also may
enforce §§
53.01 through
53.08 by an action brought in equity.
   (C)   Any person, firm corporation or utility who violates or permits the
violation of §§
53.20 through
53.24 shall, upon being found liable therefor in civil enforcement proceeding
commenced by the township, pay a fine of $600, plus all court costs, including
reasonable attorney fees incurred by the township. No judgment shall be imposed
until the date of the determination of a violation by the District Judge. If
the defendant neither pays or timely appeals the judgment, the municipality may
enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. 138, passed 5-9-2001; Ord. 166, passed 11-9-2005)
CHAPTER 54: RIGHTS-OF-WAY MAINTENANCE
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Care, maintenance, repair and replacement
   
54.03   Maintenance/removal of vegetation and trees
   
54.04   Winter storms
   
54.05   Prohibition, removal and impoundment of obstructions
   
54.06   Supports under sidewalks and curbs
   
54.07   Conformity to line and grade
   
54.08   Notice to do work
   
54.09   Inspection
   
54.10   Township may do work and collect costs
   
54.11   Emergency repairs
   
54.12   Construction and repair done on owner’s initiative without notice
   
54.13   Exemptions
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BIKE PATH/PEDESTRIAN WALKWAY. A paved path for pedestrians and/or
bicycles, usually constructed of asphalt.
      CARTWAY. The portion of a street, alley, access drive or driveway,
whether paved or unpaved, intended for vehicular use.
      CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE. An area of unobstructed vision at street
intersections which is between two feet and eight feet from the ground and is
defined by lines of sight between points at a given distance from the
intersection of the street right-of-way lines.
      CURB. A raised line of concrete, stone or asphalt at and/or forming the
edge of the paved cartway.
      DAILY MAINTENANCE. Any and all activities necessary to generally preserve
and maintain (including, but not limited to, structural integrity and normal
functioning) a piece of property, a facility or a structure, including the
clearing and/or removal of obstructions (such as debris, sediment, leaves,
vegetation, snow, ice and the like), mowing, weeding, raking and sweeping, but
not including replacement, repairs or long-term maintenance activities.
      GUTTER. A paved, concrete, or stone ditch constructed along the edge of a
cartway or between the cartway and the curb used to carry surface water runoff.
      OWNER. The legal owner or owners of land within the township including a
lessee, if he or she is authorized under the lease to exercise the rights of
the legal owner, or other person having a proprietary interest in the land.
      PERSON. A natural person, partnership, corporation, association or any
other legal entity.
      RESERVE STRIP. A parcel of land whose primary function is to separate a
right-of-way from adjacent properties or a cartway from sidewalks, bike paths
or pedestrian walkways, while not being used or capable of being used as a
building lot, open space or recreation area, or for legitimate environmental
protection purposes.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land over which rights are provided for various
purposes, including, but not limited to, pedestrian and vehicular access and
travel, storm drainage and utilities.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE. A line that forms the boundaries of a right-of-way.
      SIDEWALK. A path for pedestrians alongside a street or alley, usually
constructed of concrete, stone or brick.
      STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of any public
highway, road or roadway within the township, including the cartway, curb and
shoulder of such highway, road or roadway, that is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular and pedestrian travel.
      STREET TREE. A tree installed or maintained in or near the right-of-way
in accordance with approved subdivision or land development plans and/or in
compliance with the township’s zoning ordinance and subdivision and land
development ordinance (those trees adjacent to sidewalks and roadways).
      SWALE. A lineal or curvilinear depression in the ground that channels
surface water runoff.
      TENANT. A person in sole possession and control of any dwelling unit,
building unit, lot or parcel of land in the township.
      TOWNSHIP. Bedminster Township, Bucks County, Pennsylvania.
      VEHICLE. Any self-propelled motorized vehicle licensed to travel upon the
streets, roads and highways of the township.
      WINTER STORM. Precipitation in the form of sleet, ice, freezing rain,
snow or combination thereof creating the need for snow or ice removal, salting
or cindering operations or creating hazardous driving conditions. Any
precipitation or snow that results in the deposit or accumulation of ice of
one- quarter of an inch or greater in depth or of snow or a combination of
precipitation, of one inch or greater in depth shall be presumptively deemed to
created hazardous driving conditions, and this chapter shall go into effect
when any precipitation first accumulates to such a depth.
   (B)   Any word or term not defined herein shall be used with a meaning of
standard usage.
   (C)   The present tense shall include the future; the singular number shall
include the plural; words used in the masculine gender shall include the
feminine and the neuter; the word “shall” is always mandatory; and the word
“may” is always permissive.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-14-2021)
§ 54.02 CARE, MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this section apply to all properties within the R-3,
C-l and C-2 Zoning Districts and all residential properties located within
subdivisions containing more than 15 lots in all zoning districts. All other
properties are exempt from these provisions.
   (B)   Owners shall conduct all daily maintenance upon any curb, sidewalk,
bike path, pedestrian walkway, swale or gutter within their property or within
any right-of-way adjacent to their property necessary to keep such facilities
in good repair, passable and unobstructed.
   (C)   Owners shall keep any curb, sidewalk, bike path, pedestrian walkway or
gutter within their property or within any right-of-way adjacent to their
property free of refuse, debris and vegetation. Owners shall keep any swale
within their property or within any right-of-way adjacent to their property
free of refuse and debris and shall properly maintain vegetation in the swale.
Such care and maintenance shall be undertaken to ensure that all sidewalks,
bike paths and pedestrian walkways remain passable by pedestrians, and that all
swales and gutters permit the unrestricted flow of storm water.
   (D)   Owners of unwooded, developed real property shall maintain their
properties and adjacent rights-of-way up to the edge of the cartway with well-
maintained gardens or properly trimmed grass and shall conduct all daily
maintenance on all reserve strips adjacent to their property.
   (E)   Owners shall maintain all curbs, sidewalks, bike paths and pedestrian
walkways within their property or within any right-of-way adjacent to their
property without breaks, irregular surfaces or missing parts, and shall
promptly repair or replace curbs, sidewalks, bike paths and pedestrian walkways
when such breaks or irregular surfaces or missing parts occur.
   (F)   With the exception of salting or cindering sidewalks or walkways
during a winter storm or trash receptacles within the right-of-way on trash
pickup day, no debris or objects (such as trash receptacles, basketball hoops,
chairs, cones or the like ) may be placed or thrown onto or into public
streets, sidewalks, bike paths, pedestrian walkways, swales, gutters or storm
sewer facilities.
   (G)   Except for daily maintenance, owners are not responsible for the
maintenance, repair, replacement or upkeep of swales and gutters located within
any right-of-way adjacent to their property.
   (H)   As a part of daily maintenance, owners are responsible for ensuring
that no structures, soil, rocks, vegetation, shrubs, trees and the like intrude
onto or into the vertical space above, any cartway, sidewalk, bikepath or
pedestrian walkway.
   (I)   As a part of daily maintenance, owners are responsible for ensuring
that no structures, soil, rocks, vegetation, shrubs, trees and the like intrude
into any clear site triangle.
   (J)   The township may require owners of property adjacent to any street or
alley, including state highways, to construct, pave, repave and repair
sidewalks, curbs, swales and gutters within such street’s or alley’s right-of-
way, at such grades as may be prescribed by the township, and under such
regulations as may be prescribed by the Board of Supervisors. Prior to
conducting such work, an owner shall apply for and receive a permit from the
township for this work.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.03 MAINTENANCE/REMOVAL OF VEGETATION AND TREES.
   (A)   Owners shall maintain all vegetation and trees upon their property or
within any right-of-way adjacent to their property to ensure that they are
properly mowed, pruned and trimmed; free of damage and disease; and shall not
create a risk of harm to passersby, owners mowing, trimming and/or maintaining
vegetation and/or trees must take all proper precautions to protect the public
from these activities. Where such vegetation or tree maintenance activities
will possibly affect the safe use of a public street, sidewalk, bike path and/
or pedestrian walkway, the area affected shall be cordoned off and the
township’s approval of such work and street closure shall be obtained.
   (B)   No street trees shall be removed by an owner unless such trees are
fallen, dead, damaged, diseased, at risk of collapse, a danger to the public
and/or causing or anticipated to cause damage to public property or
improvements, and only then upon receipt of a tree removal permit from the
township. Owners shall replace any street tree removed from their property or
within any right-of-way adjacent to their property, if so directed by the
township within the timeframe set by the township. All replacement trees shall
be of a size and species required by the township subdivision and land
development ordinance for street trees and shall be approved by the township.
Prior to removing or replacing street trees, an owner shall apply for and
receive a permit from the township for this work. There shall be no fee for
this permit.
   (C)   The township may require owners of property adjacent to any street or
alley, including state highways, to maintain, remove and/or replace street
trees within such street’s or alley’s right-of-way that are missing, fallen,
dead, damaged, diseased, at risk of collapse, a danger to the public and/or
causing or anticipated to cause damage to public property/improvements, at the
sole cost of such owners.
   (D)   The township may require owners of property adjacent to any street or
alley, including state highways, to maintain and/or remove trees within such
street’s or alley’s right-of-way that are fallen, dead, damaged, diseased, at
risk of collapse, a danger to the public and/or causing or anticipated to cause
damage to public property/improvements, at the sole cost of such owners.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.04 WINTER STORMS.
   (A)   Ice and snow removal.
      (1)   Any and every person in charge or control of any building or real
estate fronting, abutting or improved with a paved sidewalk, whether as owner,
tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall keep any sidewalk within their
property or within any right-of-way adjacent to his or her property free of ice
and snow such that all sidewalks shall have a path of at least 30 inches in
width cleared of snow and ice and passable by pedestrians within 48 hours of
the cessation of any precipitation from a winter storm.
         (a)   Where the premises are owner-occupied, unoccupied or vacant, or
where there are multiple-business and/or dwellings on the property, the owner
shall be responsible for complying with the requirements of this section.
         (b)   Where the premises are fully occupied by a tenant, then the
tenant shall be responsible for complying with the requirements of this
section.
         (c)   In the event snow and/or ice on a sidewalk has become so hard
that it cannot be removed without likelihood of damage to the sidewalk, the
person responsible for clearing the sidewalk shall, within 48 hours of
completion of the winter storm, place enough sand or other abrasive on the
sidewalk to make travel reasonably safe and shall, as soon thereafter as
weather permits, clear a path in said sidewalk of at least 30 inches in width.
      (2)   Any and every person in charge or control of any building or real
estate fronting, abutting or improved with a swale or gutter, whether as owner,
tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall keep any swale or gutter within
his or her property or within any right-of-way adjacent to their property, free
of ice and snow such that all swales and gutters shall be unobstructed within
48 hours of the cessation of any precipitation from a winter storm.
      (3)   Any and every person in charge or control of any building or real
estate fronting, abutting or improved with a fire hydrant, whether as owner,
tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall be required to uncover any fire
hydrant located on his or her property or within any right-of-way adjacent to
his or her property, to the extent that at least a three-foot radius of clear
space shall be maintained around the outside of fire hydrants and so that at
least one-half of the hydrant is visible from the cartway within 24 hours of
the cessation of any precipitation from a winter storm.
      (4)   No owner or other person shall be responsible, however, for
cleaning snow and ice from township bike paths and pedestrian paths which do
not abut streets or alleys or are completely physically separated from the
remainder of the owner’s property by a buffer and/or berm.
   (B)   Improper ice and snow removal.
      (1)   No snow or ice shall be plowed, pushed, thrown or cleared from
private property onto a public street, sidewalk, bikepath, pedestrian path,
gutter or swale.
      (2)   No snow or ice shall be plowed, pushed, thrown or cleared from
private property onto a neighboring property without the express permission of
the owner of the neighboring property.
      (3)   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any snow or ice on
or immediately next to a fire hydrant.
   (C)   Removal of ice and snow by township.
      (1)   Ice or snow on sidewalks, bike paths or pedestrian walkways or in
swales or gutters is hereby decreed a public nuisance, and may be removed by
township without prior notice to the owner.
      (2)   Should the township remove ice or snow on sidewalks, bike paths or
pedestrian walkways or in swales and gutters in the interest of public safety,
the cost of such work may be levied upon the owner, and upon non-payment for a
period in excess of 30 days, the cost thereof may be assessed as a municipal
lien, together with the cost of collection, and a reasonable administrative
charge, and may be collected from the owner as provided by law.
      (3)   Ice and/or snow may be piled by the township onto or into
sidewalks, bike paths, pedestrian walkways, swales, gutters or streets incident
to the clearing of cartways and other public improvements by the township.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.05 PROHIBITION, REMOVAL AND IMPOUNDMENT OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, place or allow to remain
any object, other than a vehicle, in any street from November 1 of each year
through April 1 of the following year. It shall be unlawful for any person to
park, place or allow to remain any object, other than a non-motorized mode of
transportation, on a sidewalk, bike path or pedestrian walkway from November 1
of each year through April 1 of the following year.
   (B)   The township shall have the authority to remove and impound, or to
order the removal and impounding of, any object found in a street or on a
sidewalk, bike path or pedestrian walkway in violation of this chapter. If,
however, at the time of the intended removal by the township, the owner or the
person in charge of such object is present and expresses a willingness and
intention to remove this object immediately and does so, then the township
shall not have the authority to remove and impound.
   (C)   Removal and impounding of objects under this chapter shall be done
only by township personnel or approved agents. Every such approved agent shall
submit evidence to the township that it is bonded or has acquired liability
insurance in an amount satisfactory to the Board of Supervisors as sufficient
to indemnify owners of impounded objects against loss or damage to those
objects in the custody of the approved agent. The approved agents shall have an
approved storage area and shall submit to the township a schedule of charges
for removal and storage of objects under this section. When the schedule is
approved by the Board of Supervisors, those charges shall be adhered to by the
approved storage agent, and no different schedule of charges shall be demanded
of or collected from any person whose object is removed or impounded under this
section by any approved storage agent. The Board of Supervisors shall delete
from its list of approved storage agents and areas any such agent that makes
any unapproved charge in connection with any objects removed or impounded under
this section. In order to reclaim an object removed pursuant to the provisions
hereof, the owner, lessee or other person having an interest therein shall pay
such removal and storage costs according to the approved schedule.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.06 SUPPORTS UNDER SIDEWALKS AND CURBS.
   Where sidewalks, curbs, bike paths or pedestrian walkways are to be
constructed, paved, repaved or repaired over swales, gutters or excavations of
any kind, such curbs, sidewalks, bike paths and/or pedestrian walkways shall be
supported by iron or steel beams, girders, stone or concrete arches, or as
otherwise approved by the township. Any supports constructed of wood or other
material prone to decay, rot or erosion shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.07 CONFORMITY TO LINE AND GRADE.
   All curbs, sidewalks, bike paths, pedestrian walkways, swales and gutters
shall be constructed, paved, repaved or repaired upon the line and grade as
required by the township, following application by the owner to the township
for all necessary permits.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.08 NOTICE TO DO WORK.
   (A)   Any notice from the township to an owner to construct, pave, repave or
repair curbs, sidewalks, bike paths, pedestrian walkways, swales or gutters; or
to replace street trees shall grant the owner at least 90 days to comply with
said notice in conformity with any construction specifications prescribed by
the township, and the ADA, as applicable. No work shall be conducted without a
permit.
   (B)   Any notice from the township to an owner to maintain and/or remove
vegetation, trees, and/or street trees shall grant the owner at least ten days
to comply with said notice. No work shall be conducted without a permit.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.09 INSPECTION.
   At any time during the performance of the required work, a township
employee, agent or representative may inspect the work to determine whether
construction specifications are being observed.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-14-2021)
§ 54.10 TOWNSHIP MAY DO WORK AND COLLECT COSTS.
   (A)   Upon the failure or refusal of any owner to timely construct, pave,
repave or maintain any curb, sidewalk, bike path, pedestrian walkway, swale or
gutter in compliance with a township notice to do so, the township may do the
same or cause the same to be done, and may levy the cost of this work, together
with the cost of collection and a reasonable administrative charge, on the
owner as a municipal lien to be collected as provided by law.
   (B)   Upon the failure or refusal of any owner to timely maintain, remove
and/or replace vegetation, trees and/or street trees upon his or her property
or within any right-of-way or reserve strip adjacent to his or her property, in
compliance with a township notice to do so, the township may do the same or
cause the same to be done, and may levy the cost of this work, together with
the cost of collection and a reasonable administrative charge on the owner as a
municipal lien to be collected as provided by law.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.11 EMERGENCY REPAIRS.
   Where, in the opinion of the township, a dangerous condition exists that
must be immediately repaired, remedied and/or removed, the township shall send
the owner of the property containing this condition a notice by personal
delivery, registered mail or certified mail stating emergency work is required.
Upon failure of such owner to comply with the notice within 48 hours after
receiving it, the township may undertake the required emergency work and
repairs, and levy the cost of this work or repairs, together with the cost of
collection and a reasonable administrative charge, on the owner as a municipal
lien to be collected as provided by law.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.12 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR DONE ON OWNER’S INITIATIVE WITHOUT NOTICE.
   Any owner not required by notice to construct, pave, repave, or keep in
repair curbs, sidewalks, bike paths, pedestrian walkways, swales or gutters, or
to maintain or replace missing, dead, damaged or diseased street trees, may
construct, pave, repave or repair the curb, sidewalk, bike path, pedestrian
walkway, swale and gutter and maintain or replace dead, damaged or diseased
street trees abutting his or her property; provided, such owner shall make
application to the township for a permit before commencing work; shall provide
property grades to the satisfaction of the township before commencement of
work; shall conform to the provisions of this chapter and other regulations as
to specifications for construction and repair work; and shall notify the
township no less than 48 hours before commencement of said work.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-14-2021) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.13 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Owners of parkland, farm fields, undeveloped properties larger than
five acres and residential properties larger than ten acres are exempt from
complying with the maintenance, repair and replacement requirements of this
chapter concerning curbs, sidewalks, bike paths, pedestrian walkways, swales
and gutters and are exempt from complying with §
54.04(A) and (B).
   (B)   All property owned by the township containing sidewalks, bike paths
and pedestrian walkways is exempt from §
54.04.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-14-2021)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or permit violation of any provision of
this chapter shall pay a civil penalty of not more than $1,000, together with
all court costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees actually incurred by the
township. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense. This penalty may be levied upon the owner, any tenant and any other
occupant of the real property containing the violation subject to the
provisions hereof.
   (B)   In addition to or in lieu of the civil enforcement action set forth in
division (A) above, the township may enforce this chapter by filing an equity
action against the violator to abate the violation and correct any damage done.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-14-2021)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
73.   STORM EMERGENCIES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Use of electrical speed timing devices
Temporary Regulation of Traffic and Parking in Times of Emergency
   
70.15   Definitions
   
70.16   Temporary and emergency regulations
   
70.17   Experimental regulations
   
70.18   Signage
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 USE OF ELECTRICAL SPEED TIMING DEVICES.
   The Township Supervisors authorize the Township Police Department to use any
approved electrical speed timing device to enforce the state and local speed
limits. This authorization includes, but is not limited to, an electronic
device now known as a Speed Chek.
(Ord. 63, passed 8-11-1982)
TEMPORARY REGULATION OF TRAFFIC
AND PARKING IN TIMES OF EMERGENCY
§ 70.15 DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases when used in this subchapter shall have the meaning
described to them in the State Motor Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-9-2017)
§ 70.16 TEMPORARY AND EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors shall have the following powers to regulate
traffic and parking temporarily and in time of emergency:
      (1)   In the case of fire, flood, storm or other emergency: to establish
temporary traffic and/or parking regulations and/or restrictions for the
duration of the emergency;
      (2)   In the case of parades, processions or public events: to restrict
or prohibit traffic and/or parking in limited areas for periods of not more
than 72 hours; and
      (3)   In the case of construction work and projects, detours and the
facilitation of public works: to establish temporary traffic and/or parking
regulations and/or restrictions for the duration such work, project, or detour
impacts township roads.
   (B)   Such regulations, prohibitions and restrictions shall be effective as
if they had been enacted by ordinance.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-9-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   From time to time, the Board of Supervisors may, by resolution,
designate places upon and along the highways in the township where, for a
period of not more than 90 days, specific traffic and/or parking regulations,
prohibitions and restrictions shall be in force and effect, and shall designate
such locations by proper signs and markings.
   (B)   The purpose of this section is to allow for the test and experimental
determination of the feasibility and desirability of permanent changes in the
ordinances of the township relative to traffic and parking.
   (C)   Such regulations, prohibitions and restrictions shall be effective as
if they had been enacted by ordinance.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-9-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 SIGNAGE.
   The proper authorities of the township are authorized to erect, install and/
or post official signs, markings and/or traffic-control devices establishing
the traffic regulations as set forth in this subchapter, in conformity with the
provisions of the State Motor Vehicle Code. The requirements of this subchapter
shall not be enforced until these signs/markings/devices have been installed,
erected or posted.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-9-2017)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   All temporary, emergency and experimental regulations imposed in
accordance with §§
70.15 through
70.18 shall be enforced by the Township Police Department and other authorized
authorities in the same manner as permanent regulations. No person shall
operate a vehicle in violation of any regulations, prohibitions or restrictions
made under the authority of §§
70.15 through
70.18, and no person shall move, remove, destroy, injure, deface or otherwise
alter any sign, marking or traffic- control device installed, erected, posted
or made under the authority of §§
70.15 through
70.18.
      (2)    Any person who shall operate or park a vehicle in violation of any
regulation of this chapter, or who shall move, remove, destroy, injure, deface
or otherwise alter any sign, marking or traffic- control device installed,
erected, posted or made to give notice of or in conjunction with any such
regulation, shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to the penalty set forth
in the State Motor Vehicle Code for the violation of a permanent regulation of
the such nature, or, in case of a violation for which no specific penalty is
set forth in the State Motor Vehicle Code, to a fine of not less than $25,
together with costs of prosecution, including, but not limited to, all court
costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by the township in enforcing the
violation. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense,
and each provision violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 232, passed 8-9-2017)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Snow emergency routes
   
II.   Truck traffic
   
III.   Stop intersections
   
IV.   Speed limits
   
V.   Weight restrictions
SCHEDULE I. SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   The following are designated as snow emergency routes:
 
Street            Between                                      Ord. Date Passed
                  From the intersection of Bucks Road and Deep
Bucks Road        Run Road to the intersection of Bucks Road   82   8-12-1987
                  and Stony Bridge Road
Dean Drive        Entire length of road                        112  5-11-1994
                  From the intersection of Forest Drive and
Forest Drive      Elephant Road to the intersection of Forest  82   8-12-1987
                  Drive and Bucks Road
Kern Drive        Entire length of road                        112  5-11-1994
                  From the intersection of Stony Bridge Road
Stony Bridge Road and Bucks Road to the intersection of Twin   82   8-12-1987
                  Oaks Road and Stony Bridge Road
Wigton Circle     Entire length of road                        112  5-11-1994
 
   (B)   Parking shall be prohibited and driving motor vehicles restricted on
snow emergency routes during emergencies. After any snow emergency is declared,
it shall be unlawful, at any time, during the continuance of the emergency, for
any person to park a motor vehicle or to allow that motor vehicle to remain
parked anywhere within the snow emergency route or to drive any motor vehicle
on such snow emergency routes, unless that vehicle is equipped with snow tires
or chains.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or entity who
violates any provision of Ord. 82 shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than $25, plus costs; provided, it shall be the duty of the
police officers of the township to report all violations of any provision of
Ord. 82 indicating the violation; the license number of the vehicle involved in
the violation; the location where the violation took place; and any other facts
that may be necessary in order to secure clear understanding of the
circumstances attending the violation.
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of Ord. 112, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   (1)   Words and phrases when used in this schedule shall have the
meaning ascribed to them in the State Motor Vehicle Code, 1976, P.L. 162, at
No. 81, as amended.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle, other than
a passenger car, on Buck Road (T-376) from the Elephant Road/Buck Road
intersection to the intersection of Buck Road with Bedminster Road (S.R. 0113).
      (3)   The proper authorities of the township are directed to erect the
appropriate restriction and informational signs and to do so in conformity with
the provisions of the Vehicle Code.
      (4)   Nothing in this division (A) shall prohibit any person from driving
an emergency vehicle on Buck Road, or from driving a truck or other commercial
vehicles making local deliveries to or pick-ups from premises located along
Buck Road.
      (5)   Any person who violates any provision of this division (A) shall,
upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
   (B)   (1)   All trucks, including commercial motor vehicles, semitrailers,
tractors, trailers and truck tractors, as defined in the State Motor Vehicle
Code are prohibited from operating on the hereinafter stated highways in the
township, except for deliveries of mail, parcels, packages and merchandise to
those residents living on or adjacent to the named highways.
      (2)   Those roads where truck traffic is prohibited are: Old Easton Road
(T453), between its intersection at Dark Hollow Road (LR09099) and Easton Road
(S.R. 611).
      (3)   Any operator or owner be it an individual, partnership or
corporation who shall violate the provisions of this division (B), shall upon
conviction thereof in a summary proceeding, be sentenced to pay a fine of not
more than $50. Upon default of payment of such fine, such person, members of
such partnership or the officers of such corporation shall be liable to
imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 30 days.
   (C)   (1)   All trucks, including commercial motor vehicles, semitrailers,
tractors, trailers and truck tractors, as defined in the Pennsylvania Motor
Vehicle Code, 1976, June 17, P.L. 162, Act No. 81, as amended, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§
1 et seq., as now in force or hereby amended are prohibited from operating on
Old Easton Road (T.R. 463) as it runs through the Village of Pipersville,
namely between its intersection with Dark Hollow Road (S.R. 1013) and its
intersection with Easton Road (S.R. 611), except for deliveries of mail,
parcels, packages and merchandise to those residents living on or adjacent to
the named highway.
      (2)   Any operator or owner, be it an individual, partnership or
corporation who violates any provision of this division (C) shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine in the amount of the maximum fine
allowed by the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, 1976, June 17, P.L. 162, Act
No. 81, as amended, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 1 et seq.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (C) shall be construed to apply to
township maintenance vehicles, emergency vehicles responding to a call, any
vehicle being redirected by an officer of the law or a township-approved
detour, or any vehicle avoiding an accident.
      (4)   The proper authorities of the township are directed to erect
official signs establishing the no truck traffic zones as set forth in this
division (C), in conformity with the provisions of the Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 36, passed 9-12-1973; Ord. 120, passed 11-13-1996; Ord. 225, passed 10-
14-2015)
SCHEDULE III. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Words and phrases. Words and phrases used in this schedule shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in the State Motor Vehicle Code, June 17, 1976,
P.L. 162, Act No. 81, 75 Pa.C.S. §§ 1000 et seq., as now in force or hereafter
amended.
   (B)   Stop signs.
      (1)   A four-way stop intersection is hereby established at the junction
of Scott Road and Log Cabin Road. Stop signs shall be erected directing traffic
to stop at all four approaches to this intersection.
      (2)   A two-way stop intersection is hereby established at Bucks Road.
Stop signs shall be erected on eastbound Bucks Road at a point approximately
1,140 feet from the intersection of Bucks Road and Blue School Road and on
westbound Bucks Road at a point approximately 1,200 feet from the intersection
of Bucks Road and Blue School Road.
      (3)    A four-way stop intersection is established at Applebutter Road
and Haring/Log Cabin Road, and official stop signs shall be erected (or are
ratified if previously erected) in such a position as to face traffic
approaching the second-named street (the intersecting or through street) on the
first-named street (the stop street) in the direction or directions indicated
for that intersection, such as displayed in the following table.
 
Stop Street      Intersection or Through Street Direction of travel
Applebutter Road Log Cabin Road                 West
Log Cabin Road   Applebutter Road               South
 
         (a)   Every driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection on the
first named or stop street, in the direction indicated in each case, shall stop
the vehicle as required by § 3323(b) of the Motor Vehicle Code, and shall not
proceed into or across the second-named or intersecting or through street until
the driver has followed all applicable requirements of that section of the
Motor Vehicle Code.
         (b)   The proper authorities of the township are authorized to erect
official signs establishing the traffic regulations as set forth in this
division (B)(3), in conformity with the provisions of the state’s Motor Vehicle
Code. The requirements of this division shall not be enforced until these signs
have been installed.
      (4)   A three-way stop intersection is established at the intersection at
Pennlan Farm Drive and Texter Drive, and official stop signs shall be erected
(or are ratified if previously erected) in such a position as to face traffic
approaching the second-named street (the intersecting or through street) on the
first-named street (the stop street) in the direction or directions indicated
for that intersection, such as displayed in the following table.
 
Stop Street         Intersection or Through Street Direction of Travel
Pennland Farm Drive Texter Drive                   North and south
Texter Drive        Pennland Farm Drive            West
 
         (a)    Every driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection on the
first named or stop street, in the direction indicated in each case, shall stop
the vehicle as required by § 3323(b) of the Motor Vehicle Code, and shall not
proceed into or across the second-named or intersecting or through street until
the driver has followed all applicable requirements of that section of the
Motor Vehicle Code
         (b)   The proper authorities of the township are authorized to erect
official signs establishing the traffic regulations as set forth in this
division (B)(4), in conformity with the provisions of the State Motor Vehicle
Code. The requirements of this division (B)(4) shall not be enforced until
these signs have been installed.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person who disobeys the direction of any traffic signal
in this schedule, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25,
plus costs. The fines and costs imposed under this schedule are subject to and
shall automatic adjust to, as required, any applicable changes in the State
Motor Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 201, passed 12-29-2010; Ord. 230, passed 6-14-2017; Ord. 2021-251, passed
12-8-2021; Ord. 2022-253, passed 3-9-2022)
SCHEDULE IV. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Words and phrases when used in this schedule shall have the meaning
described to them in the State Motor Vehicle Code, June 17, 1976, P.L. 162, Act
No. 81, as amended, 75 P.S. §§ 1000 et seq., as now in force or hereafter
amended.
   (B)   Maximum speed limits are established on portions of specified streets,
as follows, and it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle, on any
part of a street where a maximum speed limit applies, at a higher speed than
the maximum prescribed for that part of the street:
Street Between Maximum Speed Limit Ord. Date Passed
Street             Between             Maximum Speed Limit Ord.     Date Passed
Angony Mills Drive Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Appletree Lane     Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Barnhill Road      Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Bertha’s Way     Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Blueberry Lane     Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Braden Court       Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Briar Way          Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Buchanan Road      Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Bucks Road         Ridge Road and      35 mph              114      5-10-1995
                   Sweet Briar Road
                   Sweet Briar Road
Bucks Road         and Blue School     35 mph              114      5-10-1995
                   Road
Bucks Road         Blue School Road    35 mph              114      5-10-1995
                   and Bedminster Road
Bucks Road         Bedminster Road and 45 mph              114      5-10-1995
                   Rickert Road
                   Its intersection
Bucks Road         with Route 113 and  35 mph              204      7-13-2011
                   its intersection
                   with Elephant Road
                   Between Bedminster
Bucks Road         Road and Elephant   25 mph              256      3-8-2023
                   Road
                   Approximately 1,800
                   feet north of the
Center School Road intersection of     25 mph              221      4-9-2014
                   Center School Road
                   with Fretz Valley
                   Road
                   Both sides,
                   establishing a
                   school zone between
                   Cider Mill Lane and
Center School Road Fretz Valley Road,  15 mph              2021-250 9-8-2021
                   between 8:30 a.m.
                   to 9:15 a.m. and 3:
                   25 p.m. to 4:15 p.m
                   on school days only
Chapman Drive      Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Cider Mill Lane    Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Cochrane Road      Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Creamery Road      Entire length       35 mph              204      7-13-2011
Croft Drive        Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Darrah Drive       Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
                   Fretz Valley Road
Deer Run Road      and Farm School     35 mph              154      4-14-2004
                   Road
Detweiler Drive    Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
East Armstrong     Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Drive
East Liberty Trail Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Court
Glick Drive        Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Harpel Drive       Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Hart Court         Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Hart Drive         Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Haycock View Drive Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Hockley Drive      Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Katie Lane         Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Kennard Road       Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Kulp Drive         Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Landis Rush Drive  Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Liberty Trail      Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Court
Log Cabin Road     Entire length       35 mph              116      8-9-1995
Miller Court       Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Myrtles Way        Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
                   Running through the
                   Village of
                   Pipersville (T.R.
                   463) between the
Old Easton Road    intersection at     25 mph              225      10-14-2015
                   Dark Hollow Road
                   (S.R. 1013) and the
                   intersection at
                   Easton Road (S.R.
                   611)
Overholt Drive     Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Owlsbury Drive     Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Pennington Way     Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Pennland Farm      Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Drive
Pine Grove Road    Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Pipers Inn Drive   Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Saddlery Drive     Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
                   Its intersection
Scott Road         with Smith School   35 mph              195      12-29-2009
                   Road
                   Its intersection
                   with Smith School
Scott Road         Road and its        35 mph              204      7-13-2011
                   intersection with
                   Kellers Church Road
Scott Road         Quarry Road and     45 mph              193      3-8-2009
                   Smith School Road
Shoemaker Drive    Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Smith School Road  Entire length       35 mph              116      8-9-1995
Solliday Drive     Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Stonebridge Road   Twin Oaks Drive and 35 mph              193      3-8-2009
                   Deep Run Road
Sweet Briar Road   Elephant Road and   35 mph              82       8-12-1987
                   Kellers Church Road
Texter Drive       Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Tinsman Drive      Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Townsend Drive     Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Traugers Drive     Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
                   Between Elephant
Twin Oaks Drive    Road and Deep Run   35 mph              258      5-10-2023
                   Road
West Armstrong     Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Drive
West Meyers Court  Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
Williams Drive     Entire length       35 mph              200      11-10-2010
 
   (C)   The proper authorities of the township are directed to erect officials
signs restricting speed as aforesaid and in conformity with the provisions of
the Vehicle Code.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of Ord. 82, shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $35. Any person exceeding the maximum
speed limit by more than five mph shall pay an additional fine of $2 per mile
for each mile in excess of five mph over the maximum speed limit.
      (2)   Any person who violates any provision of Ord. 200 and Ord. 204,
shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $35 and costs, along with
any additional costs, fees and fines as may be legally imposed by the courts or
the commonwealth. Any person exceeding the maximum speed limit by more than
five mph shall pay an additional fine of $2 per mile for each mile in excess of
five mph over the maximum speed limit. The fines and costs imposed under Ord.
200 are subject to and shall automatic adjust to, as required, any applicable
changes in the State Motor Vehicle Code.
      (3)   Any person who violates any provisions of Ord. 114, Ord. 116, Ord.
154, Ord. 193, Ord. 195, Ord. 221 and Ord. 225 shall, upon conviction, be
sentenced to pay a fine in the amount of the maximum fine allowed by the
Vehicle Law, Act of November 25, 1970, P.L. 707 No. 230, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 1 et
seq.
   (E)   A “school zone” limiting the speed of motor vehicles to 15 mph is
hereby established, as described in the table under division (B) above.
Pennridge School District and the township are hereby authorized to install and
maintain appropriate and necessary school zone traffic-control devices on
Center School Road per PennDot standards. Any person who violates any
provisions of this division (E) shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a
fine in the amount of the maximum fine allowed by the Motor Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 82, passed 8-12-1987; Ord. 114, passed 5-10-1995; Ord. 116, passed 8-9-
1995; Ord. 154, passed 4-14-2004; Ord. 193, passed 3-18-2009; Ord. 195, passed
12-29-2009; Ord. 200, passed 11-10-2010; Ord. 204, passed 7-13-2011; Ord. 221,
passed 4-9-2014; Ord. 225, passed 10-14-2015; Ord. 2021-250, passed 9-8-2021;
Ord. 256, passed 3-8-2023; Ord. 258, passed 5-10-2023)
SCHEDULE V. WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Whereas, because of deterioration, the township roads hereinafter
mentioned may be seriously damaged or destroyed unless weight restrictions are
imposed, now, therefore, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor
vehicle having a gross weight exceeding the following listed weight on any of
the following portions of the township road system:
 
Road                        Restriction                      Weight Limitation
Township Road 437           From Legislative Route 09093 to  10 tons
                            Township Road 418
Township Road 418           From Township Road 437 to        10 tons
                            Township Road 431
Township Road 406           From State Traffic Route 563 to  10 tons
                            Township Road 431
Township Road 433           From Legislative Route 09093 to  10 tons
                            Township Road 406
Township Road 416           From State Traffic Route 563 to  10 tons
                            Township Road 437
                            From its intersection with
Township Road T416 (Rolling Pennsylvania Route 113
Hills Road)                 (Bedminster Road) to its         15 tons
                            intersection with LR09152 (Fretz
                            Valley Road)
 
   (B)   The Township Supervisors shall cause to be erected and maintained
official signs giving notice of the weight restrictions above imposed, said
signs to be erected at each end of that portion of each township road affected
by said restrictions.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this schedule shall be
prosecuted for a violation of § 1101 of the Vehicle Code, Act of April 29,
1959, P.L. 58, as amended, and shall be subject to the penalty prescribed
therein.
(Ord. 31, passed 5-14-1969; Ord. 60, passed 3- -1981)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking restrictions
   
II.   Stopping, standing and loading
SCHEDULE I. PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Words and phrases when used in this schedule shall have the meaning
described to them to the State Motor Vehicle Code, June 17, 1976, P.L. 162, Act
No. 81, as amended, 75 P.S. §§ 101 et seq., as now in force or hereafter
amended.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or to allow to remain
parked, on any of the following streets or parts of streets, any vehicle,
including passenger cars, trucks and buses, at any time.
Street Restriction Ord. Date Passed
Street                  Restriction              Ord.     Date Passed
                        Entire length of the
                        boulevard entrance (the
Barnhill Road*          area before Barnhill     222      10-8-2014
                        Road splits), on both
                        sides
                        The inside of the circle
                        for the entire length of
                        the circular portion of
                        this road (the area
Barnhill Road*          after the road splits),  222      10-8-2014
                        except for the straight
                        length of road in the
                        back of the development
                        fronting Lots 80 and 81
                        Within the two eyebrows
Barnhill Road*          and along the curves of  222      10-8-2014
                        Barnhill Road in the
                        back of the development
                        The straight length of
                        road along the outside
                        of the circle in the
Barnhill Road*          back of the development  222      10-8-2014
                        running between the two
                        eyebrows and fronting
                        Lots 39, 40 and 41
                        Northern side, between
                        where Barnhill Road
Barnhill Road*          insects itself and the   222      10-8-2014
                        western most property
                        boundary of Lot 1
                        Entire length of
Braden Court            southwest side and       210      4-11-2012
                        around the entire cul-
                        de-sac bulb
                        Northeast side, between
Braden Court            Rickerts Road and the    210      4-11-2012
                        first townhome lot
                        Both sides of Center
Center School Road      School Road between      224      9-9-2015
                        Fretz Valley Road
                        and Cider Mill Lane
                        Northwestern side; from
Croft Drive             Route 313/Dublin Pike to 190;     11-12-2008; 4-11-2012
                        the intersection with    211
                        Pipers Inn Drive
                        Each side; from Route
Croft Drive             313/Dublin Pike to its   209; 211 12-14-2011; 4-11-2012
                        initial intersection
                        with an alleyway
                        Northwest/northeast
Darrah Drive            side; entire length of   190      11-12-2008
                        roadway
                        Both sides between a
                        point 300 feet west of
                        the intersection of
Deep Run Road           Bucks Road and Deep Run  81       6-10-1987
                        Road and a point 300
                        feet east of the
                        intersection of Bucks
                        Road and Deep Run Road
East Armstrong Drive    Northwest side; entire   190      11-12-2008
                        length of roadway
                        Both sides of the road
                        from the intersection of
                        Saw Mill Road and Old
Easton Road (Route 611) Easton Road with Easton  81       6-10-1987
                        Road to a point 500 feet
                        north of the
                        intersection of Easton
                        Road and Quarry Road
                        Both sides from the
                        intersection of Forest
                        Drive and Elephant Road
Forest Drive            to a point on Forest     82       8-12-1987
                        Drive 450 feet north of
                        the intersection of
                        Elephant Road and Forest
                        Drive
                        Both sides between
Harpel Drive            Rickets Road and Hart    210      4-11-2012
                        Drive/Hart Court
Harpel Drive            Southwest side, entire   210      4-11-2012
                        frontage of the tot lot
Harpel Drive            Eastern side, entire     210      4-11-2012
                        frontage of Lot 217
Harpel Drive            Both sides between Buck  210      4-11-2012
                        Road and Hart Drive
Harpel Drive            Northern side, entire    210      4-11-2012
                        frontage of Lot 226
Harpel/Hart Drives      Southern side, entire    210      4-11-2012
                        frontage of Lot 223
                        Entire length of
Hart Court              southeast side and       210      4-11-2012
                        around the entire cul-
                        de-sac bulb
                        Eastern side, frontage
Hart Drive              of Lot 135 up to the     210      4-11-2012
                        intersection with
                        alleyway
Hart Drive              Western side, entire     210      4-11-2012
                        frontage of Lot 118
Hart Drive              Southeast side, entire   210      4-11-2012
                        frontage of Lot 111
                        Eastern/northeastern
Kennard Road*           side for the entire      222      10-8-2014
                        length of Kennard Road
                        Within the entire cul-
Kennard Road*           de-sac and within the    222      10-8-2014
                        eyebrow along the sharp
                        curve
Kennard Road*           Both sides of the sharp  222      10-8-2014
                        curve fronting Lot 10
                        Inside of loop of
Piper’s Inn Drive     Liberty Trail Court to   190      11-12-2008
                        second intersection with
                        Shoemaker Drive
                        Both sides between the
                        intersections of the
Ridge Road              Ridge Road and Yost      81       6-10-1987
                        School Road and the
                        Ridge Road and Kellers
                        Church Road
                        Northwest/northeast
Shoemaker Drive         side; entire length of   190      11-12-2008
                        roadway
West Armstrong Drive    Inside of loop of entire 190      11-12-2008
                        length of roadway
                        Outside of loop of
                        entire length of
West Armstrong Drive    roadway, except between  190      11-12-2008
                        Shoemaker Drive and
                        emergency access road
                        East side; Shoemaker
West Armstrong Drive    Drive and beginning of   190      11-12-2008
                        loop
                        Both sides within the
                        entire circle starting
Wigton Circle           300 feet from the        82       8-12-1987
                        intersection of Forest
                        Drive
Williams Drive          Northwest side; entire   190      11-12-2008
                        length of roadway
                        Southeast side; Croft
Williams Drive          Drive and first alley    190      11-12-2008
                        entrance/exit
*   On Barnhill Road or Kennard Road, it shall be unlawful for any person to
park, or to allow to remain parked within 30 feet of any intersection with any
street or alleyway, any vehicle, including passenger cars, trucks and buses
 
   (C)   Nothing in this schedule shall be construed to apply to emergency or
maintenance vehicles displaying flashing lights or to any vehicle being held
stationary by any officer of the law, or construed to prohibit a vehicle from
stopping in an emergency, to avoid an accident, or to give right-of-way to any
other vehicle or pedestrian as provided by law.
   (D)   The proper authorities of the township are directed to erect official
signs establishing the no parking zones as set forth in this schedule, in
conformity with the provisions of the State Motor Vehicle Code. The
requirements of this schedule shall not be enforced in areas that have not been
posted.
   (E)   (1)   Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or entity who
violates any provision of Ord. 81 and Ord. 82 shall, upon conviction, be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $25 plus costs; provided, it shall be
the duty of the police officers of the township to report all violations of any
provision of Ord. 81 and Ord. 82, indicating the violation; the license number
of the vehicle involved in the violation; the location where the violation took
place; and any other facts that might be necessary in order to secure clear
understanding of the circumstances attending the violation.
      (2)   (a)   Any person violating any provision of Ord. 190, Ord. 209,
Ord. 210, Ord. 222 and Ord. 224 shall receive a violation notice that his or
her vehicle was parked in violation of Ord. 190, Ord. 209, Ord. 210, Ord. 222
and Ord. 224. This notice shall inform the violator that he or she must report
to the offices of the Township Police Department during normal business hours
and pay to the township a fine of $25 within five business days of receipt of
the notice or mail the fine of $25 within five business days of receipt of the
notice. Any violator who fails to follow these instructions and deadlines of
this violation notice shall be subject to the fines set forth in division (E)
(2)(b) below.
         (b)   Any person who violates any provision of Ord. 190, Ord. 209,
Ord. 210, Ord. 222 and Ord. 224 and who fails to pay the fine set forth in
division (E)(2)(a) above shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a
fine of $50 together with all fees and costs.
(Ord. 81, passed 6-10-1987; Ord. 82, passed 8-12-1987; Ord. 190, passed 11-12-
2008; Ord. 209, passed 12-14-2011; Ord. 210, passed 4-11-2012; Ord. 211, passed
4-11-2012; Ord. 222, passed 10-8-2014; Ord. 224, passed 9-9-2015)
SCHEDULE II. STOPPING, STANDING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Stopping, standing, loading or unloading of a vehicle, including
passenger cars, trucks, and buses, is hereby prohibited on the following
streets or parts of streets:
 
Street             Location                                 Ord. Date Passed
Center School Road Both sides of Center School Road between 224  9-9-2015
                   Fretz Valley Road and Cider Mill Lane
 
   (B)   Nothing in this schedule shall be construed to apply to emergency or
maintenance vehicles displaying flashing lights or to any vehicle being held
stationary by any officer of the law, or construed to prohibit a vehicle from
stopping in an emergency, to avoid an accident or to give right-of-way to any
other vehicle or pedestrian as provided by law.
   (C)   The proper authorities of the township are directed to erect official
signs establishing the no standing, no stopping and no loading zones as set
forth in this schedule, in conformity with the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Code. The requirements of this schedule shall not be enforced in areas that
have not been posted.
   (D)   (1)    Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall
receive a violation notice that his or her vehicle was parked in violation of
this schedule. This notice shall inform the violator that he or she must report
to the offices of the Township Police Department during normal business hours
and pay to the township a fine of $25 within five business days of receipt of
the notice or mail payment of the fine of $25 to the township within five
business days of receipt of the notice or notify the township in writing of an
intent to plead not guilty to the parking violation within five business days
of receipt of the notice.
      (2)   Any person who violates any provision of this schedule and who
fails to pay the fine or respond with a plea of not guilty as set forth in
division (D)(1) above shall have their matter listed with the Magisterial
District Judge and, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $50 together with all fees and costs of prosecution.
(Ord. 224, passed 9-9-2015)
CHAPTER 73: STORM EMERGENCIES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Special parking regulations during emergency storms
   
73.03   Towing of vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All other
words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in the most current amendment of the State Motor Vehicle Code, except in
those instances where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
      CARTWAY. The portion of a street, alley, access drive or driveway,
whether paved or unpaved, intended for vehicular use.
      CURB. A raised line of concrete, stone or asphalt at and/or forming the
edge of the paved cartway.
      EMERGENCY STORM. Any storm, including a winter storm, that creates a
significant danger to life and/or property in the township or portion thereof
as determined by the township.
      OWNER. A person in whom legal title to property or premises is vested.
      PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, except a police or fire vehicle,
ambulance or official vehicle of the township or commonwealth, whether occupied
or not, upon a street other than temporarily for the purpose of, and while
actually engaged in, loading or unloading, or in obedience to traffic
regulations or traffic signs and signals.
      PERSON. A natural person, partnership, corporation, association or any
other legal entity.
      POLICE DEPARTMENT. Bedminster Township Police Department, and its Chief,
sworn officers and civilian employees.
      SHOULDER. The unpaved, improved portion of any street that runs adjacent
to and parallel with the cartway.
      SIDEWALK. A pedestrian public path for public use located within the
right-of-way or easement of any public or township-maintained street, usually
constructed of asphalt, concrete, stone or brick.
      STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of any public
highway, road or roadway within the township, including the cartway, curb and
shoulder of such highway, road or roadway, that is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular and pedestrian travel.
      TOWNSHIP. The Township of Bedminster, Bucks County, Pennsylvania.
      VEHICLE. Any self-propelled motorized vehicle licensed to travel upon the
streets, roads and highways of the township.
      WINTER STORM. Precipitation in the form of sleet, ice, freezing rain,
snow or any combination thereof that results in the deposit or accumulation of
ice of one-quarter of an inch or greater in depth or of snow or a combination
of precipitation of one inch or greater in depth.
   (B)   (1)   Words used in the singular include the plural; words used in the
plural include the singular; and words used in the present tense include the
future.
      (2)   Personal pronouns, his, her and their are gender neutral. The words
“must” and “shall” are mandatory.
      (3)   The words “may,” “advised” and “advisory” are discretionary.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-14-2021)
§ 73.02 SPECIAL PARKING REGULATIONS DURING EMERGENCY STORMS.
   (A)   Special powers. The Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board of
Supervisors, the Township Manager and/or the Township Emergency Management
Coordinator, hereinafter termed “designated officials,” are hereby granted the
following special powers to regulate parking:
      (1)   Any designated official may establish temporary parking regulations
effective during the period of an emergency storm;
      (2)   Such emergency and/or temporary regulations shall be enforced by
the Police Department in the same manner as permanent regulations; and
      (3)   No person shall park a vehicle in violation of any such
regulations.
   (B)   Parking during winter storms.
      (1)   Within one hour of the commencement of a winter storm, it shall be
the duty of the owner and/or operator of any vehicle which has been parked on
any street to remove said vehicle from the street.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to park, abandon or leave unattended or allow
to be parked, abandoned or left unattended any vehicle on any street during a
winter storm and for the 48-hour period following the cessation of
precipitation from such a storm or until the snow and/or ice has been cleared
and all plowing, salting, cindering and other snow removal operations
undertaken in response to such a storm have ceased, whichever period of time is
longer.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-14-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 TOWING OF VEHICLES.
   Whenever any vehicle is found to be parked or stopped in violation of the
restrictions of this chapter, the Chief of Police and/or Superintendent of
Public Works may issue instructions to an authorized towing service to remove
the vehicle from the street to a place of safety, or other location as may be
designated by the township concerning the towing and impoundment of vehicles.
Within 24 hours after the removal of such vehicle, notice of the fact that such
vehicle has been impounded shall be sent by the Township Police Department to
the owner of record. The notice shall designate the place from which the
vehicle was removed, the reason for its removal and impounding and advising
where the vehicle has been impounded. Such notice shall state that the payment
of such towing and storage charges, unless such payment is made under protest,
shall be final and conclusive and shall constitute a waiver of any right to
recover the money so paid. The notice shall contain the words “if the towing
and storage charges are paid under protest the owner or operator shall be
entitled to a hearing on the matter before the Magisterial District Judge.” In
addition to the fines provided herein, the owner of any towed and/or impounded
vehicle shall be responsible for paying any and all towing and storage charges
before taking possession of the vehicle.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-14-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or permit violation of any provision of
this chapter shall pay a civil penalty of not more than $1,000, together with
all court costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees actually incurred by the
township. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   In addition to or in lieu of the civil enforcement action set forth in
this chapter, the township may enforce this chapter by filing an equity action
against the violator to abate the violation and correct any damage done.
(Ord. 246, passed 1-14-2021)
TITLE IX: PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
   Chapter
      
90.   PUBLIC PLAYGROUND SAFETY
      
91.   SEWAGE MANAGEMENT
      
92.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   WELLS
      
95.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
96.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
      
97.   PROPERTY OCCUPANCY
      
98.   PROPERTY NUMBERING AND ADDRESSES
      
99.   FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 90: PUBLIC PLAYGROUND SAFETY
Section
   
90.01   Short title
   
90.02   Findings and purposes
   
90.03   Scope
   
90.04   Definitions
   
90.05   Adoption of Section A of the Playground Code; construction and
operation of playgrounds
   
90.06   Adoption of Section B of the Playground Code; construction and assembly
of equipment
   
90.07   Adoption of Section C of the Playground Code; protective surfacing
   
90.08   Adoption of Section D of the Playground Code; inspection and
maintenance
   
90.09   Establishment of office of Playground Inspector
   
90.10   Application for permits
   
90.11   Notices, orders and violations
   
90.12   State laws and regulations
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Bedminster Township
Playground Code” and is implemented under §§ 1505, 1517, 1527, 1533 and 1601 of
the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 through 68701.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-9-2002)
§ 90.02 FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
   (A)   Findings. The United States Consumer Product Safety Commission has
found that more than 200,000 children are treated in hospital emergency rooms
each year for injuries associated with playground equipment. The large majority
of these injuries resulted from children falling from the equipment. Other
injuries were caused by impacts with moving equipment such as swings;
entanglement of clothing on the equipment; entanglement in ropes attached to
the equipment; contact with protrusions, pinch points and sharp edges; head
entrapment; and equipment failure. The township formally adopts the findings
outlined in Playing It Safe: June 2000. A Fifth Nationwide Safety Survey of
Public Playgrounds by the United States Public Interest Research Group and the
Consumer Federation of America as supportive of the following provisions.
   (B)   Purposes. The purposes of this chapter are to regulate the design,
construction, operation and maintenance of all public playgrounds within the
township and to minimize the likelihood of injury resulting from the use of
public playgrounds, so as to assure and safeguard the public health, safety and
the general welfare of the residents of the township, especially its children.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-9-2002)
§ 90.03 SCOPE.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, any subdivision and/or
land development approved under the township’s subdivision and land development
ordinance and/or zoning ordinance proposing to construct a public playground,
or any proposal to install, construct, refurbish, upgrade, replace, remove and/
or demolish an existing public playground or any equipment, components,
structures or protective surfacing material upon an existing public playground
shall be in conformity with this chapter. In the event of a conflict between
this chapter and any other statute, ordinance, rule or regulation, the
strictest statute, ordinance, rule or regulation shall take precedence.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-9-2002)
§ 90.04 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words and phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted to have common English usage, to give effect to the
purpose set forth in §
90.02(B), and to provide reasonable application of this chapter. For the
purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFIED PLAYGROUND SAFETY INSPECTOR. An individual who possesses a current
and valid Certified Playground Safety Inspector certificate issued by the
National Playground Safety Institute.
   CHILDREN. Individuals who are two years of age through 12 years of age.
   COMPONENT. Any portion of a piece of playground equipment that generates
specific activity and cannot stand alone (i.e., slide, swing, ladder).
   OPERATOR. Any entity which operates a public playground, including a church,
subdivision, homeowners association, condominium association, hotel, motel,
resort, camp, office, hospital, shopping center, store, day care, child care
setting, restaurant, private or public school, and any governmental agency,
entity or district.
   PLAYGROUND. An improved area, indoors or outdoors, designed, equipped and
set aside for children’s play that is not intended for use as an athletic
playing field or athletic court, and shall include any and all playground
equipment, surfacing, fencing, signs, internal pathways, internal landforms,
vegetation and related structures.
   PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT. A fabricated structure intended primarily for play by
children located at a playground which has at least one surface designated and
intended for play by children and which is anchored to or built into the ground
and not intended to be moved.
   PUBLIC PLAYGROUND. Any playground open to the general public or a portion
thereof.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-9-2002)
§ 90.05 ADOPTION OF SECTION A OF THE PLAYGROUND CODE; CONSTRUCTION AND
OPERATION OF PLAYGROUNDS.
   (A)   Adoption. The township hereby adopts, for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, design, layout,
installation and use of public playgrounds, including administration, building
permits and penalties, the specifications laid out in the Handbook for Public
Playground Safety published by the United States Consumer Product Safety
Commission or any successor as Section “A” of the Township Playground Code and
hereby incorporates such specifications as fully as if set forth at length
herein, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or
amended. From the date on which this chapter shall take effect, the provisions
thereof shall be controlling in the design, construction and operation of all
public playgrounds within the township.
   (B)   Amendments made in Section A of the Playground Code. Section A of the
Playground Code hereby adopted is amended as follows.
      (1)   All the recommendations made in the Handbook for Public Playground
Safety shall be considered mandatory requirements under the Playground Code.
For the purposes of this chapter, the words “should,” “may,” “can” and the like
shall be read as “shall” or “must;” the words “recommend” or “recommendation”
shall be read as “require” or “requirement;” the phrase “it is recommended”
shall be read as “it is required;” the phrase “it is not recommended” shall be
read as “it is prohibited.”
      (2)   Where the Handbook for Public Playground Safety provides for
alternatives, this chapter requires that the safest alternative, as determined
by the Township Playground Inspector, be used.
      (3)   If the Handbook for Public Playground Safety fails to address a
condition, specification or situation that is addressed by the ASTM standard,
Standard Consumer Safety Performance Specifications for Playground Equipment
for Public Use, ASTM F-1487-98 or any successor, then the township adopts that
specific part of ASTM F-1487-98, or its successor, as it addresses this
condition, specification or situation.
   (C)   Signage. All public playgrounds must have signs posted at prominent
locations, including, but not limited to, any and all access points. Each sign
must contain all of the following information: hours of operation; age
appropriateness of the playground’s equipment, components and structures; and
capacity of the playground. Each sign must also recommend adult supervision of
children using the playground and state that no smoking is allowed within the
playground.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-9-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 ADOPTION OF SECTION B OF THE PLAYGROUND CODE; CONSTRUCTION AND ASSEMBLY
OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Adoption. The township hereby adopts, for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the design, layout, construction, manufacture,
alteration, installation, assembly and use of playground equipment, components
and/or structures, including administration, building permits and penalties,
the specifications laid out in Standard Consumer Safety Performance
Specifications for Playground Equipment for Public Use, ASTM F-1487-98 as
Section “B” of the Township Playground Code, and hereby incorporates such
specifications as fully as if set forth at length herein, save and except such
portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended. From the date on
which this chapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling in the design, construction, assembly and use of playground
equipment, components and structures installed and/or assembled upon all public
playgrounds within the township.
   (B)   Amendments made in Section B of the Playground Code. Section B of the
Playground Code hereby adopted is amended as follows.
      (1)   All the recommendations made in the Standard Consumer Safety
Performance Specifications for Playground Equipment for Public Use, ASTM F-
1487-98 shall be considered mandatory requirements under the Playground Safety
Code. For the purposes of this chapter, the words “should,” “may,” “can” and
the like shall be read as “shall” or “must;” the words “recommend” or
“recommendation” shall be read as “require” or “requirement;” the phrase “it is
recommended” shall be read as “it is required;” the phrase “it is not
recommended” shall be read as “it is prohibited.”
      (2)   Where the Standard Consumer Safety Performance Specifications for
Playground Equipment for Public Use, ASTM F-1487-98 provides for alternatives,
this chapter requires that the safest alternative, as determined by the
Township Playground Inspector, be used.
      (3)   If the Standard Consumer Safety Performance Specifications for
Playground Equipment for Public Use, ASTM F-1487-98 fails to address a
condition, specification or situation that is addressed by the Handbook for
Public Playground Safety or any successor, then the township adopts that
specific part of the Handbook for Public Playground Safety, or its successor,
as it addresses this condition, specification or situation.
   (C)   Manufacturer certification. Any and all playground equipment,
components and structures installed and/or assembled upon any public playground
after the effective date of this chapter must be certified by the manufacturer
as compliant with Standard Consumer Safety Performance Specifications for
Playground Equipment for Public Use, ASTM F-1487-98. If the equipment,
components and/or structures were not manufactured, constructed or fabricated
by a manufacturer who can provide such certification, then such equipment,
components and/or structures shall be inspected by a Certified Playground
Safety Inspector prior to its first use. This Inspector shall certify to the
operator in writing that the equipment, components, attachments and/or
structures, insofar as it can be seen without disassembling it or digging into
the surfacing, is in compliance with Standard Consumer Safety Performance
Specifications for Playground Equipment for Public Use, ASTM F-1487-98. A copy
of such manufacturer’s or Inspector’s certification shall be forwarded to the
township.
   (D)   Installation compliance. The installation and assembly of any and all
playground equipment, components, attachments and structures upon any public
playground after the effective date of this chapter must comply with Section B
of the Playground Code. Compliance shall be met by either of the following:
      (1)   The playground equipment, components and/or structures shall be
assembled and installed by or under the direct supervision of an individual who
is authorized by the manufacturer to assemble and install such equipment,
components and structures. Such authorization shall be provided to the township
in writing. After the installation and/or assembly is completed, the
manufacturer must certify that the equipment, components and/or structures were
installed in compliance with Standard Consumer Safety Performance
Specifications for Playground Equipment for Public Use, ASTM F-1487-98. A copy
of such certification shall be forwarded to the township; or
      (2)   The installed playground equipment, components and/or structures
shall be inspected by a Certified Playground Safety Inspector prior to its
first use. This Inspector shall certify to the operator in writing that the
equipment, components and/or structures, insofar as it can be seen without
disassembling it or digging into the surfacing, was installed in compliance
with Standard Consumer Safety Performance Specifications for Playground
Equipment for Public Use, ASTM F-1487-98. A copy of such certification shall be
forwarded to the township.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-9-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 ADOPTION OF SECTION C OF THE PLAYGROUND CODE; PROTECTIVE SURFACING.
   (A)   Adoption. The township hereby adopts, for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, design, layout,
installation and use of protective surfacing upon public playgrounds, including
administration, building permits and penalties, the specifications laid out in
Handbook for Public Playground Safety published by the United States Consumer
Product Safety Commission or any successor as Section “C” of the Township
Playground Code, and hereby incorporates such specifications as fully as if set
forth at length herein, save and except such portions as are hereinafter
deleted, modified or amended. From the date on which this chapter shall take
effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the design,
construction, installation, use and maintenance of any protective surfacing
used upon any and all public playgrounds within the township.
   (B)   Amendments made in Section C of the Playground Code. Section C of the
Playground Code hereby adopted is amended as follows.
      (1)   All the recommendations made in the Handbook for Public Playground
Safety shall be considered mandatory requirements under the Playground Safety
Code. For the purposes of this chapter, the words “should,” “may,” “can,” and
the like shall be read as “shall” or “must;” the words “recommend” or
“recommendation” shall be read as “require” or “requirement;” the phrase “it is
recommended” shall be read as “it is required;” the phrase “it is not
recommended” shall be read as “it is prohibited.”
      (2)   Where the Handbook for Public Playground Safety provides for
alternatives, this chapter requires that the safest alternative, as determined
by the Township Playground Inspector, be used.
      (3)   If the Handbook for Public Playground Safety fails to address a
condition, specification or situation that is addressed by the ASTM standard
Specification for Impact Attenuation of Surface Systems Under and Around
Playground Equipment, ASTM F-1292, or any successor, then the township adopts
that specific part of ASTM F-1292, or its successor, as it addresses this
condition, specification or situation.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-9-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 ADOPTION OF SECTION D OF THE PLAYGROUND CODE; INSPECTION AND
MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Adoption. The township hereby adopts, for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations regarding the inspection and maintenance of all public
playgrounds and the establishment of a maintenance and inspection schedule for
all public playgrounds, including administration, permits and penalties, the
specifications laid out in the Handbook for Public Playground Safety published
by the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission or any successor as
Section “D” of the Township Playground Code, and hereby incorporates such
specifications as fully as if set forth at length herein, save and except such
portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended. From the date on
which this chapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling in the inspection and maintenance of any and all public playgrounds
within the township.
   (B)   Amendments made in Section D of the Playground Code. Section D of the
Playground Code hereby adopted is amended as follows:
      (1)   All the recommendations made in the Handbook for Public Playground
Safety shall be considered mandatory requirements under the Playground Safety
Code. For the purposes of this chapter, the words “should,” “may,” “can” and
the like shall be read as “shall” or “must;” the words “recommend” or “
      (2)   Where the Handbook for Public Playground Safety provides for
alternatives, this chapter requires that the safest alternative, as determined
by the Township Playground Inspector, be used.
      (3)   If the Handbook for Public Playground Safety fails to address a
condition, specification or situation that is addressed by the ASTM standard
Standard Consumer Safety Performance Specifications for Playground Equipment
for Public Use, ASTM F-1487-98, or any successor, then the township adopts that
specific part of ASTM F-1487-98, or its successor, as it addresses this
condition, specification or situation.
   (C)   Inspection and maintenance schedule. Within one year of the effective
date of this chapter, all operators of existing public playgrounds shall submit
to the township an inspection and maintenance schedule they have created and
adopted for each public playground that they own, operate and/or supervise.
This schedule shall conform with all the requirements of Section D of the
Playground Code. A submitted schedule must meet the approval of the township.
Any schedule not meeting the township’s approval shall be returned to the
operator with a written list of reasons why the schedule failed to meet the
township’s approval. The operator must resubmit the revised schedule within 30
days of its rejection.
   (D)   Inspections. Once the township approves a submitted inspection and
maintenance schedule, such approval shall be forwarded to the operator in
writing. After such approval is received, the operator shall have a Certified
Playground Safety Inspector inspect the public playground in accordance with
that particular playground’s approved schedule.
      (1)   The Inspector shall inspect the playground for compliance with this
chapter.
      (2)   The Inspector shall inspect the playground for compliance with the
approved schedule.
      (3)   The Inspector shall inspect the playground for necessary
maintenance.
      (4)   The Inspector shall prepare a written report to the operator based
on this inspection. This report shall be filed with the township within 30 days
of its issuance by the Inspector.
      (5)   The operator shall have 30 days in which to perform any and all
maintenance upon the playground, as is recommended by the Inspector’s report.
   (E)   Maintenance. Once an operator has adopted an inspection and
maintenance schedule, that operator shall maintain each public playground that
they own, operate and/or supervise in accordance with that particular
playground’s schedule. All maintenance that involves the installation, repair,
reconstruction, replacement, removal or demolition of playground equipment
shall be done in compliance with Sections A and C of the Playground Code, as
well as all other applicable sections of this chapter. All maintenance that
involves the installation, repair, reconstruction, replacement, replenishment,
removal or demolition of surfacing materials shall be done in compliance with
Section B of the Playground Code, as well as all other applicable sections of
this chapter.
   (F)   Noncompliant equipment. Playground equipment, components and/or
structures that the Inspector finds to be not in compliance with this chapter
due to misuse, damage, disrepair or lack of maintenance shall be immediately
removed or placed off-limits through the posting of warning signs and physical
barriers. The operator shall have 60 days to remove, replace or repair such
equipment, components and structures in compliance with this chapter. The
operator shall have a Certified Playground Safety Inspector inspect the
replacement or repair of such equipment, components and structures prior to its
initial use. If the equipment, components and/or structures was removed, the
operator shall have a Certified Playground Safety Inspector inspect the area of
removal prior to that area being reopened. The Inspector shall prepare a
written report to the operator based on his or her inspection certifying that
the replacement, repair or removal of the equipment, components and/or
structures was completed in compliance with the regulations of this chapter.
This report shall be filed with the township within 30 days of its issuance by
the Inspector.
   (G)   Exemption for pre-existing playgrounds. Public playgrounds in
existence prior to the enactment of this chapter are exempted from meeting the
standards set forth in this chapter except for the following.
      (1)   Operators of pre-existing playgrounds must comply with §§
90.05(C) and divisions (C) and (D) above.
      (2)   Operators of pre-existing playgrounds must maintain any and all
noncompliant equipment, components, structures and/or protective surfacing so
as to not increase their noncompliance with this chapter or the danger they
pose to the public.
      (3)   The design, construction, installation, assembly and placement of
new equipment, components, structures or protective surfacing on a preexisting
playground or the replacement or upgrading of existing equipment, components,
structures or protective surfacing on a preexisting playground must meet all
the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   Division (F) above and §
90.11 apply to pre-existing playgrounds.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-9-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF PLAYGROUND INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Establishment. The Township Building Inspector shall also serve as the
Township Playground Inspector unless the Board of Supervisors designates
another individual or entity to serve as the Township Playground Inspector. Any
person or entity serving as Township Playground Inspector must be a Certified
Playground Safety Inspector or become one within one year of being appointed to
this position.
   (B)   Responsibilities. The Township Playground Inspector shall enforce and
administer all of the provisions of this chapter and of all other applicable
rules, regulations, codes and ordinances.
   (C)   Duties. The duties of the Township Playground Inspector shall include:
the receipt of applications and issuance of permits for the construction,
erection, alteration, repair, refurbishment, removal or demolition of any
public playground or any equipment, components or structures thereon; the
issuance of all necessary notices and orders to abate illegal or unsafe
conditions to ensure compliance with this chapter, and those other applicable
rules, regulations, codes and/or ordinances for the safety, health and general
welfare of the public; the making of inspections to determine compliance with
the applicable rules, regulations, codes and/or ordinances, the undertaking of
investigations and other activities as may be required.
   (D)   Records. The Township Playground Inspector shall keep an official
record of all business and activities and all such records shall be open to the
public for inspection at all appropriate times, except that no individual,
owner, operator or other person shall be subject to unwarranted invasion of
privacy, and except that all evidence or information shall not be disclosed
except as may be necessary in the judgment of the Township Playground Inspector
for the proper and effective administration and enforcement of the provisions
of this chapter.
   (E)   Inspections.
      (1)   Before issuing a playground permit, the Township Playground
Inspector may examine or cause to be examined all equipment, components,
structures and/or sites for which a permit application has been filed.
      (2)   After issuing a playground permit, the Township Playground
Inspector or inspection agency designated by the township shall conduct such
required inspections from time to time during and upon completion of the work
for which a permit has been issued. A record of all such examinations and
inspections and of all violations of this chapter shall be maintained by the
Township Playground Inspector. Upon completion of the work upon the playground,
a final inspection shall be made and all violations of the approved plans and
permits, as well as of this chapter shall be abated.
      (3)   At the time the playground permit is issued, the Township
Playground Inspection shall set a playground permit inspection schedule. Such
schedule shall be set so as to permit the Township Playground Inspector inspect
the work as often as is determined by the Township Playground Inspector to be
necessary to ensure that the work is being done in compliance with this chapter
and any other applicable rules, regulations, codes and/or ordinances. The
Township Playground Inspector can amend this schedule at any time, so long as
48-hour written notice is provided to the permitee prior to amending the
schedule.
   (F)   Collection of fees. The Township Playground Inspector shall keep an
accurate account of all fees collected. Such collected fees shall be deposited
in the township treasury or otherwise disposed of as required by law.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-9-2002)
§ 90.10 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   Requirement. A playground permit is required for any proposal to
construct a new public playground or any proposal to construct, alter,
refurbish and/or replace an existing public playground or any equipment,
components, structures or protective surfacing material upon an existing public
playground.
   (B)   Exceptions. A playground permit is not required for:
      (1)   The maintenance, repair, reconstruction, replacement, removal or
demolition of playground equipment, components or structures done in
conjunction with the regular maintenance of an existing public playground and
in conformance with that playground’s approved inspection and maintenance
schedule; or
      (2)   The maintenance, repair, reconstruction, replacement,
replenishment, removal or demolition of surfacing materials done in conjunction
with the regular maintenance of an existing public playground and in
conformance with that playground’s approved inspection and maintenance
schedule.
   (C)   Contents. An application for a playground permit shall include:
      (1)   The application form as provided by the township;
      (2)   The required fee;
      (3)   A site plan;
      (4)   A list of the specific equipment, components and/or structures to
be installed and their manufacturer(s); and
      (5)   A certificate in compliance with §
90.06(C).
   (D)   Fees. The required application fee for a playground permit shall be
fixed from time to time pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
Where work, for which a playground permit is required by this chapter, is
started or proceeded with prior to obtaining said permit, the application fee
shall be increased by 25%. Payment of such increased fee shall not relieve any
person from fully complying with the requirements of this chapter nor from any
penalties prescribed by this chapter.
   (E)   By whom application is made. The responsibility for applying for and
obtaining a required playground permit rests jointly with the operator and the
person or persons doing the work. The full name and address of the operator,
contractor, applicant and/or the responsible officers, if the operator/
contractor/applicant is a corporate body, shall be stated in the application.
   (F)   Site plan.
      (1)   The application for a playground permit shall be accompanied by one
copy of specifications and plans, drawn to scale, with sufficient clarity and
detailed dimension to show the nature and character of the work to be
performed. When quality of materials is essential for conformity to this
chapter, specific information shall be given to establish such quality; and
this chapter shall not be cited, or the term “legal” or its equivalent be used
as a substitute for specific information. The Township Playground Inspector may
waive the requirement for filing plans when the work involved is of a minor
nature. If in the course of work, it is found necessary to make any changes
from the approved plans and specifications on which a playground permit has
been issued, amended plans and specifications shall be submitted and if
approved, a supplementary playground permit shall be issued to cover the change
after the same conditions required to secure the original permit have been
satisfied.
      (2)   The site plan shall show, to scale, the general layout of the
playground drawn in accordance with an accurate boundary line survey,
including, but not limited to, the specific type, size and location of all
existing equipment, components and/or structures; the specific equipment,
components and/or structures to be installed, constructed, refurbished,
upgraded and/or replaced; the distances between the equipment, components and/
or structures; the height of each piece of equipment, component and/or
structure; the height of any play surface on each piece of equipment, component
and/or structure; the type and depth of the protective surfacing; the existing
and proposed finished grades; and the site distances from lot lines. In the
case of removal or demolition, the plan shall show all equipment, components
and structures to be removed and/or demolished.
   (G)   Engineering details. The Township Playground Inspector may require
adequate details of structural, mechanical, plumbing and electrical work to be
filed along with the site plan, including computations, stress diagrams and
other essential technical data. All engineering plans and computations shall
bear the signature of the engineer or architect responsible for the design.
   (H)   Action on application. The Township Playground Inspector shall examine
an application for a playground permit to determine compliance with this
chapter and all other applicable rules, regulations, codes and ordinances of
the township and shall, within 30 days after filing, either approve or reject
said application. If said application is rejected, the Township Playground
Inspector shall inform the applicant in writing of the reasons for such
rejection. If the Township Playground Inspector is satisfied that the proposed
work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and all other applicable
rules, regulations, codes and ordinances, the Township Playground Inspector
shall promptly issue a playground permit.
   (I)   Conditions of permits.
      (1)   Compliance with Codes. The playground permit shall be a license to
proceed with the work and shall not be construed as authority to violate,
cancel or set aside the application. All work shall conform to the approved
application and plans for which the permit has been issued and any approved
amendments thereto.
      (2)   Signature on permit. The Township Playground Inspector’s signature
shall be attached to every playground permit; or the Playground Inspector may
authorize a subordinate to affix such signature thereto.
      (3)   Payment of fees. A playground permit to begin work shall not be
issued until the permit fee has been paid. Nor shall an amendment to a permit
necessitating an additional fee because of additional work involved be issued
until the additional fee shall have been paid.
      (4)   Previous approvals. This chapter or other applicable ordinances
shall not require changes in the plans or construction of a public playground
for which a lawful permit has been issued or otherwise lawfully authorized and
the construction of which has been actively prosecuted within 30 days after the
effective date of this chapter and is completed with dispatch.
      (5)   Approvals in part. The Township Building Inspector may issue a
playground permit for the construction of playground protective surfacing or
any other part or component of a playground before the entire plans and
specifications for the whole playground have been submitted, provided adequate
information and detailed statements have been filed complying with all the
pertinent requirements of this chapter or other applicable rules, regulations,
codes or ordinances. The holder of such permit(s) shall proceed at the holder’s
own risk and without assurance that a playground permit for the entire
playground will be granted.
      (6)   Permit expiration dates.
         (a)   New construction. One year, provided that an extension may be
requested, in writing, and such extension may be granted by the Township
Playground Inspector for good reason; such extension not to exceed one year.
         (b)   Repairs, refurbishment, replacement, reconstruction, alterations
and additions. One year.
         (c)   Removal or demolition. Three months only, and if such removal
and/or demolition work is not completed within that time, any bond posted by
the applicant shall be forfeited.
         (d)   Abate violations cited. Same as the deadline stated in violation
notice.
      (7)   Revocation of permits. The Township Playground Inspector may revoke
a playground permit or approval issued under the provisions of this chapter in
case of any mistake, false statement or misrepresentation of fact in the
application or on the plans upon which the permit or approval was based.
      (8)   Posting of permit. A true copy of the playground permit and placard
shall be kept on the site of operations open to public inspection during the
entire time of prosecution of the work and until the completion of the same.
      (9)   Notice of inspection. The permitee shall give the Township
Playground Inspector or certified inspection agency at least 24 hours’ notice
in advance of inspections required by the playground permit inspection
schedule.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-9-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 NOTICES, ORDERS AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice and order procedure.
      (1)   Notice to responsible operator or other person in charge. Whenever
the Township Playground Inspector determines that there are reasonable grounds
to believe that there has been a violation of any provisions of this chapter or
of the other applicable rules, regulations, codes and ordinances, or whenever
the Township Playground Inspector orders a dangerous, unsafe or unfit
playground, structure, equipment or component thereof to be closed-up and
secured, vacated, repaired and/or demolished, a notice shall be given to the
responsible operator or person in charge of the playground, structure,
equipment or component in the manner prescribed below.
      (2)   Form. Notice to the responsible operator or person in charge shall:
         (a)   Be in writing, signed by the Township Playground Inspector or
his or her authorized representative;
         (b)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
         (c)   Include a statement of the reasons why the notice is being
issued and list the sections of this chapter and/or other rule, regulation,
code or ordinance that have been violated;
         (d)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time, not to
exceed 120 days, for the initiation and correction of the violation alleged or
for the initiation of the remedial actions required, except where emergency
conditions exist that require immediate correction action; and
         (e)   Include a statement indicating that the notice will become an
order after ten days of receipt of said notice, if no request and approval for
an extension of time is made to the Township Playground Inspector or if no
petition for an appeal of said notice is made to the Township Board of
Supervisors.
      (3)   Service. The notice shall be served personally on the responsible
operator or other person in charge or served by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or where such responsible person in charge cannot be found, service
may be made by: posting a notice on or about the premises and taking a picture
of said notice; publishing a notice in a newspaper of general circulation for a
period of three consecutive days; or any other method authorized under the laws
of the commonwealth.
   (B)   Emergency measures.
      (1)   Vacation of equipment. When in the opinion of the Township
Playground Inspector, an emergency exists on any public playground, or part
thereof, that requires immediate action to protect the public’s health, safety
and welfare, or that of the users of such playground, or if there is actual and
immediate danger of failure or collapse of any equipment, structure or
component upon a public playground, the Township Playground Inspector may, with
proper notice and service, issue an order reciting the existence of such an
emergency and requiring the vacating of the playground or part thereof, or such
action taken as the Township Playground Inspector deems necessary to meet such
emergency. Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, such order shall
be effective immediately and the playground, structure, equipment or component
involved shall be placarded and placed off-limits immediately upon service of
the order. Any person to whom such order is directed shall comply immediately
therewith and may thereafter upon petition directed to the Township Board of
Supervisors be afforded a hearing as prescribed in this chapter. It shall be
unlawful for any person to enter any vacated playground or part thereof except
to make the required repairs or to demolish the same.
      (2)   Temporary safeguards. When in the opinion of the Township
Playground Inspector there is actual and immediate danger of collapse or
failure of a public playground or of any structure, equipment or component
located thereon that would endanger life, the Township Playground Inspector
shall cause the necessary work to be done to render such playground, equipment,
structure or component, temporarily safe, whether or not the legal procedure
herein described has been instituted.
      (3)   Closing adjacent properties. When necessary for the public safety,
the Township Playground Inspector may temporarily close sidewalks, streets,
buildings, structures and/or places adjacent to such unsafe public playgrounds
and prohibit the same from being used. It shall be unlawful for any person to
enter such closed adjacent areas.
   (C)   Repair/demolition order.
      (1)   Option by owner. If a public playground or any part thereof is so
old, deteriorated or has become so out of repair as to be unsanitary or unfit
for use, but can be made safe by repairs, the Township Playground Inspector may
issue a notice requiring the operator to make the necessary repairs to bring
the structure into compliance with this chapter and/or other rules,
regulations, codes and ordinances or to demolish and remove the offending
playground or part thereof at the owner’s option. Such notice shall require the
person thus notified to immediately disclose to the Township Playground
Inspector his or her acceptance or rejection of the terms of the order.
      (2)   Unreasonable repairs. Whenever an inspection of a public playground
reveals that the playground or any part thereof is old, dilapidated or has
become so out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise
unfit for use and so that it would be unreasonable to repair, in that the cost
of such repairs would exceed 100% of the current value of such playground or
part thereof, the playground, or part thereof, shall be declared a public
nuisance. The Township Playground Inspector shall issue a notice to the
responsible operator, ordering that the offending playground, or part thereof,
be removed or demolished without option on the part of the operator to repair.
All the rubbish and refuse shall be removed from the premises, and the area
where the demolition occurred shall be graded to adjacent ground level.
   (D)   Stop work order.
      (1)   Notice to the operator. Whenever the Township Playground Inspector
determines that work on any public playground, or part thereof, is being
prosecuted contrary to the provisions of this chapter or other applicable
rules, regulations, codes and/or ordinances or prosecuted in an unsafe and
dangerous manner, the responsible operator of the playground involved or the
operator’s agent or the person doing the work shall be notified that such work
be immediately stopped.
      (2)   Unlawful continuance. Any person who continues any work in, upon,
or about a public playground after having been served with a stop work order,
except such work as that is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
conditions, shall be subject to the penalties provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-9-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 STATE LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   In all matters that are regulated by the laws of the commonwealth or by
regulations of departments or agencies of the commonwealth promulgated by
authority of law, such laws or regulations, as the case may be, shall be
controlling where the requirements thereof are the same as, or more limiting
than, the provisions of this chapter. The foregoing provisions shall control in
all cases where the commonwealth’s requirements are not as strict as those
contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-9-2002)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, alter, refurbish, repair, reconstruct, remove,
demolish, use or occupy any public playground or part thereof that is regulated
by this chapter and/or any other applicable rule, regulation, code or
ordinance, or cause same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter and/or any other applicable rule, regulation,
code or ordinance.
   (B)   Failure to comply. Whenever an order to vacate, secure, repair and/or
demolish a public playground, or part thereof, has not been complied with, the
Township Playground Inspector may, in accordance with the laws of the
commonwealth, proceed to cause the playground, or part thereof, to be vacated,
closed-up, secured, repaired and/or demolished or take such other action as is
necessary to abate the nuisance. Abatement under this division (B) shall not
commence until at least ten days after the service of the order, except that
the Township Playground Inspector may determine that more immediate action is
required because of the special emergency or dangerous conditions which exist.
   (C)   Recovery of expenses. The expenses incurred pursuant to division (B)
above and other applicable sections of this chapter or other rules,
regulations, codes and/or ordinances shall be paid by the responsible operator
or by the persons who caused or maintained such public nuisance. The Township
Playground Inspector shall file in his or her records an affidavit, stating
with fairness and accuracy, the items and date of the expenses incurred. The
Board of Supervisors may institute a suit to recover such expenses to be
charged against the property as a lien or against the person or legal entity
violating this chapter as a judgment.
   (D)   Transfer of ownership. It shall be unlawful for any operator of a
public playground who has received an order or notice regarding a violation of
this chapter to sell transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose of the
public playground cited by the order or notice until the provisions of the
order or notice have been complied with, or until such operator shall first
furnish the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee a true copy of the order
or notice issued by the Township Playground Inspector and shall furnish to the
Township Playground Inspector a notarized statement signed by the grantee,
transferee, mortgagee, or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of such order or
notice and fully accepting the responsibility without condition for making the
correction, alteration, repairs, removal or demolition required by such order
or notice.
   (E)   Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any
provisions of this chapter or fails to correct a violation or institute a
remedial action as ordered by the Township Playground Inspector, or who erects,
constructs, installs, alters, repairs, removes or demolishes a public
playground, or part thereof, in violation of an approved plan or playground
permit, a directive of the Township Playground Inspector, or a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of other applicable rules, regulations,
codes or ordinances shall, upon conviction before any Magisterial District
Judge, be sentenced, for each such violation, to pay a fine not exceeding
$1,000 plus costs. Each day that a violation continues after notice has been
served in accordance with the terms and provisions of this chapter, shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   (F)   Prosecution. The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall
not preclude the Solicitor representing the township from initiating, and he or
she is hereby ordered to initiate appropriate actions or proceedings at law or
equity for the purpose of ordering that person:
      (1)   To restrain, correct or remove the violation or refrain from any
further execution of work;
      (2)   To restrain or correct the erection, construction, installation,
alteration, repair, refurbishment, reconstruction, removal or demolition of
such public playground or part thereof;
      (3)   To require the removal of work in violation; and/or
      (4)   To prevent the use of the public playground or part thereof
erected, constructed, installed, altered, repaired, refurbished, reconstructed,
removed or demolished in violation of, or not in compliance with, the
provisions of this chapter, or in violation of a plan or specification under
which an approval, permit or certificate was issued.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-9-2002)
CHAPTER 91: SEWAGE MANAGEMENT
Section
Sewage Management
   
91.01   Title
   
91.02   Statement of findings
   
91.03   Purpose
   
91.04   Adoption; authority; applicability
   
91.05   Right of entry
   
91.06   Sewage management preferences
   
91.07   Municipal liability
   
91.08   Definitions
   
91.09   Program requirements and policies; general
   
91.10   Sewage management policies
   
91.11   Sewage system requirements
   
91.12   Replacement areas
   
91.13   Ownership, operation and maintenance of sewage systems
   
91.14   Permit procedures and requirements; general
   
91.15   Application procedure
   
91.16   Permit issuance
   
91.17   Application requirements
   
91.18   Community sewage system plan contents
   
91.19   Modification of plans
   
91.20   Expiration of sewage management permit
   
91.21   Transfer of sewage management permits
   
91.22   Construction escrow/maintenance escrow
   
91.23   Appeal to the Board of Supervisors
   
91.24   Waiver and appeal procedure
Holding Tanks
   
91.35   Purpose
   
91.36   Definitions
   
91.37   Rights and privileges granted
   
91.38   Rules and regulations
   
91.39   Rules and regulations to be in conformity with applicable law
   
91.40   Exclusiveness of rights and privileges
   
91.41   Procedure for obtaining holding tank permit
   
91.42   Duties of improved property owner
   
91.43   Obligation
   
91.44   Availability of storm sewer
   
91.45   Abatement of nuisances
 
   
91.99   Penalty
SEWAGE MANAGEMENT
§ 91.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Bedminster Township Sewage Management
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.02 STATEMENT OF FINDINGS.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township finds that:
   (A)   Inadequate management of individual and community sewage systems
increases surface water pollution, groundwater contamination, the potential of
public health problems and general nuisance conditions;
   (B)   A comprehensive and reasonable program of sewage management
regulations is fundamental to the public health, safety and welfare; to the
protection of present and future residents of the township; and to the
environment of the township; and
   (C)   The township has the power and duty to ensure adequate sewage
treatment facilities for the protection of the public health by preventing the
discharge of untreated or inadequately treated sewage and by the long-term
administration and maintenance of any and all sewage systems.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the public health, safety and
welfare by minimizing the problems described in §
91.02(A) through the:
   (A)   Implementation of the provisions of the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities
Act, P.L. 1535, 537, January 24, 1966, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., as hereafter
amended, supplemented, modified or re-enacted;
   (B)   Review of proposed sewage plans for compliance with the township’s
wastewater facilities plan, this subchapter and other appurtenant ordinances;
   (C)   Enactment and implementation of this subchapter and other appurtenant
ordinances concerning holding tanks and water conservation/waste flow
reduction;
   (D)   Development and implementation of a public education program to
supplement the public assurance program; and
   (E)   Enforcement and implementation of the policies adopted in the official
Act 537 plan of the township.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.04 ADOPTION; AUTHORITY; APPLICABILITY.
    The Board of Supervisors of the township pursuant to the Clean Streams Law
of Pennsylvania (Act 394 of June 22, 193), P.L. 1987, as amended, 35 P.S. §§
691.1 et seq., the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 537) of January 24,
1966, P.L. 1535, as amended, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., and the Pennsylvania
Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65727, 65729 and 66951, hereby enacts
and ordains this subchapter as the “Bedminster Township Sewage Management
Ordinance.” This subchapter shall apply to all individual and community sewage
systems as defined in §
91.08(B). No part of this subchapter shall preempt the functions, duties and
jurisdiction of the BCDH with respect to the enforcement of Act 537, the Clean
Streams Law or BCDH rules and regulations for sewage systems.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.05 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   After providing notice and authorization to enter and inspect, or upon the
consent of the property owner, authorized agents, employees or officials of the
township may enter upon any property within the township to investigate the
condition of the subject property for compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SEWAGE MANAGEMENT PREFERENCES.
   (A)   All proposals for wastewater disposal within the areas proposed for
public sewer connection pursuant to the township’s sewage facilities plan must
connect to the BMA sewer system in accordance with §§
51.085 through
51.112, as amended.
   (B)   All lots, existing or proposed, not located within the areas proposed
for public sewer connection pursuant to the township’s sewage facilities plan,
must employ an OLDS for wastewater disposal. An OLDS proposal for such a lot
shall utilize the highest priority method of sewage disposal set forth in the
following Table 1 that can be technically and administratively implemented on
the site. If disposal cannot be provided by a higher-ranked method than
proposed, the applicant must submit a written explanation of the reasons why
the subject lot is not suitable for these higher-ranked methods, along with the
appropriate supporting data. A decrease in the number of dwelling units,
businesses and/or establishments that could be served by a certain method of
on-lot disposal upon the site shall not constitute a valid reason why a higher
ranked method is not utilized in favor of a lower priority method. An applicant
must show that the higher rank methods of on-lot disposal will not function
upon the site before proposing to employ a lower-ranked method.
Table 1: Sewage Management Priority Rankings
Table 1: Sewage Management Priority Rankings
1.  Individual on-lot subsurface sewage disposal
2.  Individual on-lot elevated or at grade sand mound
3.  Individual on-lot drip irrigation, A/B or micromound system
4.  Individual on-lot residential spray irrigation system (IRSIS)
5.  Individual on-lot alternate system
6.  Individual on-lot greenhouse system
7.  Community subsurface sewage disposal
8.  Community elevated sand mound
9.  Community spray irrigation system
10. Community greenhouse system
11. Experimental system
12. Individual stream discharge system
13. Community stream discharge system
14. Holding tank*
*   At its discretion, the Board may prefer a holding tank over community,
experimental and/or stream discharge systems for uses that produce less than
one EDU of sewage, such as small commercial uses
 
   (C)   The rankings listed in Table 1 are designed to maximize groundwater
recharge since the entire township depends upon groundwater for its potable
water supply, and to optimize installation and construction costs, minimize
service and maintenance costs and to minimize operational costs. In addition,
these rankings comply with DEP regulations and take into account the
effectiveness of systems to dispose of sewage.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.07 MUNICIPAL LIABILITY.
   The degree of sewage management required by the provisions of this
subchapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. The issuance of
permits by the township, its officers or employees, shall not be deemed to
relieve the applicant/permitee of responsibility to those adversely affected by
the proposed/employed sewage system. Further, the township, through the
issuance of a permit, assumes no responsibility to either the applicant/
permitee or adjacent property owners affected by the sewage system or for any
discharge of sewage.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.08 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words used in the singular include the plural and words used in plural
include the singular. The word “building” shall be construed as if followed by
the words “or parts thereof.” The word “may” is permissive; the words “shall”
and “will” are mandatory.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABSORPTION AREA. A component of an individual or community sewage system
where liquid from a treatment tank seeps into the soil; normally consisting of
an aggregate-filled area containing piping for the distribution of liquid and
soil or a sand/soil combination located beneath the aggregate.
      AEROBIC UNIT. A mechanically aerated treatment tank that provides aerobic
biochemical stabilization of sewage prior to its discharge to an absorption
area.
      ALTERNATE SEWAGE SYSTEM. A system employing the use of demonstrated
technology in a manner not specifically recognized by the DEP.
      APPLICANT. A landowner or landowner’s agent who has filed an application
for a sewage management permit.
      BCDH. The acronym for the County Department of Health, the local agency
in the County of Bucks responsible for enforcing the rules and regulations of
the DEP regarding sewage facilities, specifically Act 537 and 25 Pa. Code
Chapters 71, 72 and 73 promulgated thereunder.
      BMA. The acronym for the Bedminster Municipal Authority, a municipal
corporation formed under the auspices of the Municipality Authorities Act, 53
Pa.C.S. §§ 5601 et seq., that operates public water and sewer systems within
Bedminster Township.
      BOARD. The Board of Supervisors of Bedminster Township.
      BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having walls and
a roof, designed or used for the shelter of any person, animal or property, and
occupying more than 120 square feet of area.
      COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION. A for-profit or non-profit corporation controlled
by a board of directors that administers by-laws and rules and regulations
governing all lots and/or common areas in a residential or nonresidential
development and whose creation and operation falls under the Uniform
Condominium Act, 68 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 3101 et seq., or the Uniformed Planned
Communities Act, 68 P.S. §§ 5101 et seq.
      COMMUNITY SEWAGE SYSTEM. A publicly or privately owned system of piping,
tanks and/or other facilities used for the collection, treatment and disposal
of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature from two or more lots,
buildings, dwelling units and/or establishments, or from a lot/building/
establishment that produces more than one EDU of sewage or industrial waste and
disposes of this sewage in whole or in part into the soil, into any waters of
the commonwealth, or by means of conveyance to another site for final disposal.
      CONSTRUCTION ESCROW. A contract, deed, bond or other written agreement
between the township and a landowner or developer involving financial security
deposited with a third party (usually a bank or bonding company) for the
purpose of guaranteeing that the construction of a sewage system is completed
and properly done.
      DEP or PaDEP. The acronym for the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection which is a cabinet level agency with broad authorities
granted by legislation to protect the state’s many environmental resources. The
DEP is responsible for overseeing the plans, designs and construction of
wastewater treatment facilities throughout the commonwealth, particularly those
which are part of the Federal Construction Grants Program or Pennsylvania
Sewage Facilities Act (Act 537), 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., planning process.
      DEVELOPER. Any landowner or landowner’s agent who proposes a subdivision,
land development and/or installation of a sewage system.
      EDU. The acronym for EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT. A measurement of sewage
approximating the amount produced by one dwelling unit in 24 hours and equaling
400 gallons per day.
      ELEVATED SAND MOUND. A type of above-ground sewage system consisting of a
level layer of sand between the surface of the natural soil and an aggregate
distribution area to ensure adequate absorption of sewage effluent.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any business, institution, commercial activity or event.
      EXPERIMENTAL SEWAGE SYSTEM. Any method of sewage disposal not described
in the Pa. Code Title 25 rules and regulations which is proposed for the
purpose of testing and observation.
      FINANCIAL SECURITY. Restricted or escrow accounts in federal or common
chartered lending institutions with offices in the county or irrevocable
letters of credit issued by such institution.
      GREENHOUSE SYSTEM. A sewage disposal system consisting of a series of
treatment tanks designed and optimized to remove pathogens, organic matter,
nitrogen and phosphorus using natural wetland processes. The planted tanks are
located in a greenhouse ensuring year-round treatment.
      HOLDING TANK. A water-tight receptacle, whether permanent or temporary,
that receives and retains sewage and is designed and constructed to facilitate
ultimate disposal of the sewage at a DEP approved facility.
      INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE SYSTEM. A system of piping, tanks and/or other
facilities that collects and treats sewage from a single dwelling unit or an
establishment that produces one EDU of sewage or less and disposes of this
sewage in whole or in part into the soil, into any waters of the commonwealth,
or by means of conveyance to another site for final disposal.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any liquid, gas, solid, radioactive substance or other
substance that is not sewage and is a byproduct of any manufacturing,
industrial or other similar operation. The term shall include all such
substances whether or not generally characterized as waste. Substances whose
proposed or actual disposal via a sewage system violates state or federal
statutes, rules or regulations shall not fall under this definition.
      IRSIS (INDIVIDUAL RESIDENTIAL SPRAY IRRIGATION SYSTEM). An individual
sewage system, permitted under § 7 of the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act
(Act 537), 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., that serves a single dwelling and treats
and disposes of sewage using a system of piping, treatment tanks and soil
renovation through spray irrigation.
      LAND DEVELOPMENT.
         (a)   The improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots,
tracts or parcels of land for any purpose involving:
            1.   A group of two or more residential or nonresidential
buildings, whether proposed initially or cumulatively, or a single
nonresidential building on a lot or lots regardless of the number of occupants
or tenure; or
            2.   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially
or cumulatively, between or among two or more existing or prospective occupants
by means of, or for the purpose of streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups or other features.
         (b)   A subdivision of land.
      LANDOWNER. The legal beneficial or equitable owner or owners of land,
including the holder of an option or contract to purchase (whether or not such
option or contract is subject to any conditions), a lessee (if he or she is
authorized under the lease to exercise the rights of the LANDOWNER) or any
other person having a proprietary interest in land.
      LARGE VOLUME ON-LOT SEWAGE SYSTEM. A sewage system with design capacity
to discharge sewage flows in excess of 10,000 gallons per day. These systems
require a clean streams permit issued by PaDEP.
      LOT. A part of a subdivision or a parcel of land used as a building site
or intended to be used for building purposes, whether immediate or future, that
would not be further subdivided at the present time.
      MAINTENANCE ESCROW. Financial security accompanied by a written promise,
that together guarantee the proper care, operation, maintenance, repair and
replacement of a sewage system for a specified period of time. Such financial
security shall also cover the township’s costs for administration, future
compliance monitoring and enforcement of this subchapter.
      MANAGEMENT AGENCY. An entity, either private or public, formed for the
purpose of managing water and/or waste water facilities. Types of MANAGEMENT
AGENCIES include municipal authorities, municipal governing bodies, private
corporations, private engineering or technical service firms and the like.
      MUNICIPALITY. A city, incorporated town, township or borough.
      NONSEWERED APPROACH. A method of limiting the expansion of centralized
sewage systems by encouraging OLDS wherever feasible and economical.
      OFFICIAL ACT 537 PLAN. A comprehensive plan for the provision of adequate
sewage systems adopted by a municipality or municipalities possessing authority
over the provision of such systems and submitted to and approved by the DEP as
provided by the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 537), 35 P.S. §§ 750.1
et seq., and 25 Pa. Code Chapter 71, Rules and Regulations, promulgated
thereunder.
      OLDS (ON-LOT DISPOSAL SYSTEM). A system of piping, tanks, and/or other
facilities used for the collection, treatment and disposal of sewage into the
soil. Individual OLDS serve only a single dwelling unit or lot or an
establishment that produces one EDU of sewage or less; while community OLDS
serve two or more lots, buildings, dwelling units and/or establishments or a
lot/building/establishment that produces more than one EDU of sewage.
      OLDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM. A method of managing OLDS that has as its
general goal the installation of sound OLDS and the assurance that new and
existing OLDS are properly operated and maintained.
      O&M (OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE) AGREEMENT.
         (a)   A contract between a municipality, municipal authority and/or
state agency in which the owner/operator of a sewage system guarantees the
proper care, operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of the sewage
system.
         (b)   These agreements also protect the municipality, municipal
authority and/or state agency from being held responsible for the care,
operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of the sewage system and usually
require a maintenance escrow in conjunction with their execution.
      PRESSURIZED DISTRIBUTION. A network of piping within a absorption area
through which treated sewage effluent is pumped to assure equal distribution
throughout the absorption area.
      PROOF OF PUMP-OUT. The method by which a landowner verifies that his or
her OLDS has been cleaned to remove residuals. This is most easily verified by
presenting a dated receipt of payment from a pumper to the township.
      PUBLIC ASSURANCE PROGRAM. Part of a sewage system management program
which, through a sewage system inspection process, seeks to ensure that
individual and community sewage systems are operated and maintained properly.
      PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM. A sewage system or treatment facility owned,
operated and/or maintained by a municipality or municipal authority approved by
the DEP under a permit issued pursuant to the Clean Streams Law, 35 P.S. §§
691.1 et seq., as hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or re-enacted.
      PUMPER. Any sole proprietor, company, partnership or corporation which
engages in cleaning any or all components of a community or individual OLDS and
evacuates and transports the septage cleaned therefrom, whether for a fee or
free of charge.
      REPLACEMENT AREA. An area of a lot or parcel, separate from the primary
absorption area, that has been tested by the BCDH and found suitable for the
installation of an OLDS for potential future use in case the primary absorption
area on the same lot fails. This area must be preserved and protected through
the recordation of an easement or other restrictive covenant and the
installation of monuments and a sign demarcating the area.
      SECOND CLASS TOWNSHIP CODE. An Act governing and outlining the powers and
duties for townships of the second class found at 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq.
      SEPTIC TANK. A sewage treatment tank that provides for anaerobic
decomposition of sewage prior to its discharge to an absorption area.
      SEWAGE. Any substance that contains any of the waste products or
excrement or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals; any
substance harmful to the public health, to animal or aquatic life or to the use
of water for domestic water supply or for recreation; or any substance which
constitutes pollution under the Clean Streams Law, 35 P.S. §§ 691.1 through
691.1001.
      SEWAGE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER (SEO). The official of the local agency (a
municipality, any combination of municipalities, a county department of health
or a joint county department of health) who issues and reviews permit
applications and conducts such investigations and inspections as are necessary
to implement Act 537, 25 Pa. Code Chapter 71 (relating to administration of
sewage facilities program), and 25 Pa. Code Chapter 73, “Standards for Sewage
Disposal Facilities.”
      SEWAGE SYSTEM. A publicly or privately owned system of piping, tanks and/
or other facilities used for the collection, treatment and disposal of sewage
or industrial wastes of a liquid nature.
      SEWER AUTHORITY. A municipal authority providing sewage facilities.
      SITE. A lot or parcel of land or combination of contiguous lots or
parcels of land upon which a sewage system(s) is (are) proposed to be built.
      SLOW-RATE LAND APPLICATION (SRLA). A method of disposal of treated sewage
effluent whereby the effluent is applied to the surface or subsurface of the
soil by spray irrigation, drip irrigation or other types of land application at
reduced rates.
      SMALL FLOW TREATMENT FACILITY (SFTF). An individual or community sewage
system designed to adequately treat sewage flows not greater than 2,000 gallons
per day for final disposal using stream discharge or other methods approved by
the DEP.
      SPRAY FIELD. The piping, spray heads and ground surface to the outside
edges of the wetted perimeter, used for the application and treatment of the
sewage effluent in an IRS1S or community spray system.
      STREAM DISCHARGE SYSTEM. A sewage system that ultimately disposes of
treated effluent into the surface waters of the commonwealth. Such systems
require a permit from the DEP.
      SUBDIVISION. The division or re-division of a lot, tract, or other parcel
of land into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land,
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, transfer of ownership or building or lot development;
provided, however, that the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural
purposes into parcels of more than ten acres, not involving any new street or
easement of access or residential dwellings, shall be exempted.
      SUBSURFACE SYSTEM. A sewage system that employs an aggregate-filled
sewage effluent absorption area installed below original soil grade level, or,
in the case of an elevated sand mound, installed above original grade with
ultimate percolation into the soil.
      TRANSFER OF PROPERTY. The sale, donation, long-term lease (ten years or
more), or other transfer of a legal interest in a tract of land from one
independent person or entity to another. Does not include intra-family
transfers, transfers between entities that are controlled by the same person or
entity, or the transfer of easements or other property rights that do not
include the right to use or install an OLDS on the tract of land.
      WATERCOURSE. A permanent or intermittent stream, river, brook, creek,
run, channel, swale or ditch, whether natural or human-made, for gathering or
carrying surface water.
      WATERS OF THE COMMONWEALTH. Rivers, streams, creeks, rivulets,
impoundments, ditches, watercourses, storm sewers, lakes, dammed water, ponds,
springs and all other bodies or channels of conveyance of surface and
underground water or any of their part, whether natural or artificial, within
or on the boundaries of the commonwealth.
      WETTED PERIMETER. The area which can possibly be touched by treated
effluent being sprayed by an IRSIS or community spray system.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.09 PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS AND POLICIES; GENERAL.
   The following programs and policies are hereby enacted to improve the
treatment and disposal of sewage throughout the township through proper
installation, operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of individual and
community sewage systems. These programs and policies apply to both existing
and new sewage systems in conjunction with appurtenant ordinances as outlined
in §
91.03.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.10 SEWAGE MANAGEMENT POLICIES.
   (A)   The Township Planning Commission and Township Engineer shall review
all subdivision/land development plans proposing the use of one or more sewage
systems to ensure the design and layout of the proposed OLDS conforms with the
township’s wastewater facilities plan (Act 537), this subchapter and all other
applicable ordinances of the township.
   (B)   In those areas of the township where public sewer does not exist or
are rural/agricultural and are planned for lower density zoning, OLDS shall be
encouraged wherever feasible. The following OLDS planning policies shall be
followed in these areas to foster the nonsewered approach and the conservation
of groundwater resources:
      (1)   Limit expansion of existing centralized public sewer systems by
encouraging OLDS;
      (2)   Maintain OLDS ownership with the individual property owner,
community association or developer;
      (3)   Encourage the use of innovative sewage systems that reduce water
consumption and wastewater generation;
      (4)   Recycle wastewater by relying upon individual OLDS and community
OLDS for groundwater recharge via either subsurface or surface disposal of
treated wastewater effluent;
      (5)   Promote subsurface disposal of effluent wherever possible;
      (6)   Restrict community subsurface systems to pressurized distribution
systems;
      (7)   Encourage water conservation and waste flow reduction by the use of
water saving devices, nonwater toilets, wastewater effluent recycling and
reuse, and other state-of-the-art water conservation methods; and
      (8)   Require all newly constructed residential, commercial, industrial,
agricultural, recreational, governmental or public buildings or structures of
any kind to install water saving fixtures, via a separate water conservation
ordinance. Such fixtures will reduce the quantity of water required to flush
toilets and will reduce the flow rates of showers and faucets.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.11 SEWAGE SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   All individual and community sewage systems shall meet the requirements set
forth in this section.
   (A)   Individual sewage systems.
      (1)   Individual residential spray irrigation system. The owner of a
property that utilizes an IRSIS shall comply with the following:
         (a)   Construct and maintain the system in conformance with this
subchapter and any other ordinance of the township, the Pennsylvania Sewage
Facilities Act (Act 537), 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., the rules and regulations
of the BCDH and the DEP and all applicable regulations and statutes of the
commonwealth. The owner of the system shall have at all times while the system
is in use a service contract with a qualified vendor/operator;
         (b)   Execute an O&M agreement with the township and submit a
maintenance escrow, all in conformance with this subchapter. The effluent shall
be tested no less than once a year with a copy of the report submitted to the
township;
         (c)   Design requirements:
            1.   No component of an IRSIS (including the wetted perimeter of
the spray field) shall encroach within the required minimum front, side or rear
yard setback designated by the township zoning ordinance;
            2.   Spray irrigation of the treated effluent shall be only
permitted from 3:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. except under the following conditions.
From November 15 through March 15, spray irrigation shall be only permitted
during daylight hours. Spray irrigation is specifically not permitted for 24
hours after a heavy rain or when the ground is frozen;
            3.   Buffering:
               a.   Whenever the wetted perimeter of the spray irrigation field
is located within 100 feet, but not less than 50 feet, of a property boundary,
buffering shall include a minimum of one evergreen tree per 30 feet and one
canopy tree per 40 feet arranged along and within 25 feet of the property
boundary;
               b.   Whenever the wetted perimeter of the spray irrigation field
is located within 50 feet of a property boundary, buffering shall include a
minimum of one evergreen tree per 20 feet and one canopy tree per 40 feet
arranged along and within 25 feet of the property boundary. A fence at least
four feet in height of material approved by the township (such as split-rail
fencing with wire backing) shall also be installed along the property line. The
fence shall extend along either side of the spray field at least 25 feet wider
than the maximum width of the spray field;
               c.   Buffer plant materials shall conform to the requirements of
the township’s zoning ordinance; and
               d.   Where full grown trees exist on the site which duplicate
the requirements for buffering, the buffering requirements of this subchapter
may be waived by the Township Board of Supervisors.
            4.   A minimum of five days of storage capacity of effluent shall
be built into the system. If 90% or more of the storage capacity of the system
has been filled, the system must be immediately pumped and the effluent hauled
away for disposal at an appropriate and approved facility;
            5.   The spray nozzles shall be no more than 60 inches above the
ground and designed to have a low trajectory; and
            6.   The system shall have a wind interlock control that shuts off
the spraying if the wind speed is greater than 15 mph.
         (d)   No portion of the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 537),
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., setback requirements for a IRSIS may be located on
any road right-of-way or any lot or property other than the parcel containing
the IRSIS.
      (2)   Sand mounds. The owner of a property that utilizes a sand mound
system shall comply with the following:
         (a)   Construct and maintain the system in conformance with this
subchapter and any other ordinance of the township, the Pennsylvania Sewage
Facilities Act (Act 537), 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., the rules and regulations
of the BCDH and the DEP and all applicable regulations and statues of the
commonwealth;
         (b)   When required by the BCDH or DEP, execute an O&M agreement with
the township and/or submit a maintenance escrow, all in conformance with this
subchapter;
         (c)   Design requirements:
            1.   No portion of a sand mound system shall encroach within ten
feet of a property boundary or the ultimate right-of-way of any road;
            2.   Buffering:
               a.   Any part of a sand mound system located within 25 feet of a
property boundary or the ultimate right-of-way of any road shall be buffered
with a minimum of one shrub per six feet arranged along the outside edge of
that part of the system;
               b.   Buffer plant materials shall conform to the requirements of
the township’s zoning ordinance; and
               c.   Where full grown shrubs exist on the site which duplicate
the requirements for buffering, the buffering requirements of this subchapter
may be waived by the Township Board of Supervisors.
         (d)   No portion of the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 537),
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., setback requirements for a sand mound system may be
located on any road right-of-way or any lot or property other than the parcel
containing that system.
      (3)   Drip - A/B - micromound. The owner of a property that utilizes a
drip irrigation, A/B or micromound system shall comply with the following:
         (a)   Construct and maintain the system in conformance with this
subchapter and any other ordinance of the township, the Pennsylvania Sewage
Facilities Act (Act 537), 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., the rules and regulations
of the BCDH and the DEP and all applicable regulations and statues of the
commonwealth;
         (b)   Execute an O&M agreement with the township and submit a
maintenance escrow, all in conformance with this subchapter;
         (c)   Design requirements:
            1.   No portion of a drip irrigation, A/B or micromound system
shall encroach within 12 feet of a property boundary or the ultimate right-of-
way of any road; and
            2.   Buffering:
               a.   Any part of a drip irrigation, A/B or micromound system
located within 50 feet of a property boundary or the ultimate right-of-way of
any road shall be buffered with a minimum of one shrub per six feet arranged
along the outside edge of that part of the system;
               b.   Buffer plant materials shall conform to the requirements of
the township’s zoning ordinance; and
               c.   Where full grown shrubs exist on the site which duplicate
the requirements for buffering, the buffering requirements of this subchapter
may be waived by the Township Board of Supervisors.
         (d)   No portion of the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 537),
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., setback requirements for a drip irrigation, A/B or
micromound system may be located on any road right-of-way or any lot or
property other than the parcel containing that system.
      (4)   Alternate and other systems. The owner of a property that utilizes
an alternate system other than those listed elsewhere in this section, or any
other individual sewage system that is not listed within this section shall
comply with the following:
         (a)   Construct and maintain the system in conformance with this
subchapter and any other ordinance of the township, the Pennsylvania Sewage
Facilities Act (Act 537), 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., the rules and regulations
of the BCDH and the DEP and all applicable regulations and statues of the
commonwealth;
         (b)   Execute an O&M agreement with the township and submit a
maintenance escrow, all in conformance with this subchapter;
         (c)   Design requirements:
            1.   No component of an alternate system shall encroach within the
required minimum front, side or rear yard setback designated by the township
zoning ordinance; and
            2.   Buffering:
               a.   Whenever an alternative system is located within 100 feet
of a property boundary, buffering shall include a minimum of one evergreen tree
per 20 feet and one canopy tree per 40 feet arranged along and within 25 feet
of the property boundary;
               b.   Buffer plant materials shall conform to the requirements of
the township’s zoning ordinance; and
               c.   Where full grown trees exist on the site which duplicate
the requirements for buffering, the buffering requirements of this subchapter
may be waived by the Township Board of Supervisors.
         (d)   No portion of the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 537),
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., setback requirements for an alternative system may be
located on any road right-of-way or any lot or property other than the parcel
containing the system.
      (5)   Experimental systems. The owner of a property that utilizes an
experimental system shall comply with the following:
         (a)   Construct and maintain the system in conformance with this
subchapter and any other ordinance of the township, the Pennsylvania Sewage
Facilities Act (Act 537), 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., the rules and regulations
of the BCDH and the DEP and all applicable regulations and statues of the
commonwealth;
         (b)   Execute an O&M agreement with the township and submit a
maintenance escrow, all in conformance with this subchapter; and
         (c)   Design requirements:
            1.   No component of an experimental system shall encroach within
the required minimum front, side or rear yard setback designated by the
township zoning ordinance or within 50 feet of a property boundary or any road
right-of-way, whichever setback distance is greater; and
            2.   Buffering:
               a.   All experimental systems shall be buffered by a minimum of
one evergreen tree per 20 feet, one canopy tree per 40 feet and one shrub per
six feet arranged along all sides of the system and within 25 feet of the
system;
               b.   Buffer plant materials shall conform to the requirements of
the township’s zoning ordinance; and
               c.   Where full grown trees exist on the site which duplicate
the requirements for buffering, the buffering requirements of this subchapter
may be waived by the Township Board of Supervisors.
         (d)   No portion of the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 537),
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., setback requirements for an experimental system may
be located on any road right-of-way or any lot or property other than the
parcel containing the system.
      (6)   Stream discharge system. The owner of a property that utilizes an
individual stream discharge system shall comply with the following:
         (a)   Construct and maintain the system in conformance with this
subchapter and any other ordinance of the township, the Pennsylvania Sewage
Facilities Act (Act 537), 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., the rules and regulations
of the BCDH and the DEP and all applicable regulations and statues of the
commonwealth;
         (b)   Execute an O&M agreement with the township and submit a
maintenance escrow, all in conformance with this subchapter;
         (c)   Any property utilizing a stream discharge system shall connect
to abutting or adjoining public sewer lines as soon as public sewage services
become available, and upon such connection the system must be disconnected and
disposed of in accordance with the applicable BCDH and DEP rules and
regulations;
         (d)   No component of a stream discharge system shall encroach within
the required minimum front, side or rear yard setback designated by the
township zoning ordinance; and
         (e)   No portion of the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 537),
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., setback requirements for a stream discharge system
may be located on any road right-of-way or any lot or property other than the
parcel containing the facility.
      (7)   Ground in the vicinity of any individual OLDS. The ground in the
vicinity of any individual OLDS shall be graded, contoured and maintained so as
to divert stormwater, including, but not limited to, runoff from gutters and
downspouts, driveways, swales and sump pump discharges, from the components and
the absorption area of the OLDS, in compliance with 25 Pa. Code Chapter 73. The
entire OLDS, and the absorption area in particular, shall be protected from
vehicular traffic, and no domesticated animals of any type or equipment heavier
than a common riding mower/garden tractor shall be allowed upon the absorption
area of any individual OLDS. No trees or shrubs may be planted in the
absorption area.
      (8)   Absorption area. The absorption area may not be excavated except as
a part of a repair, replacement or restoration project that has received the
necessary permits from the township and the BCDH.
      (9)   Individual OLDS design setbacks. All individual OLDS must meet the
following setback isolation distances, and no part of any adjacent lot, parcel
or property may be utilized to meet this setback criteria:
Table 2: OLDS Isolation Distances
[reserved]
Table 2: OLDS Isolation Distances
[reserved]
Buildings, impervious areas                                         10 30  150
Detention basins, other SWM facilities                              25 25  50
Easements, rights-of-way                                            25 25  100
Lakes, ponds, watercourses, wetlands, floodplains, floodplain soils 75 100 100
Other disposal systems                                              10 10  50
Pools                                                               20 50  100
Wells                                                               50 100 100
 
   (B)   Community sewage systems.
      (1)   All community sewage systems shall comply with the following, along
with any specific requirements listed in divisions (B)(1)(a) through (B)(1)(h)
below:
         (a)   Construct and maintain the system in conformance with this
subchapter and any other ordinance of the township, the Pennsylvania Sewage
Facilities Act (Act 537), 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., the rules and regulations
of the BCDH and the DEP and all applicable regulations and statues of the
commonwealth;
         (b)   When required, establish a construction escrow, execute an O&M
agreement with the township and submit a maintenance escrow, all in conformance
with this subchapter;
         (c)   Any community system designed to service four or more EDUs from
single-family or two-family residential dwellings or ten of more EDUs from any
other use or entity shall be located entirely upon a separate lot;
         (d)   No component of the sewage system (including the wetted
perimeter of a spray field) shall encroach within the required minimum front,
side or rear yard setback designated by the township zoning ordinance or within
50 feet of any road right-of-way or a property boundary, whichever setback
distance is greater;
         (e)   No portion of the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 537),
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., setback requirements for the appropriate system may
be located on any road right-of-way or any lot or property other than the lot
containing that system;
         (f)   Buffering: all community sewage systems shall be buffered as
follows:
            1.   A minimum of one evergreen tree per 20 feet, one canopy tree
per 40 feet and one shrub per six feet arranged along and within 25 feet of the
property boundary and covering the entire perimeter of the property;
            2.   A fence at least six feet in height of material approved by
the township installed along the entire length of the property line between the
sewage system and the above-listed buffer plants;
            3.   Buffer plant materials shall conform to the requirements of
the township’s zoning ordinance; and
            4.   Where full grown trees and/or shrubs exist on the site which
duplicate the requirements for buffering, the buffering requirements of this
subchapter may be waived by the Township Board of Supervisors.
         (g)   The ground in the vicinity of any community sewage systems shall
be graded, contoured and maintained so as to divert stormwater, including, but
not limited to, runoff from gutters and downspouts, driveways, swales, and sump
pump discharges, from the components and the absorption area of the system, in
compliance with 25 Pa. Code Chapter 73. The entire system, and the absorption
area in particular, shall be protected from vehicular traffic, and no
domesticated animals of any type or equipment heavier than a common riding
mower/garden tractor shall be allowed upon the absorption area of any community
sewage system. No trees or shrubs may be planted in the absorption area; and
         (h)   The absorption area may not be excavated except as a part of a
repair, replacement or restoration project that has received the necessary
permits from the township and the BCDH.
      (2)   Spray systems. Unless a larger setback is required under another
statute, ordinance, rule or regulation, the wetted perimeter of all spray
systems shall be set back at least 150 feet from all property boundaries,
roads, easements, buildings, pools and other sewage systems and at least 200
feet from all watercourses, ponds, lakes, wetlands, floodplains, floodplain
soils, stormwater management facilities and potable water wells.
      (3)   Alternate systems. Unless a larger setback is required under
another statute, ordinance, rule or regulation, all alternate systems shall be
set back at least 50 feet from all property boundaries, roads, easements,
buildings, pools and other sewage systems; at least 75 feet from all
watercourses, ponds, lakes, wetlands, floodplains, floodplain soils and
stormwater management facilities; and 150 feet from all potable water wells.
      (4)   Experimental systems. Unless a larger setback is required under
another statute, ordinance, rule or regulation, all experimental systems shall
be set back at least 150 feet from all property boundaries, roads, easements,
buildings, pools and other sewage systems and at least 200 feet from all
watercourses, ponds, lakes, wetlands, floodplains, floodplain soils, stormwater
management facilities and potable water wells.
      (5)   Stream discharge. Any property(ies) utilizing a stream discharge
system shall connect to public sewer lines when required to do so by applicable
township ordinances and/or state statutes. Upon connection to the public sewer
system, the stream discharge system must be disconnected and disposed of in
accordance with the applicable BCDH and DEP rules and regulations.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.12 REPLACEMENT AREAS.
   (A)   Requirements.
      (1)   A replacement area shall be required on all lots or parcels created
by or involved in a subdivision/land development after October 17, 2005 and
proposed to be served by an OLDS.
      (2)   A replacement area shall be required for all community sewage
systems designed to treat four EDUs or more and which will dispose of sewage,
in whole or in part, in to the soil.
      (3)   Any proposed replacement area shall comply with this subchapter,
any other township ordinance, the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 537),
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., the rules and regulations of the BCDH and the DEP and
all applicable regulations and statues of the commonwealth, including, but not
limited to, isolation distances.
      (4)   Allowance of open land for the replacement area, without the
performance of appropriate soil testing to verify suitability of the land for a
replacement area, shall not constitute compliance with the requirements of this
section.
      (5)   Every replacement area shall be protected by a recorded easement
that contains the following restrictions.
         (a)   No improvements, whether permanent or temporary, shall be
constructed upon or within the replacement area.
         (b)   No permanent or temporary alterations, grading, excavation,
stockpiling of any soil or any other material shall take place on or in the
replacement area.
         (c)   During any construction or other activities, the replacement
area shall be marked and blocked off to prevent equipment heavier than a common
riding mower/garden tractor from traveling over or operating upon the surface
of the replacement area.
         (d)   The final cover or improvement to every replacement area shall
be limited to shallow-rooted plant matter.
   (B)   Identification of replacement area.
      (1)   For an individual sewage system, any applicant who proposes to
install an OLDS and is required to provide a replacement area shall demonstrate
to the satisfaction of the township that a suitable replacement area exists on
the same lot as the proposed sewage system. The township or the BCDH shall
perform or observe all tests required to identify the proper location for the
replacement area.
      (2)   For a community sewage system, any applicant who proposes to
install an OLDS and is required to provide a replacement area shall demonstrate
to the satisfaction of the township that a suitable replacement area exists on
the same site as the proposed sewage system. The township or the BCDH shall
perform or observe all tests required to identify the proper location for the
replacement area. Where the site is being subdivided, the proposed community
system and the proposed replacement area shall be located upon the same new
lot.
      (3)   The location of the replacement area, as confirmed by the township,
shall be identified on the plot plans and diagrams submitted as part of any
permit, subdivision, land development or planning module application.
      (4)   Any revisions to a permit or plan affecting a previously approved
replacement area shall be reviewed for approval by the Township Board of
Supervisors or its authorized representative.
      (5)   If a replacement area has been already identified upon a lot or
parcel, an applicant may attempt to identify, to the township’s satisfaction,
an alternate replacement area upon the lot or parcel. This alternate
replacement area shall comply with this subchapter. Once an alternate
replacement area is identified, this alternate replacement area may be
designated the replacement area required by this subchapter and shall be
considered as such for the purposes of this subchapter, so long as it meets all
of the requirements and protections of this subchapter.
   (C)   Subdivision/land development restrictions. Any application for
subdivision or land development that provides for a replacement area(s) upon
its plans shall place a note upon the approved record plans stating that no
improvements shall be constructed upon and no alterations shall be made to any
replacement area. The applicant shall also execute and record new or corrected
deeds for each lot created by or a part of the subdivision or land development
that contain language protecting the replacement area within that lot’s
boundaries. The subdivision/land development plan shall also note and
specifically require the replacement area be marked and physically blocked off
to prevent equipment with greater wheel loadings than a common riding mower/
garden tractor from traveling over or operating upon the surface of the
replacement area during construction. The plan shall require the final cover or
improvement to every replacement area to be limited to shallow-rooted plant
matter.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.13 OWNERSHIP, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   System ownership. All individual sewage systems shall be owned and
maintained by the owner of the lot the system is located upon. All community
sewage systems shall be offered for dedication to the township or an agency
designated by the township or owned and maintained by a community association
or the owner of the lot the system is located upon. The operator of all
community sewage systems must be certified by DEP and meet all applicable state
statutes, rules and regulations.
   (B)   System operation. All sewage systems shall be operated by the user in
a manner that is in full compliance with the terms of this subchapter and all
other township, county, state and federal ordinances, statutes, codes, rules
and regulations. The operation of all systems shall specifically comply with
the following:
      (1)   Only sewage and normal domestic wastes shall be discharged into any
sewage systems;
      (2)   The following shall not be discharged into sewage systems:
         (a)   Industrial waste;
         (b)   Fats and grease;
         (c)   Motor oil;
         (d)   Hazardous waste;
         (e)   Chemicals including, but not limited to:
            1.   Pesticides and herbicides;
            2.   Acids;
            3.   Paint, paint thinner and solvents, including latex or water
based paints;
            4.   Wallpaper pastes and adhesives; and
            5.   Photo processing chemicals.
         (f)   Downspout and/or roof drain discharges;
         (g)   Sump pump and basement drain discharges; and
         (h)   Stormwater.
      (3)   All water used within a residence, including kitchen and laundry
wastes and water softener backwash, and all sewage shall be discharged into a
sewage system; and
      (4)   No sewage system shall discharge untreated or partially treated
sewage to the surface of the ground, or into the waters of the commonwealth,
unless a permit to discharge has been obtained from the DEP.
   (C)   On-site pretreatment of effluents. The township may require the on-
site pretreatment of effluents prior to their discharge to any sewage
facilities operated or owned by the township or any other entity, to assure
that the effluent’s chemical or biological constituents are compatible with the
renovative methods employed by the receiving facilities. Such pretreatment
shall meet the standards adopted by the BMA, if any, and shall include, where
necessary, grease traps.
   (D)   System maintenance. The owner of a sewage system shall at all times
maintain this system in such condition as will permit it to function in the
manner in which it was designed and to prevent the unlawful discharge of
sewage. An owner shall specifically comply with the following.
      (1)   The owner of a property upon which an on-lot system is constructed
shall maintain the area around such system so as to provide convenient access
for inspection, maintenance and pumping, and divert surface water and
downspouts away from the absorption area and system components.
      (2)   In the event a landowner detects conditions that indicate or could
reasonably be interpreted to indicate a malfunction, the landowner shall
contact the BCDH and the township and, if repair or replacement is necessary,
apply for a permit to repair or replace the malfunctioning system.
         (a)   Landowners who disclose to the BCDH in a timely manner the
presence of a malfunction upon their lands shall not be penalized for the
disclosure. These owners still must repair the malfunction.
         (b)   If an owner of a system with a malfunction fails to make
voluntary repairs, the township may seek injunctive or other relief to compel
the repair of the malfunction or cause the repair to be effectuated.
      (3)   Any owner of a sewage system that includes any electrically,
mechanically, hydraulically or pneumatically operated or controlled device,
shall monitor, inspect and maintain the system in accordance with the
respective manufacturer’s recommended maintenance schedule and product
specifications.
      (4)   Owners of sewage systems with components requiring periodic
maintenance shall submit receipts as proof of maintenance to the township
documenting maintenance/service was performed at the intervals called for and
in a manner consistent with the various components’ manufacturers.
      (5)   The township may require additional maintenance activities
including, but not limited to, cleaning or unclogging of piping, servicing or
repair of mechanical equipment, leveling of distribution boxes, tanks and
lines, removal of obstructing roots or trees, and diversion of surface water
away from soil absorption areas, beyond what is normally recommended/required
by manufacturer of the sewage system or this subchapter.
   (E)   Required pumping of sewage systems.
      (1)   All OLDS shall be pumped on the following schedule:
         (a)   Individual subsurface systems. Once every three years (minimum)
or as recommended by the manufacturer, whichever period is shorter; provided,
however, that if garbage disposal (grinder) is connected to the system, the
system shall be pumped out once a year;
         (b)   Individual SRLA systems. Once per year;
         (c)   Community sewage systems (all types). Once per year;
         (d)   Alternate and experimental systems. Once per year; and
         (e)   More frequent pumping. In addition to the foregoing schedule,
the township may order more frequent pumping when a system is found to be
malfunctioning upon inspection by the township or the BCDH.
      (2)   All stream discharge systems shall be pumped as often as required
by the system manufacture or operator. In all cases, such systems shall be
pumped often enough to ensure that the treated effluent meets all state and
federal statutes, rules and regulations.
      (3)   All aerobic unit systems shall be inspected annually for proper
operation and certified to be in good working order.
      (4)   When a sewage system’s septic tank is pumped out, all dosing tanks,
lift tanks and other tanks associated with the system shall also be pumped out.
      (5)   Holding tanks shall be pumped out at such intervals as will prevent
overflow, leakage, backup, other malfunction or a public health hazard or
nuisance, but no less frequently than one time per year.
   (F)   Transfer of properties with OLDS. Prior to the transfer of property
containing an OLDS, the seller of the property shall ensure that the OLDS is
pumped and inspected immediately prior to the transfer in compliance with the
special procedures set forth in this subchapter.
   (G)   OLDS with O&M agreements. Where an OLDS is covered by an O&M
agreement, the township shall send notice to the sewage system owner of the
required pumping and/or inspection. The owner shall have 60 days from receipt
of this notice to have the system pumped and inspected in compliance with the
special procedures set forth in this subchapter.
   (H)   Special pumping and inspection procedures. These procedures shall be
followed by the owner of the OLDs and the pumper when a transfer of property
occurs and when the owner of an OLDS covered by an O&M agreement receives
notice to have his or her system pumped and inspected.
      (1)   Upon completion of this required pumping, the pumper shall:
         (a)   Complete a township provided pumper report and inspection
report;
         (b)   Deliver both original reports to the seller; and
         (c)   Deliver a copy of each report to the township within 30 days of
the pumping along with the pumping/inspection fee that shall be established
from time to time by separate resolution of the Township Board of Supervisors.
      (2)   Prior to the transfer the seller shall provide the buyer with
copies of both the pumper report and the inspection report and shall provide at
closing, if available, a copy of the manufacturer’s recommendations and owner’s
manual to the buyer.
      (3)   At a minimum, the pumper report shall include the following
information. This information shall be obtained by an inspection of the system
conducted in accordance with the current inspection protocol of the
Pennsylvania Septage Management Association:
         (a)   Name and address of system owner;
         (b)   Name of current occupant and number of system users;
         (c)   Property address where system is located, if different from
owner’s;
         (d)   Permit number and date existing system was installed (month/
year);
         (e)   Date of last previous pump-out (month/year);
         (f)   Date of current pumping, tank capacity and material;
         (g)   Amount (gallons) of septage, sludge and/or other material
removed;
         (h)   Statement of general system condition;
         (i)   Description and diagram of the location of the:
            1.   Treatment tank;
            2.   Risers; and
            3.   Access hatches, pump tanks, filters, D-box, absorption areas
and the like with distances relative to two fixed landmarks.
         (j)   Presence and condition of baffles in all tanks and compartments;
         (k)   List of other maintenance performed;
         (l)   Indications of system malfunction observed;
         (m)   List of recommendations for system rehabilitation;
         (n)   List of water conservation devices in use;
         (o)   DEP permit number and site name for destination of the septage;
and
         (p)   The name, address, state certification number, township permit
number, phone number(s) and signature of the pumper.
      (4)   (a)   The inspection report shall include information regarding the
presence of any or all of the following:
            1.   Defective tank components (lids, baffles, dividers and the
like);
            2.   Water level above outlet pipe elevation prior to pumping;
            3.   Backflow from the absorption area following or during pumping;
            4.   Inflow from building(s) served to verify connection to the
building(s);
            5.   Surface discharge, ponding or other signs of malfunction in
the vicinity of the absorption area; and
            6.   Any other possible or potential problem with the sewer system.
         (b)   The report shall be signed and include the name, address, state
certification number, township permit number, phone number(s) and signature of
the pumper conducting the inspection.
      (5)   Persons undertaking the inspection of an OLDS shall have
successfully completed the on-lot wastewater treatment system inspector program
of the Pennsylvania Septage Management Association and be so certified.
   (I)   General pumping and inspection procedures. The following procedures
shall be followed by the pumper during any pumping and/or inspection of an
sewage system unless other, more stringent, standards are specified by the
equipment manufacturer.
      (1)   At all times, the pumper’s personal safety, as well as protection
of the environment and the landowners’ property, shall receive the highest
priority.
      (2)   The septic tank and the effluent disposal areas (tile field
trenches, seepage pits, elevated sand mound and the like) shall be located
prior to inspection or pumping.
      (3)   The septic tank cleanout manhole shall be located and excavated so
as to prevent soil from falling into the tank when the cover is removed.
      (4)   After removing clean-out manhole cover, the scum shall be broken up
and pumped out. Solids can be broken up by backwashing (i.e., re-injecting the
pumped liquid back into the tank or by injecting clean water into the tank).
This method can also be used to mix the sludge at the bottom of the tank to
facilitate its removal. When backwashing, care shall be taken not to fill/
refill the tank to a level greater than 12 inches below the elevation of the
outlet pipe. Mechanical means, such as scraping, raking and the like, to break
up or mix solids and sludge are not necessary, but may be employed provided
that appropriate safeguards are taken to prevent injury. It may be necessary to
repeat this backwashing procedure to completely pump out the tank.
      (5)   Tanks shall only be pumped from/through the manhole/access port,
i.e., the largest tank opening. Tanks shall not be pumped from/through the
observation port, since this may damage the tank’s baffles and will not permit
the tank’s contents to be thoroughly mixed for pumping.
      (6)   No liquids or solids are to be discharged into/through the outlet
pipe.
      (7)   Tanks shall be deemed to be clean when all organic solids are
removed and the total average liquid depth remaining in the tank is less than
one inch.
      (8)   Every pump-out shall include a visual inspection of the interior of
the tank for cracks, leaks, deterioration and the presence and condition of
baffles. The presence and condition of observation port(s) shall also be
inspected. The tank shall not be entered to make the inspection, but a mirror
and light should be used to see inside the tank. Any observed problems shall be
noted in the inspection report. The tank shall not be cleaned with acid or
chemical cleaner.
      (9)   Once the tank has been completely pumped out and inspected, the
manhole cover shall be carefully and securely replaced. If the tank is buried
deeper than one foot, risers shall be installed over the clean-out manhole and
inspection port to facilitate future cleaning and inspection. The riser clean-
out manhole must be at least 24 inches in diameter.
      (10)   The manhole cover or the risers shall be backfilled.
      (11)   The absorption area shall be visually inspected for seepage,
breakouts and the like. Any observed problems shall be noted in the inspection
report.
      (12)   The pumper shall inform the system owner of any problems
encountered with any of the components of the system and, if possible, suggest
corrective measures.
      (13)   The pumper shall clean up any spillage and dispose of the septage
at a DEP approved disposal site.
      (14)   At all times, and in all phases of operations, pumpers shall
comply with all laws and regulations regarding the activities associated with
sewage system maintenance and disposal of materials removed from sewage
systems.
   (J)   Aerobic treatment tank inspection procedures. Aerobic systems shall
not be pumped but shall be inspected by a qualified person to determine that
they are in good working order.
   (K)   Cracks, leaks and/or leaking or inoperable baffles. In the event that
cracks, leaks and/or leaking or inoperable baffles are found by the pumper, or
in the case of an aerobic system, a malfunction is found by the inspector, the
damage or malfunction must be repaired within 30 days and the owner must submit
a certification by the person performing the repairs that they have been
completed. The township or the BCDH may inspect the system to confirm that the
repairs have been completed.
   (L)   Compliance. The owner of a sewage system shall not prevent a pumper or
an inspector from complying with any of the requirements of this subchapter.
Table 3: Organizational Format for Township Sewage Management Program1
               Operation and                               Inspection
Type Ownership Maintenance    Construction   Maintenance   Frequency3
               (O&M)          Escrow Amount2 Escrow Amount BCDH4 Township4
               Responsibility
Table 3: Organizational Format for Township Sewage Management Program1
                                                          Operation and  Construction Maintenance  Inspection
Type                                          Ownership   Maintenance    Escrow       Escrow       Frequency3
                                                          (O&M)          Amount2      Amount       BCDH4     Township4
                                                          Responsibility
A. Individual Sewage Systems
1.   Subsurface or sand mound              Landowner   Landowner      None         None         Upon      As
                                                                                                   complaint required
2.   Drip irrigation or micromound         Landowner   Landowner      None         $500         Upon      As
                                                                                                   complaint required
3.   IRSIS, A/B or stream discharge        Landowner   Landowner      None         $500         Upon      As
                                                                                                   complaint required
4.   Replacement system                    Landowner   Landowner      None         $500         Upon      As
                                                                                                   complaint required
5.   Holding tank                          Landowner   Landowner      None         $500         Upon      As
                                                                                                   complaint required
6.   Other types of alternate sewage systemLandowner   Landowner      None         $2,500       Upon      Annually
                                                                                                   complaint
7.   Experimental sewage system            Landowner   Landowner      None         $5,000       Upon      Annually
                                                                                                   complaint
B. Community Sewage System
                                              Township,
                                              BMA,        BMA, landowner
1.   Community systems servicing 4 EDUs or landowner   or community   $5,000       $7,500       Upon      Annually
less                                          or          association                              complaint
                                              community
                                              association
                                              Township,                               50% of
                                              BMA,                       110% of      estimated
                                              landowner   BMA, landowner estimated    construction Upon
2.   All other community systems           or          or community   construction costs for    complaint Annually
                                              community   association    costs        first 2
                                              association                             years, then
                                                                                      10%
Notes for Table 3:
1.   This table is a summary only; please refer to other sections of this subchapter for a more comprehensive
discussion of restrictions and requirements
2.   All unused funds shall be returned to the applicant
3.   Inspection fees will be established by separate township resolution
4.   Landowner or community association shall pay for all costs involved in on-site inspections
 
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011; Ord. 231, passed 8-9-2017)
§ 91.14 PERMIT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS; GENERAL.
   (A)   Sewage management permits.
      (1)   In accordance with §
91.04, an individual or community sewage system shall not be installed nor
shall any building that produces sewage be occupied until a sewage management
permit has been issued by the township. The applicant for a building permit or
any proposed subdivision or land development that will utilize a sewage system
shall submit to the township an application for a sewage management permit
concurrently with the building permit, subdivision/land development
application, or planning module application, as appropriate. Any repairs or
replacement of existing sewage systems shall also be subject to the
requirements of this subchapter and require a sewage management permit if such
work is being proposed to accommodate increased sewage flows or a change of use
of the property. If no change in use or increase in sewage flows are proposed,
no permit is required for repair or replacement of any existing system.
      (2)   The following requirements shall also be complied with.
         (a)   Building and zoning permits shall not be issued for any
structure or parcel to be serviced by a sewage system, prior to the issuance of
a sewage management permit for that system.
         (b)   All individual sewage system components including, but not
limited to, absorption areas must be located on the same parcel as the
structure they will serve. Systems or components cannot be located on a
separately deeded parcel, regardless of the parcel’s ownership, or through
means of an easement, right-of-way or other instrument.
         (c)   The township and its agents shall have the right to enter the
premises of any property owner applying for or holding a sewage management
permit to inspect the construction and/or operation of the system, and if the
system is not being constructed or operated according to the permitted design,
issue a stop work order or revoke the occupancy permit until construction or
operation is brought into compliance with the sewage management permit.
         (d)   No sewage system shall be altered, extended, augmented or
modified without the issuance of a sewage management permit.
         (e)   No sewage system shall be used or loaded in a manner which is
inconsistent with the sewage management permit that was issued to authorize
that system’s installation.
         (f)   Applications for sewage systems that employ or contain
electronically, mechanically, hydraulically or pneumatically operated or
controlled devices shall be accompanied by the respective manufacturer’s
recommended maintenance schedule and product specifications.
         (g)   When required by this subchapter, applications shall include a
fully executed O&M agreement with the township in a township approved form.
   (B)   Pumper registration. At least seven days before offering pumping and/
or inspection services to property owners that will enable their compliance
with the terms of this subchapter, all pumpers shall:
      (1)   Comply with all reporting requirements established herein;
      (2)   Provide proof of license from the BCDH;
      (3)   Document membership in the Pennsylvania Septic Management
Association;
      (4)   Document that there is at least one employee/owner/operator
certified by the Pennsylvania Septic Management Association to perform on-lot
wastewater treatment inspections;
      (5)   Operate in a manner consistent with the provisions of the
Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management Act (Act 97 of 1980), 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101
through 6018.1003; and
      (6)   Provide documentation that all septage pumped from properties in
this township will be delivered to and disposed at a DEP-approved site or
facility.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.15 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   To meet the requirements of §
91.14, an application for a sewage management permit shall be obtained and
submitted to the Township Zoning Officer along with all the necessary
attachments, plans and documents.
   (A)   The Zoning Officer shall forward one copy of the application to the
Township Engineer and one copy of the application to the Township SEO for their
consideration and comments.
   (B)   The Zoning Officer may review the application with the Township
Planning Commission, Township Engineer, Township Solicitor, Township SEO and/or
other municipal officials to determine approval, conditional approval or
disapproval of the application.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.16 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The township shall issue a sewage management permit for individual and
community sewage systems only after the township has received, when required, a
copy of the BCDH sewage disposal system permit and/or a clean streams permit
from PaDEP. At no time can a township sewage management permit be issued
without receipt and verification of these outside permits.
   (B)   The township shall issue a sewage management permit for stream
discharge systems and SRLA sewage systems (individual or community) only after
the township has received notification from the PaDEP that such a system has
been approved and that the appropriate PaDEP permits have been issued. This
section applies to new sewage permits and repairs or replacements of existing
systems.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.17 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   An application for a sewage management permit shall include the following
items:
   (A)   Two completed copies of the application;
   (B)   Two copies of the approved subdivision, land development or plot plan;
   (C)   Two copies of the BCDH sewage disposal system permit, DEP clean
streams permit or other applicable permits from BCDH or DEP, including a copy
of the application for the permit with all approved maps, plans and narratives
attached, and a written narrative report including or prepared in accordance
with the following:
      (1)   General project description;
      (2)   Location map;
      (3)   Site characteristics;
      (4)   Soils based on the most recent U.S.D.A. approved soils map;
      (5)   Projected sewage flows;
      (6)   Water supply;
      (7)   Sewage facilities alternatives analysis;
      (8)   Environmental considerations; and
      (9)   Project financing.
   (D)   Where required, an O&M agreement, in a township-approved form, that
clearly sets forth the operation and maintenance responsibility for all
components of the sewage system, including the following:
      (1)   Description of the method and extent of the maintenance
requirements;
      (2)   When maintained by a private entity, identification of the
individual, corporation, association or other entity responsible for operation
and maintenance;
      (3)   When maintained by a private entity, provisions granting the
township the right to:
         (a)   Inspect the facilities at any time;
         (b)   Require the private entity to take corrective measures and
assign the private entity reasonable time periods for any necessary action; and
         (c)   Authorize maintenance to be done and lien the cost of the work
against the properties of the private entity responsible for maintenance.
      (4)   Establishment of suitable easements, where applicable, for access
to the sewage system.
   (E)   Sewage management permit fee in the amount established by the Township
Board of Supervisors. The permit fee schedule is subject to change from time to
time by resolution of the Board of Supervisors; and
   (F)   Construction escrow and/or maintenance escrow, when applicable.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.18 COMMUNITY SEWAGE SYSTEM PLAN CONTENTS.
   For all community sewage systems designed to serve more than four EDUs, an
applicant shall submit a community sewage system plan that complies with the
following:
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Sheet sizes no smaller than 18 by 22 inches and no larger than 34
by 44 inches;
      (2)   Name or identifying title of project;
      (3)   Name and address of landowner, applicant and individual who
prepared the plan;
      (4)   Plan date and date of latest revision to plan, north point, graphic
scale and written scale. All plans shall be drawn at a commonly used
engineering scale and no smaller than one inch equals 100 inches;
      (5)   Location map which shows relationship of tract to the two nearest
public streets;
      (6)   Note on plan indicating any area that is not to be offered for
dedication, along with a statement that the township is not responsible for
construction or maintenance of any area not dedicated for public use;
      (7)   Certificate, signed and sealed by an individual registered in the
commonwealth and qualified to perform such duties, indicating compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter; and
      (8)   A signature block, signed by an authorized agent of the BCDH,
verifying that the proposed location of the proposed sewage system has been
tested and approved under current rules and regulations.
   (B)   Existing features.
      (1)   Site boundaries showing distances, bearings and curve data, as
located by field surveyor deed plotting, and total acreage of the site;
      (2)   Existing topographical data: this information shall be provided by
field survey of contour lines, indicating the natural drainage patterns of the
site, along with the approximate grades of all slopes. Contour lines shall be
provided at two-foot vertical intervals for slopes of 4% or less and at five-
foot vertical intervals for more steeply sloping land. Additionally, the
benchmark and the datum used shall also be indicated;
      (3)   Names of all owners of all immediately adjacent parcels, names of
all immediately adjacent proposed or existing developments, and locations and
dimensions of any streets or easements on or abutting the site;
      (4)   Names, locations and dimensions of all existing buildings, streets,
railroads, utilities, watercourses, streams, swales, drainage facilities,
lakes, ponds, floodplains, wetlands and other significant features within the
site;
      (5)   Soil types within the site, based on maps contained in the latest
Soil Survey of Bucks County, Pennsylvania by the United States Department of
Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS). A table shall
indicate each soil’s limitations for community development; and
      (6)   Locations of all deep test pits and percolation test holes on the
site.
   (C)   Proposed features.
      (1)   Proposed land use, total number of lots and dwelling units, and
extent of commercial, industrial or other nonresidential uses;
      (2)   Locations and dimensions of all proposed streets, rights-of-way,
easements, sidewalks, lot lines, building locations, parking compounds,
impervious and semi-impervious surfaces, sanitary sewer facilities, water
facilities and areas proposed for public dedication;
      (3)   Proposed changes to land surface and vegetative cover including
areas to be cut or filled;
      (4)   Proposed topographical data shall be provided by contour lines or
flow arrows, indicating the natural drainage patterns of the site, along with
the approximate grades of all slopes. The township may require contour lines
where flow arrows do not provide sufficient information to evaluate the
project. Where contour lines are shown, they shall be provided at two-foot
vertical intervals for slopes of 4% or less and at five-foot vertical intervals
for more steeply sloping land;
      (5)   Plans and profiles of proposed stormwater management facilities,
including horizontal and vertical location, size and type of material. This
information shall be of the quality required for the construction of all
facilities;
      (6)   Plans and profiles of all erosion and sedimentation control
measures, temporary and permanent;
      (7)   Proposed location of potable water well(s);
      (8)   Proposed location of all components of the proposed sewage system
and the setback and isolation distances required by PaDEP rules and regulations
and this subchapter;
      (9)   Detailed plan and section sketches of all components of the sewage
system with construction/installation specifications; and
      (10)   Proposed location of all groundwater monitoring wells as may be
required by the BCDH and/or PaDEP.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.19 MODIFICATION OF PLANS.
   (A)   A modification of an approved sewage system plan shall require a new
sewage management permit except that the township may, with the prior
concurrence of the BCDH or DEP, authorize modification provided that such
modifications do not:
      (1)   Alter the sewage system in a manner that significantly affects the
proper installation, operation and maintenance of the system; or
      (2)   Significantly relocate any component of the system.
   (B)   The Township Engineer shall review any alteration of a sewage system.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.20 EXPIRATION OF SEWAGE MANAGEMENT PERMIT.
   Any sewage management permit for an individual sewage system shall expire if
the dwelling or establishment served by the system is unoccupied for a period
of two years or more. Any sewage management permit for a community sewage
system shall expire if the system is not receiving the minimum amount of sewage
necessary to properly operate the system for a period of one month or more.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.21 TRANSFER OF SEWAGE MANAGEMENT PERMITS.
   Along with complying with other applicable provisions of this subchapter
concerning the transfer of property serviced by an OLDS, the transferor of a
property subject to a sewage management permit shall supply the transferee with
a written statement that the sewage system is in compliance with this
subchapter. If the sewage system is not in compliance, the transferor shall
bring the system into compliance before the property is transferred. In
addition, the transferor shall supply the transferee with a legible plan of the
location and design of the well(s) and sewage system(s), if any, serving the
property being transferred. The transferor shall promptly notify the township
of the full name(s) and address of the transferee and shall provide, if
necessary, a new O&M agreement signed by the transferee. Upon receipt of all
the required information and documents, the township shall transfer existing
sewage management permit to the transferee, subject to its terms and conditions
and inspection schedule.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.22 CONSTRUCTION ESCROW/MAINTENANCE ESCROW.
   (A)   Construction escrow.
      (1)   Prior to receiving a sewage management permit, an applicant shall
file with the township a construction escrow in the amount listed below. The
purpose of this construction escrow is to guarantee the proper and complete
installation and construction of the proposed sewage system and to enable the
township to effect repairs to an improperly/incompletely installed/constructed/
repaired/replaced sewage system.
      (2)   Without limitation as to other types of construction escrow that
the township may approve, federal or commonwealth chartered lending institution
irrevocable letters of credit and restrictive or escrow accounts shall be
deemed acceptable financial security for this construction escrow requirement.
      (3)   The amount of required construction escrow shall be as follows.
These escrow requirements may be modified from time to time by separate
resolution of the Township Board of Supervisors:
         (a)   Individual OLDS. No escrow required;
         (b)   Holding tank. No escrow required;
         (c)   Community sewage system (serving four EDUs or less). Five
thousand dollars. This escrow shall be held until construction is completed to
the satisfaction of the Township Engineer, all necessary permits have been
obtained and the system is running properly for six months; and
         (d)   Community sewage system (serving more than four EDUs). One
hundred ten percent of the estimated construction cost as approved by the
Township Engineer. This escrow shall be held until construction is completed to
the satisfaction of the Township Engineer, all necessary permits have been
obtained and the system is running properly for 18 months.
      (4)   An applicant shall be responsible for all administrative,
inspection and enforcement costs incurred by the township regarding the
installation, construction, repair, alteration, expansion and/or replacement of
a sewage system. If the applicant fails to promptly pay these costs, the
township may recover these unpaid costs either directly from the construction
escrow; by placing a municipal lien against the property(ies) to be served by
the sewer system; or by other legal means.
      (5)   An applicant shall be responsible to properly and fully install,
construct, repair, alter, expand and/or replace the proposed sewage system. If
the applicant fails to completely and/or properly install, construct, repair,
alter, expand and/or replace the proposed sewage system as permitted and
approved, the township or its employees/agents may enter upon the property and
make whatever repairs, renovations, improvements or corrections necessary to
properly and fully install and construct the sewage system. The applicant shall
be responsible for all costs incurred by the township in completing, repairing,
renovating, improving or correcting the sewer system. The township may recover
these costs either directly from the construction escrow: by placing a
municipal lien against the property(ies) to be served by the sewer system; or
by other legal means.
      (6)   In the event the construction escrow is reduced below the amount
required by this subchapter or by an amending resolution of the Township Board
of Supervisors, the township shall notify the applicant of such reduction, and
within 30 days of such notice, the applicant shall provide enough additional
financial security to ensure that the construction escrow meets the applicable
requirement.
      (7)   The township shall return to the applicant all unused construction
escrow monies once such an escrow is no longer required by this subchapter.
   (B)   Maintenance escrow.
      (1)   Prior to issuing an occupancy permit for any property served by a
newly installed, constructed, repaired, altered, expanded and/or replaced
sewage system, the applicant shall submit to the township, when required below,
a maintenance escrow along with an executed operation and maintenance (O&M)
agreement. The purpose of this financial security and O&M agreement is to
guarantee the continuing proper maintenance, operation and repair of the system
and to enable the township to effect repairs to an improperly maintained,
operated or repaired sewage system.
      (2)   Without limitation as to other types of maintenance escrow that the
township may approve, federal or commonwealth chartered lending institution
restrictive or escrow accounts shall be deemed acceptable financial security
for this escrow requirement.
      (3)   The amount of required maintenance escrow shall be as follows.
These escrow requirements may be modified from time to time by separate
resolution of the Township Board of Supervisors:
         (a)   Individual subsurface or sandmound system. No escrow required;
         (b)   Individual drip irrigation or micromound system. Five hundred
dollars to be held until the property is connected to another sewage system;
         (c)   Individual A/B or stream discharge system or IRSIS. Five hundred
dollars to be held until the property is connected to another sewage system;
         (d)   Individual sewage system installed to replace a failing sewage
system. Five hundred dollars to be held until the property is connected to
another sewage system;
         (e)   Individual holding tank. Five hundred dollars to be held until
the holding tank is removed and the property is connected to another sewage
system;
         (f)   Individual alternate sewage system (other than those listed
above). Two thousand five hundred dollars to be held until the property is
connected to another sewage system;
         (g)   Individual experimental sewage system. Five thousand dollars to
be held until the property is connected to another sewage system; and
         (h)   Community sewage system (servicing four EDUs or less). Seven
thousand five hundred dollars. This escrow shall be held until all the property
(ies) served by this sewage system is (are) connected to another sewage system.
         (i)   Community sewage system (servicing more than four EDUs). Fifty
percent of the actual construction costs for the first two years of operation
which can be reduced to 10% after two years of operation upon request of the
applicant. This escrow shall be held until all the property(ies) served by this
sewage system is (are) connected to another sewage system.
      (4)   An applicant shall be responsible for all administrative,
inspection and enforcement costs incurred by the township regarding the
operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of a sewage system. If the
applicant fails to promptly pay these costs, the township may recover these
unpaid costs either directly from the maintenance escrow: by placing a
municipal lien against the property(ies) served by the sewer system; or by
other legal means.
      (5)   An applicant shall be responsible to properly maintain, operate,
repair and replace the proposed sewage system. If the applicant fails to fully
and properly maintain, operate, repair and/or replace the proposed sewage
system, the township or its employees/agents may enter upon the property and
maintain, operate, repair, renovate, improve, correct or replace the sewage
system as is necessary. The applicant shall be responsible for all costs
incurred by the township in taking these actions. The township may recover
these costs either directly from the maintenance escrow: by placing a municipal
lien against the property(ies) served by the sewer system; or by other legal
means.
      (6)   In the event the maintenance escrow is reduced below the amount
required by this subchapter or by an amending resolution of the Township Board
of Supervisors, the township shall notify the applicant of such reduction, and
within 30 days of such notice, the applicant shall provide enough additional
financial security to ensure that the maintenance escrow meets the applicable
requirement.
      (7)   The township shall return to the applicant all unused maintenance
escrow monies once such an escrow is no longer required by this subchapter.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011; Ord. 231, passed 8-9-2017)
§ 91.23 APPEAL TO THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
   Any persons aggrieved by any action of the Zoning Officer and/or the
Township SEO under the auspices of this subchapter, other than regarding
violations, may appeal this action to the Township Board of Supervisors within
30 days of that action.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 91.24 WAIVER AND APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter are intended as minimum standards
for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare. The Board of
Supervisors of the township may grant a waiver from literal compliance with
mandatory provisions of this chapter provided that the following findings are
made where relevant in a given case:
      (1)   Compliance would cause unnecessary hardship, excluding economic
hardship, as it applies to a particular property;
      (2)   Such unnecessary hardship has not been created by the appellant;
      (3)   The waiver, if authorized, will not alter the essential character
neighborhood or district in which the property is located, nor substantially or
permanently impair the appropriate use or development of adjacent property, nor
be detrimental to the public welfare;
      (4)   The waiver, if authorized, will represent the minimum modification
necessary to afford relief and will represent the least modification possible
of the regulation in issue; and
      (5)   An alternative proposal will not allow for equal or better results.
   (B)   Additionally, the Board of Supervisors may hear and decide appeals
where it is alleged that the Zoning Officer and/or the Township SEO has failed
to follow prescribed procedures or has misinterpreted or misapplied any
provision of this subchapter.
   (C)   The approval of a waiver or appeal shall not have the effect of making
null and void the intent and purpose of this subchapter. In the approval of a
waiver or appeal, the Board of Supervisors may impose such conditions as will,
in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the standards and
requirements of this subchapter. This section shall in no way preempt the
authority of the BCDH or the DEP.
   (D)   Application procedures for a waiver request and/or appeal: all
requests for waivers or appeals shall be processed in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   A request for a waiver or appeal shall be submitted to the Township
Secretary. The request shall be made in writing and identify:
         (a)   The specific section of this subchapter which is requested for
waiver or the decision which is being appealed;
         (b)   The proposed alternative to the requirement, when applicable;
and
         (c)   Justifications for an approval of the waiver or appeal.
      (2)   Along with an application fee, the applicant shall deposit a sum of
money in an escrow account. The amount of both the application fee and the
escrow shall be established by a separate resolution of the Board of
Supervisors. At its discretion, the Board may waive or reduce initial escrow
amounts. The escrow shall be used to reimburse the township for all reasonable
professional expenses incurred during the review, hearing and decision of the
waiver request/appeal. The applicant shall reimburse all costs and expenses in
excess of the escrow account within 30 days of receiving an invoice for these
excess expenses.
      (3)   The township shall:
         (a)   Schedule the waiver request/appeal for consideration by the
Board of Supervisors at a public meeting within 60 days of receipt of the
application; and
         (b)   Provide adequate notice of the meeting at which the request/
appeal will be considered to the applicant, the Zoning Officer, the SEO and any
other involved parties.
      (4)   At all times, the burden to present credible evidence and the
burden of persuasion shall be upon the applicant for a waiver from the terms of
this subchapter. In no case shall any applicant be exempted from this burden or
the presentation of the required evidence.
      (5)   Following the hearing upon the waiver request/appeal, the Board of
Supervisors shall take such public action as it shall deem advisable no later
than its next regularly scheduled monthly public meeting. Such action shall
cite the findings supporting and reasons for the disposition of the waiver or
appeal. Failure by the Board to act within this timeframe shall be deemed a
denial of the request/appeal.
      (6)   Any applicant granted a waiver under this section shall enter into
a O&M agreement with the township and shall provide the township with a
maintenance escrow.
(Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
HOLDING TANKS
§ 91.35 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish procedures for the use
and maintenance of holding tanks when the township, the County Department of
Health or the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection determines
that the use of a holding tank is necessary to abate a nuisance or public
health hazard; or for use by an institutional, recreational or commercial
establishment with a sewage flow of 400 gallons per day or less; or for the
temporary installation when and Act 537 revision provides for replacement of
the temporary holding tank by adequate sewerage services in accordance with a
schedule approved by the township and the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection.
   (B)   It is hereby declared that the enactment of this subchapter is
necessary for the protection, benefit and preservation of the health, safety
and welfare of the residents of the township.
(Ord. 111, passed 4-14-1993)
§ 91.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOLDING TANK. A water-tight receptacle which receives and retains sewage and
is designed and constructed to facilitate ultimate disposal of the sewage at
another site. HOLDING TANKS include, but are not limited to, the following.
      (1)   CHEMICAL TOILET. A permanent or portable non-flushing toilet using
chemical treatment in the retaining tank for odor control.
      (2)   COMPOSTING TOILET. A device for holding and processing human and/or
organic kitchen waste employing the process of biological degradation through
the action of microorganisms to produce a stable, humous-like material.
      (3)   INCINERATING TOILET. A device capable of reducing waste materials
to ashes.
      (4)   RECYCLING TOILET. A device in which the flushing medium is restored
to a condition stable for re-use and flushing.
      (5)   RETENTION TANK. A holding tank where sewage is conveyed to it by a
water-carrying system.
      (6)   VAULT PIT PRIVY. A holding tank designed to receive sewage where
water under pressure is not available.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property within the township upon which there is, or
is to be, erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic habitation,
occupancy or use by human beings or animals and from which structure sewage
shall or may be discharged.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, or any property located in the township.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, association, corporation or
other group or entity.
   SEWAGE. Any substance that contains any of the waste products or excrement
or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals, and any noxious
or deleterious substance being harmful or inimical to the public health, or to
animal or aquatic life or to the use of water for domestic water supply or for
recreation.
   TEMPORARY HOLDING TANK. A holding tank installed pending installation of a
replacement system or public sewer facilities.
   TOWNSHIP. Bedminster Township, Bucks County, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 111, passed 4-14-1993)
§ 91.37 RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES GRANTED.
   The Township Supervisors, and their duly authorized agents, are authorized
and empowered to undertake within the township the control and methods of
holding tanks sewage disposal and the collection and transportation thereof.
(Ord. 111, passed 4-14-1993)
§ 91.38 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Supervisors are hereby authorized and empowered to adopt such rules and
regulations by resolution concerning sewage which they may deem necessary from
time to time to effect the purpose herein.
(Ord. 111, passed 4-14-1993)
§ 91.39 RULES AND REGULATIONS TO BE IN CONFORMITY WITH APPLICABLE LAW.
   All such rules and regulations adopted by the township shall be in
conformity with the provisions herein, all other ordinances of the township and
all applicable laws and regulations of administrative agencies of the
commonwealth.
(Ord. 111, passed 4-14-1993)
§ 91.40 EXCLUSIVENESS OF RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   The collection and transportation of all sewage from any holding tank
shall be performed under the directions and control of a hauler licensed by the
County Department of Health and/or Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection.
   (B)   The disposal thereof shall be made only at such site or sites as may
be approved by the County Department of Health and/or Pennsylvania Department
of Environmental Protection.
(Ord. 111, passed 4-14-1993)
§ 91.41 PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING HOLDING TANK PERMIT.
   Before a holding tank may be installed, the property owner shall:
   (A)   Obtain a permit for the holding tank from the County Department of
Health and/or Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection;
   (B)   File a copy of the County Department of Health permit, and plan with
the township;
   (C)   File with the township a copy of a written agreement between the
property owner, hauler and acceptor covering the periodic emptying of the tank;
   (D)   Submit such additional information on size, location, or otherwise as
the township may require in order to complete this review;
   (E)   Deposit and/or post the sum of money or security, in the form and/or
amount as provided by the rules and regulations promulgated for this
subchapter. These funds are to be held by the township and used only in the
event the township is required to perform any services, or pay for any
services, relative to the holding tank. The Board of Supervisors shall have the
right to claim the entire escrow deposit as reimbursement for township
expenses;
   (F)   Pay a fee to the township for the holding tank permit in accordance
with the appropriate resolution as adopted by the Board of Supervisors from
time to time;
   (G)   Execute an agreement to hold the township harmless in the event of a
claim against the township arising from the operation of the holding tank; and
   (H)   A permit issued under the terms of this agreement shall become null
and void if the holding tank installation has not been completed to the
satisfaction of the township within one year of the date of issuance.
(Ord. 111, passed 4-14-1993)
§ 91.42 DUTIES OF IMPROVED PROPERTY OWNER.
   The owner of a property that utilizes a holding tank shall:
   (A)   Maintain the holding tank in conformance with this subchapter or any
ordinance of the township, the provisions of any applicable law, and the rules
and regulations of the township and any administrative agency of the
commonwealth;
   (B)   Permit only persons authorized by the County Department of Health and/
or Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection to collect, transport
and dispose of the contents therein;
   (C)   Be responsible for the periodic cleaning or emptying of the holding
tank as well as the cost thereof; and
   (D)   Be responsible for the periodic testing of sewage when deemed
necessary by the township, as well as the cost thereof.
(Ord. 111, passed 4-14-1993)
§ 91.43 OBLIGATION.
   Any obligation or duty assumed by the township under this subchapter shall
be limited to holding tanks installed and used after the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 111, passed 4-14-1993)
§ 91.44 AVAILABILITY OF STORM SEWER.
   Whenever sanitary sewer service provided by the township or municipal
authority becomes available for use, the holding tank must be disconnected and
disposed of in accordance with applicable Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection regulations, and proper connection made to the
sanitary sewer within 90 days after notice to make connection.
(Ord. 111, passed 4-14-1993) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.45 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   In addition to any other remedies provided in this subchapter, any violation
of the subchapter shall constitute a nuisance and may be abated by the township
by either seeking appropriate equitable or legal relief from a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 111, passed 4-14-1993) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Any person, partnership or corporation engaged in the
construction of a sewage system or involved in the installation, operation and/
or maintenance of any or all components of a sewage system, shall implement
such activities consistent with the sewage management permit and §§
91.01 through
91.24. Any such activity conducted in violation of §§
91.01 through
91.24 or the sewage management permit is hereby declared a public nuisance.
         (b)   In the event of a violation, the Township Board of Supervisors
may institute suits, in equity or at law, to restrain, prevent or abate a
violation of §§
91.01 through
91.24. Such proceedings may be initiated before any court of competent
jurisdiction. The expense of such proceedings shall be recoverable from the
violator in any manner as may now or hereafter be provided by law.
      (2)   (a)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.24, or who shall fail to comply with any written notice from the township
which describes a condition of noncompliance, shall be guilty of a summary
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to a fine of not more
than $1,000 plus all legal costs including attorney fees. A new and separate
violation shall be deemed to be committed for each day such violation exists.
         (b)   In addition, the township may institute injunctive, mandamus or
any other appropriate action in law or equity for the enforcement of §§
91.01 through
91.24. Any court of competent jurisdiction shall have the right to issue
restraining orders, temporary or permanent injunctions, writs of mandamus,
fines or other appropriate forms of remedy or relief.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
91.35 through
91.45, shall, upon conviction before the Magisterial District Judge or other
court of competent jurisdiction and in accordance with the procedures set forth
in the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $1,000 per day during which such
violation shall continue, plus all court costs and reasonable attorney fees
incurred by the Township in enforcing the violation. Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense, and each provision violated
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 111, passed 4-14-1993; Ord. 207, passed 12-14-2011)
CHAPTER 92: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Rules and regulations
   
92.03   Exceptions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanical, electrical or electronic device which is
designed or used for the detection of an unauthorized entry into a building,
structure or facility, or for alerting others about the commission of an
unlawful act within a building, structure or facility, or for alerting others
about the existence of any other condition requiring response of police, fire
or ambulance personnel; and which emits and/or transmits an audible and/or
visual signal or message when actuated. ALARM SYSTEMS include, but not limited
to, direct-dial telephone devices, audible alarms and subscriber alarms.
   AUDIBLE ALARM. A device that emits an audible signal from the premises that
it is designed to protect.
   DIRECT-DIAL ALARM. A device that, when actuated, causes a recorded message
to be transmitted, via telephone, to any emergency service, including, but not
limited to, fire companies, ambulance, rescue squad and/or police departments
serving any township residence or business stating that emergency response is
necessary.
   EMERGENCY PHONE NUMBER. The primary phone number advertised to the public
for requesting emergency services.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm signal, necessitating response by the emergency agency
where an emergency situation does not exist. An alarm that has been activated
by an external source that is beyond the reasonable control of the subscriber
shall not be considered false.
   POLICE. Bedminster Township Police Department.
   TOWNSHIP. Bedminster Township.
(Ord. 99, passed 3-14-1990)
§ 92.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of all persons, entities, firms,
corporations or other groups that maintain alarm systems within the township,
to provide current information to the Police Department and emergency agency,
if other than police, consisting of the names and telephone numbers of
responsible persons who may be contacted in case of emergency, or who are
authorized to provide service to the alarm system; either must be available on
a 24-hour basis. This information is to be filed with the police when the alarm
system is initially placed into service, and must be updated immediately
whenever changes are necessary, or annually whichever is the lesser time. The
fee may be adjusted by the Board of Supervisors from time to time.
   (B)   Audible alarms must be silenced within 30 minutes after a designated
responsible person is notified to do so by the police or, the alarm system may
be equipped with a timing device that will automatically silence the audible
alarm within 30 minutes after it is actuated.
   (C)   The direct-dial alarms shall not be connected to the emergency agency
emergency phone number. A secondary phone number may be provided by the
responding agency for direct-dial alarms only. Direct-dial alarms must be
equipped with a device that will prevent more than three repeated transmissions
of an alarm for the same emergency.
   (D)   Prior to installation of any alarm to any approved agency other than
the Township Police Department, the owner shall provide the Police Department
with a letter signed by an authorized representative of the agency granting
permission for such installation.
   (E)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of all persons, entities, firms,
corporations installing such systems within the township to prevent the
transmission of false alarms through a program of training, and periodic
inspection and maintenance of the system. The maximum permissible number of
false alarms from any one location shall be as follows:
         (a)   Two false alarms in any 30-day period; or
         (b)   Four false alarms in any one-year period.
      (2)   False alarms in excess of these standards shall be considered to be
a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 99, passed 3-14-1990) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the general alerting
alarms that may be used by fire companies, ambulance squads or civil defense
agencies, to summon response of their members. The provisions of the chapter
shall not apply to alarm systems that are affixed to motor vehicles.
(Ord. 99, passed 3-14-1990)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any owner, lessee or user found guilty of violating this
chapter in a summary procedure before a Magisterial District Judge shall be
fined not less than $25 nor more than $300. Failure to comply with any notice
sent by the township within three days of receipt shall be deemed an offense.
   (B)   False alarm violation. Any owner, lessee or user found guilty of
misuse or continual false activation shall be liable for a fine of not less
than $50 nor more than $300 plus costs of prosecution for each and every
activation, to be collectible before any Magisterial District Judge as like
fines or penalties are now by law collectible; provided, it shall be the duty
of the police and/or the fire companies to investigate and file a report on
each false alarm. The police officer or fire official making the report shall
serve upon the violator, by first-class mail, a notice stating the time and
date of the violation. The notice shall contain instructions to the homeowner
that if he or she will report to the office of the Chief of Police and pay the
sum of $25 within 14 days after the notice, or if he or she will mail the sum
of $25 to the Chief of Police within 14 days, that act will save the violator
from prosecution and from payment of fine and cost prescribed in the first
sentence of this division (B). All sums collected in this manner shall be
delivered directly to the fire company which responded to the alarm or to the
township in the event the Police Department responded to the alarm. In the
event that a response has been provided by both a Fire Department and the
Township Police Department, and the homeowner submits a voluntary payment in
lieu of the fine stated in the first sentence of this division (B), the
voluntary payment shall be split equally between the Fire Department and the
township.
(Ord. 99, passed 3-14-1990)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
93.01   Adoption by reference
   
93.02   Scope
   
93.03   Administration and enforcement
   
93.04   Deletions, modifications and amendments
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   From and after March 13, 1978, the BOCA Basic Fire Prevention Code, Third
Edition, 1975, promulgated by the Building Officials and Code Administrators
International, Inc., copies of which are on file with the Township Secretary
for the Township of Bedminster, together with this chapter, shall comprise the
“Fire Prevention Code” of the township.
(Ord. 50, passed 4-12-1978)
§ 93.02 SCOPE.
   The purpose and intent of this Code is to prescribe minimum requirements and
controls to safeguard life, property and public welfare from the hazards of
fire and explosion arising from the storage, handling or use of substances,
materials or devices and from conditions hazardous to life, property or public
welfare in the use or occupancy of buildings, structures, sheds, tents, lots or
premises.
(Ord. 50, passed 4-12-1978)
§ 93.03 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The administration and enforcement of the Fire Prevention Code shall be the
duty of the Fire Marshal who is hereby authorized to take such action as may be
reasonably necessary to enforce the provisions hereof. The Board of Supervisors
of the township may appoint assistants or agents of the fire official as it may
deem necessary to carry out the provisions hereof. The fire official and his or
her assistants or agents shall, after proper identification, have the right to
enter premises for the purposes of inspection as may reasonably be necessary to
perform any duty imposed upon them by the Fire Prevention Code or to protect
public health.
(Ord. 50, passed 4-12-1978) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 DELETIONS, MODIFICATIONS AND AMENDMENTS.
   The BOCA Basic Fire Prevention Code, Third Edition, 1975, is hereby changed
and amended in the following respects.
   (A)   Section F100.1 is amended to read as follows: “These regulations as
set forth herein shall be known as the Fire Prevention Code of the Township of
Bedminster and is herein referred to as such or as “this Code”.”
   (B)   Section F102.1 is changed to read as follows: “Enforcement Officer: It
shall be the duty and responsibility of the fire official, or such officer as
shall be designated by the Board of Supervisors of the Township of Bedminster,
or his duly authorized representative, to enforce the provisions of the Fire
Prevention Code as herein set forth. Enforcement Officer of this Code is herein
referred to as the fire
official.”
   (C)   Section F104.1 is changed and in its entirety reads as follows:
“General: Any owner or person who is aggrieved with the ruling or decision of
the enforcement officer in any matter relative to the interpretation or
enforcement of any of the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code may appeal the
decision or interpretation.”
   (D)   Section F104.2 is added and reads as follows: “Filing: This appeal
must be filed with the Building Appeals Board, in writing, within ten days of
the date of the rendition of the decision or interpretation.”
   (E)   Section F104.3 is added and reads as follows: “Decision: The appeal
shall be decided by the following method of procedure: The municipality shall
appoint and establish a Building Appeals Board of three (3) persons who shall
have the duty, responsibility and authority to decide the matters referred to
them concerning this Code. The decision shall be subject to the appeal
provisions as established by the appropriate Courts of the Commonwealth.”
   (F)   Section F201.0 is changed and amended as follows:
      (1)   Building Code: Amended to read as follows: “The Building Code
lawfully adopted by the Township of Bedminster.”
      (2)   Building Official: Changed to read as follows: “The official,
designated by the Board of Supervisors of the Township of Bedminster, charged
with the administration and enforcement of the Building Code.”
      (3)   Fire Official: Changed to read as follows: “The official designated
by the Board of Supervisors of the Township of Bedminster, charged with the
administration and enforcement of the Fire Prevention Code.”
   (G)   Appendix D is amended as follows: “The Township of Bedminster” is
inserted into the preamble. “The Township of Bedminster” is inserted into
Section I after “by the” and before “by the control measures.” “Pennsylvania”
is inserted into Section VI after “State of.” Section XX is amended to read
“Passed this 8th day of March, 1978.”
(Ord. 50, passed 4-12-1978)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter and/or the Fire
Prevention Code adopted hereunder shall, upon conviction before the Magisterial
District Judge or other court of competent jurisdiction and in accordance with
the procedures set forth in the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53
P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $1,000 plus
the costs of prosecution, including, but not limited to, all court costs and
reasonable attorney fees incurred by the township in enforcing the violation.
Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense, and each
provision violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 50, passed 4-12-1978)
CHAPTER 94: WELLS
Section
Purpose, Jurisdiction, Definitions and Applicability
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Applicability
Well Drilling Permit
   
94.15   Applicability
   
94.16   Classification of wells
   
94.17   Permit application procedure
   
94.18   Well permit application requirements
   
94.19   Water testing requirements
   
94.20   Effective date of permit
   
94.21   List of parameters to be analyzed for Class I wells
Well Drilling Requirements
   
94.35   General drilling requirements for wells
   
94.36   Technical requirements
Well Depletion Agreement
   
94.50   Well depletion agreement
Sealing and Abandonment
   
94.65   Applicability
   
94.66   Notification
   
94.67   Procedure
 
   
94.99   Penalty
PURPOSE, JURISDICTION, DEFINITIONS AND APPLICABILITY
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that new wells constructed in the
township are able to provide a reliable, safe and adequate water supply to
support intended uses within the capacity of available groundwater resources.
Additionally, it is to ensure that new wells do not infringe upon the
performance of existing wells and to provide for the collection of accurate
groundwater information.
(Ord. 186, passed 1-9-2008)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AWWA. American Water Works Association.
   BCDH. Bucks County Department of Health.
   CAPACITY. The amount of water that can be withdrawn from the well either by
pumping or free flowing. CAPACITY does not mean the anticipated average
withdrawal rate of the well. The CAPACITY OF A WELL may vary seasonally and
diminish with time.
   COMMUNITY WELL. A well that serves two or more lots, buildings, dwelling
units and/or establishments, or serves an establishment requiring more than one
EDU of water.
   DRBC. The Delaware River Basin Commission.
   DRILL. All acts necessary for the construction of wells such as drilling,
boring, coring, washing, digging, driving or jetting.
   EDU. The acronym for EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT. A measurement of water
approximating the amount consumed by one dwelling unit in 24 hours and equaling
400 gpd.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   gpd. Gallons per day. The standard measurement of water usage.
   gpm. Gallons per minute. The standard measurement of water production.
   GROUNDWATER. Water that is underground, stored in pore spaces, crevices,
cracks along bedding planes, along joint surfaces in channels or artesian
basins, or other bodies of water in and under the ground.
   PaDEP or DEP. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
   PERSON. A corporation, partnership, firm, entity, municipal authority or
association, as well as a natural person.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Bedminster.
   USGS. The United States Geological Survey.
   WELL. Any excavation that is drilled, cored, washed, driven, dug or
otherwise constructed for the location, diversion, measurement or acquisition
of underground waters, or for the charging of waters into the underground
strata.
   WELL DRILLER. Any water well contractor, employee or representative in
charge of drilling or otherwise constructing a well.
(Ord. 186, passed 1-9-2008)
§ 94.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   No person within the township shall drill a well or withdraw
groundwater for any purpose by means of a well except as permitted by this
chapter and the regulations set forth herein.
   (B)   Any new well is subject to the provisions of this chapter and cannot
be drilled until a well drilling permit has been obtained from the township.
   (C)   A zoning permit for a new residential or nonresidential building,
structure or addition to a building that is to be served by a new well(s) shall
not be issued unless the new well has been drilled, tested and certified to be
in compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   The water resources impact study required herein or by other township
ordinances, rules and regulations shall be submitted with the preliminary plan
application for a subdivision and/or land development.
(Ord. 186, passed 1-9-2008) Penalty, see §
94.99
WELL DRILLING PERMIT
§ 94.15 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   A well drilling permit shall be required for any new well drilled or
existing well redrilled/deepened in the township after the effective date of
this chapter.
   (B)   Additionally, a well registration form must be completed for each well
drilled and returned to the township.
(Ord. 186, passed 1-9-2008)
§ 94.16 CLASSIFICATION OF WELLS.
   (A)   Well drilling permits are categorized based upon the type of well
proposed to be drilled, altered or used.
   (B)   There are three classes of wells that are defined as follows.
      (1)   CLASS I WELL. A well or wells serving up to three lots, dwelling
units, establishments, or uses, and where the expected withdrawal is shown to
be less than 1,000 gpd. The Township Code Enforcement Officer shall administer
and issue permits for Class I wells.
      (2)   CLASS II WELL. A well or well cluster serving four or more lots,
dwelling units, establishments or uses, or where the withdrawal, solely or in
the aggregate, is 1,000 gpd or more. Depending upon the number of lots, units,
establishments or uses served or groundwater withdrawn, the proposed well(s)
may also be subject to the Pennsylvania Safe Drinking Water Act, 35 P.S. §§
721.1 et seq., as a public water supply. It shall be the applicant’s
responsibility to obtain all required permits under this Act and submit them to
the township. A Class II well drilling permit shall be issued by the Code
Enforcement Officer after the drilling site is approved by the PaDEP/BCDH (if
required).
      (3)   CLASS III WELLS. A well or well cluster where the withdrawal is
greater than 10,000 gpd., solely or in the aggregate, and is subject to
approval by the DRBC and PaDEP. A Class III well drilling permit shall be
issued by the Code Enforcement Officer after sanitary approval by PaDEP/BCDH.
(Ord. 186, passed 1-9-2008)
§ 94.17 PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A well drilling permit from the township is required for the
construction of any new well. There are two phases involved in completing the
requirements of a well drilling permit. Phase I consists of drilling the well.
Phase II consists of the testing of the newly drilled well for quantity and
quality of water.
   (B)   A well drilling permit shall be required for any well drilled in the
township. An original of the application for a well drilling permit shall be
filed with the township along with payment of a permit fee in the amount
established by resolution of the Board of Supervisors. The applicant shall also
provide the township with a copy of the application to and the permit from the
county for the proposed well. While one stamped copy may be retained by the
applicant, the original application shall remain on file with the township. An
application for a well drilling permit shall be filed at least 14 days prior to
drilling the well.
   (C)   For a Class I well, the application for a well drilling permit shall
be made prior to or in conjunction with the filing of the zoning permit
application. Prior to the issuance of a zoning permit, the drilling of the well
and the testing of the water must be completed and the well must be in
compliance with the standards of this chapter.
   (D)   For a Class II or Class III well, the application for a well drilling
permit must be filed in order to conduct the water resources impact study
required to be submitted with the preliminary plan application for subdivision
or land development. Prior to the granting of preliminary plan approval, all
elements of the drilling and testing requirements must be satisfactorily
completed or made a condition of preliminary plan approval, and all of the
requirements of this chapter must be met. If no subdivision or land development
is proposed in conjunction with the drilling of the well, the drilling of the
well and the testing of the water must be completed and the well must meet the
requirements of this chapter, before a zoning permit is issued by the township.
   (E)   A well drilling permit is required to replace or increase the depth of
an existing domestic well that failed.
(Ord. 186, passed 1-9-2008)
§ 94.18 WELL PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following information shall be submitted with the well drilling
permit application for all classes of wells:
      (1)   Applicant’s name, address and telephone number;
      (2)   Location of proposed construction/development;
      (3)   A copy of the preliminary plan, if the well is being drilled in
conjunction with a proposed subdivision or land development, and/or a plot
plan. The submitted plan(s) shall provide, at a minimum, the following
information:
         (a)   Property lines;
         (b)   Location of proposed and existing buildings;
         (c)   Location of surrounding roads;
         (d)   Well location (the well must be field located and verified by
the township prior to drilling);
         (e)   Location of and distance from any on-lot or on-site wastewater
disposal facilities;
         (f)   Location of any septic or aerobic tanks, wastewater absorption
systems and/or sewer lines; and
         (g)   Separation distances referenced elsewhere in this chapter.
      (4)   Well driller’s name, address, telephone number, and state well
driller’s license number;
      (5)   A description of the construction/development proposed and the
projected water quantity requirements for the use(s) that the well will serve;
      (6)   A separate map showing the location of and information regarding
the production well and all monitoring well(s), if applicable;
      (7)   USGS vertical datum and north point;
      (8)   State plan coordinates system (Pennsylvania South) North American
1983 (NAD83) horizontal datum;
      (9)   Boundaries of the specified areas to be served;
      (10)   Topography of the drainage area and site including: wells,
springs, streams, dams and reservoirs; the location, dimensions and elevations
of structures and piping; and
      (11)   The location and logs of test borings and wells and the diameter
and depth of the well casing and liners, if applicable.
   (B)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing to the township
copies of all permit applications that are submitted to the DRBC and/or the
PaDEP, copies of all correspondence submitted to and received from the DRBC
and/or the PaDEP, and copies of any and all approved permits granted by the
DRBC and/or the PaDEP. All copies shall be provided to the township the same
day they are submitted to or received from the DRBC and/or the PaDEP. The
township reserves the right to require that all submittals to the above two
agencies take place through the township.
(Ord. 186, passed 1-9-2008)
§ 94.19 WATER TESTING REQUIREMENTS.
   After a well has been drilled under a well drilling permit, the quality of
the water shall be tested in accordance with the following.
   (A)   Class I wells - water quality report.
      (1)   Groundwater samples shall be analyzed, at a minimum, for the
parameters reported in Table 1. The township may require analysis for
additional parameters, if information available to the township indicates the
potential presence of additional contaminants. The analysis shall be performed
by a laboratory licensed by the commonwealth. The quality of the water from the
well shall be certified by a state-certified laboratory, stating that it meets
or exceeds state drinking water quality requirements, as adopted by the DEP.
      (2)   The groundwater sample to be analyzed by the laboratory shall be
collected no more than ten minutes prior to completion of the short-term
pumping test, or the well shall be pumped for a minimum of four hours and then
sampled.
      (3)   The township can require additional testing for any well located
within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of a property that contains, or did
contain, a business involving the use, production, processing, storage and/or
disposal of chemicals and/or petrochemicals, or has or had underground storage
tanks. This testing shall be conducted for compliance with the United States
Environmental Protection Agency’s Maximum Contaminant Levels and Secondary
Maximum Contamination Levels for Selected Constituents in Drinking Water, the
current edition.
      (4)   The following information shall be submitted with the water quality
report:
         (a)   The laboratory report outlining the results of the analysis;
         (b)   The name, license number and address of the laboratory;
         (c)   A copy of the report prepared by the well driller;
         (d)   Location of the well where the sample was collected;
         (e)   Name of the person collecting the sample;
         (f)   Time and date of sample collection;
         (g)   The pumping water level at the time of sampling;
         (h)   Elevation of the ground at the wellhead;
         (i)   Depth of the well;
         (j)   Drilling method;
         (k)   Type of casing and grouting used;
         (l)   Level and type of treatment required; and
         (m)   Type and quantity of storage provided (if applicable).
      (5)   If the drinking water standards reported in Table 1 are not met,
the water supply may be treated to lower the concentration of the contaminant
below the standard. The proposed treatment system shall be approved by the
township before it is installed. After approval and installation of the system,
a sample shall be collected as provided in division (A)(2) above and analyzed
by the same laboratory that did the previous analysis to verify that the
treated water meets drinking water standards. Additional treatment facilities
shall be installed until these standards are shown to be met. Any well that
does not meet these standards shall not be approved. The results of any and all
analyses shall be submitted to the township.
   (B)   Class II and Class III wells - water resources impact study. All
drilling and testing of a Class II or III well shall be performed in accordance
with the requirements of the DRBC and the DEP. These wells shall be sampled
following the procedures outlined in the township subdivision and land
development ordinance, and the groundwater samples analyzed for the parameters
contained therein.
(Ord. 186, passed 1-9-2008)
§ 94.20 EFFECTIVE DATE OF PERMIT.
   All well drilling permits issued by the township shall be in effect as of
the date of issuance, and shall remain in effect for a period of one year. In
the event drilling under the permit has not been completed within one year from
the date of issuance, the permit shall expire, the validity of the permit shall
cease and terminate, and all fees paid will be forfeited.
(Ord. 186, passed 1-9-2008)
§ 94.21 LIST OF PARAMETERS TO BE ANALYZED FOR CLASS I WELLS.
Table 1: List of Parameters to Be Analyzed for Class I Wells
Table 1: List of Parameters to Be Analyzed for Class I Wells
Primary Contaminants
Parameters                         Maximum Contaminant Level (mg/l)
Arsenic                            0.01
Lead                               0.005
Mercury                            0.002
Nitrate                            10
Nitrite                            1
Volatile organic compounds1 (VOCs, As applicable
including MTBE)
Secondary Contaminants
Parameters                         Secondary Maximum Contaminant Level (mg/l or
                                   as Noted)
Chloride                           250
Color                              15 (color units)
Copper                             1
Hardness4                          120—150
Iron                               0.3
Manganese                          0.05
Odor                               3 (threshold odor number)
pH2                                6.5—8.5 (units)
Radon                              2,000 (picocurie/l)
Sulfate                            250
Temperature3                       Measured in degrees Centigrade
Total dissolved solids             500
Turbidity5                         0.5 to 1 (NTU)
Microbiological Contaminants
Coliform bacteria                  0 col/100 ml
 
(Ord. 186, passed 1-9-2008)
WELL DRILLING REQUIREMENTS
§ 94.35 GENERAL DRILLING REQUIREMENTS FOR WELLS.
   (A)   (1)   All well drilling in the township shall be in accordance with
the standards set forth by the EPA Manual of Water Well Construction Practices
(EPA 570/9-75-001), PaDEP Water Supply Manual (latest revision) and AWWA
Standard for Water Wells (ANSI/AWWA A100-07).
      (2)   If there is a conflict between the above requirements and
requirements listed below, the more restrictive requirement shall be
applicable.
   (B)   The actual onsite work of drilling, constructing, altering or
repairing a well shall be under the supervision of a person in possession of a
valid well driller’s license issued pursuant to the laws of the commonwealth.
   (C)   During drilling and the construction of the well(s), the area
surrounding the wellhead(s) shall be maintained in a clean condition and
surface drainage including the water discharging from the well shall be
diverted away from the wellhead.
   (D)   During the drilling and construction of the well, erosion and
sedimentation control measures shall be implemented around the wellhead in
accordance with the requirements of the County Conservation District.
   (E)   When drilling or increasing the depth of a well, an accurate well
drilling log shall be maintained. This log shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Interval. The depth, in feet, below a datum level such as ground
level or top of casing through which the drill is advancing;
      (2)   Geologic description. A description of the rock type penetrated
through the particular interval. This description should include such things as
color, texture, thickness, rock type and geologic name, if known;
      (3)   Yield. The total yield of water at the depth drilled. In general,
the yield should increase with increasing depth;
      (4)   Water bearing zones. Openings in the bedrock that provide yields to
the well. The depth and yield of water bearing zones should be estimated with
methods acceptable to the township.
      (5)   Water quality. Any information concerning water quality; and
      (6)   Comments. Anything that the driller finds noteworthy: artesian
conditions; change in pressure; loss of fluid; and the like.
   (F)   Samples shall be collected a minimum of every five feet during
drilling, or at each change in rock type, if sooner. Each sample shall be
placed in a non-breakable container. The container, in a sturdy box, shall be
made available to the township.
   (G)   The drilling of a new community well shall be subject to the wellhead
protection regulations of the township zoning ordinance and the wellhead
protection zone delineation requirements of the township subdivision and land
development ordinance.
   (H)   After the drilling of the well, the well shall be properly developed
so as to obtain the best practical yield and quality. Testing of the well
should be conducted as outlined in the AWWA Standard A-100-84.
(Ord. 186, passed 1-9-2008)
§ 94.36 TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. For purposes of this section, wells are grouped into two
categories as follows:
      (1)   Small yield wells. Class I and Class II wells; and
      (2)   Large yield wells. Class III wells and/or wells that are proposed
for dedication to the township, (all of these wells will require a permit from
the DRBC and the PaDEP).
   (B)   Small yield wells.
      (1)   These wells shall be drilled with a six-inch diameter or larger to
a minimum depth of 300 feet in order to obtain the minimum yield indicated
below.
      (2)   During drilling of the well, the following shall be accomplished.
         (a)   Whenever a water-bearing zone is encountered, drilling shall be
stopped and the well developed by surging with air. Development of the well
shall be repeated after completion of drilling, by the same method, until the
water is clear.
         (b)   The well drilling log shall be submitted to the township
together with a map, where necessary, at a scale of one inch equals 400 feet
showing the location of the well. The log should include the name, address,
phone number and seal or license number of the professional geologist or well
driller who prepared the log and should bear his or her signature.
   (C)   Large yield wells. Upon satisfactory completion of the test wells,
these wells shall be constructed with a ten-inch diameter or larger to a
minimum depth of 400 feet.
   (D)   Well yield.
      (1)   Class I wells.
         (a)   Class I wells shall have a minimum yield of six gpm of which
four gpm can be obtained from storage in the well. A minimum of two gpm,
however, must be obtained from aquifer contribution. For this contribution,
only yield from water-bearing zones located at a depth of 150 feet or greater
shall be considered. That is, contribution from water-bearing zones encountered
above 150 feet will not be included in the computation.
         (b)   The township, at its sole discretion, may waive both the yield
and depth requirements provided above in divisions (B)(1) and (D)(1)(a) above
upon certification by a professional geologist experienced in the practice of
hydrogeology, that the well can meet, on a long-term basis, the water supply
needs of the project.
         (c)   In no case shall a well yielding less than one gpm be certified
for any use.
         (d)   For a Class I Well to be certified for any use other than a
single-family dwelling, a water quantity report shall be submitted by a
hydrogeologist stating the yield and storage requirements for the proposed use
and indicating how the well shall meet these requirements.
      (2)   Class II and III wells. The yield requirements for Class II and
Class III wells shall be determined in accordance with the procedures outlined
in the township subdivision and land development ordinance.
   (E)   Casing.
      (1)   Small yield wells shall be constructed with a water-tight, one-
quarter inch thick welded steel pipe casing (steel with a weight of 18.97 lbs.
per linear foot). Pipe shall be in accordance with AWWA Standard C200. The
minimum length of casing shall be 40 feet or ten feet into bedrock, whichever
is greater. All joints between sections of the casing shall be made by
continuous welding in accordance with AWWA Standard C206. Where a pump section
or discharge pipes enter or leave a well through the side of the casing, the
circle of contact shall be water-tight. All casing shall be extended at least
18 inches above final grade or 12 inches above the basement floor.
      (2)   (a)   Large yield wells shall be double-cased. The outer casing
(14-inch diameter or larger) shall extend to a depth of between 15 and 20 feet
below the surface of the ground, depending on site-specific conditions, and
shall be made of steel. The ten-inch diameter or larger inner steel casing
shall extend a minimum of 50 feet below the surface of the ground or a minimum
of ten feet into competent bedrock, whichever is greater. All joints between
sections of this casing shall be made by continuous welding in accordance with
AWWA Standard C206.
         (b)   The wall thickness of the casing shall be as follows:
 
Casing Diameter Wall Thickness (Inches)
10 inches       0.279
12 inches       0.330
14 inches       0.375
16 inches       0.375
 
         (c)   Where a pump section or discharge pipes enter or leave a well
through the side of the casing, the circle of contact shall be water-tight. The
outer casing shall extend a minimum of 12 inches and the inner casing a minimum
of 18 inches above the surface of the ground.
      (3)   Upon completion of drilling and construction, the well shall be
capped and the cap tightly secured to the casing to minimize vandalism and to
avoid the entrance of potential contaminants. In addition to the casing being
capped, any open space shall be covered until the well has been grouted and the
pump installed. The cap should be either threaded onto the casing or be a
friction type device which locks onto the outside of the casing.
      (4)   The diameter of the borehole to be cased shall be a minimum of four
inches larger than the diameter of the casing.
      (5)   All wells shall be cased to protect against contamination. Water
bearing formations that are known to be contaminated or those identified as
being in danger of contamination shall be sealed off with casing and grout.
Sealing shall be accomplished by a method approved by the DEP.
      (6)   Unconsolidated or carbonate water bearing formations will require
special consideration.
   (F)   Grouting.
      (1)   The annulus or space between the overburden and the bedrock and the
casing or, in the case of wells that are double-cased, the spaces between the
bedrock, the outer casing and the inner casing shall be filled with neat cement
or a mixture of neat cement and not more than 5% bentonite to a distance of at
least six feet below the ground surface. Grouting used shall be in accordance
with AWWA Standard A100.
      (2)   Grout shall be applied by means of a pump and tremie pipe starting
from the bottom up in a continuous operation in order to form a water-tight
seal. Proper placement of the grout requires that the diameter of the borehole
to be cased be a minimum of four inches larger than the diameter of the casing.
      (3)   After placement, the grout shall be allowed to harden for 12 hours
with the use of Type III (high early strength) cement, before drilling of the
well can continue. If Type I cement is used, it shall be allowed to harden for
24 hours.
      (4)   The township shall be provided 48 hours advance notice of intent to
grout the well and the grouting operation shall not be conducted until a
representative of the township is present at the site to observe it.
   (G)   Wellhead construction.
      (1)   The wellhead shall be constructed so as to ensure the maximum
protection of the well and to exclude entry of any contaminant.
      (2)   The space between the pump column and the casing of each well shall
be provided with a vent which shall be protected with an elbow facing downward
or mushroom type head located at least 18 inches above flood levels. All vents
shall be screened to prevent the entry of insects.
      (3)   Wells shall be properly capped to prevent the entry of
contamination until the pump is installed.
   (H)   Pitless adapter. All wells in the township shall be constructed with
pitless adapter. All pitless adapters shall conform to the standards set forth
by the DEP.
   (I)   Minimum separation distances.
      (1)   All wells must maintain the following minimum distances from the
outer boundary of the following known points or sources of pollution:
 
Source of Contamination            Separation Distance (Feet)
Cesspools                          100
Septic tanks                       50
Sewage disposal field              100
Sewer lines                        50
Spray irrigation fields - boundary 100
 
      (2)   Additionally, if a potential source of contamination is suspected
to exist within 100 feet of the proposed well, a hydrogeologic investigation
shall be implemented, which, at a minimum, shall attempt to identify and locate
the potential source of contamination, and shall include description of the
geology, depth to groundwater, direction of groundwater flow and potential
impact to the quality of the groundwater near the well. The investigation shall
be conducted by a qualified professional geologist.
      (3)   Some Class II wells and Class III wells, in addition to the above,
shall require sanitary approval from the PaDEP and/or BCDH before the township
will issue a drilling permit.
   (J)   Disinfection of wells.
      (1)   After the drilling of the well has been completed or after the
temporary pump for the implementation of the required pumping test has been
installed but before conducting the pumping test, the well shall be
disinfected. Disinfection shall be accomplished following the procedure
outlined in the EPA Manual of Water Well Construction.
      (2)   In addition, disinfection of a well is required when one of the
following conditions occurs:
         (a)   After installation of the permanent pumping equipment and before
the well is put into service;
         (b)   When a well, pumping equipment or distribution system line is
repaired or upgraded, or whenever work is done on the well, including the pump
equipment, discharge lines and electric cables;
         (c)   If the existing well has been temporarily flooded or subjected
to other possible contamination; or
         (d)   Upon receipt of laboratory report indicating the presence of
bacteriological contamination.
      (3)   Materials needed to accomplish disinfection: chlorine liberating
compounds are sold at grocery, hardware and swimming pool supply stores under
various names. A partial list of representative compounds and the approximate
percent of available chlorine contained in each are as follows. (Note: always
check the container label for the correct percentage of available chlorine
contained in the specific product and correct dosages accordingly.)
         (a)   Liquid form. Sodium hypochlorite (household bleach), generally
sold with 5.25% available chlorine (generic brands may contain less available
chlorine); and
         (b)   Granular form.
            1.   Calcium hypochlorite: 65% available chlorine; and
            2.   Industrial sodium hypochlorite: 10% to 15% available chlorine.
      (4)   Disinfection procedure: the following step must be followed.
         (a)   Remove any covering over the well casing to gain access to the
water source;
         (b)   1.   If the liquid form of chlorine compound is used
(approximately 5.25% available chlorine), mix a total of about two quarts with
eight gallons of water. If the granular form of chlorine is used (approximately
65% available chlorine), mix a total of ten tablespoons (approximately five
ounces) with eight gallons of water.
            2.   The process of mixing the chlorine with eight gallons of water
is necessary for the following reasons:
               a.   To disperse the disinfectant as evenly as possible
throughout the water supply;
               b.   To prevent a concentrated solution of chlorine from
corroding the pump and other metal parts; and
               c.   To add sufficient weight so the disinfectant is forced into
the surrounding water bearing formation and aquifer.
         (c)   The amount of chlorine that is listed in division (J)(4)(b)2.
above will disinfect approximately 100 to 150 feet of water in a six-inch
diameter cased well;
         (d)   A garden hose should be connected to a faucet (preferably an
outside faucet) with an adjustable nozzle attached to the end of the hose. The
chlorine compounds, buckets, a stirring device and the hose end should be at
the well location;
         (e)   Mix the proper amount of chlorine compound in the bucket of
water and pour the solution into the well. This procedure should be done in a
circular motion so as to wash down the inside of the casing with the chlorine
solution. Repeat with the remaining buckets of water;
         (f)   Spray water against the inside of the casing. When the odor of
chlorine is detected in the water coming from the hose nozzle, lower the hose
slowly down the well casing as far as possible. Wash down the casing several
times with the chlorinated water by raising and lowering the hose. If it is
difficult to distinguish the odor of chlorine at the nozzle, try to detect the
odor at a faucet;
         (g)   The chlorinated water must be drawn to all fixtures served by
the well by opening the fixture valve and operating the pump until the smell of
chlorine is evident at each fixture. This includes both hot and cold water
faucets. When the chlorine smell is detected, close all fixture valves. This
will insure that all piping will be properly disinfected;
         (h)   Allow the chlorine to remain in the entire water supply at least
eight hours. After disinfection, pump the well thoroughly by opening some
fixture valves until the odor of chlorine can no longer be detected in the
water being discharged;
         (i)   A water sample for bacteriological analysis should be collected
approximately five to seven days after disinfection to be certain the water has
no continuing contamination and is safe to drink. Sampling must be conducted
after several days since samples collected immediately after disinfection may
not be representative of the water normally used; and
         (j)   If the bacterial sample taken from the well in division (J)(4)
(i) above is reported unsafe, repeat the steps in divisions (J)(4)(a) through
(J)(4)(i) above a second time.
   (K)   Pumping tests.
      (1)   Class I wells.
         (a)   A short-term pumping test is required for all Class I wells
constructed in the township. The pumping phase of the test shall last a minimum
of four hours and will be followed by the recovery phase. Water level
measurements during the recovery phase shall be taken until the well has
achieved 95% recovery. The test shall be conducted at a rate of not less than
150% of the intended long-term withdrawal from the well and at a constant
pumping rate that should not deviate greater than +/- 5% during the test.
         (b)   The pumping test shall be conducted in accordance with one of
the following procedures:
            1.   Two part pumping test for evaluating the water-supply
capabilities of domestic wells, New Jersey Geological Survey, Groundwater
Report Series No. 1, by Jeffrey L. Hoffman and Robert Canace (1986); and
            2.   Standards of professional hydrogeologic practice: in this
case, a proposal outlining the procedure to be used during the pumping test
shall be submitted to the township for review and approval, and the test shall
not be implemented until approval is issued.
         (c)   The water level data collected during the pumping test and
analysis thereof shall be included in a report of findings, and this report
must be submitted to the township before a zoning permit will be issued. This
report shall be compiled in typewritten form and include the following
information:
            1.   Name of driller and personnel conducting test;
            2.   Description of test well to include horizontal and vertical
dimensions, casing installed and grouting details;
            3.   List of formation samples;
            4.   Static water level immediately prior to yield testing;
            5.   Hydrograph of depth to water surface during test pumping and
recovery period at the test well showing corresponding pump and discharge rate
in gallons per minute and time readings were taken;
            6.   Log of depth to water surface at existing and monitoring wells
during test pumping period showing time readings were taken; and
            7.   Results from laboratory testing of the water samples taken
during the pump test.
         (d)   Pumping tests for individual on-lot residential wells can be
completed by the driller. For all other Class I wells, the pumping test must be
completed and the report prepared by a professional geologist. The township
shall be notified 48 hours prior to the test so that a representative may be
present during implementation.
         (e)   A minimum of one water sample shall be collected to test the
water for primary and secondary contaminants listed in Table 1 above.
         (f)   A minimum of one water sample shall be collected during the
pumping test for analysis of coliform bacteria. The sample shall be collected
ten minutes prior to the end of the test. A second sample shall be collected
and analyzed for coliform bacteria no more than 30 days prior to the issuance
of a certificate of occupancy.
         (g)   A means of accurately measuring the well discharge shall be
provided, subject to approval by the township, and this well discharge shall be
directed away from the site by a method suitable to the township to a point
suitable to the township.
      (2)   Class II and Class III wells.
         (a)   All Class II and Class III wells shall be subjected to a long-
term pumping test in accordance with the requirements and procedures set forth
in the township subdivision and land development ordinance.
         (b)   For subdivisions proposing four or more lots served by
individual on-lot wells, a minimum of one well for each 15 lots or fraction
thereof shall be drilled and tested in accordance with long-term pumping test
requirements set forth in the township subdivision and land development
ordinance. All other lots shall have individual wells drilled and tested prior
to issuance of a building permit.
         (c)   The township shall be provided a minimum of 72 hours’ advance
notice of the time and date for the implementation of the long-term pumping
test, and the test shall not commence until a representative of the township is
present.
   (L)   Monitoring wells. The applicant for a Class II or Class III well
drilling permit shall be required to install monitoring wells to determine the
impact of the proposed well(s) on existing wells. A minimum of two monitoring
wells shall be installed for each required pumping test.
      (1)   The monitoring wells can be either existing wells or newly drilled
wells. The existing wells shall constitute a representative sample of wells,
evenly spaced around the pumping well.
      (2)   Each monitoring well shall be observed for changes in water level.
Sufficient well monitoring shall be performed to allow for the construction of
hydrographs showing a continuous record of well levels before, during, and
after the pumping test.
      (3)   All newly drilled monitoring wells shall be constructed in
accordance with the following criteria:
         (a)   The well shall be drilled to a minimum depth of 300 feet;
         (b)   The well shall have a minimum diameter of six inches;
         (c)   Casing material, as specified by the township, shall be placed
to a minimum depth of 40 feet. Additional casing shall be installed to prevent
collapse if the weathered zone is deeper than 40 feet;
         (d)   The well shall be equipped with a weather resistant locking cap;
and
         (e)   The applicant shall obtain a well drilling permit from the
township prior to drilling the well.
      (4)   All monitoring wells shall be operated in accordance with the
following criteria:
         (a)   The township shall be permitted to monitor the well on a monthly
basis, or more often, if necessary, to obtain water level measurements and pump
the well to obtain samples of the water for laboratory analysis;
         (b)   The well shall be equipped with a continuous record water level
recorder;
         (c)   The well shall be completed, including installation of the level
recorder, and monitoring water levels prior to any removal of water from the
site for testing or consumption;
         (d)   State plane coordinates shall be provided to establish the
location of the well;
         (e)   The elevation of the ground adjacent to the well, in addition to
the static water level, shall be based on USGS datum;
         (f)   The well shall be located close enough to the pumping well(s) so
that sufficient drawdown is created in this monitoring well during the pump
test so that storage capacity can be calculated; and
         (g)   The township shall approve the location of the well.
(Ord. 186, passed 1-9-2008)
WELL DEPLETION AGREEMENT
§ 94.50 WELL DEPLETION AGREEMENT.
   (A)   An applicant seeking approval of a well drilling permit for a Class II
or Class III well shall be required to enter into a well depletion agreement
with the township.
   (B)   The well depletion agreement provides recourse for the owners of
existing wells in the vicinity of the development, if the new well(s) has an
adverse impact on the quantity or quality of water withdrawn from their well.
      (1)   The well depletion agreement shall apply to all existing wells that
are depleted or affected to such an extent that the well’s water supply is no
longer adequate or acceptable for its owners’ needs. Unless it can be shown
that such depletion and/or effects are not caused by the well(s) servicing the
applicant’s property/development, then the applicant is responsible to restore
an adequate and acceptable supply.
         (a)   An inadequate water supply occurs when a well no longer yields
the amount of water required for that class of well under the provisions of
this chapter.
         (b)   Possible negative effects to a well’s water supply include, but
are not limited to, loss of potability, turbidity, repugnant odor and/or foul
taste.
      (2)   Where the applicant’s well(s) have depleted and/or negatively
affected a neighboring well, the applicant shall either deepen the depleted/
affected well, drill a new well or connect the affected property to a public
water supply. Determination of which corrective measure shall be taken will be
at the sole discretion and direction of the township, and the measure taken
must provide an adequate supply of potable water as defined by PaDEP to the
effected property owner.
      (3)   The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that the applicant’s
well(s) is (are) not responsible for the depletion of and/or negative effects
to a neighboring well.
      (4)   Any expense associated with providing the effected property owner
with a potable water supply shall be borne by the applicant and approved by the
township.
      (5)   The well depletion agreement shall remain in full force and effect
for ten years following the issuance of a use and occupancy permit for the last
dwelling to be constructed as part of a residential development or ten years
after peak usage is reached for a nonresidential development.
      (6)   In lieu of executing a well depletion agreement, the township may
allow a contribution to the Well Depletion Fund. The fee is assessed on a per
dwelling or EDU basis. The fee shall be established by a separate resolution of
the Board of Supervisors. The Well Depletion Fund shall be used by the township
to replace wells or extend public water to existing dwellings at the township’s
sole discretion.
(Ord. 186, passed 1-9-2008) Penalty, see §
94.99
SEALING AND ABANDONMENT
§ 94.65 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   All wells no longer proposed for use shall be sealed upon abandonment.
   (B)   Sealing and abandonment shall comply with the requirements of the BCDH
and PaDEP Water Well Abandonment Guidelines or shall follow the procedure
outlined below, whichever is more stringent.
(Ord. 186, passed 1-9-2008) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.66 NOTIFICATION.
   Upon deciding to abandon a well, the owner shall notify the township in
writing of this decision a minimum of ten days prior to abandonment and sealing
of any well.
(Ord. 186, passed 1-9-2008)
§ 94.67 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Unless the township desires to acquire the well, all wells, test
wells, monitoring wells, uncompleted wells and completed wells that are to be
abandoned shall be effectively sealed in accordance with the following
procedures.
   (B)   The guide to be followed in the sealing of abandoned wells is the
restoration, as far as feasible, of the controlling geographical conditions
that existed prior to the well being drilled or constructed.
      (1)   The Water Well Abandonment Guidelines as published by the PaDEP in
February 1995, or as revised, shall be followed for all well abandonment.
      (2)   Any and all equipment present in the well shall be removed.
      (3)   The well shall be probed for depth and the presence of any
obstruction which could interfere with the sealing operation. Prior to sealing
the well, measurements shall be taken to obtain the static water level.
      (4)   If possible, the casing shall be pulled from the well to ensure
placement of an effective seal. Otherwise the casing shall be perforated and
cut to approximately two feet below the surface of the ground to ensure proper
sealing.
      (5)   The borehole shall be filled with cement grout or bentonite. The
grout material shall be placed starting at the bottom of the well and moving
slowly upward by such methods that will assure the integrity of the sealing
material.
      (6)   Accurate record of the entire abandonment and sealing procedure
shall be kept to demonstrate that the well has been properly sealed. The person
responsible for sealing the well shall submit a written report to the township
containing this record. This report shall indicate the location of the well,
depth of the well, ground elevation at the well, the static water level, the
depth of each layer of all sealing and backfilling materials, and amount of
material used to seal the well.
      (7)   Hand dug wells shall be filled with clean stone and capped with 15
inches of concrete. All of the other abandonment procedures shall be followed.
(Ord. 186, passed 1-9-2008) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to the following.
   (A)   Preventative remedies. The township may institute and maintain an
appropriate action by law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate
violations; to prevent unlawful drilling; to recover damages; and to prevent
illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises. In addition to these
and other remedies, the township may:
      (1)   Refuse to issue any permit or grant any approval necessary to
further improve or develop any real property which has been developed or
improved in violation of this chapter. This authority to deny such a permit or
approval shall apply to any of the following persons:
         (a)   The owner of record at the time of such violation;
         (b)   The vendee or lessee of the owner of record at the time of such
violation without regard as to whether such vendee or lessee had actual or
constructive knowledge of the violation;
         (c)   The current owner of record who acquired the property subsequent
to the time of violation without regard as to whether such current owner had
actual or constructive knowledge of the violations;
         (d)   The vendee or lessee of the current owner of record who acquired
the property subsequent to the time of violation without regard as to whether
such vendee or lessee had actual or constructive knowledge of the violation;
and
         (e) An equitable owner who has an agreement to purchase the property
from a person falling under one of the previous four categories.
      (2)   Require compliance with the conditions that would have been
applicable to the property at the time the applicant acquired an interest in
such property as an additional condition for issuance of a well drilling
permit.
   (B)   Enforcement remedies. Any person who has violated the provisions of
this chapter, upon being found liable therefor in a civil enforcement
proceeding commenced by the township shall pay a judgment of $1,000 per well
plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney fees incurred by the
township as a result thereof. The township may enforce the judgment pursuant to
applicable rules of civil procedure.
   (C)   Period to comply. Upon discovery of any violation of this chapter, the
township may, at its option, forego any prosecution hereunder, and may grant to
the owner a period of 30 days to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
Upon failure of the owner to effect such compliance, the township may initiate
prosecution as hereinabove set forth.
   (D)   Continuing violation. For the purpose of this chapter, each day of a
continuing violation shall be considered a new and additional violation of this
chapter.
   (E)   Only township to take enforcement action. Nothing contained in this
section shall be construed or interpreted to grant to any person other than the
township the right to commence any enforcement action pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 186, passed 1-9-2008)
CHAPTER 95: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Codes Adopted
   
95.01   Pennsylvania Construction Code Act
   
95.02   Uniform Construction Code
   
95.03   National Electrical Code
   
95.04   BOCA Basic National Plumbing Code
   
95.05   BOCA Basic National Building Code
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PENNSYLVANIA CONSTRUCTION CODE ACT.
   The township hereby elects to administrator and enforce the provisions of
the Pennsylvania Construction Code Act, Act 45 of 1999, 35 P.S. §§ 7210.101
through 7210.1103, as amended from time to time, and its regulations.
(Ord. 155, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 95.02 UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE.
   (A)   Adoption of the Building Code. The Uniform Construction Code,
contained within 34 Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405, as amended from time to
time, is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference as the municipal
building code for the township.
   (B)   Administration and enforcement provisions. Administration and
enforcement of the Code within the township shall be undertaken, as determined
by the Board of Supervisors for the township, in accordance with the
regulations of the Pennsylvania Construction Code Act.
   (C)   Existing ordinances.
      (1)   All ordinances and/or resolutions or parts thereof which have
previously been adopted by the township on or before July 1, 1999, and which
are equal to or exceed the requirements of the Code shall remain in full force
and effect until such time as the provisions of these ordinances fail to equal
or exceed the minimum requirements of the Code, as amended from time to time.
      (2)   These ordinance provisions, which are hereby saved from repeal
include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Ord. 84, enacted May 11, 1988, which adopted the BOCA National
Building Code, the CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code; and
         (b)   Ord. 85, enacted May 11, 1988, which adopted the BOCA National
Plumbing Code, specifically:
            1.   Section P308.3 which required water and sewer piping to be
installed three feet below grade;
            2.   Table P404.2.3 which deleted bituminized fiber pipe from the
list of acceptable sewer pipe materials;
            3.   Section P501.8.4 which prohibited solder joints on underground
water pipes;
            4.   Section P601.6 which required that any portion of the drainage
system installed underground or below a basement must be at least three inches
in diameter; and
            5.   Section P701.1.6 which prohibited the discharge of water from
swimming or wading pools.
      (3)   All ordinances and/or resolutions or parts thereof which have
previously been adopted by the township that are in effect as of the effective
date of this section and whose requirements are less than the minimum
requirements of the Code are hereby amended to conform with the comparable
provisions of the Code.
      (4)   All other ordinances, resolutions, regulations and policies of the
township not governed by the Code shall remain if full force and effect.
   (D)   Changes to the Code. This Code may be changed and/or modified, by the
governing body of the township, in accordance with the Pennsylvania
Construction Code Act, Act 45 of 1999, 35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 through 7210.1103, §
503.
   (E)   Fee schedule. A fee schedule assessable by the township for the
administration and enforcement undertaken pursuant to this section and the Code
shall be established by the governing body of the township by resolution from
time to time.
   (F)   Changes to the amendable sections of the labor and industry
regulations. In accordance with 34 Pa. Code Part XIV, Chapter 403, § 403.102
(1), the following regulations set forth in the Pennsylvania Code are amended
as set forth below:
      (1)   Section 403.43(g). Delete the words “5 years” and replace with the
words “1 year.”
      (2)   Section 403.43(h). The permit holder shall keep a copy of the
permit on the work site until the completion of the construction or the
issuance of a Use and Occupancy Permit, which ever comes later.
      (3)   Section 403.62.(c).(1).(xvii). Section 403.62.(c).(1).(xvii) is
deleted in its entirety.
      (4)   Section 403.64.(d). Delete numbers 1 through 4 and replace with the
following;
         (a)   Foundation inspection;
         (b)   Wall form inspection;
         (c)   Backfill inspection;
         (d)   Slab inspection;
         (e)   Plumbing, mechanical and electrical system inspection;
         (f)   Frame and masonry inspection;
         (g)   Wallboard inspection; and
         (h)   Insulation inspection.
      (5)   34 Pa. Code § 403.82. 34 Pa. Code § 403.82 is hereby amended to
read as follows:
   A building code official shall follow the following procedures if an
inspection of an occupied building reveals a violation of the Uniform
Construction Code:
      1.   A construction code official shall discuss the inspection results
with the permit holder at the completion of the inspection.
      2.   The building code official may issue a written notice of violations
to the permit holder. The notice is to contain a description of the violations
and an order requiring correction of the violations within a reasonable period
determined by the building code official. When a violation relates to an unsafe
building, structure or equipment, a building code official shall act in
accordance with § 403.84 (relating to unsafe building, structure or equipment).
      3.   After the compliance date contained in the order, the building code
official shall inspect the building, structure or equipment to determine
whether the violation was corrected. The building code official shall close the
order if the violation was corrected. The building code official may issue an
order to show cause under § 403.83 (relating to order to show cause/order to
vacate) to the owner for a violation that was not corrected.
(Ord. 155, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 95.03 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   Adoption by reference. The National Electrical Code, latest edition
and the Electrical Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings, NFPA 70-A published
by the National Fire Protection Association, Batterymarch Park, Quincy,
Massachusetts, 02269 is adopted as the electrical code of the township,
pursuant to the provisions of § 702, Clause LI of the Pennsylvania Second Class
Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., Act of May 24, 1933, P.L. 103, as
amended, 53 P.S. § 65751.
   (B)   Interpretation. The provisions of this section shall be held to be the
minimum requirements for the promotion of the health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the township. Where the provisions of this section impose greater
restrictions than those of any other ordinance, law or regulation of the
township, county or the commonwealth, the provisions of this section shall be
controlling. Where the provisions of such other ordinances, laws or regulations
impose a greater restriction than this section, the provisions of such other
ordinance, laws or regulations shall be controlling.
   (C)   Scope. This section covers installations of electrical conductors and
equipment within or on public and private buildings or other structures,
including mobile homes, recreational vehicles and other premises such as yards,
parking lots, other types of lots and industrial substations in the township.
   (D)   Exclusions. Exempted from the provisions of this section shall be any
electrical installation on buildings that do not require a building permit.
   (E)   Fee. The fee for any electrical inspection is included in the building
permit fee. The building permit fee is a part of Ord. 50, as codified in
Chapter 93 of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   Inspection requirements. This section requires two underwriter
inspections for all new construction. The first inspection is the initial new
service installation. This inspection is also required by Philadelphia Electric
Company. The second inspection is the completed rough wiring. The rough wiring
inspection is also required of new additions to existing structures. All wiring
inspection is to be completed by an underwriter inspection service acceptable
to the township.
   (G)   Penalty. Whenever any such person specified in the division (F) above
who violates this section or the Building Code will be issued a cease and
desist form by the Building Inspector. The cease and desist form will list the
violations and correction of the violation shall commence within five days
after notice and correct all violations within 30 days of notice. If
corrections are not commenced within five days or completed within 30 days,
each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate offense
punishable by the like fine or penalty, and additional written notice shall not
be necessary.
(Ord. 88, passed 5-11-1988) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 BOCA BASIC NATIONAL PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption by reference. The BOCA Basic National Plumbing Code, latest
edition and latest Accumulative Supplement as published by the Building
Officials and Code Administrators International, Inc., one copy of which is on
file with the township or the Building Inspector together with this section,
shall comprise the Plumbing Code of the township.
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this Plumbing Code shall apply to and govern
plumbing as defined in this BOCA Plumbing Code, including the practice,
materials and fixtures used in the installation, maintenance, extension and
alteration of all piping, fixtures, appliances and appurtenances in connection
with any of the following: sanitary drainage or storm drainage facilities,
reventing system and the public or private water supply systems, within or
adjacent to any building or other structure, or conveyance; also, the practice
and materials used in the installation, maintenance, extension or alteration of
the stormwater or sewage system of any premises to their connection within any
point of public disposal or other terminal.
   (C)   Modifications. The following modifications to the BOCA Basic Plumbing
Code, latest edition, supersede any reference to similar requirements in the
Code.
      (1)   Effective date. This Code shall take effect on May 15, 1988.
      (2)   Fees. Plumbing fees are a part of the fee schedule for building
permits as attached to Ord. 47, revised.
      (3)   Administrative authority. The official, designated by the Board of
Supervisors of the Township of Bedminster, charged with the administration and
enforcement of the Plumbing Code.
      (4)   Department having jurisdiction. Changed to read as follows: “The
Official, designated by the Board of Supervisors of the Township of Bedminster,
charged with the administration and enforcement of the BOCA Basic Plumbing
Code.”
      (5)   Public official. Amended to read as follows: “The official,
designated by the Board of Supervisors of the Township of Bedminster, charged
with the administration and enforcement of the BOCA Basic Plumbing Code.”
      (6)   Section P308.3. Section P308.3, Freezing, shall have the following
depths inserted: “Water service piping and sewer shall be installed below
recorded frost penetration but not less than 3 feet below grade for water
piping and 3 feet below grade for sewers unless the administrative authority
having jurisdiction specifically approves a lesser depth. Plumbing piping in
exterior building walls shall be adequately protected against freezing by
insulation or heat or both. Water distribution or drainage piping shall not run
exposed on exterior buildings walls.”
      (7)   Table P404.2.3. Table P404.2.3 is amended by deleting from the list
of acceptable sewer pipe materials the words “bituminized fiber pipe.”
      (8)   Section P501.8.4. Section P501.8.4 is amended by adding the
following to the end of the section: “. . .except that solder joints on
underground water pipe are prohibited.”
      (9)   Section P501.8.4. Section P501.8.4 is amended to change that part
that reads “use of compression gasket that is” to be “use of a compression
gasket with scalor lubricant that is.”
      (10)   Section P601.6. Section P601.6 is changed to read as follows: “Any
portion of the drainage system installed underground or below a basement or
cellar shall not be less than a three-inch diameter.”
(Ord. 87, passed 5-5-1988)
§ 95.05 BOCA BASIC NATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption by reference. The BOCA Basic National Building Code, latest
edition and latest Accumulative Supplement published by the Building Officials
and Code Administrators International, Inc. and the CABO One- and Two-Family
Dwelling Code, latest edition published by the Council of American Building
Officials are hereby adopted as the building code of the township, pursuant to
the provisions of § 702, Clause LI of the Pennsylvania Second Class Township
Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., Act of May 24, 1933, P.L. 103, as amended, 53
P.S. § 65751.
   (B)   Interpretation. The provisions of this section shall be held to be
minimum requirements for the promotion of the health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the township. Where the provisions of this section impose greater
restrictions than those of any other ordinance, law or regulation of the
township, county or the commonwealth, the provisions of this section shall be
controlling. Where the provisions of such other ordinances, laws or regulations
impose a greater restriction that this section, the provisions of such other
ordinance, laws or regulations shall be controlling.
   (C)   Exclusions. Exempted from the provisions of this Building Code shall
be accessory prefabricated buildings which do not house people or animals and
which are erected on site or delivered erected to the site and installed
without masonry or pole type foundation below ground surface and not exceeding
100 square feet.
   (D)   Insertions. The words “Township of Bedminster” and “Pennsylvania”
inserted in the appropriate places throughout the Code.
   (E)   Fees. Before receiving a building permit, the owner or his or her
agent shall pay to the township a fee based upon the schedule attached to Ord.
41.
   (F)   Appeals. The appeal procedure of the BOCA Code and the CABO Code are
superseded by the following procedures.
      (1)   Appeals from the decision of the Building Official. Any party
interested may appeal from the decision of the building official by notifying
the Secretary of the Board of Township Supervisors in writing of his or her
intention to appeal. Such notice of intention shall be filed with the Secretary
of the Board of Township Supervisors within 30 days of the date of the decision
appealed from. The Board of Supervisors shall promptly set a hearing date at
which the appellant may be heard. The Township Supervisors shall thereupon, in
consultation with the Township Engineer, either affirm, reverse or modify the
decision of the building official. The decision of the Board of Supervisors
shall be final.
      (2)   Fee for appeal. A party appealing a decision of the building
official shall pay a fee on costs in the amount of $500. Said fee may be
changed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Township Supervisors.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-11-1988) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
95.03 shall, for each and every violation, upon conviction thereof, be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $600 and cost of prosecution, and, in
default of payment of such fine and costs, to imprisonment for not more than 30
days.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, co-partnership or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §
95.05 or of the Building Code hereby adopted shall, upon summary proceedings
brought in the name of the township before any Magisterial District Judge be
fined upon conviction in an amount not exceeding $600, or in default thereof,
be sentenced and committed to the county jail for a period not exceeding 30
days.
      (2)   Any such person specified in division (C)(1) above who violates §
95.05 or the Building Code will be issued a cease and desist form by the
Building Inspector. The cease and desist form will list the violations and
correction of the violation shall commence within five days after notice and
correct all violations within 30 days of notice. If corrections are not
commenced within five days or completed within 30 days, each day that a
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense punishable by the
like fine or penalty, and additional written notice shall not be necessary.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-11-1988; Ord. 88, passed 5-11-1988)
CHAPTER 96: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
96.01   International Property Maintenance Code
§ 96.01 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   The 2018 International Property Maintenance Code, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., be and is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of the township for the control and maintenance of property,
buildings and structures as herein provided; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said International
Property Maintenance Code are hereby adopted, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes prescribed in division (B) below.
   (B)   The following replacements, insertions and modifications shall be made
in the 2018 International Property Maintenance Code at the places hereinafter
indicated.
      (1)   Subsection 101.1: Title. Replace “[NAME OF JURISDICTION]” with
“BEDMINSTER TOWNSHIP.”
      (2)   Subsection 102.3: Application of other codes. Modify the last
sentence to read as follows: “Nothing in this code shall be construed to
cancel, modify or set aside any provision of the Bedminster Township Zoning
Ordinance.”
      (3)   Subsection 103.5: Fees. Replace “[JURISDICTION TO INSERT
APPROPRIATE SCHEDULE]” with “Bedminster Township Fee Schedule.”
      (4)   Subsection 104.3: Right of entry. Modify the last sentence to read
as follows: “If entry is refused, the code official is authorized to seek an
administrative warrant to secure entry.”
      (5)   Subsection 106.3: Prosecution of violation. Modify to read as
follows: “Any person failing to comply with a notice of violation or order
served in accordance with Section 107 shall be deemed in violation of this
code, and this violation shall be considered a strict liability offense. If the
notice or order is not complied with, the code official may institute the
appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct, or abate such
violation; to impose fines and penalties for such violation; and/or to require
the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure or
property in violation of the provisions of this code or of the order or
direction made pursuant thereto. Any action taken by the township shall be
charged against the real estate upon which the violation is located and shall
be a lien upon such real estate.”
      (6)   Subsection 106.4: Violation penalties. Modify to read as follows:
“Any person who is found by a court of competent jurisdiction, including, but
not limited to a Magisterial District Court or Court of Common Pleas, to have
violated a provision of this code; to have failed to comply with any of the
requirements of this code; or to have failed to comply with an order, directive
or notice of the code official concerning this code shall be liable for a civil
penalty not less than Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) or more than One Thousand
Dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation, plus any and all costs incurred by the
township in bringing an action against such violation, including, but not
limited to, consultant fees, attorneys’ fees, and expert witness fees. Each day
that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate violation.”
      (7)   Subsection 107.1: Notice to person responsible. Modify to read as
follows: “Whenever the code official determines that there has been a violation
of this code or has grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, notice
shall be given in the manner prescribed in Sections 107.2 and 107.3 to the
person responsible for the violation and the owner of the premises upon which
the violation has occurred as specified in the code. Notices for condemnation
procedures shall also comply with Section 108.3.”
      (8)   Subsection 109.5: Costs of emergency repairs. Modify to read as
follows: “Costs incurred in the performance of emergency work are the
responsibility of the owner of the premises where the unsafe structure is or
was located. Such costs, however, shall be initially paid by the township. The
Township Solicitor may institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity
against the owner of the premises where the unsafe structure is or was located
for the recovery of such costs.”
      (9)   Subsection 111.1: Application for appeal. Modify to read as
follows: “111.1 Means of appeal. Any appeal from any decision of the Property
Maintenance Code Official shall be heard by the Bedminster Township Building
Code Board of Appeals, pursuant to and consistent with the practices and
procedures established for or by such Board.”
      (10)   Subsections 111.2 through 111.6 and 111.8. Subsections 111.2
through 111.6 inclusive and subsection 111.8 shall be deleted in their
entireties.
      (11)   Subsection 111.7: Court review. Modify to read as follows: “Any
person aggrieved by a Board decision may appeal this decision to the Court of
Common Pleas. Such an appeal shall be filed within 30 days of the issuance of
the decision. Within 30 days of the filing of an appeal, the township and the
owner and/or tenant of the premises directly involved in the appeal may
intervene in the appeal as of course by filing a notice of intervention,
accompanied by proof of service of the same upon each appellant or each
appellant’s counsel of record. All other intervention shall be governed by the
Pennsylvania Rules of Civil Procedure.”
      (12)   Subsection 112.4: Failure to comply. Replace the phrase “a fine of
not less than [AMOUNT] dollars or more than [AMOUNT] dollars” with “a fine of
not less than One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) or more than Three Hundred Dollars
($300.00). Each day the work continues after the issuance of the stop work
order shall constitute a separate finable offense. Such fines are in addition
to any fines or penalties imposed pursuant to Section 106 concerning the
violation(s) on the premises.”
      (13)   Section 202: General definitions. The following definitions shall
be inserted at the appropriate alphabetical spot into this section and shall
read as follows:
         “CODE OFFICIAL. The Bedminster Township Zoning Officer or other person
so designated by the Bedminster Township Board of Supervisor.
         JURISDICTION, THE. Bedminster Township.
         NOXIOUS WEEDS. Any noxious vegetation covered under and prohibited by
the Noxious Weed Control Law, 3 P.S. §§ 1501 et seq., as amended, or by
regulations of the Pennsylvania or United States Departments of Agriculture
including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   Cirsium arvense, commonly known as Canadian Thistle;
            2.   Rosa multi flora, commonly known as Multiflora Rose;
            3.   Sorghum halepense, commonly known as Johnson Grass;
            4.   Pueraria lobata, commonly known as Kudzu Vine;
            5.   Cirsium vulgare, commonly known as Bull or Spear Thistle;
            6.   Carduus nutans, commonly known as Musk or Nodding Thistle;
            7.   Sorghum bicolor, commonly known as Shattercane;
            8.   Lythrum salicaria, commonly known as Purple Loosestrife (all
cultivars);
            9.   Heracleum mantegazzianum, commonly known as Giant Hogweed;
            10.   Galega officinalis, commonly known as Goatsrue;
            11.   Amaranthus palmeri S. Watson, commonly known as Palmer
amaranth;
            12.   Amaranthus rudis, commonly known as common waterhemp;
            13.   Amaranthus tuberculatus, commonly known as tall waterhemp;
            14.   Avena sterilis L, commonly known as animated oat;
            15.   Cuscuta spp., except for native species, commonly known as
dodder;
            16.   Hydrilla verticillata Royle, commonly known as hydrilla;
            17.   Oplismenus hirtellus, commonly known as Wavy leaf
basketgrass;
            18.   Orobanche spp., except for native species, commonly known as
broomrape; and
            19.   Conium maculatum, commonly known as poison hemlock.
         WEEDS. All grasses, annual plants, and vegetation, other than trees or
shrubs provided; however, this term shall not include cultivated flowers and
gardens.”
      (14)   Subsection 302.4: Weeds. Modify first paragraph to read as
follows: “All premises and exterior property within 200 feet of any habitable
structure or building shall be maintained free from weeds in excess of 12
inches. This height restriction, however, does not apply to naturalized areas,
riparian buffers, managed meadows and other no-mow zones, as determined by the
township. All noxious weeds shall be prohibited throughout the entire premises
and exterior property.”
      (15)   Subsection 304.3: Premises identification. Modify to read as
follows:
      “The Township shall have final authority as to the assignment of a street
number or address to each structure or premises. Each structure or premises to
which a street number has been assigned by the Township or if the structure or
premises is located in a private community, to which a street or identification
number has been assigned by the community, shall have the appropriate number
displayed in a location and size as to be readily observed and readable from
the public or private right of way that provides access to the structure or
premises. All street or identification numbers shall be in Arabic characters
with a minimum height of six (6) inches and a minimum stroke width of one half
(1/2) inch. Structures that are set back more than fifty (50) feet from the
right of way providing access, or any distance where the number can not be
readily seen from the right-of-way, shall have the assigned street or
identification numbers attached to a post or mailbox placed at the end of the
driveway on the same side of the road as the structure is located. These street
or identification numbers shall be in Arabic characters with a minimum height
of four (4) inches and a minimum stroke width of one half (1/2) inch and shall
be placed on both sides of the post or mail box, at a minimum height of three
(3) feet so as numbers can be seen by vehicles traveling from either direction.
All street or identification numbers shall be illuminated when possible and
shall be colored in contrast with the background upon which the number is
placed.
      No street numbers shall be painted upon any public curbs, streets, signs,
posts, or sidewalks, without the prior written approval of the Township and
done in compliance with any instructions for the Township. Any display of a
street address upon any of these public facilities shall be in addition to the
display of the street or identifications numbers required above.”
      (16)   Subsection 304.14: Insect screens. Replace the phrase “During the
period from [DATE] to [DATE]” with “Where appropriate, during the period from
April 1 to November 1.”
      (17)   Subsection 307.1: General. Modify the last sentence of the
paragraph to read as follows: “Guards shall not be less than 36 inches (914 mm)
high above the floor of the landing, balcony, porch, deck, or ramp or other
walking surface.”
      (18)   Subsection 602.3: Heat supply. Replace the phrase “during the
period from [DATE] to [DATE]” with “during the period from September 1 to May
1.”
      (19)   Subsection 602.4: Occupiable work spaces. Replace the phrase
“during the period from [DATE] to [DATE]” with “during the period from
September 1 to May 1.”
(Ord. 2021-252, passed 12-8-2021)
CHAPTER 97: PROPERTY OCCUPANCY
Section
Controlling and Regulating Occupancy of Properties
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Occupancy certificate required prior to sale
   
97.04   Minimum standards for certificate of occupancy
   
97.05   Inspection; fees
 
   
97.99   Penalty
CONTROLLING AND REGULATING OCCUPANCY OF PROPERTIES
§ 97.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public health, safety and
welfare by controlling and regulating the occupancy of properties in which
title of owners is transferred, in order to ensure that said properties and any
use thereof will in no way adversely affect the public health, safety or
welfare of any individual or the community as a whole.
(Ord. 206, passed 10-12-2011)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. Any of the following person or persons, either singly or
in combination, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Supervisors to
make the proper occupancy inspections:
      (1)   The Building Inspector of the township;
      (2)   The Building Code Official; or
      (3)   Any other person that the Board of Supervisors, by resolution, may
designate from time to time.
   BUSINESS. Any building, building structure, temporary building or temporary
building structure in which any portion of the building, building structure,
temporary building or temporary building structure is wholly or partly used for
any enterprise, mercantile transaction, occupation or endeavor.
   DWELLING. A building structure, including temporary housing, which is wholly
or partly used, or intended to be used, for living or sleeping by human
occupants, including single-room units and multi-room units.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any building, building structure, temporary building or
temporary building structure, including, but not limited to, temporary housing
which is wholly or partly used, or intended to be used, for living or sleeping
by a human occupant or occupants, including single-room dwelling units and
multi-room dwelling units.
   EXEMPT TRANSFER. A transfer between any of the following:
      (1)   Husband and wife;
      (2)   A lineal ascendent-parent, grandparent, great grandparent and the
like and lineal descendent-child, grandchild, great grandchild and the like;
      (3)   Children of the same parent; siblings;
      (4)   A lineal ascendent-parent, grandparent, great grandparent and the
like-of a child and the spouse of the child, unless the child is deceased and
the child’s spouse has remarried; and
      (5)   An individual and the individual’s sibling’s spouse, unless the
sibling is deceased and the sibling’s spouse has remarried.
   MULTI-ROOM DWELLING UNIT. Any group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used, or intended to be used, for living and sleeping as well as for cooking
and eating purposes.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership or other
legal entity which alone, jointly or severally with others holds legal or
equitable title to any building within the township.
   PERSON. Any individual or group of individuals.
   SINGLE-ROOM DWELLING UNIT. Any room forming a single habitable unit used, or
intended to be used, for living and sleeping but not for cooking or eating
purposes.
(Ord. 206, passed 10-12-2011)
§ 97.03 OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE REQUIRED PRIOR TO SALE.
   (A)   Except for an exempt transfer, each and every time a business or
dwelling unit, including a single-room dwelling unit or a multi-room dwelling
unit is sold, the owner and/or executor, administrator, guardian or
representative of a deceased or incompetent owner and/or president of any
corporation which is the owner, and/or all joint owners, shall apply for and
obtain by not later than 72 hours prior to occupancy or sale, an occupancy
certificate from the Building Inspector of the township. The application for an
occupancy certificate may be made by an agent of the person or persons whose
responsibility it is to obtain the occupancy certificate.
   (B)   An applicant for a certificate of occupancy shall inform the buyer of
said property of the result of the inspection prior to the sale.
   (C)   Should an inspection result in the denial of a certificate of
occupancy, the sale may still take place, however, no one shall occupy the
premises until another inspection by the Building Inspector is made and a
certificate of occupancy is issued.
   (D)   In the event that the premises is occupied when a certificate of
occupancy is denied, depending on the particular defective condition and in the
sole discretion of the Building Inspector, the Building Inspector may allow
occupancy to continue for a reasonable amount of time, but in no event shall it
exceed 90 days.
(Ord. 206, passed 10-12-2011) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No occupancy certificate shall be issued for the sale of any commercial,
residential or industrial building unless the building complies with the
Bedminster Township Occupancy Inspection Checklist, incorporated by reference
as if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 206, passed 10-12-2011) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.05 INSPECTION; FEES.
   Prior to issuing an occupancy certificate, the Building Inspector shall
inspect the business, dwelling unit or building to determine whether or not it
complies with the requirements as set forth in this subchapter. When the unit
meets the requirements, an occupancy certificate shall be issued for such fee
as may be set forth in the township fee schedule. Each required re-inspection
will require a like fee. Any person or persons authorized to make an occupancy
inspection as §
97.02 as the Building Inspector, shall enjoy all privileges, rights and
immunities which would inure to the Building Inspector of the township.
(Ord. 206, passed 10-12-2011)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, shall, upon
conviction before the Magisterial District Judge or other court of competent
jurisdiction and in accordance with the procedures set forth in the
Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., be sentenced
to pay a fine of not more than $1,000 per day during which such violation shall
continue, plus all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by the
township in enforcing the violation. Each day a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense, and each provision violated shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 206, passed 10-12-2011)
CHAPTER 98: PROPERTY NUMBERING AND ADDRESSES
Section
Numbering of Houses
   
98.01   Definition
   
98.02   Building numbering system adopted
   
98.03   Responsibility for numbering buildings
   
98.04   Requirements for numbers
 
   
98.99   Penalty
NUMBERING OF HOUSES
§ 98.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended to be used as a dwelling or place
of business or industry, and shall include any public building or any structure
built as a place of worship.
(Ord. 104, passed 6-12-1991)
§ 98.02 BUILDING NUMBERING SYSTEM ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Township Supervisors hereby endorse a numbering system for all of
the township and assign numbers to all lots and buildings located in the
township.
   (B)   Such numbers shall be assigned according to the following system.
      (1)   Upon all streets extending east and west, the numbering system
shall commence at the westwardly-most border of the township and shall continue
eastwardly. The allotment of numbers shall be as nearly as practicable, one
number for every 50 feet. The odd numbers shall be on the south side of the
street and the even numbers shall be on the north side of the street.
      (2)   Upon all streets extending north and south, the numbering system
shall commence at the southern-most border of the township and shall increase
to the north. The allotment of numbers shall be made as nearly as practicable,
one number for every 50 feet. The odd numbers shall be on the east side of the
street and the even numbers shall be on the west side of the street.
      (3)   All unnamed alleys and rights-of-way shall be named with a “private
road” distinction and shall be assigned numbers in conformity with the
foregoing sections.
(Ord. 104, passed 6-12-1991)
§ 98.03 RESPONSIBILITY FOR NUMBERING BUILDINGS.
   Numbers shall be assigned to buildings in the township as soon as possible
after the adoption of this subchapter, and the Township Supervisors shall
immediately thereafter designate a person to send to the owner, trustee,
lessee, agent or occupant of every lot upon which a building is located, a
notice of the number assigned to such building, directing that such number be
affixed to such building or elsewhere upon the property in the manner
prescribed by this subchapter, within 30 days of such notice. Any person who
disregards or fails to comply with such notice, within the time limit stated
herein, shall be guilty of a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 104, passed 6-12-1991) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR NUMBERS.
   (A)   All address numbers denoting the street address of a property or
structure shall comply with the provisions of the Chapter 96, Township Property
Maintenance Code.
   (B)   Address numbers shall not be displayed in the form of script, Roman
numerals or any other way the is not easily readable or discernable.
   (C)   Address numbers shall not be covered with any sign, drapery or other
obstruction which conceals the number from the street or makes it harder to
read.
   (D)   All old address numbers shall be removed from any house, building or
other structure when a new number has been assigned such property or structure
or when so directed to do so by the Township Code Enforcement Officer. The Code
Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized to require the numbering and
renumbering of any property, house, building, or other structure in accordance
with the Township Code.
   (E)    It shall be unlawful to remove or vandalize or to attempt to remove
or vandalize the address numbers (or the sign or structure they are affixed to)
of another person’s property or structure.
(Ord. 104, passed 6-12-1991)  Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, shall, upon
conviction before the Magisterial District Judge or other court of competent
jurisdiction and in accordance with the procedures set forth in the
Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., be sentenced
to pay a fine of not more than $1,000 per day during which such violation shall
continue, plus all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by the
township in enforcing the violation. Each day a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense, and each provision violated shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 104, passed 6-12-1991)
CHAPTER 99: FIREWORKS
Section
   
99.01   Intent
   
99.02   Definitions
   
99.03   Restrictions on all fireworks
   
99.04   Display fireworks
   
99.05   Consumer fireworks
   
99.06   Sale of consumer fireworks
   
99.07   Violation or public safety
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 INTENT.
   Fireworks, by nature, contain explosives which, when misused, can damage
property and endanger human life. It is the intent of the Board of Supervisors
of Bedminster Township to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
general public through limiting the use of fireworks.
(Ord. 260, passed 10-11-2023)
§ 99.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All terms
used within this chapter shall be interpreted in accordance with the Act.
   ACT. Pennsylvania Fireworks Law, Act 74 of 2022, as amended.
   APA 87-1. The American Pyrotechnics Association Standard 87-1: Standard for
Construction and Approval for Transportation of Fireworks, Novelties, and
Theatrical Pyrotechnics, 2001 edition, or any subsequent edition.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Any combustible or explosive composition or any
substance or combination of substances which is intended to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, is suitable for use by the public, complies with
the construction, performance, composition and labeling requirements
promulgated by the Consumer Products Safety Commission in 16 CFR (relating to
commercial practices) or any successor regulation and complies with the
provisions for CONSUMER FIREWORKS as defined in APA 87-1 or any successor
standard, the sale, possession and use of which shall be permitted throughout
this Commonwealth. The term CONSUMER FIREWORKS does not include devices such as
“ground and hand-held sparkling devices,” “novelties,” or “toy caps” as defined
in APA 87-1 or any successor standard.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Large fireworks to be used solely by professional
pyrotechnicians and designed primarily to produce visible or audible effects by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation. The term includes, but is not limited
to salutes that contain more than two grains or 130 milligrams of explosive
materials; aerial shells containing more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic
compositions; and other display pieces that exceed the limits of explosive
materials for classification as consumer fireworks and are classified as
fireworks UN0333, UN0334, or UN0335 by the U.S. Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 260, passed 10-11-2023)
§ 99.03 RESTRICTIONS ON ALL FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The use of any consumer or display fireworks shall be strictly
prohibited at any location within 150 feet of any structure, property line,
vehicle, or roadway.
   (B)   The use of any consumer or display fireworks shall be prohibited
within or upon any vehicle, structure, building, or tent.
   (C)   The use of any consumer or display fireworks shall be prohibited in
any township park unless approved by the township.
   (D)   The use of any consumer or display fireworks shall be prohibited by
any person who is under the influence of alcohol, a controlled substance, or
another drug.
(Ord. 260, passed 10-11-2023)
§ 99.04 DISPLAY FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Unlawful to use display fireworks without a permit. It shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, entity,
or other organization or group to use and/or hold public displays of display
fireworks within the limits of Bedminster Township, unless a permit is first
granted by the township.
   (B)   Compliance with state and federal statutes and regulations. The
applicant for a permit to use display fireworks within Bedminster Township must
comply with and abide by any and all federal, state, and local statutes,
ordinances, rules, and regulations governing the use, storage, and display of
fireworks, including but not limited to the International Fire Code and 35 P.S.
§§ 1271 et seq., as amended. All such federal, state, and local statutes,
ordinances, rules, and regulations are incorporated herein by reference. All
regulations relating to the display of fireworks under the International Fire
Code and/or Uniform Construction Code are also incorporated herein by
reference. In the event of an inconsistency between the aforementioned federal,
state, and local statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations and this chapter,
the more stringent regulation shall apply. The applicant must further receive
any and all requisite federal, state, and local permits and/or licenses
relating to the proposed fireworks display.
   (C)   Competent operator and safe display location. Every such display
fireworks display within the limits of the township shall be handled, arranged,
managed, and directly supervised by a competent operator at least 21 years of
age who demonstrates evidence of fireworks handling and safety training. Every
such fireworks use and display within the township shall be of such a character
and so located, discharged, or fired, as not to be hazardous to property or
endanger any person or persons in the opinion of the Board of Supervisors, or
its duly authorized representative. The township Fire Chief and Fire Code
Official, or other such officer as may be designated by the township, shall
inspect the site where the fireworks are to be used and displayed prior to the
issuance of a permit in accordance with the International Fire Code and other
applicable regulations and ensure that the site and proposed fireworks display
are compliant with said regulations. No permit for the use of fireworks shall
be issued until the township Fire Chief, or other such officer as may be
designated by the township, determines that the requested permit may be granted
after inspecting the location for the requested display.
   (D)   Display fireworks permit.
      (1)   A display fireworks permit application shall be made in writing to
the township at least 45 days in advance of the date of the proposed use and
display; shall set forth the proposed date, time, and location of the use and
display; the character and duration thereof; the name and address of the
fireworks operator; and the name and address of the owner or owners of the
grounds on which the use and display is to be held; and shall include the
written consent of such owner or owners thereto and a copy of any permit
application required by the International Fire Code. The permit application
shall also contain copies of any and all federal, state, and/or local permits
and/or licenses needed for the use and display of the proposed fireworks. All
applicants shall pay the township the permit fee identified in the township fee
schedule before the issuance of a permit and shall further provide proof of
liability insurance, acceptable to the township. The township may attach such
conditions and/or restrictions on any permit for the use and display of
fireworks as it determines are needed to protect the public’s health, safety,
and welfare.
      (2)   If and after such permit is granted by the township, the
possession, use and display of fireworks for the approved display shall be
lawful for that purpose, date, and time only. No permit granted hereunder shall
be transferable.
      (3)   No display fireworks permit shall be issued to an individual under
the age of 21 years.
   (E)   Liability insurance. All applicants shall submit proof of liability
insurance in an amount no less than $1,000,000, and such policy shall name the
township, its employees, and its elected and appointed officials as additional
insureds. The liability insurance shall be in a form acceptable to the township
and shall reviewed and approved by the township before issuance of any permit.
   (F)   Continuance. If by reason of unfavorable weather the fireworks display
for which a permit has been granted does not take place at the time so
authorized, the person to whom such permit was issued may within 24 hours apply
to the township, and set forth under oath the fact that such use and display
was not made, the reason the use and display did not take place, and a request
for a continuance of such permit for a day designated therein. The continuance
date shall be no later than seven calendar days after the day fixed originally
in said permit. Upon receiving such application for a continuance, the
township, if it believes the facts stated therein are true, may extend the
provisions of said permit to the day fixed in said application, no later than
seven days after the original day designated in the permit, and such extension
of time shall be granted without the payment of any additional fee and without
requiring any bond other than the one given for the original permit, provided
that the provisions of the original bond extend to and cover all damages which
may be caused by reason of said use and display taking place at such extended
date in the same manner and to the same extent as if such use and display had
taken place at the date originally fixed in the permit.
(Ord. 260, passed 10-11-2023)
§ 99.05 CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   A person must be at least 18 years of age and meet the requirements of
this chapter before purchasing, possessing, or using consumer fireworks. No
permit is needed from the township for the purchase, possession, or use of
consumer fireworks.
   (B)   A person shall not intentionally ignite, discharge, or throw consumer
fireworks:
      (1)   On or onto public or private property without the express
permission of the owner of said property;
      (2)   From a vehicle or building;
      (3)   Into or at a vehicle or building; or
      (4)   At another person or animal.
   (C)   A person shall not intentionally ignite or discharge consumer
fireworks between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m., except:
      (1)   On July 2, 3, and 4 and December 31, when consumer fireworks may be
used until 1:00 a.m. the following day; and
      (2)   When July 4 falls on a Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday, consumer
fireworks may be used until 1:00 a.m. the following day on the immediately
preceding and following Friday and Saturday; and
      (3)   On Memorial Day and Labor Day, including the immediately preceding
Saturday and Sunday, consumer fireworks may be used until 1:00 a.m. the
following day.
   (D)   A person shall not intentionally discharge or throw sparkling devices
from a vehicle or building, into or at a vehicle or building, or at a person or
animal.
(Ord. 260, passed 10-11-2023)
§ 99.06 SALE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Consumer fireworks shall only be sold from facilities which are
licensed by the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture and which meet the
locational, operational, storage, and safety requirements of the Act.
   (B)   Consumer fireworks shall only be sold from a stand-alone, permanent
structure which meets the licensing requirements of the Pennsylvania Department
of Agriculture, the Township Zoning Ordinance (Chapter 153), and the Act.
(Ord. 260, passed 10-11-2023)
§ 99.07 VIOLATION OR PUBLIC SAFETY.
   In the event of any violation of this chapter or of the terms, conditions or
limitations noted on a permit for the display of fireworks, or in the event of
any unsafe condition occurring before or during the course of a fireworks
display, or in the event of any unsafe condition occurring as a result of any
use of consumer, display, or other fireworks within the township, the township
Police Department, township Fire Chief, or any other authorized township
official may, before or during the unsafe and/or violating occurrence, order
such fireworks use or display to be stopped in the interest of public safety.
(Ord. 260, passed 10-11-2023)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, shall, upon
conviction before the Magisterial District Judge or other court of competent
jurisdiction and in accordance with the procedures set forth in the
Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code (53 P.S. § 65101 et seq.), be sentenced
to pay a civil fine of not more than $1,000 per day during which such violation
shall continue, plus all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by
the township in enforcing the violation. Each day a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense, and each provision violated shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
ineligible to obtain a permit under this chapter for a period of three years
from the date of violation.
(Ord. 260, passed 10-11-2023)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   JUNKYARDS
      
112.   TOWING REGULATIONS
      
113.   RESIDENTIAL DISCLOSURE
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Findings and purposes
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Posting
   
110.04   Establishment of a no peddling registry
   
110.05   Prohibition against entering upon posted property
   
110.06   Conduct of peddlers
   
110.07   Licensing of commercial peddlers
   
110.08   Exemptions for noncommercial peddlers
   
110.09   License suspension or revocation
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
   (A)   Findings. The Township Board of Supervisors has determined that the
safety and privacy of township residents, particularly the elderly, may be
jeopardized by fraudulent schemes to sell goods and services to township
residents, and that it is in the best interest of the township to differentiate
between certain categories of peddlers.
   (B)   Purposes. It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to provide the
township with standards defining and regulating peddling and soliciting. These
standards are intended to protect the safety and privacy of the residents of
the township by regulating the behavior of peddlers and limiting peddler’s
access to residents who do not wish to interact with them.
(Ord. 2021-247, passed 5-12-2021)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE/YARD SALE. A single-time sale of used goods or refreshments on
private property done with the permission of the landowner.
   LICENSE. A peddler’s license issued in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   PEDDLER. Any person who shall engage in peddling.
   PEDDLING. Engaging in the peddling, canvassing, soliciting, hawking,
vending, taking of orders (either by sample or otherwise), selling or offering
for sale of any commercial services, goods, wares, merchandise, printed matter
or food products by visitation to private homes or residences without the
direct invitation of the inhabitants thereof, or on the public streets or
highways of the township; provided, the word PEDDLING shall not apply to:
      (1)   Farmers selling their own produce;
      (2)   The sale of goods, wares and merchandise, donated by the owners
thereof, the proceeds whereof shall be applied to any charitable or
philanthropic purpose (but in no event to an organization which seeks to affect
legislation); or
      (3)   Any manufacturer or producer of bread and bakery products, meat and
meat products, or milk and milk products.
   PERSON. Any individual joint venture, association, partnership, trust,
corporation or other legal entity.
   STREET. Any street, road, highway or alley and shall include the sidewalk
within the lines of or alongside of the same.
(Ord. 2021-247, passed 5-12-2021)
§ 110.03 POSTING.
   Any person who is the owner or lawful occupant of private property within
the township may prohibit the practice of going in or upon the private property
of such owner or occupant by peddlers by posting upon such property a sign
which reads “No Peddling” or substantially similar language in a location which
is reasonably visible to persons who intend to enter upon such property.
(Ord. 2021-247, passed 5-12-2021)
§ 110.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF A NO PEDDLING REGISTRY.
   The township shall establish and maintain a no peddling registry which lists
all township residents who desire not to be contacted at their residences by
peddlers. This registry shall be furnished to all peddlers granted a license
under this chapter. Any and all peddlers are prohibited from entering upon any
property that is listed on this registry and may be prosecuted for trespassing
if they violate this prohibition.
(Ord. 2021-247, passed 5-12-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 PROHIBITION AGAINST ENTERING UPON POSTED PROPERTY.
   Any and all peddlers are prohibited from entering upon any property that is
posted with a “No Peddling” sign and may be prosecuted for trespassing. If such
sign is posted, the peddler, whether licensed in accordance with this chapter
or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the property.
(Ord. 2021-247, passed 5-12-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 CONDUCT OF PEDDLERS.
   Every peddler, whether licensed in accordance with this chapter or not,
shall, in the carrying on of his or her business or activities in the township,
comply with the following rules of conduct:
   (A)   The peddler shall carry official identification, such as a driver’s
license, upon his or her person at all times and shall exhibit it upon request
of any person to whom the peddler is attempting to peddle to.
   (B)   The peddler shall not enter or attempt to enter any dwelling house or
place of business without invitation or permission of the occupant and shall
immediately leave the premises upon request.
   (C)   The peddler shall only engage in peddling or soliciting within the
township on Monday through Saturday from 9:00 a.m. until 7:00 p.m., or until
sunset, whichever is sooner. No peddling shall be allowed on Sundays or on any
state or federal legal holidays.
   (D)   The peddler shall not call out or shout to sell his or her services or
goods, nor shall the peddler use any loudspeaker or horn or other device for
announcing his or her presence by which the public is annoyed.
   (E)   The peddler shall not occupy any fixed location upon or along any of
the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the township for the purpose of peddling or
soliciting, with or without any stand, counter or cart.
   (F)   The peddler shall not peddle in any township park without first
acquiring a permit from the township.
   (G)   The peddler shall not park any vehicle upon or along any of the
streets, alleys or sidewalks of the township for the purpose of sorting,
rearranging or cleaning any of his or her goods, wares or merchandise or of
disposing of any carton, wrapping material, stock, wares or foodstuffs.
   (H)   The peddler shall not operate from or use in conjunction with his or
her activities any vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of 19,501 pounds
or larger.
   (I)   The peddler shall not engage in any activity that creates a public
nuisance, disrupts traffic and/or disturbs the peace and tranquility of the
township.
(Ord. 2021-247, passed 5-12-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 LICENSING OF COMMERCIAL PEDDLERS.
   (A)   Any person or organization desiring to engage in peddling within the
township must first make application to the Township Police Department for a
license. The Township Police Department may require such information as the
Chief of Police deems appropriate, including, but not limited to, name and
address, prior criminal record, name of employer, photograph, the nature of the
goods, wares or merchandise that are to be peddled or the use to which funds
solicited shall be put, the period of time the applicant intends to peddle, the
type of vehicle(s) that the applicant uses, if any, and the license number(s)
thereof, the place where the applicant was engaged in peddling immediately
prior to filing this application, if any, the place where the applicant intends
to go after completion of the peddling in the township and type of solicitation
being made to the public. In addition, if an applicant is also required to
obtain a license or permit from any county office, the applicant shall provide
a copy of a valid county license or permit to the Township Police Department in
conjunction with the application for a license.
   (B)   Before issuing a license, the township, in its sole discretion, may
require an investigation of the applicant to obtain sufficient proof that the
applicant is of good business and/or moral character and/or to confirm the
accuracy of representations made in each such application. By submitting an
application for a license, the applicant agrees to await a reasonable amount of
time for such investigation, which investigation may take no more than ten
business days from the date of application. If, as a result of such
investigation, the applicant’s business or moral character is found to be
unsatisfactory or any representation is found to be false or misleading, the
township shall notify the applicant that such application has been disapproved
and that no license shall be issued.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable from one
person to another.
   (D)   All fees for licenses shall be set by separate resolution of the
Township Board of Supervisors.
   (E)   All licenses issued by the Township Police Department shall be
exhibited in clear view by the person soliciting at all times, and it shall not
be altered or used by any other person except the applicant and licensee.
   (F)   All licenses shall expire after 90 days, but may be renewed for
additional 90-day periods by request to the Township Police Department.
   (G)   The issuance of a license grants the licensee the privilege of
conducting such business or activity as is permitted by the license within the
township. The issuance of a license does not confer any property right upon the
licensee.
(Ord. 2021-247, passed 5-12-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 EXEMPTIONS FOR NONCOMMERCIAL PEDDLERS.
   (A)   Persons engaged in door-to-door canvassing on religious or political
subjects, or distributing religious or political handbills shall be exempt from
the license requirements of this chapter. All such persons, however, shall
carry official identification, such as a driver’s license, upon his or her
person at all times and shall exhibit it upon request of any person to whom the
peddler is attempting to peddle to.
   (B)   The application and license requirements may be waived by the Township
Police Department for persons peddling on behalf of organizations of purely
public charities, such as local churches, scout troops, civic and service
organizations, fire companies, athletic organizations and the like; provided
however, that any such group notify the Township Police Department in writing
in advance of any such peddling setting forth the dates of peddling will take
place within the township.
   (C)   Any person who is required to register with the commonwealth of the
state in connection with peddling for any charitable organization, shall carry
proof of this registration upon his or her person at all times and shall
exhibit it upon request of any person to whom the peddler is attempting to
peddle to.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to garage/yard sales.
(Ord. 2021-247, passed 5-12-2021)
§ 110.09 LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to suspend or revoke any
license issued under this chapter for any violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter, or for giving false information upon any application for license.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is further authorized to refuse a license to any
person with a prior criminal record and to any other person who would present a
threat of harm or danger to the citizens of the township.
(Ord. 2021-247, passed 5-12-2021)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who or which has violated or permitted the violation of the
provisions of this chapter (hereinafter called “the violator”) shall, upon
being found liable therefor in a civil enforcement proceeding commenced by the
township, pay a judgment of not more than $600 plus all court costs, including
reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the township as a result thereof each
day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any suit for
financial penalty brought by or on behalf of the township against a violator
under this chapter shall in no way constitute an election of remedies, and the
township, and any other person having a cause of action against this violator,
shall be entitled to pursue any such remedies against this violator as provided
by law or in equity.
(Ord. 2021-247, passed 5-12-2021)
CHAPTER 111: JUNKYARDS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Separate licenses required
   
111.04   Regulations
   
111.05   Inspection
   
111.06   Junkyard Inspector
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Supervisors of Bedminster Township, Bucks County,
Pennsylvania.
   JUNK. Any and all forms of waste, refuse, used or discarded materials,
including, but not limited to, wastepaper, rags, metal, building materials,
house furnishings, machinery, vehicles or parts thereof, with or without the
dismantling, processing, salvage, sale or other use or disposition of the same.
   JUNKYARD. Any place where junk as herein defined is stored or accumulated.
Any premises as herein defined having two or more unlicensed and inoperable
automobiles thereon, on which either a certificate of junk has been issued, or
on which the state registration has expired and not been renewed, shall be
deemed a junk yard.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any and all types of motor vehicles, including self-propelled
machinery of all kinds, with the exception of useable farm machinery.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, firm, corporation or other legal
entity, including singular and plural, male and female.
   PREMISES. Any parcel of land situated in Bedminster Township, Bucks County,
Pennsylvania, having a separate tax map parcel number for county assessment
purposes.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Bedminster, Bucks County, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 55, passed 6-11-1980)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall own, lease, operate or maintain a junkyard as hereinafter
defined within the township without first obtaining a license to operate a
junkyard. The annual fee for such a license shall be $150; and the license
shall be effective for one calendar year only, each license terminating on
December 31 of the year for which it is issued, subject to renewal upon
reapplication. Application for a license or any renewal thereof shall be filed
in writing with the Secretary of the Board and shall contain the applicant’s
sworn statement setting forth the applicant’s name and address, together with
the names and addresses of all other persons interested in the business, an
accurate description of the premises upon which the business is to be conducted
and the junkyard located, including the county tax map parcel number, and a
statement that applicant will comply with this chapter and any regulations
adopted pursuant to this chapter. Upon receipt of the application and license
fee, as established by the Township by a separate resolution, if the
application complies with the provisions hereof, the Secretary of the Board, or
the Board, shall within ten days issue its license authorizing the ownership,
leasing, operation or maintenance of a junkyard upon the premises by the person
applying. Such license shall at all times be conspicuously displayed upon the
junkyard premises. The license shall be non-transferable both as to the
junkyard premises and as to the person applying.
(Ord. 55, passed 6-11-1980) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED.
   No person licensed under this chapter shall be virtue of one license, own,
lease, maintain or operate more than one junkyard within the township, nor
shall any person own, lease, operate or maintain a junkyard in any place other
than the place designated upon his or her license, nor shall any person operate
upon any of the roads or highways in the township, whether from a vehicle or
upon foot, as a scavenger or an itinerant buyer or itinerant seller of junk.
(Ord. 55, passed 6-11-1980) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 REGULATIONS.
   Every person licensed under the chapter shall maintain the licensed junkyard
as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   Every junkyard shall be completely surrounded by a fence at least five
feet in height with gate or gates of the same height, said fence and gates to
be so constructed as to be reasonably capable of excluding trespassers. The
gates shall be securely locked except during business hours. All junk shall be
stored within the confines of said fence.
   (B)   No junkyard shall be operated on Sunday, nor between the hours of 8:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. except during Daylight Saving Time when operation may
continue until 9:00 p.m. Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the removal
from the public highway of any wrecked automobile.
   (C)   All junk shall be stored and arranged so as to permit access by
firefighting equipment, and to prevent accumulation of stagnant water. Junked
automobiles shall be spaced in rows with at least 15 feet between each double
row to permit movement of fire equipment. Junk shall not be piled to a height
of more than eight feet from the ground; provided, however, that when first
brought into the yard, junk may be piled to a height of greater than eight feet
for a period not to exceed 24 hours.
   (D)   All gasoline shall be drained from any junked automobile within 12
hours from arrival on the premises of the junked automobile. All gasoline and
oil shall be stored at a single location on the licensed premises in clearly
marked containers. No more than 275 gallons in aggregate of gasoline and oil
shall be stored above ground.
   (E)   All weeds on any junkyard shall be kept mowed and shall not be
permitted to go to seed.
   (F)   A person of the age of 18 years or older shall be in charge of the
licensed premises at all times during business hours.
   (G)   No garbage or organic waste shall be permitted to be stored on any
junkyard.
   (H)   The burning or melting of junk shall be conducted in accordance with
all applicable state and federal statutes governing such, and the regulations
of any state or federal agency having jurisdiction to promulgate regulations
upon the same.
   (I)   Paper, rags, plastic materials and rubbish shall not be stored
outside, and shall not be accumulated or remain on any junkyard premises for
more than one month.
   (J)   Junkyards shall at all times be maintained in such manner as to cause
no public or private nuisance, nor to cause any menace to health or safety of
any persons off the premises; nor to cause any excessive or offensive or
noxious sounds or odors; nor to cause the breeding, harboring or infesting of
rats, rodents or vermin; nor to cause a violation of any health or sanitation
law, ordinance or regulation of any governmental body.
   (K)   Permanent records of all junk received or removed from any junkyard
shall be kept by the junk dealer on the premises, containing the name and
address from whom received or delivered and the date thereof, and a description
of the junk, which shall at all times be open to inspection by any member of
the Board, or its duly authorized agent or any law enforcement officer. The
provisions of this division (K) shall not apply to vehicles for which
certificates of junk have been or are to be issued by the State Department of
Revenue.
   (L)   With the exception of vehicles for which a certificate of junk has
actually been issued by the State Department of Revenue, no junk shall be
removed from any junkyard, nor broken up, reduced or altered in shape or form,
for a period of 48 hours after the same is placed on the junkyard premises.
   (M)   Any animals kept on the premises and used, in whole or in part, for
security purposes, shall be securely restrained during the aforesaid operating
hours.
(Ord. 55, passed 6-11-1980) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 INSPECTION.
   Any member of the Board or a duly authorized agent thereof may at any
reasonable time enter upon any premises and inspect the same in connection with
the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 55, passed 6-11-1980) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 JUNKYARD INSPECTOR.
   The Township Supervisors shall appoint and provide for the compensation of a
township employee to be known as the Junkyard Inspector. It shall be the duty
of the Junkyard Inspector to make monthly inspections of all junkyards licensed
pursuant to the terms of this chapter and to file with the Board of Supervisors
a written report on each such inspection. In making such inspections, the
Junkyard Inspector shall ascertain whether the provisions of this chapter are
being complied with, shall note any violations thereof on his or her report of
inspection, shall check the licensee’s records of junk received and removed
with his or her inventory, and shall check into such other matters as come
within the scope of this chapter.
(Ord. 55, passed 6-11-1980)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, co-partnership or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon summary proceeding brought in the name
of the township before any Magisterial District Judge, be fined upon conviction
in an amount not exceeding $300 or in default thereof, be sentenced and
committed to the county jail for a period not exceeding 30 days. Each week for
which the violation continues shall constitute a separate and new offense.
   (B)   The Board or any person may take any appropriate action at law or in
equity, civil or criminal, to enforce the provisions of this chapter, and this
chapter shall in no way restrict any remedies otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. 55, passed 6-11-1980)
CHAPTER 112: TOWING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Towing license
   
112.03   Enforcement
Operational Regulations
   
112.15   Assigned geographic area
   
112.16   Initial contact
   
112.17   Response
   
112.18   At-scene responsibilities
   
112.19   Storage of motor vehicles
   
112.20   Fees
   
112.21   Release of vehicles
   
112.22   Record keeping
   
112.23   Conduct
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TOWING CONTRACTOR . Any current duty tow licensee as recognized by
Bedminster Township.
   TOWNSHIP. Bedminster Township
(Ord. 242, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 112.02 TOWING LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall be called by the township or the
Township Police Department as a tower for the purpose of removal of disabled,
wrecked or abandoned vehicles unless that person is granted a duty tow license
by the Township Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   License application.
      (1)   Applications for a duty tow license shall be made to the Township
Manager or his or her designee, upon a form available from his or her office
and shall require the following information:
         (a)   The name, address, telephone number and email of the business
for which the license is sought;
         (b)   The name, home and business address, telephone number and email
addresses of all the owner(s) or, in the case of a corporation, stockholder(s)
of the business for which the license is sought, together with a designation of
the business organization (e.g., sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation
and the like);
         (c)   A list of tow trucks, vehicle wreckers, car carriers or other
vehicles available for service to the township. A description of each vehicle
(including the make, model, type, year and vehicle identification number),
copies of current registrations, inspections and insurance cards, the name and
address of the owner/lessee of each vehicle or piece of equipment and the
location where regularly parked or stored shall be included;
         (d)   A certificate of insurance or other proof acceptable to the
township showing that the applicant has obtained a minimum of $1,000,000
automobile liability and garage liability insurance required for the issuance
of a duty tow license; and
         (e)   Photocopy of every employee’s operator license number (OLN) and
certificates designated to the operation of tow vehicles.
      (2)   Applications shall be completed and signed by the owner(s) of the
business for which a duty tow license is sought or, in the case of a
corporation, the president of the corporation.
      (3)   Applicants must execute an agreement to indemnify the township for
any and all losses or expenses incurred by virtue of any acts performed in the
course of service.
      (4)   Applications for duty tow licenses must be accompanied by a fee in
an amount set from time to time by separate resolution of the Township Board of
Supervisors.
      (5)   The application shall be reviewed by the Township Police Department
within 60 days of receipt of the completed application and application fee.
Incomplete applications shall be promptly returned to the applicant. An
incomplete application, if not corrected within the open registration period,
will be denied.
      (6)   Any person or entity interested in becoming a towing contractor
shall submit an application to the Township Manager on or before November 15
for consideration and inclusion on the following year’s towing contractor list.
      (7)   Applicants for duty tow licenses must possess a current and valid
salvor’s license from the commonwealth of the state, have a minimum five years’
experience as a tower and carry a minimum of $1,000,000 automobile liability
and garage liability insurance.
      (8)   Applicants must own or lease a storage yard located within the
township boundaries from which the required tow vehicles are dispatched and
where towed vehicles are stored, in order that the response time to a call for
tow service is within 15 minutes and so towed vehicles are stored within the
township.
   (C)   Open registration period of licenses. Applications for duty tow
licenses will be available on the township website or through the Township
Police Department, and shall be available from October 1 through November 15
annually. All licenses for that calendar year shall be mailed out from the
township during or before the third week of January. During the calendar year,
a tower may be issued a license if a complete application is provided and
approved and the license fee is paid, but such a license is not effective until
the following calendar year.
   (D)   Vehicles required.
      (1)   The following vehicles shall be owned or leased exclusively by the
applicant and immediately available and on call for service on a 24-hour basis
at the request of the township or the Township Police Department:
         (a)   Two light/medium flatbed or two wheel-lift trucks; and
         (b)   Heavy-duty equipment, including a heavy-duty wrecker.
      (2)   All of the aforesaid required vehicles shall bear a sign indicating
the name and telephone number of the applicant’s towing business and must be
made available for inspection by the township.
(Ord. 242, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 112.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Establishment of rules. The township may establish such reasonable
rules and regulations for towing contractors, from time to time, deemed
appropriate for the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the
community.
   (B)   Suspension or revocation of license. If any towing contractor is
accused of violating any provision of this chapter, the Township Manager, upon
confirmation that such a violation has taken place, shall issue a written
warning to the towing contractor informing them of the violation and demanding
a correction thereof.
      (1)   In the event that a towing contractor is found to have committed
two or more violations of this chapter within the same calendar year or has
failed to correct a violation as demanded by the township in the written
warning issued under division (B) above, the township may revoke the current
duty tow license issued hereunder to said contractor, together with the right
to reapply for a subsequent license for a period of up to two years. The
Township Manager shall notify the towing contractor in writing no less than
five days prior to the revocation of its duty tow license in accordance with
this section and provide an explanation of the violations leading to the
revocation and the length of the revocation.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the intent to revoke a license, the towing
contractor may request a pre-termination hearing before the Township Board of
Supervisors or its designee by filing a written appeal of the revocation with
the Township Manager. The hearing on this appeal shall be held in accordance
with the State Local Agency Law.
   (C)   Additional enforcement action. In addition, the township may institute
injunctive, mandamus or any other appropriate action in law or equity for the
enforcement of this chapter. Any court of competent jurisdiction shall have the
right to issue restraining orders, temporary or permanent injunctions, writs of
mandamus, fines or other appropriate forms of remedy or relief.
(Ord. 242, passed 12-9-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
OPERATIONAL REGULATIONS
§ 112.15 ASSIGNED GEOGRAPHIC AREA.
   The township, at its discretion, may designate specific geographic areas of
responsibility for each towing contractor. The assigned areas of responsibility
will be communicated to each towing contractor in writing and the towing
contractor will be responsible for providing towing coverage 24 hours per day,
seven days per week within the assigned geographic area. The township will
evaluate assigned towing areas on an annual basis and make such adjustments as
necessary.
(Ord. 242, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 112.16 INITIAL CONTACT.
   (A)   The towing contractor must be available/on-call coverage 24 hours per
day, seven days per week. Preferred contact information shall be provided to
the Township Police Department.
   (B)   The towing contractor shall return a call for service within 15
minutes of the initial call or the tow will be forwarded to another towing
contractor.
(Ord. 242, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 112.17 RESPONSE.
   (A)   The towing contractor shall arrive at the incident scene within 30
minutes of notification, except for special circumstances (e.g. snowstorms,
road conditions and the like).
   (B)   A towing contractor shall only be deemed to have arrived when the
towing contractor or its employee is present at the incident scene with all the
vehicles, equipment and personnel necessary for removal of the vehicle needing
a tow.
   (C)   If any towing contractor cannot respond to the service call from the
Township Police Department with the appropriate towing vehicle or within the
required response time, the contractor shall so advise the police dispatcher.
If the towing contractor’s vehicle is delayed while in transit to the requested
location, the vehicle operator shall advise the police dispatcher of the delay
and of his/her present location. Upon receipt of such information, the
appropriate police official shall determine whether or not an alternate towing
contractor shall be called to respond to this service call in place of the
originally contracted towing contractor.
(Ord. 242, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 112.18 AT-SCENE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The towing contractor shall at all times comply with the State Motor
Vehicle Code §§ 3709 and 7310 (75 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.). This requirement
shall not absolve the towing contractor from compliance will all other
provisions of federal and state statutes, codes, rules and regulations, nor
with other provisions of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   All debris shall be removed from the scene and deposited into a
suitable waste container. Towing contractors should make every reasonable
effort to avoid placing debris in a vehicle that is not damaged beyond repair.
   (C)   The towing contractor must provide to the owner/operator of the towed
vehicle the contractor’s business information including name, address,
telephone number and location of storage of the vehicle.
   (D)   Prior to departing the scene, the towing contractor shall inspect its
vehicle and the towed vehicle to ensure compliance with the State Motor Vehicle
Code §§ 4903 and 4905.
   (E)   Towing contractors will be required to initial and maintain an
impound/tow slip provided by the police officer requesting the tow of the
vehicle.
(Ord. 242, passed 12-9-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.19 STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   A vehicle towed upon the request of the township shall be taken to the
towing contractor’s storage lot, unless the vehicle requires special processing
or security, as determined by the township police officer requesting the tow of
the vehicle, at which time the vehicle may be towed to a suitable or authorized
facility.
   (B)   The towing contractor is responsible for the security of stored
vehicles. For investigations or other special circumstances, the towing
contractor will provide an indoor facility that can be secured in a manner
approved by the Township Police Department. The towing contractor shall
immediately notify the Township Police Department if a theft or other crime
occurs to a stored vehicle.
   (C)   Release of personal property from a stored vehicle is at the
discretion of the towing contractor. Prior to releasing personal property, the
towing contractor shall verify the identity and authority of the person
requesting removal of the personal property and document the same. The towing
contractor shall immediately notify the Township Police Department if a dispute
develops with a vehicle owner or operator over the release of personal
property.
(Ord. 242, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 112.20 FEES.
   (A)   The towing contractor agrees to charge only those fees established in
the Township Fee Schedule, subject to amendment from time to time by resolution
of the Township Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   The towing contractor shall immediately notify the Township Police
Department if there develops with a vehicle owner or operator a dispute over
towing/storage fees or release of a vehicle towed at the request of the
township.
   (C)   The costs of towing a vehicle and subsequent storage charge shall be
paid to the towing contractor by the owner/agent of the towed vehicle prior to
removing the vehicle from the property of the contractor. Failure to pay prior
to removal of the vehicle could subject the vehicle owner/agent to penalty as
provided under this chapter.
   (D)   The towing contractor shall accept any of the following methods of
payment:
      (1)   United States currency;
      (2)   Regularly recognized traveler’s checks;
      (3)   Money order; or
      (4)   Cashier or certified checks.
   (E)   The towing contractor may accept any regularly recognized credit
cards, personal check or similar means of payment for fees and charges.
(Ord. 242, passed 12-9-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 RELEASE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   A towing contractor must be open for release of vehicles Monday
through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., and Saturdays from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00
p.m. noon.
   (B)   A towing contractor may release a vehicle after business hours and on
weekends. For providing this additional service, the towing contractor may
assess a “special exception release fee” per the Township Fee Schedule in
addition to other documented charges. When possible, the towing contractor
shall notify the vehicle owner and/or custodian of the vehicle in advance of
this additional fee.
   (C)   All motor vehicles towed shall be surrendered to the owner or person
entitled to custody of the vehicle upon presentation of the following to the
towing contractor where the vehicle is being stored:
      (1)   For impounded vehicles, a copy of a Township Police Department
vehicle return form signed by a Township Police Department official authorizing
the release of the vehicle; or
      (2)   For all other towed vehicles:
         (a)   Proof of ownership of the vehicle by lawful title or other proof
of lawful entitlement to the vehicle;
         (b)   Proof of liability insurance on the vehicle as required by the
laws of the commonwealth of the state; and
         (c)   Proof of current registration of the vehicle as required by the
laws of the commonwealth of the state.
   (D)   Payment of all storage charges and towing fees incurred in the towing
of the vehicle must be made prior to release of the vehicle.
   (E)   The towing contractor shall record and keep, in writing, the name,
address, phone number and driver’s license or photo ID number of the claimant,
the date and time of the release and the identification of the towing
contractor employee performing the release.
   (F)   No owner or agent of the owner of the vehicle shall be denied entry to
the vehicle to obtain records required herein to permit release of the vehicle.
   (G)   Should a person seeking release of a towed vehicle not present proof
of current registration or proof of insurance, the vehicle shall not be
released to be driven from the storage lot. The vehicle may be released to be
towed from the storage lot if proof of ownership is shown and all storage and
towing charges are paid.
(Ord. 242, passed 12-9-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.22 RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   The towing contractor shall maintain a ledger of all business
performed on behalf of the township. The ledger will be provided to the
township upon its request. Required information for vehicles towed on behalf of
the township shall include:
      (1)   Date and time of call;
      (2)   Location of call;
      (3)   Description of vehicle, including license plate number and state of
issuance;
      (4)   Location where vehicle was towed;
      (5)   Tow, storage and related charges;
      (6)   Disposition of the vehicle (e.g. released to owner/agent, abandoned
or the like); and
      (7)   Any additional information deemed necessary by the towing
contractor.
   (B)   The towing contractor shall make all business records pertaining to
business conducted at the request of the township, available to the township’s
Chief of Police or designee on demand, for any relevant purpose, including, but
not limited to, audit review, criminal investigation or investigation of a
complaint.
(Ord. 242, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 112.23 CONDUCT.
   The towing contractor is responsible for the conduct of all its employees
and agents. Misconduct by a towing contractor or its employees/agents may
subject the contractor to suspension of towing privileges.
(Ord. 242, passed 12-9-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the revocation penalty set forth in §
112.03, any person or entity who shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter, or who shall fail to comply with any written violation notice from the
township, shall be guilty of a summary offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be sentenced to a fine of not more than $600 plus costs. A new and
separate violation shall be deemed to be committed for each day after receipt
of the aforesaid notice that such violation exists.
(Ord. 242, passed 12-9-2020)
CHAPTER 113: RESIDENTIAL DISCLOSURE
Section
   
113.01   Applicability
   
113.02   Intent
   
113.03   Disclosure requirements
   
113.04   Residential disclosure statement
   
113.05   Plan of lot
   
113.06   Compliance with intent
 
   
113.99   Penalty; enforcement
§ 113.01 APPLICABILITY.
   The requirements of this chapter shall apply to all developers, builders,
owners, and/or owner’s agents, (hereinafter referred to as the “seller”) who
are selling residential property or lot(s) for residential building (improved
or unimproved) or a newly constructed home located within the boundaries of
Bedminster Township, (hereinafter jointly referred to as the “new residential
property”) to a prospective buyer. This chapter does not apply to the sale of
existing buildings that have already been occupied as residences.
(Ord. 261, passed 12-13-2023)
§ 113.02 INTENT.
   These requirements are intended to inform prospective buyers about
limitations, easements, and restrictions on the new residential property the
buyers are purchasing, and the general nature of the subdivision and/or land
development in which this property is located (hereinafter referred to as the
“development”). This chapter is enacted under general police power of
Bedminster Township to protect health, safety and welfare of the township and
its citizens.
(Ord. 261, passed 12-13-2023)
§ 113.03 DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Not less than 72 hours before signing a sales agreement for any new
residential property, the prospective buyer shall sign a disclosure statement
that verifies that the seller has provided and explained all the information
that is required by this chapter to the buyer.
   (B)   The seller of any new residential property shall prominently display
the approved subdivision and/or land development plans for all phases of the
development in the office or other place where property sales are transacted,
so that the plans are plainly visible to all prospective buyers of a new
residential property. The approved subdivision and/or land development plans
shall include the record plan and all other accompanying plans approved with
the record plan.
   (C)   The information listed below shall be clearly shown or noted on the
approved plans and summarized in narrative text, and a copy of the plans and
narrative text shall be given to the potential buyer. The approved plans and
narrative text shall show and describe the following:
      (1)   Common areas, such as park lands, streets, and open space that are
part of the development or adjacent to the new residential property being sold;
      (2)   All lot lines within the development;
      (3)   Current zoning district in which the property is located, and all
the uses permitted within the development by Bedminster Township’s current
zoning ordinance, including accessory uses; and all limitations, easements,
covenants, deed restrictions, and other restrictions which affect the
development and/or use of the new residential property;
      (4)   All limitations, easements, covenants, deed restrictions, and other
restrictions which affect the development and/or use of the development and/or
the new residential property;
      (5)   Membership in a homeowner’s association, if applicable, with the
buyer’s responsibilities detailed. A copy of the homeowner’s association or
condominium declaration, by-laws, regulations, and other documentation shall be
provided with the disclosure statement;
      (6)   All current dimensional requirements for the primary uses on the
new residential property being sold and on each lot within the development,
such as setback requirements, building coverage, impervious coverage, and
height limits;
      (7)   All current dimensional requirements for the accessory uses
permitted on the new residential property being sold and on each lot within the
development, such as size, setback requirements, and height limits;
      (8)   The location of all easements throughout the development and on the
new residential property being sold, describing the uses of the easements,
including any underground pipes or lines (i.e., sanitary, water, gas, electric
lines), showing which lots are affected by these easements, and describing the
limitations imposed on each lot and the new residential property by these
easements. Copies of the applicable sections of the zoning ordinance shall be
provided with the disclosure statement;
      (9)   The location of all areas within the new residential property being
sold and the development which are classified as wetlands, under the currently
used definition, with a reference to federal, state, and local requirements
which govern wetlands, and the limitations imposed by any such wetlands.
Location of wetlands shall be highlighted by crosshatching all affected areas
on the plan and copies of the applicable sections of the zoning ordinance shall
be provided with the disclosure statement;
      (10)   The location of floodplain areas within the new residential
property being sold and the development, as defined by the Township Code, the
requirements which govern floodplains, and the limitations imposed by any such
floodplains, location of floodplains shall be highlighted by crosshatching all
affected areas on the plan and copies of the applicable sections of the zoning
ordinance shall be provided with the disclosure statement;
      (11)   The location of stormwater drainage facilities throughout the
development and on the new residential property being sold, including
detention/retention basins, stormwater pipes and swales, and the paths of
stormwater runoff. The buyer’s responsibilities concerning such facilities
shall be described;
      (12)   The type and location of sanitary sewage and potable water
facilities throughout the development and on the new residential property being
sold, and the buyer’s responsibilities concerning such facilities;
      (13)   The type and location of planned public amenities or special
improvements (i.e., trash enclosures, community mailboxes, community parking
facilities, and the like) throughout the development and on or next to the new
residential property being sold, and the buyer’s responsibilities concerning
such facilities;
      (14)   The location within the development or within 220 yards of the
perimeter of the development or the new residential property being sold, of any
natural gas transmission lines together with the owner’s name, address, and the
telephone number, and any limitations on the use of land within the development
or use of the new residential property being sold as a result of the existence
of these transmission lines.
      (15)   The location of any slopes on the new residential property being
sold that meet or exceed a 3:1 maximum grade;
      (16)   The existing zoning of all land which abuts the development or the
new residential property being sold, and a description of permitted uses and
dimensional requirements for each contiguous zoning district;
      (17)   The identification of any land abutting the development or the new
residential property being sold which is located within the township’s
Agricultural Security District or is deed restricted, eased, or otherwise
conserved or preserved under a federal, state, county, Township, or private
conservation program;
      (18)   The date of the Zoning Ordinance and of the Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance the development and/or the new residential property being
sold is being developed in accordance with. If the development and/or the new
residential property being sold is being developed under a stipulation, a copy
of such stipulation shall be provided with the disclosure statement; and
      (19)   Any constraints which would affect the new residential property
being sold with respect to emergency vehicles accessibility, including fire
lanes, emergency accessways, fire hydrants, and restricted parking areas.
   (D)   The seller of any new residential property shall notify and inform,
both verbally and in writing, all prospective buyers of the new residential
property of any and all known biological, chemical, radioactive, and/or
environmental contamination currently or previously located in, on, above, or
under the property and/or the development. Contamination is the presence of any
substance, material, element, compound, biological entity, or other waste/
pollutant in a quantity, ratio, density, or amount that exceeds the safe levels
for human exposure established by the Federal Government or the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania. Such notification of contamination shall include, at a minimum, a
description of the contaminate(s); a plan showing where the contamination is or
was located upon the property and development; the levels of contamination; a
description of the corrective or remedial actions taken to correct, remove, or
resolve the contamination or a statement that no corrective or remedial actions
have been undertaken; the health risks posed by the contamination; and
governmental investigations, reports, and other documentation concerning the
contamination and any corrective/remedial actions taken in response to this
contamination.
(Ord. 261, passed 12-13-2023)
§ 113.04 RESIDENTIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT.
   The initial retail buyers of new residential property shall complete the
residential disclosure statement attached to Ord. No. 261 and incorporated
therein as Exhibit A, prior to the signing of any agreement of sale. The seller
will be obligated to provide originally signed statements to the township
within five days of execution. The seller shall maintain an originally signed
copy for a period of not less than ten years and provide the purchaser with
another originally signed copy prior to closing.
(Ord. 261, passed 12-13-2023)
§ 113.05 PLAN OF LOT.
   The seller of a new residential property shall present to a prospective
buyer before the agreement of sale for such property is signed, an individual
plan of the lot involved, showing the street upon which the building will
front; the building envelope with rear, front and side yards shown; and the
currently approved grading plan for the lot.
(Ord. 261, passed 12-13-2023)
§ 113.06 COMPLIANCE WITH INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter that information regarding the nature of
the new residential property to be sold be conveyed to all buyers who intend to
use such property for residential occupancy. Any attempt to by-pass the intent
of this chapter by transfer of title to a party or entity who does not intend
to make such use of the property will be considered a violation of this chapter
and shall not exempt the seller from complying with its terms when the property
is sold on a retail basis.
(Ord. 261, passed 12-13-2023)
§ 113.99 PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT.
   Any person who violates or permits the violation of this chapter shall, upon
being found liable therefor in a civil enforcement proceeding commenced by the
township, pay a fine not exceeding $1,000, plus all court costs, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, for each offense incurred by the township in
enforcing this chapter. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense, and each provision violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 261, passed 12-13-2023)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS, PEACE AND SAFETY
      
131.   WARRANTLESS ARRESTS
      
132.   RENTAL HOUSING
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS,
PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Disturbing the peace
   
130.02   Litter
   
130.03   Drag racing
Firearms
   
130.15   Prohibition of firearm discharge
   
130.16   Exceptions
Consumption and Possession of Alcoholic Beverages
Upon the Streets and Public Places
   
130.30   Definitions
   
130.31   Consumption
   
130.32   Possession
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   Any person disturbing the peace within the township shall be guilty of
a violation of this section.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISTURBING THE PEACE.
         (a)   Any act, word or conduct causing or tending to cause a
disturbance of the peace and good order of the township, or causing or tending
to cause any danger, discomfort or annoyance to any of the inhabitants of the
township or users of the township thoroughfares; or making any loud, boisterous
or unseemingly noise or disturbance; or fighting or quarreling or inciting
others to fight or quarrel; or the public use of obscene or indecent language;
or the loafing or loitering or congregating upon any public streets or alleys
or public grounds of the township to the annoyance of peaceable residents
nearby or traveling upon any street or alley or being lawfully upon any public
grounds of the township whereby the public peace is broken or disturbed or the
traveling public annoyed.
         (b)   The act of congregating or loitering on private property by
persons who are neither business invitees nor guests in such a manner as to
inconvenience other persons who are business invitees or guests is also defined
as DISTURBING THE PEACE and is hereby declared to be unlawful.
(Ord. 23, passed 2-8-1967) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 LITTER.
   (A)   No person shall place in any of the streets, creeks, watercourses or
sewer inlets of the township any excrement, filth, garbage, ashes, refuse,
waste paper, rubbish, animal carcass, empty boxes or containers or abandoned
matter of any kind.
   (B)   No person shall place or dump any excrement, filth, garbage, ashes,
refuse, waste paper, rubbish, animal carcass, empty boxes or containers or
abandoned matter of any kind upon the premises of any other person within the
township without the prior permission of such other person.
   (C)    Nothing in this section prohibits any person from setting out garbage
or rubbish for collection by the township or other authorized collector.
(Ord. 22, passed 2-8-1967) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DRAG RACING.
   Any of the following acts or conduct within the township shall constitute a
nuisance, punishable as hereafter set forth:
   (A)   The operating or setting up, preparing or equipping for operation any
field, lot, piece, strip of land or other real estate within the township for
conducting of automobile races in contest or competition between two or more
contestants or operators of automobiles or other vehicles either simultaneously
or by timing;
   (B)   The participation by anyone in the operation of any automobile or
other vehicle in a race or speed contest or other, for pleasure, profit or
prize, or with or without expectation of gain, profit or prize;
   (C)   The use of any land or premises for the assembling, congregating or
gathering of persons to see, witness or attend any race commonly known as a
drag strip race or hot rod race, or the leasing of such to anyone for any such
purpose; or
   (D)   The use of any land in the township for the purpose of enabling,
facilitating or assisting, either for profit or otherwise, the carrying on of
any form of automobile racing, whether admissions or entry charges be made or
collected from any person or persons who attends, or such exhibition, contest
or race is free.
(Ord. 1, passed 6-7-1958) Penalty, see §
130.99
FIREARMS
§ 130.15 PROHIBITION OF FIREARM DISCHARGE.
   Except as necessary in defense of a person or property, and except as
provided in §
130.16, it shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any gun or any
other firearm within 150 yards of an occupied building unless the owner of the
occupied building grants express permission to the shooter. For purposes of
this subchapter, each habitable building shall be presumed to be occupied
whether or not it appears that a person or persons is currently inside the
building.
(Ord. 95, passed 5-10-1989) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Persons licensed to hunt in this commonwealth where hunting is
permitted within 150 yards of a occupied building;
   (B)   Any law enforcement officers when used in the discharge of their
official duties; or
   (C)   Property owners or authorized agents of property owners desiring to
rid their property of rodents, vectors and other animal nuisances; provided:
      (1)   In an emergency, shooting may be done without prior approval of the
Township Police Department, provided that the shooting is done in a careful,
safe, reasonable and prudent manner; and
      (2)   In the event of an ongoing situation, or a situation which is not
an emergency, the property owner shall contact the Police Department to
establish a plan for shooting to a eradicate the problem, and shall proceed in
accordance with the instructions of the Police Department.
(Ord. 95, passed 5-10-1989)
CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES UPON THE
STREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES
§ 130.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing
more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume which is fit for beverage purposes.
   CONTAINER. Any bottle, can or other vessel in which alcoholic beverages are
contained.
(Ord. 110, passed 9-9-1992)
§ 130.31 CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall consume any alcoholic beverage in any quantity upon any
street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, stairway, thoroughfare or other public
property within the township.
(Ord. 110, passed 9-9-1992) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.32 POSSESSION.
   No person shall possess any container of alcoholic beverage whether wrapped
or unwrapped which has been opened or on which the seal has been broken in any
manner on any public street, avenue, alley, thoroughfare or other public
property within the township.
(Ord. 110, passed 9-9-1992) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
130.01, shall, upon conviction before the Magisterial District Judge or other
court of competent jurisdiction and in accordance with the procedures set forth
in the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $300 plus the costs of prosecution,
including, but not limited to, all court costs and reasonable attorney fees
incurred by the township in enforcing the violation. Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense, and each provision violated
shall constitute a separate offense
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
130.02 shall, upon conviction before the Magisterial District Judge or other
court of competent jurisdiction and in accordance with the procedures set forth
in the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $300 plus the costs of prosecution,
including, but not limited to, all court costs and reasonable attorney fees
incurred by the township in enforcing the violation. Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense, and each provision violated
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
130.03 shall, upon conviction before the Magisterial District Judge or other
court of competent jurisdiction and in accordance with the procedures set forth
in the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $500 plus the costs of prosecution,
including, but not limited to, all court costs and reasonable attorney fees
incurred by the township in enforcing the violation. Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense, and each provision violated
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
130.15 or
130.16 shall, upon conviction before the Magisterial District Judge or other
court of competent jurisdiction and in accordance with the procedures set forth
in the Pennsylvania Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $600 plus the costs of prosecution,
including, but not limited to, all court costs and reasonable attorney fees
incurred by the township in enforcing the violation. Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense, and each provision violated
shall constitute a separate offense
(Ord. 1, passed 6-7-1958; Ord. 22, passed 2-8-1967; Ord. 23, passed 2-8-1967;
Ord. 29, passed 8-14-1968; Ord. 95, passed 5-10-1989; Ord. 110, passed 9-9-
1992; Ord. 188, passed 9-10-2008)
CHAPTER 131: WARRANTLESS ARRESTS
Section
   
131.01   Authority to arrest without warrant
   
131.02   Issuance of summary citations
   
131.03   Relationship to other laws and regulations
§ 131.01 AUTHORITY TO ARREST WITHOUT WARRANT.
   In addition to the powers provided by 53 P.S. § 66905, relating to powers of
police officers and 42 Pa.C.S.A. § 6324, relating to taking a juvenile into
custody, police officers of the township shall, upon view and upon probable
cause, have the right of arrest without warrant when there is ongoing conduct
that imperils the personal security of any person or endangers public or
private property for the following offenses, consistent with the Pennsylvania
Judicial Code § 8902, 42 Pa.C.S. § 8902:
   (A)   Disorderly conduct, as per 18 Pa.C.S. § 5503;
   (B)   Public drunkenness, as per 18 Pa.C.S. § 5505;
   (C)   Obstructing highways and other public passages, as per 18 Pa.C.S. §
5507; and
   (D)   Underage consumption, purchase, possession or transportation of liquor
or malt or brewed beverages, as per 18 Pa.C.S. § 6308.
(Ord. 245, passed 1-13-2021)
§ 131.02 ISSUANCE OF SUMMARY CITATIONS.
   Where a warrantless arrest occurs under this chapter, a citation shall be
issued to the defendant at the time of his or her release and, thereafter, the
case shall proceed in accordance with Chapter 4 of the Pennsylvania Rules of
Criminal Procedure.
(Ord. 245, passed 1-13-2021)
§ 131.03 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   This chapter does not and is not intended to limit any arrest powers
conferred upon duly sworn police officers under any federal, state or municipal
law or regulation.
(Ord. 245, passed 1-13-2021)
CHAPTER 132: RENTAL HOUSING
Section
   
132.01   Definition
   
132.02   Duties of property owner
   
132.03   Occupant’s duties and responsibilities
   
132.04   Revocation of rental license
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISRUPTIVE CONDUCT. Any form of conduct, action, incident or behavior
perpetrated, caused or permitted by any occupant or visitor of a dwelling unit
that is so loud, untimely (time of day), offensive, riotous or that otherwise
disturbs other persons of reasonable sensibility in the peaceful enjoyment of
their premises. It is not necessary that such action, conduct, incident or
behavior constitute a criminal offense, nor that criminal charges be filed
against any person in order for a person to have perpetrated, caused or
permitted the commission of DISRUPTIVE CONDUCT.
   DISRUPTIVE CONDUCT REPORT. A report prepared by a the Township Zoning
Officer, Township Code Enforcement Officer or police officer concerning an
investigation of reported disruptive conduct.
      (1)   The information provided within said report shall include, if
possible, the identity or identities of the alleged perpetrator(s) of the
disruptive conduct, a description of such conduct, the location, timing, length
of time and frequency of such conduct and all other relevant obtainable
information.
      (2)   A copy of the DISRUPTIVE CONDUCT REPORT will be forwarded to both
the occupant and the owner of the rental property which is the subject of the
REPORT at their respective addresses.
   OCCUPANT. An individual who resides in a rental property or any portion
thereof with whom a legal relationship with the owner is established by an oral
or written lease/agreement or under the laws of the commonwealth of the state.
This term includes any guests permitted to be present on the authority of the
OCCUPANT.
   OWNER. One or more person or entity, jointly or severally, in whom is vested
all or part of the legal title to the premises or all or part of the beneficial
ownership and a right to present use and enjoyment of the premises, including a
mortgage holder in possession of a rental property.
   PEACEFUL ENJOYMENT. Conduct in a manner that will not disturb or infringe
upon the occupants and/or guests or visitors of adjacent or nearby dwellings or
properties.
   RENTAL PROPERTY. A dwelling unit and associated premises, as defined in the
township zoning ordinance, any portion of which is occupied pursuant to a legal
relationship with the owner established by an oral or written lease or
agreement or under the laws of the commonwealth of the state.
(Ord. 249, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 132.02 DUTIES OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   Rental license. No rental property shall be rented/leased before the
owner of the rental property obtains a rental license for the property from the
township. Such a license shall be obtained by the owner filling out and
submitting to the township an application for rental license for each rental
property, on the township’s approved form, along with the applicable fee. A
separate rental license must be obtained for each rental property. A rental
property’s rental license is valid for as long as the owner(s) named on said
license own the property. A rental license is not transferable, and as such,
any new owner of a rental property must obtain a new rental license for that
property prior to renting or leasing it.
   (B)   License exemptions. Rental properties that have been rented by the
same owner or to the same occupant for more than ten years prior to the
effective date of this chapter are exempted from needing a rental license until
such ten-year plus owner and/or occupant is no longer involved in the renting
or leasing of the property. Exempt properties that are sold to a new owner and/
or rented to a new occupant, such that there is no longer a ten-year plus owner
or occupant involved in the rental or lease of the rental property must have a
rental license in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Immediate
family members (parents, children, grandparents, grandchildren and siblings)
are not considered new owners or occupants under this exemption.
   (C)   Rental license fee. This fee shall be set forth in the township fee
resolution, which may be amended from time to time by the Board of Supervisors
at a public meeting.
   (D)   Maintenance. It shall be the duty of every owner of a rental property
to keep and maintain such property in compliance with all applicable state and
local laws, ordinances, codes, rules and regulations.
   (E)   Proper conduct. As provided for in this chapter, every owner shall be
responsible for regulating the proper and lawful use of every rental property
which he, she or it owns. As provided for in this chapter, every owner shall
also be responsible for regulating the conduct and activities of the occupants
of every rental property which he, she or it owns in the township, which
conduct or activity takes place at, within, upon or about such rental property
or its premises. At a minimum, owners are responsible for ensuring that their
occupants fully comply with this chapter and do not engage in anything that
constitutes disruptive conduct at, within, upon or about the rental property.
   (F)   Liability. This chapter shall not be construed as diminishing or
relieving in any way the responsibility of occupants or their guests or
visitors for their conduct or activity; nor shall it be construed as an
assignment, transfer or projection over or onto any owner of any responsibility
or liability in law which occupants or their guests or visitors may have as a
result of their conduct or activity under any private cause of action, civil or
criminal enforcement proceeding or criminal law; nor shall this chapter be
construed so as to require an owner to indemnify or defend occupants or their
guests or visitors when any such action or proceeding is brought against the
occupant based upon the occupant’s conduct or activity. Nothing herein is
intended to impose any additional civil or criminal liability upon owners other
than that which is imposed by existing laws.
   (G)   Rental agreement. All disclosures and information required to be given
to an occupant by the owner shall be furnished at or before the commencement of
the landlord-tenant relationship concerning a rental property. The owner shall
provide the occupant with copies of any rental agreement and addendums upon
execution.
      (1)   The owner and occupant may include in a rental agreement terms and
conditions not prohibited by this chapter or other applicable ordinances,
regulations and laws including rent, term of the agreement and other provisions
governing the right and obligations of the parties.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, no rental agreement
shall provide that the occupant or owner agrees to waive or to forego rights or
remedies under this chapter. Any provision prohibited by this division (G)
included in a rental agreement is unenforceable.
      (3)   Provision of summary of ordinance to occupant. Following the
effective date of the ordinance prescribed within this chapter, being Ord. 249,
effective as of July 19, 2021, a summary of the occupant’s responsibilities
under this chapter, substantially in the form set forth in Appendix A, which
was originally attached to this chapter and hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full, shall be provided to the occupant at
or before the commencement of the landlord-tenant relationship concerning a
rental property. If a summary has been provided at or before the commencement
of the landlord-tenant relationship, a summary does not have to be provided
upon renewal.
      (4)   Where a rental agreement has been entered into prior to the
effective date of this chapter, being July 19, 2021, the owner shall provide
the occupants with a copy of a summary in accordance with this division (G)
within 60 days after enactment of this chapter, being July 14, 2021.
      (5)   The owner shall secure a written acknowledgment from the occupants
that the owner has provided and that the occupants have received the
disclosures and information required by this chapter, including, but not
limited to, those set forth in Appendix A. This acknowledgment shall be signed
by all owners and occupants of a rental property.
      (6)   Within ten days of a request by the township, the owner shall
furnish to the township copies of any lease(s) required by the State Landlord
Tenant Act that the owner has entered into for a rental property, including all
related signed acknowledgments required by this division (G) that the occupants
have received the mandated disclosures and information, including, but not
limited to, Appendix A.
   (H)   Other remedies. This chapter is not intended to, nor shall its effect
be, to limit any other enforcement remedies which may be available to the
township against an owner, occupant or guest or visitor of a rental property.
(Ord. 249, passed 7-14-2021) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 OCCUPANT’S DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   General. Every occupant shall comply with all obligations imposed upon
occupants by this chapter, as well as all applicable statues, laws, ordinances,
codes, rules and regulations of the township, the commonwealth of the state,
and the federal government.
   (B)   Peaceful enjoyment. All occupants shall conduct themselves and require
all guests and visitors to conduct themselves in a manner that will not disturb
the peaceful enjoyment of the rental property by others and that will not
disturb the peaceful enjoyment of adjacent or nearby properties any dwellings
by the persons occupying same.
   (C)   Disruptive conduct.
      (1)   An occupant shall not engage in, tolerate nor permit others on the
premises to engage in disruptive conduct or other violations of this chapter
at, within, upon or about the rental property.
      (2)   When an officer of the township investigates an alleged incident of
disruptive conduct, he or she shall complete a disruptive conduct report upon a
finding that the reported incident did, in his or her judgment, constitute
disruptive conduct, as defined in §
132.01.
      (c)   The issuance of three disruptive conduct reports by the township
for a single rental property within any rolling 12-month period shall cause the
owner of the rental property to be subject to revocation of the rental license
issued for that rental property, at the discretion of the township.
      (d)   Each finding by the township of disruptive conduct or other
violation of this chapter by an occupant of a rental property constitutes a
violation of this chapter and subjects the violator to the penalties set forth
in this chapter.
(Ord. 249, passed 7-14-2021) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 REVOCATION OF RENTAL LICENSE.
   (A)   Revocation. The owner of a rental property which has had its rental
license revoked pursuant to §
132.03 shall not be entitled to reinstatement of said rental property’s rental
license for a period of 12 months. This 12-month revocation period will not
commence until the subject rental property has been vacated by the occupant(s)
and will be suspended for the time the subject rental property is occupied by
any occupants.
   (B)   Notice of rental license revocation. The township shall issue a notice
of rental license revocation to any owner and occupant with respect to a
particular rental property which has accumulated three disruptive conduct
reports within any rolling 12-month period. The notice of rental license
revocation shall include the following:
      (1)   The name of the owner(s) of record of the rental property that is
the subject of the notice and any other person against whom the township
intends to take action;
      (2)   The name(s) of the occupants of the rental property that is the
subject of the notice;
      (3)   The location of the rental property that is the subject of the
notice;
      (4)   Copies of the specific disruptive conduct reports being relied upon
for the revocation, with a description of the conduct leading to the issuance
of the disruptive conduct reports;
      (5)   That the owner(s) and/or occupant(s) who is the recipient of the
notice has the right to appeal to the Township UCC Board of Appeals within 30
days of the issuance of the notice, as more fully set forth in this chapter;
and
      (6)   That failure to comply with notice of rental license revocation may
result in additional penalties and actions being taken against the owner(s),
including, but not limited, to, summary citations filed with the Magisterial
District Judge and/or equitable enforcement claims filed with the Court of
Common Pleas.
   (C)   Effect of notice. Upon receipt of a notice of rental license
revocation, the owner must order the occupants of the rental property subject
to the notice to vacate the property within 30 days of the issuance of the
notice. Likewise, upon receipt of a notice of rental license revocation, the
occupants of the rental property subject to the notice must vacate the property
within 30 days of the issuance of the notice. If the occupants refuse or fail
to vacate the rental property within 30 days of the issuance of the notice, the
owner shall immediately start eviction proceeding against the occupants of the
rental property subject to the notice. The 12-month revocation period shall not
commence until the occupants have vacated the subject rental property to the
satisfaction of the township.
   (D)   Appeal.
      (1)   Any owner or occupant of a rental property which rental license is
revoked under this chapter may file an appeal of such revocation to the
Township UCC Board of Appeals along with the applicable fee. Any such appeal
and fee must be received by the township within 30 days of the issuance of the
notice of rental license revocation in order for the appeal to be perfected and
heard.
      (2)   An appeal under this section shall be filed with the township in
writing and made upon the township’s form.
      (3)   An appeal under this section shall state at least the following:
         (a)   The name(s) of the owner(s) of the rental property that is
subject of the appeal;
         (b)   The name(s) and periods of occupancy of all occupants of the
rental property that is subject of the appeal within the previous 12 months;
and
         (c)   The legal and/or factual grounds upon which the appellant
believes the appealed notice of rental license revocation and/or the underlying
reports of disruptive conduct were improperly issued or should not be upheld.
      (4)   A copy of the written lease or agreement for the subject rental
property, if any, under which the current occupant of the rental property
possesses the rental property or any portion thereof, shall be provided with
the appeal.
      (5)   Failure to appeal a notice of rental license revocation shall
result in a conclusive determination that the rental license has been properly
revoked and the underlying disruptive conduct reports were appropriately
issued.
   (E)   Intervention. The Township Board of Supervisors shall be entitled to
intervene as a party in front of the Township UCC Board of Appeals with respect
to any appeal of a notice of rental license revocation. Such intervention may
take the form of sending the township solicitor to appear before the Township
UCC Board of Appeals or issuing a letter stating the township’s position with
respect to any appeal. In addition, an owner or occupant of a rental property
subject to an appeal of a notice of rental license revocation filed by another
party shall have the right to intervene in such appeal as a party in front of
the Township UCC Board of Appeals at any time during the pendency of that
appeal.
   (F)   Procedure. The Township UCC Board of Appeals shall hold any and all
hearings on an appeal and issue a decision concerning an appeal in accordance
with the Pennsylvania Local Agency Law, 2 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq.
   (G)   Appeals to court. Any party to an appeal of a notice of rental license
revocation aggrieved by the written adjudication of the Township UCC Board of
Appeals regarding such appeal may appeal that adjudication to the Bucks County
Court of Common Pleas within 30 days of the date of issuance of the
adjudication. Within 30 days following the filing of an appeal to the Court of
Common Pleas, the township and any owner or occupant of the rental property
directly involved in the action appealed from may intervene as of course by
filing a notice of intervention, accompanied by proof of service of the same,
upon each appellant or each appellant’s counsel of record. All other
intervention shall be governed by the State Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. 249, passed 7-14-2021) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The rental of a rental property without a valid rental license from
the township constitutes a violation of this chapter, which violation may be
enforced by the issuance of a non-traffic citation to the owner of the subject
rental property. The fine for such a violation shall be not less than $300 and
not more than $1,000. Each day for which a rental property is rented without a
license shall constitute a separate violation.
   (B)   The rental or continued rental of a rental property after the issuance
notice of rental license revocation constitutes a violation of this chapter,
which violation may be enforced by the issuance of a non-traffic citation to
the owner of the subject rental property. The fine for such a violation shall
be not less than $300 and not more than $1,000. Each day for which a rental
property with a revoked rental license is rented without a license shall
constitute a separate violation.
   (C)   The issuance of a disruptive conduct report constitutes a violation of
this chapter, which violation may be enforced by the issuance of non-traffic
citations to the owner and/or occupant of the subject rental property. The fine
for such a violation shall be not less than $100 and not more than $1,000. Each
disruptive conduct report that is issued concerning a rental property shall
constitute a separate violation.
   (D)   Failure by owner to order the vacation of or failure by occupant to
vacate a rental property within 30 days of the issuance of a notice of rental
license revocation constitutes a violation of this chapter, which violation may
be enforced by the issuance of non-traffic citations to the owner and/or
occupant of the subject rental property. The fine for such a violation shall be
not less than $100 and not more than $1,000. Each day for which a rental
property with a revoked rental license is not ordered to vacate or not vacated
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (E)   The issuance or non-issuance of a non-traffic citation under this
section shall not affect or foreclose upon the authority of the township to
institute a complaint in law or equity in the Court of Common Pleas concerning
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the remedies and penalties provided above, the
township, at its sole discretion, may refuse to issue a rental license for a
rental property that has been cited for being rented without a valid rental
license for up to one year after the rental property has been vacated by the
violating occupant(s). Likewise, the township, at its sole discretion, may
refuse to issue a rental license for a rental property that has been cited for
being rented during the 12-month period the property’s rental license is
revoked for up to one year after the rental property’s original 12-month
revocation period has been completed.
(Ord. 249, passed 7-14-2021)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   OFFICIAL MAP
      
151.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
152.   SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: OFFICIAL MAP
Section
   
150.01   Purpose
   
150.02   Official map
   
150.03   Approved plats
   
150.04   Effect of official map
   
150.05   Time limitations
   
150.06   Special encroachment permit
§ 150.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to adopt an official map of the township that
shows public lands and facilities within the township, and more specifically, a
proposed public road known as Township Road T-XXX. The township adopts this
chapter pursuant to Article IV of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10401 et seq.
(Ord. 160, passed 3-9-2005)
§ 150.02 OFFICIAL MAP.
   The official map to be adopted by this chapter is being made a part hereof
and incorporated herein by reference as if set out in full herein. A copy of
this official map shall be recorded with the office of the Recorder of Deeds of
the county, and another shall be kept on file in the Township Building. The
official map adopted herein is more fully titled, “Bedminster Township Official
Map of the C-2 District, Sheet 1 of 1, prepared for Bedminster Township, dated
January 20, 2005.” This official map lays out proposed Township Road T-XXX, a
public road extending from Bedminster Road (S.R. 113) to Rickerts Road (T-417),
located east of and running generally parallel to Dublin Pike (S.R. 313), and
establishes a 60-foot wide right-of-way for construction of improvements within
T-XXX. This official map may be amended from time to time pursuant to the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code.
(Ord. 160, passed 3-9-2005)
§ 150.03 APPROVED PLATS.
   All streets, watercourses, public grounds, public parks, playgrounds, open
space, pedestrian ways and easements, stormwater management facilities,
floodplains and any other public lands and/or facilities shown on final,
recorded plats that have been approved by the township in accordance with the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code shall be deemed amendments to this
official map.
(Ord. 160, passed 3-9-2005)
§ 150.04 EFFECT OF OFFICIAL MAP.
   The township shall not issue any permit for any proposed or existing
building, improvement or other structure within the lines of any street,
watercourse, public ground, public park, playground, open space, pedestrian way
or easement, stormwater management facility, floodplain or any other public
land and/or facility shown or laid out upon the official map or an amendment
thereof. No person shall recover any damages for the taking for public use of
any building improvement, or structure constructed within the lines of any
street, watercourse, public ground, public park, playground, open space,
pedestrian way or easement, stormwater management facility, floodplain or any
other public land and/or facility after the same has been included in the
official map or any amendment thereof.
(Ord. 160, passed 3-9-2005)
§ 150.05 TIME LIMITATIONS.
   All streets, watercourses, public grounds, public parks, playgrounds, open
space, pedestrian ways and easements, stormwater management facilities,
floodplains and any other public lands and/or facilities shown on the official
map shall be deemed reserved for future taking or acquisition for public use
for 25 years from the date of enactment of this official map or any amendment
thereof. Any reservation for public grounds, however, shall lapse and become
void one year after an owner of such property has submitted a written notice to
the Board of Supervisors announcing his or her intention to build, subdivide or
otherwise develop the land covered by the reservation, or one year after an
owner of such property has made formal application for an official permit to
build a structure for private use upon the land covered by the reservation.
This lapse of the reservation shall not take effect if the township has
acquired or begun condemnation proceeding to acquire the land covered by the
reservation before the end of this one-year period.
(Ord. 160, passed 3-9-2005)
§ 150.06 SPECIAL ENCROACHMENT PERMIT.
   When the official map shows or lays out public lands and/or facilities upon
property and said property cannot yield a reasonable return to the owner unless
a permit is granted, the owner may apply to the Board of Supervisors for the
grant of a special encroachment permit to build the proposed building,
improvement and/or structure. Before granting any special encroachment permit,
the Board shall submit the application to the Township Planning Commission. The
Planning Commission shall have 30 days in which to hold a public hearing,
pursuant to public notice, for the review and issuance of comments upon the
application. All interested parties shall have an opportunity to be heard at
this hearing. After 30 days have elapsed from the submission of the application
to the Planning Commission or upon receipt of the Planning Commission’s review
and comments regarding the application, whichever is sooner, the Board shall
take a vote, at a public meeting, upon the application. If the Board refuses to
grant the special encroachment permit, this refusal may be appealed to the
Township Zoning Hearing Board in conformance with the applicable provisions of
Article IX of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10401
et seq.
(Ord. 160, passed 3-9-2005)
CHAPTER 151: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Short title
   
151.002   Statement of findings
   
151.003   Purpose
   
151.004   Statutory authority
   
151.005   Applicability
   
151.006   Exemptions
   
151.007   Waivers
   
151.008   Repealer
   
151.009   Severability
   
151.010   Compatibility with other ordinance requirements
   
151.011   Interpretations
   
151.012   Definitions
Regulations, Criteria and Standards
   
151.025   General requirements
   
151.026   Stormwater management peak rate control
   
151.027   Volume controls
   
151.028   Riparian buffers
   
151.029   Non-structure project design; sequencing to minimize stormwater
impacts
   
151.030   Additional requirements applicable to infiltration oriented
stormwater management systems
   
151.031   Stream bank erosion requirements
   
151.032   Design criteria for stormwater management facilities and best
management practices
   
151.033   Calculation methodology
   
151.034   Standards during land disturbance
   
151.035   Water quality requirements after regulated earth disturbance
activities are complete
Site Plan Requirements
   
151.050   General requirements
   
151.051   SWM site plan preparation
   
151.052   Plan submission
   
151.053   SWM site plan review
   
151.054   Erroneous permit
   
151.055   Retention of plans at project site
   
151.056   Adherence to approved plan
   
151.057   Modification of plans
   
151.058   Resubmission of disapproved SWM site plans
   
151.059   Authorization to construct and term of validity
   
151.060   As-built plans, completion certificate and final inspection
   
151.061   Occupancy permit
Inspections
   
151.075   Schedule of inspections
   
151.076   Right of entry
Fees and Expenses
   
151.090   SWM site plan review fee
   
151.091   Expenses covered by fees
   
151.092   Itemization of costs
Maintenance Responsibilities
   
151.105   Performance guarantee
   
151.106   Maintenance responsibilities; site plan
   
151.107   Operation and maintenance agreements
   
151.108   Stormwater management easements
   
151.109   Municipal Stormwater Maintenance Fund
Prohibitions
   
151.120   Prohibited discharges and connections
   
151.121   Roof drains and sump pumps
   
151.122   Waste disposal prohibitions
   
151.123   Alteration of SWM BMPs
Enforcement and Penalties
   
151.135   Right-of-entry
   
151.136   Inspection
   
151.137   Enforcement
   
151.138   Suspension and revocation
   
151.139   Public Nuisance
   
151.140   Appeals
 
   
151.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Operation and maintenance agreement (O&M)
   
Appendix B: Stormwater management design criteria
   
Appendix C: Stormwater Runoff Peak Rate District map
   
Appendix D: Chapter 93 designated use map
   
Appendix E: Preliminary site investigation and testing requirements
   
Appendix F: Low impact development (LID) practices
   
Appendix G: Nonstructural stormwater management BMPs
   
Appendix H: Hot spots
   
Appendix I: Simplified stormwater management procedures for existing single-
family dwellings
   
Appendix J: Impervious hardscaping design and credit criteria
   
Appendix K: Stormsewer bedding/backfill requirements
   
Appendix L: References
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Bedminster Township
Stormwater Management Ordinance.”
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.002 STATEMENT OF FINDINGS.
   The township’s Board of Supervisors finds the following.
   (A)   Inadequate management of accelerated stormwater runoff resulting from
development and redevelopment throughout a watershed increases runoff volumes,
flows and velocities contributes to erosion and sedimentation; overtaxes the
carrying capacity of existing streams and storm sewers; greatly increases the
cost of public facilities to carry and control stormwater; undermines
floodplain management and flood reduction efforts in upstream and downstream
communities; reduces groundwater recharge; threatens public health and safety;
and increases nonpoint source pollution of water resources.
   (B)   Inadequate planning and management of stormwater runoff resulting from
land development and redevelopment throughout a watershed can also harm surface
water resources by changing the natural hydrologic patterns; accelerating
stream flows (which increase scour and erosion of streambeds and stream-banks
thereby elevating sedimentation); destroying aquatic habitat; and elevating
aquatic pollutant concentrations and loadings such as sediments, nutrients,
heavy metals and pathogens. Groundwater resources are also impacted through
loss of recharge.
   (C)   Through project design impacts from stormwater runoff can be minimized
to maintain the natural hydrologic regime and sustain high water quality,
groundwater recharge, stream base flow and aquatic ecosystems. The most cost
effective and environmentally advantageous way to manage stormwater runoff is
through nonstructural project design, minimizing impervious surfaces and
sprawl, avoiding sensitive areas (e.g., stream buffers, floodplains, steep
slopes and the like) and designing to topography and soils to maintain the
natural hydrologic regime.
   (D)   These impacts happen mainly through a decrease in natural infiltration
of stormwater.
   (E)   A comprehensive program of stormwater management (SWM), including
reasonable regulation of development and activities causing accelerated runoff,
is fundamental to the public health, safety and welfare and critical for the
protection of people of the commonwealth and the township, their respective
resources and the environment.
   (F)   Stormwater is an important water resource that provides groundwater
recharge for water supplies and supports the base flow of streams.
   (G)   The use of green infrastructure and low impact development (LID) is
intended to address the root cause of water quality impairment by using systems
and practices which use or mimic natural processes to infiltrate and recharge,
evapotranspire and/or harvest and use precipitation near where it falls to
earth. Green infrastructure practices and LID contribute to the restoration or
maintenance of pre-development hydrology.
   (H)   Federal and state regulations require certain municipalities such as
the township to implement a program of stormwater controls. These
municipalities are required to obtain a federal permit for stormwater
discharges from their separate storm sewer systems under the National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES).
   (I)   Public education on the control of pollution from stormwater is an
essential component in successfully addressing stormwater.
   (J)   Non-stormwater discharges to municipal separate storm sewer systems
can contribute to pollution of waters of the commonwealth by the township.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.003 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote health, safety and welfare within
the township and its watershed by minimizing the harms and maximizing the
benefits described in §
151.002, through provisions designed to:
   (A)   Meet legal water quality requirements under state law, including
regulations of 25 Pa. Code § 93 to protect, maintain, reclaim and restore the
existing and designated uses of the waters of this commonwealth;
   (B)   Preserve natural drainage systems;
   (C)   Manage stormwater runoff close to the source, reduce runoff volumes
and mimic predevelopment hydrology;
   (D)   Provide procedures and performance standards for stormwater planning
and management;
   (E)   Maintain groundwater recharge to prevent degradation of surface and
groundwater quality and to otherwise protect water resources;
   (F)   Maintain existing flows and quality of streams and watercourses in the
township and the commonwealth;
   (G)   Prevent scour and erosion of stream banks and streambeds;
   (H)   Manage stormwater impacts close to the runoff source, requiring a
minimum of structures and relying on natural processes;
   (I)   Meet legal water quality requirements under state law, including
regulations of 25 Pa. Code, Chapter 93.4.a, requiring protection and
maintenance of existing uses, maintenance of the level of water quality to
support those uses in all streams and the protection and maintenance of water
quality in special protection streams;
   (J)   Provide proper operation and maintenance of all stormwater best
management practices (BMPs) that are implemented within the township; and
   (K)   Provide standards to meet NPDES permit requirements.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.004 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The township is empowered to regulate land use activities that affect runoff
by the authority of the Act of October 4, 1978, 32 P.S., Pub. L. No. 864 (Act
167) §§ 680.1 et seq., as amended, the Storm Water Management Act and by the
Authority of Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247 of 1968, as
amended by Act 170 of 1988, as further amended by Act 209 of 1990 and Act 131
of 1992, 53 P.S. § 10101.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.005 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   All regulated activities and all activities that may affect stormwater
runoff, including land development and earth disturbance activity, are subject
to regulation by this chapter; and this chapter shall apply to all areas of the
township including, but not limited to, the Tohickon Creek Watershed and the
East Branch Perkiomen Creek Watershed.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to temporary and permanent stormwater
management facilities constructed as part of any of the regulated activities
listed in this section. Stormwater management and erosion and sedimentation
control during construction activities that are specifically not regulated by
this chapter shall continue to be regulated under existing laws and ordinances.
   (C)   This chapter contains stormwater management performance standards and
design criteria that are necessary or desirable from a watershed-wide
perspective. Stormwater management design criteria (e.g. inlet spacing, inlet
type, collection system design and details, outlet structure design and the
like) shall also be regulated by applicable existing laws and ordinances.
   (D)   The following activities are defined as regulated activities and shall
be regulated by this chapter, except as exempted by §
151.006:
      (1)   Subdivision and land development;
      (2)   Prohibited or polluted discharges;
      (3)   Alteration of the natural hydrologic regime;
      (4)   Subsequent to October 19, 2020 (the effective date of this
chapter), the construction of additional impervious surfaces (e.g. driveways,
parking lots and the like) and/or construction of new buildings/additions to
existing buildings, which, solely and/or cumulatively (refer § 151.006(B),
results in more than 1,000 square feet of additional impervious surface;
      (5)   Diversion or piping of any natural stream channel;
      (6)   Installation of BMPs and stormwater management facilities or
appurtenances thereto; and
      (7)   Temporary storage of impervious or pervious material (rock, soil
and the like) where ground contact exceeds 5% of the lot area or 5,000 square
feet (whichever is less), and where the material is placed on slopes exceeding
8%. (Based on Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) stock
piling regulations, maximum stockpile height is 35 feet, with maximum side
slopes of a ratio of two to one (2:1).)
   (E)   On residential lots of one acre or less, any proposed individual home
construction projects, accessory structures projects and/or other projects
involving the construction or installation of impervious surfaces, which,
solely and/or cumulatively, propose from 500 square feet up to 1,000 square
feet of additional impervious surface, shall either comply with the stormwater
management requirements set forth in §§
151.025 through 151.035, or utilize the simplified procedure set forth within
Appendix I to this chapter to meet the requirements of this chapter. Such
projects are not required, however, to submit formal SWM site plans to the
township. This procedure may not be utilized in conjunction with or concerning
any proposed subdivision or land development.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020; Ord. 248, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 151.006 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   General exemptions. The following land use activities are exempt from
stormwater management requirements of §§
151.025 through 151.035:
      (1)   Use of land for gardening for occupant’s home consumption;
      (2)   Agriculture when operated in accordance with a conservation plan,
nutrient management plan or erosion and sedimentation control plan, approved by
the Bucks County Conservation District, including activities such as growing
crops, rotating crops, tilling of soil and grazing animals. Installation of new
or expansion of existing farmsteads, animal housing, waste storage and
production areas having impervious surfaces shall be subject to the provisions
of this chapter unless exempt pursuant to division (B) below;
      (3)   Forest management operations following the DEP’s management
practices contained in its publication Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control
Guidelines for Forestry and operating under an E&S plan approved by the Bucks
County Conservation District which have a zoning permit approval by the
township; and
      (4)   Public road replacement, replacement paving, repaving and/or
maintenance.
   (B)   Regulated activities. All regulated activities as described in §
151.005 shall comply with the stormwater management requirements set forth
herein, except those activities listed in the stormwater management exemption
criteria tables provided below. Those activities listed in stormwater
management exemption criteria tables are, to the extent stated herein, exempt
from peak rate control requirements of §
151.026. An exemption, however, shall not relieve an applicant from meeting
runoff volume requirements of §
151.027 for watersheds draining to high quality (HQ) or exceptional value (EV)
waters.
   (C)   Site plan submission requirements. Any regulated activity that meets
the exemption criteria established in this section is exempt from stormwater
management site plan submission requirements of §§ 151.050 through
151.061. (Refer requirements of division (E) below.) Exemption criteria shall
apply to the total development even if development is to take place in phases.
The starting point from which to consider tracts as parent tracts is the
effective date of this chapter. All impervious surface area constructed on or
after the effective date of this chapter shall be considered cumulatively.
Impervious surface existing on the parent tract prior to the date of this
chapter shall not be considered in cumulative impervious area calculations for
exemption purposes. An exemption shall not relieve the applicant from
implementing such stormwater control measures and erosion control measures as
are necessary to protect health, safety and property.
      (1)   Regulated activities included within §
151.005(D) are exempt where the amount of impervious surface conforms to Table
1 below and the proposed location of this impervious surface on a parcel
conforms to Table 2 below.
 
Total Parcel Area (acres) Maximum Impervious Surface Area (square feet)
Less than 0.5             1,000
0.5 to 1.0                2,500
Greater than 1.0 to 2.0   4,000
Greater than 2.0 to 5.0   5,000
Greater than 5.0          7,500
 
      (2)   Any impervious surface area meeting the exemption criteria listed
under Table 1 above that is located within a setback (excluding driveway
access) measured from the downslope property boundary shall conform to the
Table 2 below.
Setback* (feet) Maximum Impervious Surface Area Permitted Within the Setback
                (square feet)
Setback* (feet) Maximum Impervious Surface Area Permitted Within the Setback
                (square feet)
10              None permitted
20              1,000
50              2,500
100             4,000
200             5,000
500             7,500
* The minimum setback distance is measured between the proposed impervious
area (excluding driveway access) and/or stormwater control/structure discharge
point to the downslope property boundary. The maximum allowable impervious
surface area is the amount of impervious surface area permitted within the
setback distance. For example, a total of 4,000 square feet of impervious
surface is permitted within the 100-foot setback, of which none is permitted
within the 10-foot setback, not more than 1,000 square feet is permitted
within the 20-foot setback and not more than 2,500 square feet is permitted
within the 50-foot setback.
 
      (3)   In lieu of meeting the minimum distance criteria set forth in Table
2 above, an applicant may provide documentation from a professional engineer
registered in the commonwealth of the state that the increased flows from the
site leave the site in the same manner as the predevelopment condition, and
that there will be no adverse effects to properties along the path of flow(s).
The township may require the aforementioned documentation on any site including
a site meeting the minimum distance or parcel size criteria when deemed
necessary at the sole discretion of the township.
      (4)   Regulated activities included within §
151.005(D) proposed on a parcel used for agricultural activity, deed restricted
from further subdivision or containing a conservation easement restricting
future development to not more than two dwellings which conform to the
exemption criteria listed under Table 1 above or the exemption criteria listed
under Table 3 below are exempt.
 
Total Parcel Area (acres) Maximum Impervious Surface Area* (square feet)
Greater than 5.0 to 10.0  7,500
Greater than 10.0 to 20.0 10,000
Greater than 20.0 to 50.0 15,000
Greater than 50.0         25,000
* Location of impervious surface must conform to Table 2.
 
      (5)   If an applicant receives an exemption for agricultural activity
pursuant to §
151.006(C)(4) and the property is subdivided in the future for non-agricultural
purposes, stormwater design for the subdivision must consider all impervious
surface constructed after October 14, 2020, as meadow in good condition.
      (6)   Construction or reconstruction of buildings or additions to
existing buildings or other impervious surface (activities regulated pursuant
to §
151.005(D) are exempt where the following conditions are met:
         (a)   An area of impervious surface is removed within the same sub-
watershed on the project site equal to, or in excess of, the proposed
impervious surface area; and
         (b)   The area where existing impervious surface is removed pursuant
to §
151.004(A) above must be restored with a minimum of eight inches of topsoil and
stabilized groundcover.
      (7)   Lot line adjustment subdivisions are exempt when no increase in
impervious surface is proposed.
   (D)   Simplified procedure for single family dwelling lots.
      (1)   Individual home construction projects and accessory structures on
existing single-family lots which result in less than 2,500 square feet of new
impervious area (including the building footprint, driveway, sidewalks and
parking areas) and less than 5,000 square feet of earth disturbance, but do not
meet exemption criteria of §
151.006(B) or are subject to the additional criteria of §
151.006(E) may utilize the simplified procedure within Appendix I to this
chapter to meet requirements of this chapter and are not required to submit
formal SWM site plans to the township.
      (2)   This procedure may not be utilized for, in conjunction with or
concerning any proposed subdivision or land development.
   (E)   Additional exemption criteria.
      (1)   An exemption shall not relieve an applicant from implementing such
measures as are necessary to protect the public health, safety and property.
      (2)   An exemption shall not relieve an applicant from meeting the
special requirements for watersheds draining to high quality (HQ) or
exceptional value (EV) waters contained in §§
151.003 and
151.006.
      (3)   Where drainage problems are documented or known to exist downstream
of, or are expected from, the proposed activity, the township may deny an
exemption, at its sole discretion.
   (F)   Application for exemption. All applicants seeking an exemption from
the stormwater management requirements of this chapter based upon criteria
contained in this §
151.006 shall be required, at a minimum. To submit to the township the
following documentation for review:
      (1)   Three copies of the completed township stormwater management
application form;
      (2)   Stormwater management exemption review fee and escrow, as
established by separate resolution of the township’s Board of Supervisors; and
      (3)   Three copies of a plot plan for the parcel, which is the subject of
the exemption application, containing, at a minimum, the following information:
         (a)   Property boundaries and area of the site, based on deed
information or field survey;
         (b)   Location map identifying the site relative to streets and other
parcels in the vicinity of the site;
         (c)   Location of significant natural and existing human-made
features, including wetlands, watercourses, woodlands, steep slopes,
structures, parking areas, driveways, utilities, wells and septic systems
within 200 feet of proposed impervious surface, regardless of the location of
the property boundary;
         (d)   Location and dimensions of existing and proposed impervious
surface and other improvements, with setbacks drawn to relate the location of
same to property lines, streets and existing features;
         (e)   North arrow;
         (f)   Plan scale, as applicable;
         (g)   Information regarding existing/proposed topography and drainage
patterns, within 200 feet of proposed impervious surface based on field survey,
LIDAR and/or field observation; and
         (h)   Other information deemed necessary by the Township Engineer to
determine compliance with exemption criteria contained in this section.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020; Ord. 248, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 151.007 WAIVERS.
   (A)   If the township determines that any requirement under this chapter
cannot be achieved for a particular regulated activity, the township may, after
an evaluation of alternatives, approve measures other than those required by
this chapter, subject to this section.
   (B)   Waivers or modifications of the requirements of this chapter may be
approved by the Board of Supervisors if enforcement will exact undue hardship
because of peculiar conditions pertaining to the land in question; provided
that the modifications will not be contrary to the public interest and that the
purpose of this chapter is preserved. Cost or financial burden shall not be
considered a hardship. Modification may be considered if an alternative
standard or approach will provide equal or better achievement of the purpose of
this chapter. A request for modification shall be in writing and accompany the
stormwater management site plan submission. The request shall provide the facts
on which the request is based, the provision(s) of the ordinance involved, and
the proposed modification.
   (C)   No waiver or modification of any regulated stormwater activity
involving earth disturbance greater than or equal to one acre may be granted by
the township unless that action is approved in advance by the DEP or the Bucks
County Conservation District.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.008 REPEALER.
   Any ordinance or ordinance provision of the township inconsistent with any
of the provisions of this chapter is hereby repealed to the extent of the
inconsistency only.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.009 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared invalid by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration or decision of invalidity
shall not affect the validity of any of the remaining provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.010 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Approvals issued and actions taken under this chapter do not relieve an
applicant of the responsibility to secure required permits or approvals for
activities regulated by any other statute, code, law, rule, regulation or
ordinance. To the extent that this chapter imposes more rigorous requirements
for stormwater management than any other statute, law, code, ordinance, rule or
regulation, the specific requirements contained in this chapter shall be
followed.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.011 INTERPRETATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words used herein shall
be interpreted as follows.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; the singular
number includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular; words
of masculine gender include feminine gender, and words of feminine gender
include masculine gender.
   (B)   The word “includes” or “including” shall not limit the term to the
specific example but is intended to extend its meaning to all other instances
of like kind and character.
   (C)   The word “person” includes an individual, firm, association,
organization, partnership, trust, company, corporation or any other similar
entity.
   (D)   The words “shall” and “must” are mandatory; the words “may” and
“should” are permissive.
   (E)   The words “used” or “occupied” include the words “intended,”
“designed,” “maintained,” “arranged to be used,” “occupied” or “maintained.”
   (F)   Any provision referencing or incorporating a federal, state or county
rule or regulation shall be interpreted to mean the most recent and/or up to
date version of that rule or regulation (e.g., that rule or regulation as
amended or replaced from time to time by regulating authority).
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.012 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCELERATED EROSION. The removal of the surface of the land through the
combined action of human activity and the natural processes of a rate greater
than would occur because of the natural process alone.
   AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY. Activities associated with agriculture, such as
agricultural cultivation, agricultural operation and animal heavy use areas.
This includes the work of producing crops including tillage, land clearing,
plowing, disking, harrowing, planting, harvesting crops or pasturing and
raising of livestock and installation of conservation measures. Construction of
new buildings or impervious area is not considered an agricultural activity.
   ALTERATION. As applied to land, a change in topography as a result of the
moving of soil and rock from one location or position to another; also, the
changing of surface conditions by causing the surface to be more or less
impervious; or earth disturbance. Alteration includes removal of trees and
vegetation in a manner, or to an extent, to increase the rate or volume of
stormwater runoff.
   APPLICANT. A landowner, developer or other person who has filed an
application for approval to engage in any regulated activities as defined in §
151.005.
   AS-BUILT PLAN. Plans that are maintained during construction of the project
and which document the actual locations of the site improvements. An AS-BUILT
PLAN must be prepared by a professional landscape architect, professional land
surveyor or professional engineer licensed in the commonwealth of the state.
   BANKFULL. The point where water begins to overflow the channel onto a
floodplain.
   BASE FLOW. The portion of stream flow that is sustained by groundwater
discharge.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). Activities, facilities, designs, measures or
procedures used to manage stormwater impacts from regulated activities to meet
state water quality requirements, promote groundwater recharge and otherwise
meet the purposes of this chapter. Stormwater BMPs are commonly grouped into
one of two broad categories or measures: “structural” or “non-structural.”
      (1)   In this chapter, non-structural BMPs or measures refer to
operational and/or behavior-related practices that attempt to minimize the
contact of pollutants with stormwater runoff, whereas structural BMPs or
measures are those that consist of a physical device or practice that is
installed to capture and treat stormwater runoff.
      (2)   Structural BMPs include, but are not limited to, a wide variety of
practices and devices from large-scale retention ponds and constructed
wetlands, to small-scale underground treatment systems, infiltration
facilities, filter strips, low impact design, bioretention, wet ponds,
permeable paving, grassed swales, riparian or forested buffers, sand filters,
detention basins and manufactured devices. Structural stormwater BMPs are
permanent appurtenances to the project site.
   BMP MANUAL. The Pennsylvania Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual,
December 30, 2006 edition, as amended.
   CONSERVATION DISTRICT. Bucks County Conservation District.
   CULVERT. A pipe, conduit or similar structure, including appurtenant works,
which conveys surface water underground and/or under or through an embankment
or fill.
   DAM. An artificial barrier, together with its appurtenant works, constructed
for the purpose of impounding or storing water or another fluid or semifluid,
or a refuse bank, fill or structure for highway, railroad, or other purposes
which does or may impound water or another fluid or semifluid.
   DEP. Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
   DESIGN PROFESSIONAL. A professional engineer, landscape architect or land
surveyor licensed in the commonwealth of state and trained to develop
stormwater management plans.
   DESIGN STORM. The magnitude and temporal distribution of precipitation from
a storm event measured in probability of occurrence (e.g. 50-year storm) and
duration (e.g. 24-hours), used in the design and evaluation of stormwater
management facilities. Also see the definition of RETURN PERIOD.
   DESIGNEE. The agent of the Township Board of Supervisors involved with the
administration, review or enforcement of any provisions of this chapter by
contract or memorandum of understanding.
   DETENTION BASIN. An impoundment structure designed to manage stormwater
runoff by temporarily storing the runoff and releasing it at a predetermined
rate.
   DETENTION DISTRICT. Those subareas in which some type of detention is
required to meet the plan requirements and goals of Act 167.
   DEVELOPER. A person, partnership, association, corporation or other entity,
or any responsible person therein or agent thereof, that undertakes a
development project and/or any regulated activity.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, the construction or placement of buildings or
other structures, mobile homes, streets and other paving, utilities, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling operations and the
subdivision of land.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The provisions for development including a planned
residential development, a plat of subdivision, all covenants relating to use,
location and bulk of buildings and other structures, intensity of use or
density of development, streets, ways and parking facilities, common open space
and public facilities. The phrase PROVISIONS OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN when used in
this chapter shall mean the written and graphic materials referred to in this
definition.
   DEVELOPMENT SITE. See the definition of PROJECT SITE.
   DISCONNECTED IMPERVIOUS AREA (DIA). Rooftop or other impervious surface, the
drainage of which is directed to a pervious area that allows for infiltration,
filtration and increased time of concentration.
   DISTURBED AREA. Unstabilized land area where an earth disturbance activity
is occurring or has occurred.
   DOWNSLOPE PROPERTY BOUNDARY. That portion of the property line of the site
which is located such that overland or pipe flow from the site would be
directed toward it.
   DRAINAGE CONVEYANCE FACILITY. A stormwater management facility designed to
transmit stormwater runoff, including streams, channels, swales, pipes,
conduits, culverts, storm sewers and the like.
   DRAINAGE EASEMENT. A right granted by a landowner to a grantee, allowing the
use of private land for stormwater management purposes.
   DRAINAGEWAY. Any natural or artificial watercourse, trench, ditch, swale,
channel or similar depression into which surface water flows.
   E&S MANUAL. Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection Erosion and
Sediment Pollution Control Program Manual, No. 363-2134-008 (March 31, 2012),
as amended and updated.
   EARTH DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY. Construction or other human activity which
disturbs and destabilizes the surface of the land, including, but not limited
to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavations, embankments, development, road
maintenance and the moving, depositing, stockpiling or storing of soil, rock or
earth materials.
   EMERGENCY SPILLWAY. A conveyance area that is used to pass peak discharge
greater than the maximum design storm controlled by the stormwater management
facility.
   ENGINEER. A licensed professional civil engineer registered by the
commonwealth of the state.
   EROSION. The natural process by which the surface of the land, including
channels, is worn away by water, wind or chemical action.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN. A site-specific plan identifying the BMPs
to minimize accelerated erosion and sedimentation, pursuant to 25 Pa. Code
Chapter 102.
   EXCEPTIONAL VALUE WATERS. Surface waters of high quality which satisfy the
requirements currently set forth in Pa. Code Title 25, Environmental
Protection, Chapter 93, Water Quality Standards, § 93.4b(b) (relating to
antidegredation), as amended or replaced from time to time by the DEP.
   EXISTING CONDITIONS. The dominant land cover during the five-year period
immediately preceding a proposed regulated activity. Farm field, disturbed
earth or undeveloped cover conditions of a site or portions of a site used for
modeling purposes shall be considered as “meadow,” unless the natural
groundcover generates lower curve numbers or Rational “C” value, such as
forested land. Existing human-made impervious surfaces shall be considered as
meadow when developing cover complex calculations.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
dry land areas from the overflow of streams, rivers, watercourses and other
waters of the commonwealth.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to inundation by water from any
natural source or delineated by applicable FEMA maps and studies as being a
special flood hazard area. This term also includes areas that comprise Group 13
Soils, as listed in Appendix A of the Pennsylvania DEP Technical Manual for
Sewage Enforcement Officers (as amended or replaced from time to time by the
DEP).
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the adjoining
floodplains that are reasonably required to carry and discharge the 100-year
frequency flood. Unless otherwise specified, the boundary of the floodway is as
indicated on maps and flood insurance studies provided by FEMA. In an area
where no FEMA maps or studies have defined the boundary of the 100-year
frequency floodway, it is assumed absent evidence to the contrary, that the
FLOODWAY extends from the streambank to 50 feet from the top of the bank of the
stream.
   FOREST MANAGEMENT. Planning and activities necessary for the management of
forestland. These include conducting a timber inventory, preparation of forest
management plans, silvicultural treatment, cutting budgets, logging road design
and construction, timber harvesting, site preparation and reforestation.
   FREEBOARD. A vertical distance between the elevation of the design high-
water and the top of a dam, levee, tank, basin or diversion ridge. The space is
required as a safety margin in a pond or basin.
   GRADE. The slope of a street, other public way, land area, drainage facility
or pipe specified in percent.
   GRASSED SWALE. A natural or constructed swale, usually broad and shallow,
covered with erosionresistant grasses, used to conduct surface water.
   GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE. Systems and practices that use or mimic natural
processes to infiltrate, evapotranspire or reuse stormwater on the site where
it is generated.
   GROUNDWATER RECHARGE. Replenishment of natural underground water supplies.
   HEC-HMS. The United States Army Corps of Engineers, Hydrologic Engineering
Center (HEC)-Hydrologic Modeling System (HMS).
   HIGH QUALITY WATERS. Surface waters having quality which exceeds levels
necessary to support propagation of fish, shellfish and wildlife and support
recreation in and on the water as defined by the requirements currently set
forth in 25 Pa. Code, Environmental Protection, Chapter 93, Water Quality
Standards, § 93.4b(a), as amended or replaced from time to time by DEP.
   HYDRIC SOIL. A soil that is saturated, flooded or ponded long enough during
the growing season to develop an anaerobic condition in the upper part.
   HYDROLOGIC REGIME (NATURAL). The hydrologic cycle or balance that sustains
quality and quantity of stormwater, stream baseflow, stormwater storage and
groundwater supplies under the natural conditions.
   HYDROLOGIC SOIL GROUP (HSG). Infiltration rates of soils vary widely and are
affected by subsurface permeability, as well as surface intake rates. Soils are
classified into four HSGs (A, B, C and D) according to their minimum
infiltration rate, which is obtained for bare soil after prolonged wetting. The
NRCS defines the four groups and provides a list of most of the soils in the
United States and their group classification. The soils in the area of the
development site may be identified from a soil survey report that can be
obtained from local NRCS offices or onservation district offices. Soils become
less pervious as the HSG varies from A to D. (NRCS1, 2)
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE (IMPERVIOUS AREA). A surface that prevents the
infiltration of water into the ground. IMPERVIOUS SURFACES (or areas) shall
include, but not be limited to, roofs, additional indoor living spaces, patios,
garages, storage sheds, pools, any similar structures and any new streets or
sidewalks. Decks, parking areas and driveway areas are not counted as
IMPERVIOUS AREAS if they are designed and constructed as a BMP so that they
promote infiltration.
   IMPOUNDMENT. A retention or detention basin designed to retain and/or
infiltrate stormwater runoff and release it at a controlled rate.
   INFILTRATION. The passing of stormwater through the soil from the surface.
   INFILTRATION STRUCTURE. A structure designed to direct runoff into the
ground (e.g. French drains, seepage pits, seepage trench, biofiltration swale,
infiltration basins and the like).
   INLET. A surface connection to a closed drain; a structure at the diversion
end of a conduit; the upstream end of any structure through which water may
flow.
   INVERT. The inside bottom of a culvert or other conduit.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT. Inclusive of any or all of the following meanings:
      (1)   The improvement of one or two or more contiguous lots, tracts or
parcels of land for any purpose involving:
         (a)   A group of two or more residential or nonresidential buildings,
whether purposed initially or cumulatively, or a single nonresidential building
on a lot or lots regardless of the number of occupants or tenure; or
         (b)   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially
or cumulatively, between or among two or more existing or prospective occupants
by means of, or for the purpose of streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups or other features.
      (2)   A subdivision of land;
      (3)   Development in accordance with the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code § 503(1.1); and
      (4)   LAND DEVELOPMENT does not include development which involves the
following:
         (a)   The conversion of an existing single-family detached dwelling or
single-family semi-detached dwelling into not more than three residential
units, unless such units are intended to be a condominium;
         (b)   The addition of a residential accessory building, including farm
building, on a lot or lots subordinate to an existing principal building; or
         (c)   The addition or conversion of buildings or rides within the
confines of an enterprise which would be considered an amusement park. For the
purposes of this definition, an “amusement park” is defined as a tract or area
used principally as a location for permanent amusement structures or rides.
This exclusion shall not apply to newly acquired acreage by an amusement park
until initial plans for the expanded area have been approved by the proper
authorities.
   LIMITING ZONE. A soil horizon or condition in the soil profile or underlying
strata which includes one of the following:
      (1)   A seasonal high-water table, whether perched or regional,
determined by direct observation of the water table or indicated by soil
mottling;
      (2)   A rock with open joints, fracture or solution channels or masses of
loose rock fragments,
including gravel, with insufficient fine soil to fill the voids between the
fragments; and/or
      (3)   A rock formation, other than stratum or soil condition which is so
slowly permeable that it effectively limits downward passage of effluent.
   LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT (LID). Site design approaches and small-scale
stormwater management practices that promote the use of natural systems for
infiltration, evapotranspiration and reuse of rainwater. LID can be applied to
new development, urban and suburban retrofits and revitalization projects. LID
utilizes design techniques that infiltrate, filter, evaporate and store runoff
close to its source. Rather than rely on costly large-scale conveyance and
treatment systems, LID addresses stormwater through a variety of small, cost-
effective landscape features located on-site.
   MANNING EQUATION (MANNING FORMULA). A method for calculation of velocity of
flow (feet per second) and flow rate (cubic feet per second) in open channels
based upon channel shape, roughness, depth of flow and slope. Open channels may
include closed conduits when the flow is not under pressure.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). A system of conveyances owned
by a state, city, town or other public entity that include catch basins, curbs,
gutters, ditches, human-made channels, pipes, tunnels or storm drains that
discharge into waters of the United States.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). A provision of the
Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., that prohibits discharge of
pollutants into waters of the United States unless a special permit is issued
by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or a state or a
tribal government.
   NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION. Pollution that enters a body of water from
diffuse origins in the watershed and does not result from discernible, confined
or discrete conveyances.
   NRCS. USDA Natural Resource Conservation Service (previously SCS).
   OPEN CHANNEL. A drainage element in which stormwater flows with an open
surface. OPEN CHANNELS include, but shall not be limited to, natural and human-
made drainageways, swales, streams, ditches, canals and pipes flowing partly
full.
   OUTFALL. An outfall is defined as any point where a separate storm sewer
system discharges to either waters of the United States or to another MS4.
OUTFALLS include discharges from pipes, ditches, swales and other points of
concentrated flow.
   PARENT TRACT. The parcel of land from which a land development or
subdivision originates as of the date of adoption of this chapter.
   PEAK DISCHARGE. The maximum rate of stormwater runoff from a specific storm
event.
   PENNDOT. The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, association, corporation or other
entity.
   PERVIOUS AREA. Any area not defined as impervious.
   PIPE. A culvert, closed conduit or similar structure (including
appurtenances) that conveys stormwater.
   POINT SOURCE. Any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, including,
but not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel or conduit from which
stormwater is or may be discharged, as defined in state regulations at 25 Pa.
Code § 92.1.
   PRETREATMENT. Techniques employed in stormwater BMPs to provide storage or
filtering to trap coarse materials and other pollutants before they enter the
stormwater management system.
   PROJECT SITE. The specific tract of land where any regulated activity in the
township is planned, conducted or maintained.
   QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL. Any person licensed by the Pennsylvania Department
of State or otherwise qualified by law to perform the work required by this
chapter.
   RATIONAL FORMULA. A rainfall-runoff relation used to estimate peak flow.
   RECHARGE AREA. Undisturbed surface area or depression where stormwater
collects, a portion of which infiltrates and replenishes groundwater.
   REGULATED ACTIVITY. Any activity to which this chapter is applicable
pursuant to §
151.005.
   REGULATED EARTH DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY. Activity subject to regulation under
25 Pa. Code § 92, 25 Pa. Code § 102, or the State Clean Streams Law, 35 P.S. §
691.1 et seq.
   RECHARGE VOLUME. A calculated volume of stormwater runoff from impervious
areas which is required to be infiltrated at a site and may be achieved through
use of structural or non-structural BMPs.
   RELEASE RATE. The percentage of predevelopment peak rate of runoff from a
site or subarea to which the post development peak rate of runoff must be
reduced to protect downstream areas.
   REMOVED RUNOFF. The volume of runoff that is captured and not released
directly into the surface waters of the commonwealth during or after a storm
event.
   RETENTION BASIN. A basin designed to collect and hold and/or infiltrate
stormwater runoff so that a permanent pool is established.
   RETENTION VOLUME/REMOVED RUNOFF. The volume of runoff that is captured and
not released directly into the surface waters of the commonwealth during or
after a storm event.
   RETURN PERIOD. The average interval, in years, within which a storm event of
a given magnitude can be expected to recur. For example, the 25-year RETURN
PERIOD rainfall would be expected to recur on the average once every 25 years;
or, stated another way, the probability of a 25-year storm occurring in any one
year is 0.04 (being a 4% chance).
   RIPARIAN BUFFER. A permanent area of trees and shrubs located adjacent to
intermittent and perennial streams, lakes, ponds or wetlands.
   RIPARIAN CORRIDOR. A vegetated ecosystem along a waterbody that serves to
buffer the waterbody from the effects of runoff by providing water quality
filtering, bank stability, recharge, rate attenuation and volume reduction and
shading of the waterbody by vegetation. Riparian corridors also provide habitat
and may include streambanks, riparian buffers, wetlands, floodplains and
transitional areas.
   RISER. A vertical pipe extending from the bottom of a pond or basin that is
used to control the discharge rate from the pond or basin for a specified
design storm.
   RUNOFF. Any part of precipitation that flows over the land.
   SEDIMENT. Soils or other materials transported by surface water as a product
of erosion.
   SEDIMENT BASIN. A barrier, dam or retention or detention basin located and
designed to retain rock, sand, gravel, silt or other material transported by
water.
   SEDIMENT POLLUTION. The placement, discharge or any other introduction of
sediment into the waters of the commonwealth.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process by which mineral or organic matter is accumulated
or deposited by the movement of water.
   SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM. A system of pipes, open channels, streets and
other conveyances intended to carry stormwater runoff.
   SHEET FLOW. Runoff that flows over the ground surface as a thin, even layer,
not concentrated in a channel.
   SITE. The specific tract(s) of land where any regulated activity is planned,
proposed, conducted or maintained.
   SOIL-COVER COMPLEX METHOD. A method of runoff computation developed by the
NRCS that is based on relating soil type and land use/cover to a runoff
parameter called a curve number (CN).
   STATE WATER QUALITY REQUIREMENTS. The regulatory requirements to protect,
maintain, reclaim and restore water quality under 25 Pa. Code and the State
Clean Streams Law.
   STORM FREQUENCY. The number of times that a given storm event occurs or is
exceeded on the average in a stated period of years. Refer the definition of
RETURN PERIOD.
   STORM SEWER. A system of pipes and/or open channels that convey intercepted
runoff and stormwater from other sources, but excludes domestic sewage and
industrial wastes.
   STORMWATER. Drainage runoff from the surface of the land resulting from
precipitation or snow or ice melt.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITY. Any structure, natural or human-made, that,
due to its condition, design, or construction, conveys, stores or otherwise
affects stormwater runoff. Typical stormwater management facilities include,
but are not limited to, detention and retention basins, open channels, storm
sewers, pipes, infiltration structures and other BMPs.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the township after the SWM
site plan has been approved. Said permit is issued prior to or with the final
township approval of the proposed development activity.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. The plan for managing stormwater runoff within
the township adopted as required by the Act of October 4, 1978, Pub. L. No.
864, (Act 167), as amended and known as the “Stormwater Management Act.”
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SITE PLAN (SWM SITE PLAN). The plan prepared by a
developer or its engineer indicating how stormwater runoff will be managed at
the development site in accordance with this chapter. The STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SITE PLAN will be designated as SWM SITE PLAN throughout this chapter.
   STREAM OR WATERCOURSE. Rivers, creeks, springs and other perennial or
intermittent watercourses containing water at least on a seasonal basis during
an average water year. The term STREAM shall include all of the following:
      (1)   SPRINGS OR SEEPS. The point where groundwater discharges to become
surface water.
      (2)   STREAM, EPHEMERAL. A reach of stream that flows only during and for
short periods following precipitation, and flows in low areas that may or may
not be a well-defined channel. EPHEMERAL STREAM beds are located above the
water table year-round. Groundwater is not a source of water for the STREAM.
Some commonly used names for EPHEMERAL STREAMS include stormwater channel,
drain, swale, gully, dry stream channel, hollow or saddle.
      (3)   STREAM, HEADWATER. The beginning reach of a stream, which collects
water from springs and seeps and provides a hydrologic connection to a
perennial stream. These channels may be ill-defined and may move from year to
year depending upon groundwater input, snowmelt and runoff, but are typified by
hydric soils and hydric vegetation.
      (4)   STREAM, INTERMITTENT. A reach of stream that flows only during wet
periods of the year and flows in a continuous well-defined channel. During dry
periods, when the water table is depressed by seasonal aridity or drought,
INTERMITTENT STREAMS may go down to a trickle of water and appear dry, when in
fact there is water flowing within the stream bottom or substrate.
      (5)   STREAM, PERENNIAL. A body of water in a channel that flows
throughout a majority of the year in a defined channel and is capable, in the
absence of pollution, drought or human-made stream disturbances, of supporting
a benthic macroinvertebrate community that is composed of two or more
recognizable taxonomic groups of organisms, large enough to be seen by the
unaided eye and can be retained by a United States Standard No. 30 sieve (28
meshes per inch, 0.595 millimeter openings) and live at least part of their
life cycles within or upon available substrates in a body of water or water
transport system. A PERENNIAL STREAM can have Q7-10 flow of zero. For the
purposes of this chapter, a PERENNIAL STREAM includes rivers, lakes, ponds and
other permanent surface water bodies.
   STREAM ENCLOSURE. A bridge, culvert or other structure in excess of 100 feet
in length upstream to downstream which encloses a regulated water of this
commonwealth.
   SUBAREA. The smallest drainage unit of a watershed for which stormwater
management criteria have been established in the stormwater management plan.
   SUBDIVISION. As defined in the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code,
Act of July 31, 1968, Pub. L. 805, No. 247.
   SURVEYOR. A licensed professional land surveyor registered by the
commonwealth of the state.
   SWALE. A low-lying stretch of land which gathers or carries surface water
runoff.
   TIME OF CONCENTRATION (Tc). The time for surface runoff to travel from the
hydraulically most distant point of the watershed to a point of interest within
the watershed. This time is the combined total of overland flow time and flow
time in pipes or channels, if any.
   TOWNSHIP. Bedminster Township, Bucks County, Pennsylvania.
   TOWNSHIP ENGINEER. A professional engineer licensed in the commonwealth of
the state and appointed by the township pursuant to the Pennsylvania Second
Class Township Code Article V, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq.
   TRIBUTARY AREA. The portion of a watershed that contributes runoff to a
particular point in that watershed.
   USDA. United States Department of Agriculture.
   VOLUMETRIC RUNOFF COEFFICIENT. A variable indicative of stormwater runoff
volume and dependent on the impervious coverage for a site.
   WATER QUALITY REQUIREMENTS. As defined under state regulations, protection
of designated and existing uses (Refer 25 Pa. Code Chapters 93 and 96):
      (1)   Each stream segment in state has a designated use, such as cold
water fishery or potable water supply, which are listed in 25 Pa. Code Chapter
93. These uses must be protected and maintained under state regulations;
      (2)   Existing uses are those attained as of November 1975, regardless
whether they have been designated in 25 Pa. Code Chapter 93. Land development
must be designed to protect and maintain existing uses and maintain the level
of water quality necessary to protect those uses in all streams, and to protect
and maintain water quality in special protection streams; and
      (3)   Water quality involves the chemical, biological and physical
characteristics of surface water bodies. After land development, these
characteristics can be impacted by addition of pollutants such as sediment, and
changes in habitat through increased flow volumes and/or rates. Therefore,
discharge to surface waters must be designed and managed to protect the
streambank, streambed and structural integrity of the waterway to prevent these
impacts.
   WATERS OF THE COMMONWEALTH. Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, rivulets,
impoundments, ditches, watercourses, storm sewers, lakes, dammed water,
wetlands, ponds, springs and all other bodies or channels of conveyance of
surface and underground water, or parts thereof, whether natural or artificial,
within or on the boundaries of this commonwealth.
   WATERSHED. Region or area bounded peripherally by water parting and draining
to a particular watercourse or body of water.
   WETLAND. Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at
a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs, fens and similar
areas.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
REGULATIONS, CRITERIA AND STANDARDS
§ 151.025 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All regulated activities within the township which do not fall under
the exemption criteria contained within §
151.006 of this chapter shall submit a SWM site plan consistent with this
chapter to the township for review. These criteria shall apply to the total
proposed development even if development is to take place in stages.
   (B)   Regulated activities shall be designed, implemented, operated and
maintained to meet the purposes of this chapter through these two elements:
      (1)   Erosion and sediment control prevention during land development
(earth disturbance during construction); and
      (2)   Water quality protection measures after completion of land
development (post-construction).
   (C)   No approval of any subdivision or land development plan, or issuance
of any building, erosion and sedimentation control permit, occupancy permit or
the commencement of any earth disturbance at a project site within the
township, shall proceed until the requirements of this chapter are met,
including approval of a SWM site plan in accordance with § 151.050 and a permit
has been issued under DEP regulations, where applicable.
   (D)   Erosion and sediment control during land development shall be
addressed as required by § 151.034.
   (E)   Water quality protection and infiltration shall be addressed as
required by §§
151.027 and
151.030.
   (F)   All best management practices (BMPs) shall conform to the design
criteria of this chapter and the BMP Manual.
   (G)   Stormwater drainage systems shall be provided in order to permit
unimpeded flow along natural watercourses, except as modified by stormwater
management facilities designed to encourage infiltration, groundwater recharge
and improved water quality.
   (H)   Stormwater flows onto adjacent property shall not be created,
increased, decreased, relocated or otherwise altered without written
notification to the adjacent property owner(s). Such stormwater flows shall be
subject to the requirements of this chapter.
   (I)   Existing points of concentrated drainage that discharge onto adjacent
property shall not be altered without written approval of the affected property
owner(s) and shall be subject to any applicable discharge criteria specified in
this chapter.
   (J)   For all subdivision and land development applications, the tributary
area discharging drainage to any location along the site property boundary
shall not increase by more than 25% over the predevelopment condition without
written approval from the adjacent affected property owner(s) and the township.
   (K)   Where a subdivision or land development site is traversed by
watercourses, drainage easements shall be provided conforming to the line of
such watercourses. The width of the easement shall be adequate to provide for
the unimpeded flow of stormwater runoff from the 100-year storm event. However,
in no case shall the easement be less than 30 feet in width. Terms of the
easement shall be subject to approval by the township and prohibit excavation,
the placing of fill or structures and any alterations that may adversely affect
the flow of stormwater within any portion of the easement. The easement shall
also require periodic maintenance of the easement area by the landowner to
ensure proper runoff conveyance.
   (L)   When it can be shown that, due to topographic conditions, drainageways
on the project site cannot adequately provide for drainage, open channels may
be constructed conforming substantially to the line and grade of such
drainageway. Work within stream shall be subject to approval by the township
and DEP through the joint permit application process, or, where deemed
appropriate by DEP, through the general permit process.
   (M)   Any stormwater management facility regulated by this chapter that
would be located in or adjacent to waters of the commonwealth or wetlands shall
be subject to approval by DEP through the joint permit application process, or,
where deemed appropriate by DEP, the general permit process. When there is a
question whether wetlands may be involved, it is the responsibility of the
applicant or his or her agent to show that the land in question cannot be
classified as wetlands; otherwise, approval to work in the area must be
obtained from DEP and the township.
   (N)   Any stormwater management facilities regulated by this chapter that
would be located on state highway rights-of-way or would discharge stormwater
to facilities located within a state highway right- of-way shall be subject to
approval by PennDOT and the township.
   (O)   Site disturbance and impervious surface shall be minimized.
Infiltrating stormwater runoff through seepage beds, infiltration trenches and
the like shall be required, where soil conditions permit, to reduce the size or
eliminate the need for retention/detention facilities.
   (P)   Infiltration BMPs shall be spread out, made as shallow as practicable
and located to maximize use of natural on-site infiltration features while
still meeting the other requirements of this chapter.
   (Q)   Normally dry, open top storage facilities shall completely drain both
the volume control and rate control capacities over a period of time not less
than 24 hours and not more than 72 hours from the end of the design storm.
   (R)   Design storm volumes to be used in the analysis of peak rates of
discharge shall be obtained from the latest version of the Precipitation-
Frequency Atlas of the United States, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA), National Weather Service, Hydrometeorological Design
Studies Center, Silver Spring, Maryland.
   (S)   If methods other than green infrastructure and LID methods are
proposed to achieve the volume and rate controls required under this chapter,
the SWM site plan must include a detailed justification demonstrating that the
use of LID and green infrastructure is not practicable.
   (T)   All collected stormwater runoff shall be pretreated for water quality
prior to discharge to surface or groundwater as required by §
151.027.
   (U)   Completed stormwater management facilities, including detention/
retention basins, shall be surveyed by a surveyor or engineer to verify
compliance with the character of stormwater management facilities as depicted
on the approved final plan (or subsequently approved revision, thereof). As-
constructed plans shall be submitted to the township for review and approval,
upon completion of construction of all facilities and prior to the offer of
dedication of any public facilities and/or submission of financial security for
the required maintenance period. Public facilities will not be accepted by the
township until such time the as-constructed plans have been reviewed and
approved by the Township Engineer.
   (V)   The record plan and development agreement for an approved subdivision
or land development shall define the ownership and maintenance
responsibilities, as well as access rights for all drainage related easements.
Specifically, the record plan shall contain a provision permitting access to
such easement(s), at any reasonable time, for inspection and/or emergency
repair/maintenance, by the township or its designee, of all facilities. In the
event the property owner fails to honor the maintenance responsibilities set
forth herein, in any manner, the township shall have the right of entry upon
and within the area of the easement to undertake any required corrective or
maintenance effort. The total cost of such, including administrative,
engineering and legal costs for enforcement, may be imposed upon the
responsible party as determined by the township.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.026 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PEAK RATE CONTROL.
   (A)   Mapping of stormwater runoff peak rate districts. In order to
implement the provisions of this chapter and the Perkiomen Creek Watershed and
Tohickon Creek Watershed Stormwater Management Plans, the township is hereby
divided into stormwater runoff peak rate districts consistent with the plans.
The boundaries of the districts are indicated on the Stormwater Runoff Peak
Rate District map that is available for inspection at the township building. A
copy of this Stormwater Runoff Peak Rate District map is attached hereto and
incorporated herein as Appendix C of this chapter.
   (B)   Stormwater Runoff Peak Rate District boundary. The exact location of
the Stormwater Runoff Peak Rate District boundary as it applies to a given
development site shall be determined by mapping the boundaries using the two
feet or five feet topographic contours provided as part of the stormwater
management plan developed for the site in accordance with the township’s
subdivision and land development ordinance. The District boundaries, as
originally drawn, coincide with topographic divides or, in certain instances,
are drawn from the intersection of the watercourse or a potential flow
obstruction to the topographic divide consistent with topography. The locations
determined on the stormwater management plan shall be reviewed and verified by
the Township Engineer.
   (C)   Description of Tohickon Creek watershed stormwater runoff hydrologic
peak rate districts.
      (1)   One hundred Percent Release Rate District. Subareas included in
this District are 11 through 16, 22 through 28, 31 through 34, 41, 44 through
48, 50, 51, 54 and 56 through 59. These subareas are not expected to incur a
great deal of development growth due to location, topography, soils or a
combination of all three factors. Also, the location of these subareas in the
watershed is of minor importance in supporting the overall watershed level
runoff control. Therefore, these subareas are allowed to release post-
development runoff at a rate that does not exceed the existing rates of runoff.
      (2)   Ninety Percent Release Rate District. Subareas included in this
District are 29, 30 and 35 through 40. Certain subareas require the control of
stormwater runoff to a portion of the existing runoff equal to 90%. These
subareas are located in upper reaches of the watershed. In order to ensure
uniform watershed-level runoff control, the assignment of this release rate on
a widespread basis will uniformly restrict the future runoff in a fashion that
favors no particular subarea.
      (3)   Conditional No Detention District (direct discharge). Subareas
included in this District are 18, 20, 21, 42, 43, 49, 52, 62, 70, 72, 76 and
77. These subareas may discharge post-development runoff without the use of
detention facilities without adversely affecting the total watershed peak flow.
These subareas are located adjacent to Tohickon Creek or Lake Nockamixon, which
waterbodies are capable of absorbing undetained runoff without affecting the
watershed level control. In certain instances, the conveyance capabilities of
the local receiving facilities may not be adequate to safely transport the
increased peak flows from undetained runoff. In these cases, the developer
shall ensure that one 100% release rate control is applied to the particular
receiving stream(s), and/or the developer may provide increased capacity of
those receiving facilities in order to ensure safe passage of any undetained
runoff.
   (D)   Description of East Branch Perkiomen Creek Watershed Stormwater Runoff
Hydrologic Peak Rate District . Subareas included in the 100% Release Rate
District are 1 through 10, 17 and 19. These subareas are not expected to incur
a great deal of development growth due to location, topography, soils, subarea
or a combination of all these factors. Also, the location of these subareas in
the watershed is of minor importance in supporting the overall watershed level
runoff control. Therefore, these subareas are allowed to release post-
development runoff at a rate that does not exceed the existing rates of runoff.
   (E)   Sites located in more than one district. For a proposed development
site located within two or more subareas located in more than one release rate
district, the peak discharge rate from any subarea shall be the pre-development
peak discharge for that subarea multiplied by the applicable release rate. The
calculated peak discharges shall apply regardless of whether the proposed
grading changes the drainage areas by subarea.
   (F)   Off-site areas. Off-site areas that drain through a proposed
development site are not subject to release rate criteria when determining
allowable peak runoff rates or volume reduction. However, onsite drainage
facilities shall be designed to safely convey off-site flows through or around
the development site to existing points of discharge from the property.
   (G)   Exception. Where the area of a site being impacted by a proposed
development activity differs significantly from the total site area, only the
proposed disturbed area utilizing stormwater management measures shall be
subject to the management district criteria. Unimpacted or undisturbed areas
that do not flow into, or bypass, the stormwater management facilities shall
not be subject to the requirements of this section.
   (H)   Downstream hydraulic capacity analysis. Any downstream capacity
hydraulic analysis conducted in accordance with this chapter shall use the
following criteria for determining adequacy for accepting increased peak flow
rates.
      (1)   Natural or human-made channels or swales must be able to convey the
increased runoff associated with a two-year return period event within their
banks at velocities consistent with protection of the channels from erosion.
Acceptable velocities shall be based upon criteria included in the E&S Manual.
      (2)   Natural or human-made channels or swales must be able to convey the
increased 25-year return period runoff without creating any hazard to persons,
property or wildlife and aquatic habitat. Habitat impact shall be minimized or
avoided.
      (3)   Culverts, bridges, storm sewers or any other facilities which must
pass or convey flows from the tributary area must be designed in accordance
with DEP, Chapter 105 regulations (if applicable) and, at a minimum, pass the
increased 25-year return period runoff.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.027 VOLUME CONTROLS.
   (A)   (1)   The green infrastructure and low impact development practices
provided in the BMP Manual shall be utilized for all regulated activities
wherever possible. Water volume controls shall be implemented using the design
storm method in division (B) below or the simplified method in division (C)
below.
      (2)   This chapter establishes no preference for either methodology
concerning regulated activities covering an area equal to or less than one acre
that do not require hydrologic routing to design the stormwater facilities, and
therefore, in such a situation, the applicant may select either methodology on
the basis of economic considerations, the intrinsic limitations on
applicability of the analytical procedures associated with each methodology and
other factors.
   (B)   The Design Storm Method (CG-1 in the BMP Manual) is applicable to any
size of regulated activity. This method requires detailed modeling based on
site conditions.
      (1)   Do not increase the post-development total runoff volume for all
storms equal to or less than the two-year, 24-hour duration precipitation.
      (2)   For modeling purposes:
         (a)   Existing (pre-development) non-forested pervious areas must be
considered meadow in good condition; and
         (b)   One hundred percent of existing impervious area, when present,
shall be considered meadow in good condition in the model for existing
conditions.
   (C)   The simplified method (CG-2 in the BMP Manual) provided below is
independent of site conditions and shall be used if the design storm method is
not followed. This method is not applicable to regulated activities with earth
disturbance greater than one acre, or for projects that require design of
stormwater storage facilities.
      (1)   For new impervious surfaces:
         (a)   Stormwater facilities shall capture at least the first two
inches of runoff from all new impervious surfaces;
         (b)   At least the first one inch of runoff from new impervious
surfaces shall be permanently removed from the runoff flow; it shall not be
released into the surface waters of the commonwealth. Removal options include
reuse, evaporation, transpiration and infiltration; and
         (c)   Wherever possible, infiltration facilities shall be designed to
accommodate infiltration of the entire permanently removed runoff; however, in
all cases at least the first one-half inch of the permanently removed runoff
shall be infiltrated.
      (2)   This method is exempt from the requirements of §
151.026.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.028 RIPARIAN BUFFERS.
   (A)   In order to protect and improve water quality, a riparian buffer
easement shall be created and
recorded as part of any subdivision or land development that encompasses a
riparian buffer.
   (B)   Except as required by of the 25 Pa. Code, Chapter 102, the riparian
buffer easement shall be measured to be the greater of the limit of the 100-
year floodplain or, as required by the township zoning ordinance, a minimum of
37 and one-half feet from the center of the bed of a perennial or intermittent
stream or watercourse (on each side).
   (C)   Minimum management requirements for riparian buffers include:
      (1)   Existing native vegetation shall be protected and maintained within
the riparian buffer easement; and
      (2)   Whenever practicable, invasive vegetation shall be actively
removed, and the riparian buffer easement shall be planted with native trees,
native shrubs and other native vegetation to create a diverse native plant
community appropriate to the intended ecological context of the site.
   (D)   The riparian buffer easement shall be granted to and enforceable by
the township and shall be recorded in the Bucks County Recorder of Deed’s
office, so that it shall run with the land and shall limit the use of the
property located therein. The easement shall allow for the continued private
ownership.
   (E)   Any permitted use within the riparian buffer easement shall be
conducted in a manner that will maintain the extent of the existing 100-year
floodplain, improve or maintain the stream stability, and preserve and protect
the ecological function of the floodplain.
   (F)   The following conditions shall apply when public and/or private
recreation trails are permitted within riparian buffers:
      (1)   Trails shall be for non-motorized use only; and
      (2)   Trails shall be designed to have the least impact on native plant
species and other sensitive environmental features.
   (G)   Septic drain fields and sewage disposal systems shall not be permitted
within the riparian buffer easement and shall comply with setback requirements
established under 25 Pa. Code, Chapter 73, to the riparian buffer easement
boundary line.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.029 NON-STRUCTURE PROJECT DESIGN; SEQUENCING TO MINIMIZE STORMWATER
IMPACTS.
   (A)   For design and applicability of non-structural BMPs, refer to the BMP
Manual Chapter 5. For the non-structural BMPs proposed, the applicant shall
utilize and submit appropriate checklists included in the BMP Manual Chapter 8,
§ 8.8, to demonstrate that the BMPs are applicable to the project and to
determine the amount of volume or peak rate credit is applicable.
   (B)   An applicant for major subdivision or land development approval shall
demonstrate that stormwater management is designed in the following sequence to
minimize the increase in stormwater runoff and degradation of water quality:
      (1)   Prepare an existing resource and site analysis plan (ERSAP),
showing environmentally sensitive areas including, but not limited to, steep
slopes, ponds, lakes, streams, wetlands, hydric soils, vernal pools,
floodplains, riparian corridors, hydrologic soil groups A, B, C and D, “prime
agricultural soils” (prime farmland and farmland of statewide importance as
designated in the soil survey of Bucks County), woodlands, surface waters
regulated by the commonwealth or federal government, any existing recharge
areas and any other requirements outlined in the subdivision and land
development ordinance. The plan shall also show and establish riparian buffers
according to §
151.028;
      (2)   Prepare a draft project layout avoiding sensitive areas identified
in the ERSAP and minimizing earth disturbance for the site. The ratio of
disturbed area to the entire site area and measures taken to minimize earth
disturbance shall be included in the ERSAP;
      (3)   Identify site specific existing conditions, drainage areas,
discharge points (points of interest), recharge areas and hydrologic soil
groups A and B;
      (4)   Evaluate nonstructural stormwater management alternatives (refer to
Appendix G of this chapter):
         (a)   Minimize earth disturbance;
         (b)   Minimize impervious surfaces; and
         (c)   Break up large impervious surfaces.
      (5)   Satisfy volume control objective (further described in §
151.027);
      (6)   Satisfy recharge requirements (further described in §
151.030);
      (7)   Satisfy stream bank erosion protection objective (further described
in §
151.031);
      (8)   Determine the stormwater management (release rate) district within
which the project site is located (refer to Appendix C of this chapter) and
conduct a predevelopment runoff analysis;
      (9)   Prepare final project design to maintain predevelopment drainage
areas and discharge points, to minimize earth disturbance and impervious
surfaces, to reduce runoff to the maximum extent possible and to minimize the
use of surface or point discharges;
      (10)   Conduct a proposed conditions runoff analysis based on the final
design and to meet the release rate;
      (11)   Manage any remaining runoff through treatment prior to discharge,
as part of detention, bioretention, direct discharge or other structural
control; and
      (12)   Prepare an operation and maintenance plan consistent with
requirements of §
151.106 that ensures the long-term viability of the stormwater control
facilities.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.030 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO INFILTRATION ORIENTED
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Prevention of stormwater runoff is the key objective of
Chapter 93 of the DEP regulations, because runoff can change the physical,
chemical and biological integrity of waterbodies thereby impacting water
quality.
   (B)   The SWM site plan shall describe how water quality protection
requirements will be met. Infiltration BMPs shall be evaluated and utilized to
the maximum extent possible to manage the net change in stormwater runoff
generated so that post construction discharges do not degrade the physical,
chemical or biological characteristics of the receiving waters.
   (C)   Post construction stormwater infiltration of runoff shall replicate
preconstruction infiltration of runoff to the maximum extent possible.
   (D)   In calculating the volume of runoff that can be infiltrated at a site,
the following methodology shall be used:
Rev = [(S)(Rv)(A)]/12 (inches/foot), where:
   Rev = Recharge Volume (acre-feet);
   S = Soil specific recharge factor (inches);
   A = Site area contributing to the recharge facility (acres); and
   Rv = Volumetric runoff coefficient, Rv = 0.05 + 0.009 (I), where:
      I = Percent impervious area, and S shall be obtained based upon
hydrologic soil group from the following table:
 
Hydrological Soil Group (HSG) Soil Specific Recharge Factor (S)
A                             0.38
B                             0.25
C                             0.13
D                             0.06
 
   If more than one HSG is present at a site, a composite recharge volume shall
be computed based upon the proportion of total site area within each HSG.
   (E)   In selecting the appropriate infiltration BMPs, the applicant shall
consider the following:
      (1)   Permeability and infiltration rate of the site soils;
      (2)   Topographic slope and depth to bedrock;
      (3)   Seasonal high-water table;
      (4)   Proximity and elevation relative to building foundations, basements
and well heads. (Infiltration BMPs shall be located downgrade of these
structures);
      (5)   Erodibility of soils;
      (6)   Land availability, configuration and topography;
      (7)   Peak discharge and required volume control;
      (8)   Streambank erosion;
      (9)   Efficiency of the BMPs to mitigate potential water quality
problems;
      (10)   Volume of runoff that will be effectively treated;
      (11)   Nature of the pollutant to be removed;
      (12)   Maintenance requirements;
      (13)   Creation/protection of aquatic and wildlife habitat;
      (14)   Recreational value; and
      (15)   Enhancement of aesthetic and property value.
   (F)   A detailed soils evaluation of the project site shall be performed to
determine the suitability of infiltration BMPs. The evaluation shall be
performed by a qualified professional and, at a minimum, address soil
permeability, depth to bedrock, susceptibility to sinkhole formation and
subgrade stability. The site testing shall include adequate sampling of all
portions of the site, except those areas containing natural resources with
total protection as defined by the township zoning ordinance, to determine
areas of the property which are suitable for infiltration BMPs. The general
process for designing the infiltration BMP shall be:
      (1)   Analyze hydrologic soil groups as well as natural and human-made
features within the site to determine general areas of suitability for
infiltration BMPs;
      (2)   Provide field testing data at the elevation of the proposed
infiltration zone (bottom surface of infiltration facilities) to determine
appropriate percolation rate and/or hydraulic conductivity;
      (3)   Design infiltration BMPs for required stormwater volume based on
field-determined capacity at the level of the proposed infiltration surface;
and
      (4)   Soil characteristics:
         (a)   Infiltration BMPs are particularly appropriate in hydrologic
soil groups A and B, as described in the Natural Resources Conservation Service
Manual TR-55;
         (b)   Low-erodibility factors (K factors) are preferred for the
construction of basins;
         (c)   There must be a minimum depth of 18 inches between the bottom of
any facility and the seasonal high water table and/or bedrock (limiting zones),
except for infiltration BMPs receiving only roof runoff which shall be placed
in soils having a minimum depth of 12 inches between the bottom of the facility
and the limiting zone. The minimum required separation between the limiting
zone may be increased, if required by the township, should project specific
conditions exist (such as anticipated increased contaminants) which dictate
greater prevention of groundwater contamination;
         (d)   There must be an infiltration and/or percolation rate sufficient
to accept the additional stormwater load, and to drain completely as determined
by field tests;
         (e)   A minimum of 30 feet of undisturbed fill shall separate the
foundation wall of any building and an infiltration BMP;
         (f)   The infiltration system shall have positive overflow controls to
prevent storage within one foot of the finished surface of grade;
         (g)   Infiltration rates shall not be used in computing the storage
volume of the infiltration system; and
         (h)   Surface inflows shall be designed to prevent direct discharge of
sediment into the infiltration system.
   (G)   The recharge volume provided at the site shall be directed to the most
permeable hydrologic soil group (HSG) available, except where other
considerations apply, such as in limestone geology.
   (H)   Any infiltration BMP shall be capable of completely infiltrating the
impounded water within 48 hours from the end of the storm.
   (I)   Special attention shall be paid to proper installation of
infiltration-oriented stormwater management facilities during construction and
to careful avoidance of soil compaction during site development.
   (J)   Caution shall be exercised where salt or chloride would be a pollutant
since soils do little to filter this pollutant and it may contaminate the
groundwater. Extreme caution shall be exercised where infiltration is proposed
in source water protection areas. The qualified design professional shall
evaluate the possibility of groundwater contamination from the proposed
infiltration/recharge facility and perform a hydrogeologic justification study
if necessary. The infiltration requirement in high quality/exceptional value
waters shall be subject to DEP’s antidegradation regulations, 25 Pa.Code,
Chapter 93. The township may require the installation of an impermeable liner
in BMP and/or detention basins where the possibility of groundwater
contamination exists. A detailed hydrogeologic investigation may be required by
the township where the proposed management system is proposed to be located
within a source water protection area or when groundwater contamination from
the proposed management system is possible.
   (K)   The SWM site plan must include safeguards against groundwater
contamination for uses which may cause groundwater contamination, should there
be a mishap or spill.
   (L)   During the period of land disturbance, runoff shall be controlled
prior to entering any proposed infiltration area. Areas proposed for
infiltration BMPs shall be protected from sedimentation and compaction during
the construction phase, so as to maintain their maximum infiltration capacity.
   (M)   Infiltration BMPs shall not be constructed nor receive runoff until
the entire contributory drainage area to the infiltration BMP has achieved
final stabilization.
   (N)   The requirements for volume control and infiltration are applied to
all disturbed areas, even if they are ultimately to be a pervious or permeable
land use such as lawn or other landscaped area, given the extent to which
development-related disturbance leads to compaction of the soils and reduces
their infiltrative capacity.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.031 STREAM BANK EROSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to the water quality volume, to minimize the impact of
stormwater runoff on downstream stream bank erosion, a BMP must be designed to
detain the proposed conditions two-year, 24-hour design storm to the existing
conditions one-year flow using the Natural Resources Conservation Service
(NRCS) Type II distribution. Additionally, provisions shall be made (such as
adding a small orifice at the bottom of the outlet structure) so that the
proposed conditions one-year storm takes a minimum of 24 hours to drain from
the facility from a point where the maximum volume of water from the one-year
storm is captured (e.g., the maximum water surface elevation is achieved in the
facility).
   (B)   Release of water may begin at the start of the storm (e.g., the invert
of the water quality orifice is at the invert of the facility). The design of
the facility shall minimize clogging and sedimentation. Orifices smaller than
four inches in diameter are not allowed unless the design engineer can verify
that the smaller orifice is protected from clogging by use of trash racks and
the like. In that case, smaller orifices may be permitted, at the Township
Engineer’s discretion. Trash racks are required for any primary orifice.
   (C)   Whenever a watercourse is located within a site, it shall remain open;
in its natural state and location; and shall not be piped, impeded or altered
(except for road crossings). It is the responsibility of the developer to
restore existing eroded stream/channel banks within a subdivision or land site
and obtain all permits necessary from DEP to do so. The developer must submit
pictorial documentation of existing stream/channel banks to the township so
that the township can determine whether the existing banks must be stabilized
as part of the project.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.032 DESIGN CRITERIA FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES AND BEST
MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   (A)   Runoff. Stormwater runoff which may result from regulated activities
shall be controlled by permanent stormwater BMPs that will meet the required
standards within this subchapter. The methods of stormwater control or BMPs
which may be used to meet the required standards are described in this chapter
and the BMP Manual. While the choice of BMPs is not limited to the ones
appearing in this chapter and the Manual, any selected BMP must meet or exceed
the runoff peak rate requirements of this chapter for the applicable stormwater
management district.
   (B)   Located near highways. Any stormwater facility located on state
highway rights-of-way shall be subject to approval by PennDOT.
   (C)   Collection system standards.
      (1)   Curb inlets. Curb inlets shall be located at curb tangents on the
uphill side of street intersections, and at intervals along the curb line to
control the maximum amount of encroachment of runoff on the roadway pavement so
that same does not exceed a width of four feet during the design storm event.
Design and location of curb inlets shall be approved by the township.
      (2)   Pipe materials. All storm sewer piping to be dedicated to the
township shall be Class III reinforced concrete pipe, except when pipe class
and strength is required to be increased in accordance with PennDOT
specifications. Piping shall be saw-cut at ends, as needed, and not hammered or
broken. All pipe joints and lift holes must be mortared except where designed
for infiltration.
      (3)   Minimum pipe size. Minimum pipe diameter shall be 18 inches (or an
equivalent flow area of one and seventy-six hundredths (1.76) square feet).
      (4)   Inlet and manhole construction. Inlet and manhole castings and
concrete construction shall be equivalent to PennDOT design standards. Manhole
castings and grated covers shall have the word “STORM” cast in two-inch high
letters on the top of the cover. All inlet grates shall be bicycle-safe heavy
duty structural steel.
      (5)   Storm drain notification marking. All storm sewer inlets must be
identified with a storm drain marker. Storm drain markers shall be cast in the
inlet hood, or a stainless steel marker affixed to the inlet hood with
adhesive, rivets or bolts. (Marker may be bolted to the grate in off road
locations). Markers shall have a minimum diameter of three and one-half inches
and include “No Dumping - Drains to Waterway” and a fish symbol. Alternate
designs/sizes may be used as approved by DEP.
      (6)   End pipes. Open end pipes must be fitted with concrete endwalls or
wing walls in accordance with PennDOT standards.
      (7)   Flow velocity. Stormwater collection systems shall be designed to
produce a minimum velocity of three feet per second when flowing full. The
maximum permissible velocity shall be 15 feet per second. Pipe slopes shall not
be less than 0.5%.
      (8)   Inlets and manholes. Inlets and manholes shall be spaced at
intervals not exceeding 300 feet, and shall be located wherever branches are
connected or pipe sizes are changed, and wherever there is a change in
alignment or grade. For drainage lines of at least 36 inches diameter, inlets
and manholes may be spaced at intervals of 400 feet. Manholes shall be equipped
with open grate lids.
      (9)   Bedding/backfill. Storm sewer bedding/backfill requirements shall
conform to the construction details set forth in Appendix L of this chapter.
      (10)   Inlets. Inlets shall be located to intercept concentrated runoff
prior to discharge over public/private rights-of-way, sidewalks, streets and
driveways.
      (11)   Type C inlets. The capacity of all Type C inlets shall be based on
a maximum surface flow to the inlets of four cubic feet per second (cfs),
calculated based on the 100-year frequency design storm event. The maximum flow
to Type C inlets located in low points (e.g. sag vertical curves) shall include
the overland flow directed to the inlet, as well as, all bypass runoff from
upstream inlets. The bypass flow from upstream inlets shall be calculated using
inlet efficiency curves included in PennDOT Design Manual Part 2, latest
edition. If the surface flow to an inlet exceeds four cfs, additional inlets
shall be provided upstream of the inlet to intercept the excessive surface
flow. A Type C inlet at a low point of a paved area may be designed to accept a
maximum of six cfs. Type M inlets shall be designed to accept a maximum surface
flow of six cfs based on the 100-year frequency design storm event, unless
otherwise approved by the township. Double inlets will not be permitted where
additional pipe and inlets can be placed upstream to intercept excessive
surface flow. A maximum of 12 cfs shall be permitted to be collected by a Type
M inlet located in an isolated pervious area, provided the design professional
can verify that such an inlet would not cause stormwater to accumulate on any
adjacent public or private property or outside of an associated storm sewer
easement, and that the depth of the accumulated stormwater would not exceed 12
inches.
      (12)   Inlet and outlet elevation. A minimum drop of two inches shall be
provided between the inlet and outlet pipe invert elevations within all inlets
and manholes. When varying pipe sizes enter an inlet or manhole, the elevation
of crown of all pipes shall be matched.
      (13)   Depth cover. Stormwater pipes shall have a minimum depth of cover
of 12 inches (including over the bell) or as designated by the American
Concrete Pipe Association (whichever is greater), and in no case shall any part
of the pipe project into the road subbase or curb. Where cover is restricted,
equivalent pipe arches may be specified in lieu of circular pipe.
      (14)   Capacity. The capacity of all stormwater pipes shall be calculated
utilizing the Manning equation for open channel flow as applied to closed
conduit flow. The Manning’s roughness coefficient shall be thirteen-hundredths
(0.13) for all concrete pipe. In cases where pressure flow may occur, the
hydraulic grade line shall be calculated throughout the storm sewer system to
verify that at least one foot of freeboard will be provided in all inlets and
manholes for the design storm event.
      (15)   Culvert design. Culverts shall be designed based on procedures
contained in Hydraulic Design of Highway Culverts, HDS No. 5, United States
Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration. Where pressure
flow is anticipated in storm sewer pipes (non-open channel flow), the elevation
of the hydraulic grade line shall be calculated through the storm sewer system.
Wherever the hydraulic grade line elevation exceeds the pipe crown elevation
for the design flow, pipes with watertight joints must be specified.
      (16)   Sewer structures location. Storm sewer structures (e.g. endwalls,
inlets, sections and the like) may not be located on top of, or within ten feet
of, electric, communication, water, sanitary sewer or gas services and/or
mains, unless approval is received from the township and the authority or
utility having jurisdiction over same.
      (17)   Pipe angles. Stormwater pipes must be oriented at right angles to
electric, water, sanitary sewer and gas utilities when crossing above or
beneath same. Crossing angles of less than 90 degrees will only be permitted at
the discretion of the township. When skewed crossings are permitted, interior
angles between alignment of the storm sewer pipe and utility may not be less
than 45 degrees. Vertical and horizontal design of storm sewer must be linear.
      (18)   Underdrain. Roadway underdrain is required along both sides of all
proposed roadways, existing roadways proposed to be widened and within existing
or proposed roadside swales as directed by the township.
      (19)   Right-of-way; public property. Where a public storm sewer system
is not located within a right-of-way or dedicated public property, a 20-foot
wide utility easement shall be established to encompass the storm sewer system.
For multiple pipes or utilities, the width of the easement shall be a minimum
of 30 feet.
      (20)   Freeboard. A minimum of one foot of freeboard, between the inlet
grate and the design flow elevation, shall be provided in all storm sewer
systems (inlets and manholes) for the 100-year frequency design storm event.
   (D)   Open swales and gutters. Open swales shall be designed on the basis of
Manning’s formula as indicated for collection systems with the following
considerations.
      (1)   Roughness coefficient. The roughness coefficient shall be fourty
thousandths (0.040) for earth swales.
      (2)   Bank slopes. Slopes for swale banks shall not be steeper than one
vertical to four horizontal (4:1).
      (3)   Flow velocity. The maximum velocity of flow as determined by
Manning’s formula shall not exceed the allowable velocities as shown in the
following table for the specific type of material, unless otherwise approved by
the township and the Conservation District.
      (4)   Note. Source of the following design criteria is the DEP, Bureau of
Soil and Water Conservation Publication, Erosion and Sediment Control Program
Manual.
Allowable Velocity
Material Velocity in Feet per Second (fps)
Allowable Velocity
Material                            Velocity in Feet per Second (fps)
Earth without vegetation
 Clay and gravel                    4.0 to 5.0
 Coarse gravel                      4.0 to 5.0
 Fine sand or silt                  1.0
 Ordinary firm loam                 2.0 to 3.0
 Soft shale                         5.0 to 6.0
 Stiff clay                         3.0 to 5.0
Shoulders
 Earth (as defined above)
  Paved                             10.0 to 15.0
  Stabilized                        6.0
Well-established grass on good soil
 Bunch grass - soil exposed         2.0 to 3.0
 Short pliant bladed grass          4.0 to 5.0
 Stiff stemmed grass                3.0 to 4.0
 
      (5)   Swales. Swales shall be stabilized with bio-degradable erosion
control matting to permit establishment of permanent vegetation (or sodded).
Swales shall be of such shape and size to effectively contain the 100-year,
Rational Method design storm, or greater, and to conform to all other
specifications of the township.
      (6)   Public ways. To minimize sheet flow of stormwater across lots
located on the lower side of roads or streets, and to divert flow away from
building areas, the cross-section of the street as constructed shall provide
for parallel ditches or swales or curb on the lower side which shall discharge
only at drainage easements, unless otherwise approved by the township.
      (7)   Gutters and swales. Gutters and swales adjacent to road paving
shall be permitted to carry a maximum flow of four cubic feet per second prior
to discharge away from the street surface, unless it is proven to the
satisfaction of the township by engineering calculations that the road slopes
or other factors would allow higher gutter or swale capacity.
      (8)   Excess flow. Flows larger than those permitted in gutters and
roadside swales may be conveyed in swales outside the required road right-of-
way in separate drainage easements, or may be conveyed in pipes or culverts
inside or outside the required road right-of-way.
      (9)   Underdrains. Existing and proposed swales shall be provided with
underdrains as deemed necessary by the township should overland seepage result
in potential maintenance problems. Underdrains must discharge into a natural
drainage channel or stormwater management system.
      (10)   Swales diverting surface waters. Where drainage swales are used to
divert surface waters away from buildings, they shall be sodded, landscaped or
otherwise protected as required and shall be of a slope, shape and size
conforming with the requirements of the township. Concentration of surface
water runoff shall be permitted only in swales, watercourses, retention or
detention basins, bioretention areas or other areas designed to meet the
objectives of this chapter.
   (E)   Bridge and culvert design. Any proposed bridge or culvert proposed to
convey the flow of a perennial or intermittent stream shall be designed in
accordance with the following principals.
      (1)   Culverts and bridges. Culverts and bridges shall be designed with
an open bottom to maintain natural sediment transport and bed roughness,
avoiding acceleration of water velocity above the natural (preexisting)
condition. Rock (rip rap) lining (native material, if possible) shall be
installed within the culvert as needed to prevent erosion within the structure.
Approximate top of rock lining must be at the level of the existing stream
bottom so as to maintain normal water level and unimpeded movement of native
animal species.
      (2)   Culvert opening. Bottom of opening of a culvert shall, at a
minimum, be designed to match the bankfull channel condition in terms of width
and depth. The cross-sectional area of the bankfull channel (measured at a
reference location upstream of the structure) shall be matched with area in the
crossing structure.
      (3)   Flow rate. All bridges, culverts and drainage channels shall be
designed to convey a flow rate equal to a 100-year, 24-hour storm as defined by
the United States Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation
Service (NRCS), Technical Release No. 55. All bridges and culverts shall be
designed to convey the 100-year design storm without increasing the extent and
depth of the 100-year flood plain.
   (F)   Storm sewer design.
      (1)   Design flow rate. The storm sewer system shall be designed to carry
the 100-year frequency design storm peak flow rate. The drainage area and
runoff coefficient to each inlet shall be indicated on the stormwater
management plan. The 100-year flow rate shall be determined by the Rational
Method formula:
Q = CIA where:
   Q = Peak runoff rate measured in cubic feet per second (cfs)
   C = Runoff coefficient: The coefficient of stormwater runoff includes many
variables, such as ground slope, ground cover, shape of drainage area and the
like.
   I = Intensity: Average Rainfall Intensity in inches per hour for a time
equal to the time of concentration (in./hr.). Use 6.20 inches for the 100-year
event (Pennsylvania State Climatologist https://climate.met.psu.edu/links/).
   A = Area: Drainage area in acres (ac).
      (2)   Rational C coefficient. Consideration shall be given to future land
use changes in the drainage area in selecting the Rational C coefficient. For
drainage areas containing several different types of ground cover, a weighted
value of C shall be used.
      (3)   Peak flow rate. In determining the peak flow rate to individual
storm sewer inlets (or other collection structures) the time of concentration
method (as referenced in § 151.033) shall be used for inlet drainage areas
greater than one acre, unless otherwise approved by the township. For inlet
drainage areas less than one acre, a five-minute time of concentration shall be
used unless otherwise approved by the township.
      (4)   Design flow rate for piping system. In determining the required
design flow rate through a storm sewer piping system, if a five-minute time of
concentration (storm duration) results in a pipe size exceeding a 30-inch
diameter pipe (or equivalent flow area of four and nine-tenths (4.9) square
feet), the time of concentration approach method (as referenced in § 151.033)
shall be used in determining storm duration.
      (5)   Overflow system. An overflow system shall be provided to carry all
bypass flow and/or flow in excess of storm sewer design capacity to the
detention basin (or other approved outlet point) when the capacity of the storm
sewer system is exceeded. Stormwater runoff will not be permitted to surcharge
from storm sewer structures.
   (G)   Grading and drainage.
      (1)   Topsoil. After completion of rough grading, a minimum of eight
inches of topsoil shall be returned to disturbed areas prior to final grading
and seeding.
      (2)   Drainage. Lots shall be graded to secure proper drainage away from
buildings and to prevent the collection of storm water in pools. Minimum 2%
slopes shall be maintained away from and around all structures. Separation
between the top of foundation wall (or slab) shall comply with Township
Building Code requirements.
      (3)   Construction. The developer shall construct and/or install such
drainage facilities which are necessary to prevent erosion damage and to
satisfactorily carry off such surface waters to the nearest infiltration
structure, street, storm drain or natural watercourse.
      (4)   Excavation. No excavation shall be made with a cut face steeper in
slope than four horizontal to one vertical (4:1 = 25%), except under one or
more of the following conditions:
         (a)   The material in which the excavation is made is sufficiently
stable to sustain a slope of steeper than a ration of four to one (4:1) and a
written statement (certification) from an engineer experienced in erosion
control to this effect is submitted for review by the Township Engineer. This
statement shall indicate the site has been inspected and that the deviation
from the slope specified herein will not result in injury to persons or damage
to property; and
         (b)   A concrete, segmental block or stone masonry wall, constructed
in accordance with requirements of the township zoning ordinance and
Construction Codes, is provided to support the face of the excavation.
      (5)   Fill. No fill shall be made which creates any exposed surface
steeper in slope than four horizontal to one vertical (4:1 = 25%) except under
one or more of the following conditions:
         (a)   The fill is located so that settlement, sliding or erosion will
not result in property damage or be a hazard to adjoining property, streets,
alleys or buildings;
         (b)   A written statement (certification) from an engineer experienced
in erosion control certifying the site has been inspected and that the proposed
deviation from the slope specified above will not endanger any property or
result in property damage is submitted to for review by the Township Engineer;
and
         (c)   A concrete, segmental block or stone masonry wall, constructed
in accordance with requirements of the township zoning ordinance and
Construction Codes, is provided to support the face of the excavation.
      (6)   Slopes and fences. The top or bottom edge of slopes shall be a
minimum of five feet from property lines or right-of-way lines of streets or
alleys in order to permit the normal rounding of the edge without encroaching
on the abutting property. Where walls or slopes (steeper than two horizontal to
one vertical (2:1)) are approved under the criteria in this chapter, and are
five feet or more in height, a protective fence conforming to Township
Construction Codes shall be required at the top of the wall (or bank).
      (7)   Cut and fill operations. Cut and fill operations shall be kept to a
minimum. Wherever feasible, natural vegetation shall be retained, protected and
supplemented. Cut and fills shall not endanger or otherwise adversely impact
adjoining property.
      (8)   Energy dissipation. Design of energy dissipation for high volume
and/or high velocity discharge from storm sewer pipes and channels shall be in
accordance with Hydraulic Engineering Circular No. 14, Hydraulic Design of
Energy Dissipaters for Culverts and Channels, as published by Department of
Transportation, FHA, when deemed necessary by the township, and as approved by
the Conservation District.
      (9)   Surface water damage. Adequate provision shall be made to prevent
surface water from damaging the cut face of excavation and the sloping surfaces
of fills.
   (H)   Stormwater management basins.
      (1)   Basin design. When basins are provided, they shall be designed to
utilize the natural contours of the land whenever possible. When such design is
not practical, the construction of the basin shall utilize slopes as flat as
possible to blend the structure into the terrain.
      (2)   Prohibited in rights-of-way. Stormwater management basins shall not
be permitted within the ultimate right-of-way of public streets, riparian
buffers or conservation easements.
      (3)   Landscaping. Landscaping and planting in and around the perimeter
of basins shall be provided. It shall be aesthetically pleasing and compatible
with surrounding land uses and require minimum maintenance. Proposed planting
shall also be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, the township’s
subdivision and land development ordinance and the township’s zoning ordinance.
      (4)   Temporary sediment control device. If a stormwater management basin
will serve as a temporary sediment control device, the temporary sediment
control measures shall be shown including perforated riser pipes or standboxes,
filter berms, clean-out stakes and other measures as may be required by State
Department of Environmental Protection, Chapter 102 Regulations. Plans for such
facilities shall require the Conservation District approval prior to
implementation. Sedimentation basins shall be in place prior to any earthmoving
activities within their tributary drainage areas. A note identifying the above
criteria shall be required on the record plan of subdivisions and land
developments, as well as, in the development agreement with the township.
      (5)   Prior to construction. Stormwater management basins shall be in
place before construction of any new impervious surfaces on the site.
      (6)   Runoff. Runoff shall not be directed to any infiltration structure
until all tributary drainage areas are stabilized.
      (7)   Permanent retention facilities. Where permanent retention
facilities (ponds) are proposed, there shall be a safety ledge, ten feet wide,
no greater than 15 inches and no less than 12 inches below the permanent water
surface level.
      (8)   Slope. All basins shall have slopes of four horizontal to one
vertical (4:1 = 25%), or flatter on the basin’s outer berm and three horizontal
to one vertical (3:1) or flatter on the basin’s inner berm. The top or toe of
any slope shall be located a minimum of five feet from any property line or
ultimate right-of way line. The maximum difference between the top of berm
elevation and the invert elevation of the outlet structure shall be seven feet.
      (9)   Dry detention basin slope. All portions of a dry detention basin
bottom (non-wetland) shall have a minimum slope of 2%.
      (10)   Embankment. All basin embankments shall be placed in lifts not to
exceed one foot in thickness and each lift shall be compacted to a minimum of
95% of modified proctor density as established by ASTM D-1557. Prior to
proceeding to the next lift, the compaction shall be checked by a soils
engineer employed by the applicant/developer. Compaction tests shall be run on
the leading and trailing edge of the berm along with the top of the berm.
Verification of required compaction shall be submitted to the township prior to
utilization of any basin for stormwater management.
      (11)   Emergency overflow. Emergency overflow facilities/spillway shall
be provided with basins in order to convey basin inflow in excess of design
flows out of the basin, or in the event the outlet structure becomes blocked
and is unable to convey flow. Emergency spillways discharging over embankments
shall be constructed of reinforced concrete checker-blocks to protect the berm
against erosion. The checker-blocks shall be backfilled with topsoil and
seeded. Checker-block lining shall extend to the toe of the embankment on the
outside of the berm, and shall extend to an elevation of three feet below the
spillway crest on the inside of the berm. Vegetated spillways may be utilized
for spillways constructed entirely on undisturbed ground (e.g., not discharging
over fill material). A dense cover of vegetation shall be rapidly established
in spillways by sodding or seeding with a geotextile anchor. The minimum
capacity of all emergency spillways shall be equivalent to the peak flow rate
of the 100-year, post-development design storm (entering to the basin).
      (12)   Basin discharge end. In all cases, the discharge end of the basin
shall be provided with a properly designed outlet control structure (headwall,
orifice structure or other approved flow control structure), culvert pipe and
endwall. Perforated riser pipes alone, without provision for permanent outlet
control structure and culvert pipe are not permitted for permanent basins.
      (13)   Basin berm. Minimum top of basin berm width (at the design
elevation) shall be ten feet, unless otherwise approved by the township. A cut-
off trench (keyway) of impervious material shall be provided under all
embankments that require fill material. The cut-off trench shall be a minimum
of eight feet wide, three feet deep and have side slopes of one horizontal to
one vertical (1:1).
      (14)   Freeboard. Minimum freeboard through the emergency spillway shall
be one foot. FREEBOARD is defined as the difference between the design flow
elevation through the spillway and the elevation of the top of the settled
basin berm.
      (15)   Anti-seep collars. Anti-seep collars shall be installed around the
outfall pipe barrel and shall be centered within the normal saturation zone of
the berm. The anti-seep collars and their connections to the pipe barrel shall
be watertight. The anti-seep collars shall be cast-in-place and extend a
minimum of two feet beyond the outside of the principal pipe barrel. Precast
collars shall be permitted if approved by the township. A minimum of two
collars shall be installed on each basin outlet pipe.
      (16)   Basin outlet joints. All basin outlet pipes shall be watertight
reinforced concrete having O-ring joints. All joints shall be mortared.
      (17)   Outlet structure elevation. A minimum of six inches is required
between the top of outlet structure box and the emergency spillway elevation.
Six inches, minimum, is also required between the 100-year water surface
elevation and the top of outlet structure box.
      (18)   Energy dissipating devices required. Energy dissipating devices
(rock lining/rip rap, or other approved materials) shall be provided at all
basin outlets and shall be sized in accordance with DEP, Bureau of Soil and
Water Conservation Publication, Erosion and Sediment Control Program Manual,
latest revision.
      (19)   Stone gabion baskets prohibited. Stone gabion baskets shall not be
permitted for use in construction of detention/retention basins.
      (20)   An access easement and drive. An access easement and stabilized
drive shall be provided to every stormwater detention facility for maintenance
and operation. This access easement shall be cleared and, when possible, be at
least 20 feet in width. Multiple accesses shall be encouraged for major
facilities. The developer shall provide access easements and drives of
reinforced concrete checker-block (backfilled with topsoil and seeded) or other
similar paver acceptable to the Township Engineer, over a six-inch bed of
compacted PennDOT Tyle III. A coarse aggregate (or approved equivalent).
Accessways to basins shall be a minimum of ten feet wide and be no steeper in
slope than ten feet horizontal to one foot vertical (10:1). In addition,
depressed curb and concrete apron shall be provided where the accessways enters
a street/driveway and the stabilized driveway shall extend from the bottom of
the interior basin berm embankment to the point of access to the basin. Access
easement shall be owned and maintained by the individual lot owner(s) or
homeowner’s association but shall be established to permit access by the
township or its designee, for inspection, maintenance, repair, renovation,
rehabilitation and/or replacement, at any reasonable time.
      (21)   Visual impact. To minimize the visual impact of detention basins,
the basin shall be designed to avoid the need for safety fencing.
   (I)   General design requirements.
      (1)   Plan details. Prior to finish grading of a site and final overlay
of streets, roads and driveways, temporary measures, acceptable to the
township, shall be taken to ensure that all runoff intended to be intercepted
and collected by an inlet or other facility, will be collected. The plan shall
include such details, notes or specifications, such as bituminous “eyebrows” at
inlets, diversion berms and the like.
      (2)   Discharge and drainage. Water originating from human-made sources,
such as air conditioning units, sump pumps or other dry weather flow, wherever
practical and possible, shall discharge to infiltration areas or vegetative
BMPs, or at the approval of the township, shall be connected to a storm sewer,
street drainage structure, or other approved drainage conveyance facility
designed as part of a stormwater management BMP.
      (3)   Phases of completion. When subdivisions or land developments are
submitted to the township for approval in phases, a complete storm sewer design
for the entire proposed subdivision/land development shall be submitted. The
proposed design must include the entire tract and not a phase or a portion.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.033 CALCULATION METHODOLOGY.
   (A)   Stormwater runoff from all sites shall be calculated using either the
Rational Method or soil cover complex method.
   (B)   Any stormwater runoff calculations shall use generally accepted
calculation technique that is based on the NRCS soil-cover complex method. The
table in division (D) below summarizes acceptable computation methods. The
appropriate method must be selected by the applicant based on the individual
limitations and suitability of each method for a particular site. The Rational
Method may be used to estimate peak discharges from drainage areas that contain
less than 75% acres and shall be used for drainage areas under 25% acres.
   (C)   All calculations using the soil-cover complex method shall use the
appropriate design rainfall depths for the various return period storms
according to the region for which they are located as presented in Table B-1 in
Appendix B of this chapter. If a hydrologic computer model, such as HEC-1 or
HEC-HMS, is used for stormwater runoff calculations, then the duration of
rainfall shall be 24 hours. The S-curve shown in Figure B-1 of Appendix B shall
be used for the rainfall distribution.
   (D)   Runoff curve numbers (CN) for both existing and proposed conditions to
be used in the soil-cover complex method shall be obtained from Table B-4 in
Appendix B. For the purposes of existing conditions flow rate determination for
all subdivisions and land developments, all undeveloped land and 20% of
existing impervious surface shall be considered as “meadow” in good condition,
unless the natural ground cover generates a lower curve number or Rational C
value (e.g., forest), as listed in Table B-4 in Appendix B.
 
Method                    Method Developed by        Applicability
                                                     Applicable where use of
HEC-1, HEC-HMS            US Army Corps of Engineers full hydrologic computer
                                                     model is desirable or
                                                     necessary.
                                                     Other computation
Other methods             Varies                     methodologies approved by
                                                     the Township Engineer.
                                                     Applicable where use of a
                                                     hydrologic computer model
PSRM                      Penn State University      is desirable or necessary;
                                                     simpler than TR-20 or HEC-
                                                     1.
Rational Method (or                                  Applicable for sites less
commercial computer       Emil Kuichling (1889)      than 75 acres, or as
package based on Rational                            approved by the Township
Method)                                              Engineer.
TR-20 (or commercial                                 Applicable where use of
computer package based on USDA NRCS                  full hydrology computer
TR-20)                                               model is desirable or
                                                     necessary.
TR-55 (or commercial                                 Applicable for land
computer package based on USDA NRCS                  development plans within
TR-55)                                               limitations described in
                                                     TR-55.
 
   (C)   Where uniform flow is anticipated, the Manning equation shall be used
for hydraulic computations, and to determine the capacity of open channels,
pipes and storm sewers. (Refer Table B-8 of Appendix B.)
   (D)   Outlet structures for stormwater management facilities shall be
designed to meet the performance standards of this chapter using any hydraulic
analysis technique or method accepted by the township.
   (E)   The design of stormwater management facilities intended to meet the
performance standards of this chapter shall be verified by routing the design
storm hydrograph through these facilities using the storage indication method.
For drainage areas greater than 20 acres, the design storm hydrograph shall be
computed using a calculation method that produces a full hydrograph.
   (F)   The township has the authority to require that computed existing
runoff rates be reconciled with field observations and conditions. If the
design professional engineer can substantiate through actual physical
calibration that more appropriate runoff and time-of-concentration values
should be utilized at a particular site, then appropriate variations may be
made upon review and recommendations of the Township Engineer. Calibration
shall require detailed gauge and rainfall data for the particular site in
question.
   (G)   The TIME OF CONCENTRATION (Tc) is the time required for water to flow
from the hydraulically most remote point of the drainage area to the point of
interest (design point). Use of the Rational Method requires calculation of a
Tc for each design point within the drainage basin. Travel time estimation for
the Rational Method shall be based on NRCS Technical Release No. 55 (Second
Edition). For design purposes, the time of concentration may not be less than
five minutes. TRAVEL TIME (Tt) is the time it takes runoff to travel from one
location to another in a watershed (subreach) and is a component of time of
concentration. Tc is computed by summing all the travel times for consecutive
components of the stormwater management conveyance system.
   (H)   Water moves through a watershed as sheet flow, shallow concentrated
flow, open channel flow or some combination of these. Sheet flow rates shall be
calculated using the NRCS TR-55 (1986) variation of the kinematic wave
equation. Sheet flow length may not exceed 50 feet over paved surfaces and 150
feet over unpaved surfaces. Maximum permitted sheet flow length shall be 150
feet, unless site specific conditions exist (that can be demonstrated) that
warrant an increase of the sheet flow length. Under no circumstances shall
sheet flow length exceed 300 feet. Shallow concentrated flow time and open
channel flow time shall be calculated using standard engineering methodologies.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.034 STANDARDS DURING LAND DISTURBANCE.
   (A)   For all regulated earth disturbance activities, erosion and sediment
control BMPs shall be designed, implemented, operated and maintained during the
regulated earth disturbance activities (during construction) to meet the
purposes and requirements of this chapter and to meet all requirements under
the Pa.Code Title 25 and the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Law. Various BMPs and
their design standards are listed in the E&S Manual.
   (B)   Regulated arth disturbance activities that do not qualify for
exemption pursuant to §
151.006 shall not commence until approval by the township of an erosion and
sediment control plan for construction activities.
   (C)   DEP regulations that require an erosion and sediment control plan for
any earth disturbance activity of 5,000 square feet or more, under 25 Pa.Code §
102.4(b); a NPDES Construction Activities permit is required for regulated
earth disturbance activities exceeding one acre.
   (D)   Evidence of any necessary permit(s) for regulated earth disturbance
activities from the appropriate DEP regional office or Conservation District
must be submitted to the township.
   (E)   A copy of the erosion and sediment control plan and any required
permit, as required by DEP regulations shall be available at the project site
at all times.
   (F)   Additional erosion and sedimentation control design standards and
criteria:
      (1)   All lots must be kept free of any debris or nuisances whatsoever
during construction;
      (2)   Design of erosion and sedimentation control facilities
(particularly stormwater/sediment basins) shall incorporate best management
practices, as defined herein;
      (3)   No grading equipment shall be permitted to be loaded and/or
unloaded on a public street, and no grading equipment shall be permitted to
travel on or across a public street unless licensed for operation on public
thoroughfares;
      (4)   Grading equipment shall not be permitted to cross intermittent and
perennial streams. Temporary crossing shall only be permitted where application
is made, and approval is received, from DEP (where applicable), the
Conservation District and the township;
      (5)   To control the dissemination of mud and dirt on to public roads and
driveways, tire cleaning areas constructed of AASHTO No. 1 stone (underlain by
geotextile structural fabric), at least 50 feet in length shall be installed at
each point of access to the site and individual lots (upon construction of
internal streets in a binder condition). When deemed necessary by the township,
washing stations shall also be set-up at every construction entrance in order
to wash mud and dirt from exiting vehicles. Appropriate measures must be taken
to control runoff from such locations. The developer shall be responsible for
the placement of appropriate signage identifying construction entrances and
washing stations. Construction entrances shall be maintained by the developer
during construction, as determined by the township;
      (6)   During construction activities, necessary measures for dust control
shall be exercised, including the application of water to higher traffic areas
of the site;
      (7)   In the event any mud and/or debris is transported from the site
onto a public roadway, the debris shall be removed immediately, and the roadway
swept and/or washed as deemed necessary by the township at the developer’s
expense; and
      (8)   Areas proposed for infiltration BMPs shall be protected from
sedimentation and compaction during the construction phase, so as to maintain
their maximum infiltration capacity. Thirty-three inches super filter fabric
fence, silt sock or other approved protection mechanism must be installed
around proposed infiltration areas to prevent encroachment and compaction by
construction equipment.
   (G)   Peak discharges and discharge volumes from the site shall comply with
the appropriate sections above, with the following additions:
      (1)   For purposes of calculating required detention storage volume
during land disturbance, peak discharge rates and volumes shall be calculated
based upon runoff coefficients for bare soils during the maximum extent of
disturbance from clearing, grading and impervious surface installation, shown
on the development plan. Controls shall ensure that the difference in volume
and rate of peak discharges before disturbance and during shall not exceed
those peak discharges and volumes required in §§
151.026 and
151.027. Detention storage during the period of land disturbance and prior to
establishment of permanent cover may require additional facilities on a
temporary basis. Such measures shall be located so as to preserve the natural
soil infiltration capacities of the planned infiltration areas. Calculations
based on the above parameters must be submitted to verify during construction
runoff rate does not exceed predevelopment runoff rate for the one-year
frequency through 100-year frequency design storm events; and
      (2)   Wherever soils, topography, cut and fill or grading requirements,
or other conditions suggest substantial erosion potential during land
disturbance, the township may require that the entire volume of all storms up
to a two-year storm from the disturbed areas be retained on site and that
special sediment trapping facilities (such as check dams and the like) be
installed.
   (H)   Areas of the site to remain undisturbed shall be protected against
encroachment from construction equipment/vehicles to maintain the existing
infiltration characteristics of the soil. A four- foot high orange safety fence
or other similar protection fence approved by the township must be installed
around the entire limit of disturbance/clearing prior to commencement of
earthmoving activities, and maintained until completion of all construction
activity.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.035 WATER QUALITY REQUIREMENTS AFTER REGULATED EARTH DISTURBANCE
ACTIVITIES ARE COMPLETE.
   (A)   No regulated earth disturbance activities within the township shall
commence until approval by the township of a plan which demonstrates compliance
with the state’s water quality requirements after construction is complete.
   (B)   BMPs shall be designed, implemented and maintained to meet state water
quality requirements and any other more stringent requirements as determined by
the township.
   (C)   To control post-construction stormwater impacts from regulated earth
disturbance activities, state water quality requirements may be met by BMPs,
including site design, which provide for replication of preconstruction
stormwater infiltration and runoff conditions, so that post-construction
stormwater discharges do not degrade the physical, chemical or biological
characteristics of receiving waters. As described in the DEP Comprehensive
Stormwater Management Policy (No. 392-0300-002, September 28, 2002), this may
be achieved by the following:
      (1)   Infiltration: Replication of preconstruction stormwater
infiltration conditions;
      (2)   Treatment: Use of water quality treatment BMPs to filter out the
chemical and physical pollutants from the stormwater runoff; and
      (3)   Streambank and streambed protection: Management of volume and rate
of post-construction stormwater discharges to prevent physical degradation of
receiving waters (e.g. from scouring).
   (D)   In accordance with DEP regulations, the developer shall prove to the
township that it has fully undertaken the proper design, implementation,
installation and maintenance of best management practices (BMPs) to control
runoff from the site upon completion of the regulated earth disturbance
activities. These requirements include the need to implement post-construction
stormwater BMPs with assurance of long-term operations and maintenance of those
BMPs.
   (E)   Evidence of any necessary permit(s) for regulated earth disturbance
activities from the Conservation District and/or the appropriate DEP regional
office must be submitted to the township. BMP operations and maintenance
requirements are described in §
151.105 through 151.109.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.050 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   For any regulated activities, the preliminary or final approval of
subdivision and/or land development plans, the issuance of any building or
occupancy permit or the commencement of any land disturbance activity may not
proceed until the applicant has received written approval of a SWM site plan
from the township and the corresponding issuance of a stormwater management
permit:
   (A)   Appropriate sections from the township subdivision and land
development ordinance, and other applicable township ordinances, shall be
followed in preparing the swm site plan;
   (B)   The township shall not approve any SWM site plan that is deficient in
meeting the requirements of this chapter. At its sole discretion and in
accordance with this subchapter, when a SWM site plan is found to be deficient,
the township may either disapprove the submission and require a resubmission,
or, in the case of minor deficiencies, the township may accept submission with
modifications;
   (C)   Provision for permanent access or maintenance easements for all SWM
facilities, such as ponds and infiltration structures, as necessary to
implement the operation and maintenance (O&M) plan;
   (D)   The following signature block for the township:
“(Township official or designee), on this date (Signature date), has reviewed
and hereby certifies that the SWM Site Plan meets all design standards and
criteria of the Township Ordinance No. (number assigned to this Ordinance).”
   (E)   The SWM site plan shall provide the following information:
      (1)   The overall stormwater management concept for the project;
      (2)   A determination of site conditions in accordance with the BMP
Manual;
      (3)   Stormwater runoff design computations and documentation as
specified in this chapter, including the recommendations and general
requirements in §
151.025;
      (4)   When infiltration methods such as seepage pits, beds or trenches
are proposed between any septic system and any facility used for stormwater
management, an analysis shall be submitted to verify that stormwater
infiltration shall not affect groundwater elevation at the septic drain field
site;
      (5)   Expected project time schedule;
      (6)   A soil erosion and sediment control plan, where applicable, as
prepared for and submitted to the Conservation District;
      (7)   The effect of the project (in terms of runoff volumes, water
quality and peak flows) on surrounding properties and aquatic features and on
any existing stormwater conveyance system that may be affected by the project;
      (8)   Plan and profile drawings of all SWM BMPs, including drainage
structures, pipes, open channels and swales;
      (9)   SWM site plan shall show the locations of existing and proposed on-
lot wastewater facilities and water supply wells;
      (10)   SWM site plan shall include an O&M plan for all existing and
proposed physical stormwater management facilities. This plan shall address
long-term ownership and responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of
these facilities, as well as schedules and costs for such operation and
maintenance activities;
      (11)   All SWM site plans shall note that stormwater management
facilities are a permanent part of the development and shall not be removed,
altered or modified without approval from the township; and
      (12)   A justification must be included in the SWM site plan if BMPs
other than green infrastructure methods and LID practices are proposed to
achieve the volume, rate and water quality controls under this chapter.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.051 SWM SITE PLAN PREPARATION.
   (A)   The plan for the project area shall be submitted on 24-inch by 36-inch
sheets and shall be prepared in a form that meets the requirements for
recording at the offices of the Recorder of Deeds of Bucks County.
   (B)   The contents of the map(s) shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Location of the project relative to highways, municipalities or
other identifiable landmarks. Location map shall be at a scale of one inch
equals 800 feet;
      (2)   Watershed within which the project is located (e.g. Lower Perkiomen
Creek, Tohickon Creek and the like);
      (3)   Existing contours at intervals of two feet (Datum NAV 1988). In
areas of steep slopes (greater than 25%), five-foot contours may be used;
      (4)   Existing streams, lakes, ponds or other bodies of water within the
project site;
      (5)   Other physical features including special flood hazard boundaries,
sinkholes, intermittent and perennial streams, existing drainage courses,
wetlands, areas of natural vegetation to be preserved and total extent of the
upstream area draining through the project site;
      (6)   Locations of all existing and proposed utilities, sanitary sewers
and water lines located on the site and/or within 50 feet of the project site;
      (7)   An overlay showing soil names and boundaries. The overlay shall
include a table on the map showing the recharge capabilities of each soil
represented onsite in inches per hour and describe their recharge or
infiltration capabilities;
      (8)   Proposed changes to the land surface and vegetative cover,
including the type and amount of impervious area that would be added;
      (9)   All existing and proposed stormwater management BMPs;
      (10)   Proposed structures, buildings, roads, paved areas and other
impervious surfaces. Where pervious pavement is proposed for parking lots,
recreational facilities, non-dedicated streets or other areas, pavement
construction specifications and maintenance requirements shall be noted on the
plan;
      (11)   Final contours at intervals at two feet. In areas of steep slopes
(greater than 25%), five-foot contour intervals may be used;
      (12)   Name of the development, name and address of the applicant and
owner of the project site, and name of the individual or firm preparing the
plan;
      (13)   Date of submission;
      (14)   A graphic and written scale of one inch equals no more than 50
feet. For tracts of 20 acres or more, the scale may be one inch equals no more
than 100 feet;
      (15)   A north arrow;
      (16)   Total tract boundary and size with distances marked to the nearest
foot and bearings to the nearest degree;
      (17)   Existing and proposed land use(s);
      (18)   A key map showing all existing human-made features beyond the
project site that may be affected by the project;
      (19)   Horizontal and vertical profiles of all open channels, including
hydraulic capacity;
      (20)   Overland drainage paths;
      (21)   A minimum 20-foot wide access easement to and around all
stormwater BMPs and management facilities providing ingress to and egress from
a public right-of-way;
      (22)   A note on the plan indicating the location and responsibility for
maintenance of any stormwater management facility that would be located off-
site. All off-site facilities shall meet the performance standards and design
criteria specified in this chapter;
      (23)   A statement on the plan, signed by the applicant, acknowledging
the stormwater BMPs and management facilities to be permanent fixtures that can
be altered or removed only after approval of a revised plan by the township.
This statement shall be recorded with the record plan and shall be applicable
to all future landowners;
      (24)   Location of all erosion and sedimentation control facilities; and
      (25)   The following signature block for the design engineer:
“(Qualified Professional), on this date (date of signature), has reviewed and
hereby certifies that this stormwater management site plan meets all design
standards and criteria of the Bedminster Township Stormwater Management
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.052 PLAN SUBMISSION.
   (A)   For all regulated earth disturbance activities, the steps below shall
be followed for submission. For any activities that require a DEP joint permit
application and regulated under 25 Pa.Code, Chapter 102 (Erosion and Sediment
Control), Chapter 105 (Dam Safety and Waterway Management), and/or Chapter 106
(Floodplain Management) of DEP’s Rules and Regulations; require a PennDOT
highway occupancy permit; or require any other permit under applicable local,
state or federal regulations, those permit(s) shall be part of the SWM site
plan submission.
   (B)   The SWM site plan shall be submitted by the applicant as part of the
preliminary plan submission for the regulated activity and in conjunction with
the submission of an application for a stormwater management permit.
   (C)   The number of copies and digital data formats of the SWM site plan
required to be submitted to the township, shall be determined by the township.
   (D)   Distribution of the SWM site plan shall be determined by the township.
The distribution list shall include the Township Engineer and any other
agencies or entities designated by the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.053 SWM SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit a complete SWM site plan, as specified in
this chapter, prior to the township reviewing any aspect of this plan. SWM site
plans shall be reviewed by the township for consistency with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   After reviewing the SWM site plan, the township shall notify the
applicant, in writing, whether the SWM site plan is approved or disapproved. If
the SWM site plan involves a subdivision plan or land development plan, the
notification shall occur within the time period required for that subdivision
or land development.
   (C)   For any SWM site plan that proposes to use any BMPs other than green
infrastructure and LID practices to achieve the volume and rate controls
required under this chapter, the township will not approve the SWM site plan
unless it determines that green infrastructure and LID practices are not
practicable for that aspect of the project or area of the site.
   (D)   If the township disapproves the SWM site plan, the township will state
the reasons for the disapproval in writing. The township also may approve the
SWM site plan with conditions and, if so, shall provide the acceptable
conditions for approval in writing.
   (E)   Upon approval of the SWM site plan, the township shall issue the
stormwater management permit. The township may attach conditions to the
approval of this permit and, if so, shall provide these conditions to the
applicant in writing.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.054 ERRONEOUS PERMIT.
   Any stormwater management permit or other authorization/approval issued or
approved based on false, misleading or erroneous information provided by an
applicant is void without the necessity of any proceedings for revocation. Any
work undertaken or use established pursuant to such permit or other
authorization is unlawful. No action may be taken by a board, agency or
employee of the township purporting to validate such a violation.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.055 RETENTION OF PLANS AT PROJECT SITE.
   A set of design plans approved by the township shall be on file at the site
throughout the duration of the development activity. Periodic inspections may
be made by the township or designee during development activities.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.056 ADHERENCE TO APPROVED PLAN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to undertake any regulated activity on
any property except as provided for in the approved SWM site plan and pursuant
to the requirements of this chapter. It shall be unlawful to alter or remove
any BMP required by the SWM site plan pursuant to this chapter or to allow the
property to remain in a condition which does not conform to the approved SWM
site plan.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.057 MODIFICATION OF PLANS.
   A modification to a submitted SWM site plan that involves a change in SWM
BMPs or techniques, or that involves the relocation or redesign of SWM BMPs, or
that is necessary because soil or other conditions are not as stated on the SWM
site plan as determined by the township shall require a resubmission of the
modified SWM site plan in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.058 RESUBMISSION OF DISAPPROVED SWM SITE PLANS.
   A disapproved SWM site plan may be resubmitted with the revisions addressing
the township’s concerns, to the township in accordance with this chapter. The
applicable review fee and escrow must accompany a resubmission of a disapproved
SWM site plan.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.059 AUTHORIZATION TO CONSTRUCT AND TERM OF VALIDITY.
   The township’s approval of an SWM site plan authorizes the installation/
construction of the regulated activities described in the approved SWM site
plan for five years following the date of approval (term of validly). The
township may specify a term of validity shorter than five years in the approval
for any specific SWM site plan. Terms of validity shall commence on the date
the township issues the approval for an SWM site plan. If an approved SWM site
plan is not completed according to § 151.055 within the term of validity, then
the township may consider the SWM site plan abandoned and may revoke any and
all permits issued under or in conjunction with the plan’s approval. SWM site
plans that are considered abandoned by the township shall be resubmitted in
accordance with §
151.057 of this chapter.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.060 AS-BUILT PLANS, COMPLETION CERTIFICATE AND FINAL INSPECTION.
   (A)   The developer shall be responsible for providing as-built plans of all
SWM BMPs included the
approved SWM site plan. The as-built plans and an explanation of any
discrepancies with the construction plans shall be submitted to the township.
   (B)   (1)   The as-built submission shall include a certification of
completion signed by a qualified professional verifying that all permanent SWM
BMPs have been constructed according to the approved plans and specifications.
      (2)   The latitude and longitude coordinates for all permanent SWM BMPs
must also be submitted, at the central location of each BMP. If any qualified
professionals contributed to the construction plans, then a qualified
professional must sign the completion certificate.
   (C)   After receipt of the completion certification by the township, the
township will conduct a final inspection of the site and all the installed/
constructed stormwater management facilities.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.061 OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   An occupancy permit for an individual lot shall not be issued unless the
stormwater management facilities approved for and/or serving that lot have been
installed and an as-built plan has been received and found satisfactory by the
township.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
INSPECTIONS
§ 151.075 SCHEDULE OF INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Township Engineer or his or her assignee shall inspect all phases
of the construction/installation of the stormwater management facilities.
   (B)   During any stage of the work, if the Township Engineer determines that
temporary or permanent erosion and sedimentation control or stormwater
management facilities/BMPs are not being implemented in accordance with the
approved SWM site plan and this chapter, the township shall issue a stop work
order until all defects have been corrected.
   (C)   A final inspection of all BMPs and/or stormwater management facilities
shall be conducted by the Township Engineer or his/her designee and to confirm
compliance with the approved SWM site plan prior to the issuance of any
occupancy permit for a lot or structure served by such facilities.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.076 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   During construction, duly authorized representatives of the township
may enter at reasonable times upon any property within the township to inspect
the implementation, condition or operation and maintenance of the SWM BMPs and
to investigate whether construction activity is in compliance with this
chapter. Unless extraordinary circumstances dictate otherwise, entry should be
limited to the hours between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
   (B)   BMP owners and operators shall allow persons working on behalf of the
township ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
determining compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Persons working on behalf of the township shall have the right to
temporarily locate on any BMP in the township such devices as are necessary to
conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility’s storm water discharge.
   (D)   Delaying or denying entry to the township for the purposes stated
herein shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
FEES AND EXPENSES
§ 151.090 SWM SITE PLAN REVIEW FEE.
   (A)   The applicant shall pay all fees and the costs incurred by the
township for any legal, geological, engineering or other outside consultants or
agencies.
   (B)   The township shall establish a stormwater management permit review fee
by resolution of the Board of Supervisors, which fee may be amended from time
to time. The permit fee is non-refundable.
   (C)   The township shall establish a refundable escrow amount by resolution
of the Board of Supervisors. The received escrow shall be used to pay costs
incurred by the township’s legal, engineering and other consulting experts. The
township has the authority to demand replenishment of the escrow in the event
the remaining balance falls to 25% or less of the initial amount, and to notify
township consultants to stop work on the application/project until such time as
the escrow is brought current and all past due bills are paid.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.091 EXPENSES COVERED BY FEES.
   (A)   The fees required by this chapter shall cover the following:
      (1)   Administrative/clerical costs;
      (2)   Review of the SWM site plan by the township staff;
      (3)   Site inspections by the township staff;
      (4)   Inspection of stormwater management facilities and stormwater
management improvements
during construction by the township staff; and
      (5)   Final inspection upon completion of the stormwater management
facilities and stormwater
management improvements shown on the SWM site plan by the township staff.
   (B)   The escrow required by this chapter shall, at a minimum, cover the
following:
      (1)   Review of the SWM site plan by the Township Solicitor, Township
Engineer and other township consultants;
      (2)   Site inspections by the Township Engineer;
      (3)   Inspection of stormwater management facilities and stormwater
management improvements
during construction by the Township Engineer;
      (4)   Final inspection upon completion of the stormwater management
facilities and stormwater
management improvements shown on the SWM site plan by the Township Engineer;
and
      (5)   Any additional work required to enforce any permit provisions
regulated by this chapter, correct violations and ensure proper completion of
stipulated remedial actions.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.092 ITEMIZATION OF COSTS.
   Expenses incurred by the township and charged to the applicant pursuant to §
151.091 shall be itemized. A copy of the itemized costs will be provided by the
township to the applicant if requested.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES
§ 151.105 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   For SWM site plans that involve subdivision and land development, the
applicant shall provide a financial guarantee to the township for the timely
installation and proper construction of all erosion and sediment control
measures, stormwater management controls, stormwater management facilities and
BMPs, as required by the approved SWM site plan and this chapter.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.106 MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES; SITE PLAN.
   (A)   The SWM site plan for a site shall contain an operation and
maintenance plan prepared by the applicant and approved by the township. The
operation and maintenance plan shall describe how the permanent stormwater
management facilities will be properly operated and maintained and shall
outline required routine maintenance actions and schedules necessary to ensure
proper operation of the BMPs. No regulated activities shall commence until the
township approves the operation and maintenance plan.
   (B)   The SWM site plan for the site shall set forth the ownership of the
stormwater management system and its components and establish responsibilities
for the continuing operating and maintenance of all proposed stormwater
management facilities. Any of the following ownership arrangements may be used
concerning the stormwater management system and its components.
      (1)   The stormwater management system may be dedicated to and maintained
by the township, although the township is not obligated to accept such
dedication.
      (2)   The stormwater management system may be owned and maintained by an
appropriately established homeowner’s association or condominium association in
lieu of township ownership/maintenance. The applicant must show that the
association will be created in compliance with state law and will have the
financial wherewithal to properly operate and maintain the system. The township
may require the applicant to post an appropriate amount of financial security,
as determined by the township (generally, 10% of the construction/installation
costs of the system), to guarantee the proper operation and maintenance of the
system by the association.
      (3)   If a site is to be maintained in a single ownership or if the
stormwater management system is to be privately owned and maintained, then the
system may be owned and maintained by the owner of the completed development.
The township may require the applicant to post an appropriate amount of
financial security, as determined by the township to guarantee the proper
operation and maintenance of the system by this private owner.
   (C)   The township, upon recommendation of the Township Engineer, shall make
the final determination on the continuing maintenance responsibilities prior to
final approval of the SWM site plan. The township reserves the right anytime to
accept the ownership and operating responsibility for all or part of the
stormwater management system or any of its components. The right of the
township to accept ownership in the future shall be stated in the operation and
maintenance agreement.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.107 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to final approval of the SWM site plan, the applicant shall sign
an operation and maintenance agreement with the township covering all
stormwater management facilities that are to be privately owned and/or
maintained. This agreement shall be prepared by the Township Solicitor and
recorded in the Bucks County Recorder of Deeds. This agreement shall be
transferred to any new owner of the property containing the stormwater
management system.
   (B)   The operation and maintenance agreement shall contain any and all
provisions determined necessary to guarantee the satisfactory maintenance of
the stormwater management system and its component facilities proposed to be
built on the site and/or in conjunction with the project.
   (C)   The owner of the property containing the stormwater management system
is responsible for operation and maintenance (O&M) of the SWM BMPs. If the
owner fails to adhere to the operation and maintenance agreement, the township
may perform the services required and recover all incurred costs and expenses
for such service and work from the owner. The township may file a municipal
lien against the property for the non-payment of these costs and expenses by
the owner.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.108 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Fully executed stormwater management easements shall be provided by
the owner of the site if necessary to provide access for inspection,
maintenance, rehabilitation, repair and replacement of stormwater management
facilities and/or preservation of the stormwater management system, including,
but not limited to, stormwater runoff conveyance, infiltration and detention
areas and facilities, as well as flood routes for the 100-year storm event.
These easement shall be in a form approved by the Township Solicitor and may be
part of the operation and agreement or set forth in a separate document.
   (B)   Stormwater management easements are required for all areas used for
off-site stormwater control unless a waiver is granted by the township.
   (C)   All documents containing a stormwater management easement shall be
recorded with the Bucks
County Recorder of Deeds prior to issuance of a building permit or recordation
of a subdivision or land development plan.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.109 MUNICIPAL STORMWATER MAINTENANCE FUND.
   (A)   All applicants for subdivision or land development approval shall be
required to pay a specified amount to the township’s Stormwater Maintenance
Fund to help defray costs of periodic inspections and/or maintenance expenses.
The amount of the deposit shall be determined as follows:
      (1)   If the stormwater management system or component thereof is to be
owned and maintained by any person or entity other than the township, the
deposit shall cover the cost of periodic inspections performed by the township
for a period of 20 years, as estimated by the applicant and approved by the
township; or
      (2)   If the stormwater management system or component thereof is to be
owned and maintained by the township, the deposit shall cover the estimated
costs for maintenance and inspections for 20 years, as estimated by the
applicant and approved by the township.
   (B)   If a stormwater management facility is proposed that also serves as a
public recreation facility (e.g. ballfield, pond or the like), the township
may, but is not required to, reduce or waive the amount of the Maintenance Fund
deposit based upon the value of this provided stormwater management.
   (C)   The township shall require applicants to pay a fee to the township’s
Stormwater Maintenance Fund to cover unforeseen stormwater related problems
which may arise from the land development and earth disturbance of the site.
   (D)   If at some future time a stormwater management facility (whether
publicly or privately owned) is eliminated due to the installation of storm
sewers or other facilities, the unused portion of the township’s Stormwater
Maintenance Fund deposit related to the maintenance or inspection of this
eliminated facility will used for the maintenance or inspection of these newly
installed storm sewers or other facilities.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 151.120 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, that
allows any non-stormwater discharge, including, but not limited to, sewage,
process wastewater or wash water, to enter a regulated small MS4 or the surface
waters of the commonwealth is prohibited.
   (B)   No person shall allow, or cause to allow, discharges into a regulated
small MS4, or discharges into waters of the commonwealth, which are not
composed entirely of stormwater, except as provided in division (C) below.
Discharges authorized under a state or federal permit do not fall under this
prohibition.
   (C)   The following discharges are authorized unless they are determined by
the township to be significant contributors to pollution of a regulated small
MS4 or to the waters of the commonwealth:
      (1)   Discharges or flows from firefighting activities;
      (2)   Discharges from potable water sources including water line flushing
and fire hydrant flushing, if such discharges do not contain detectable
concentrations of total residual chlorine (TRC);
      (3)   Non-contaminated irrigation water, water from lawn maintenance,
landscape drainage and flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
      (4)   Diverted stream flows and springs;
      (5)   Non-contaminated pumped ground water and water from foundation and
footing drains and crawl space pumps;
      (6)   Non-contaminated HVAC condensation and water from geothermal
systems;
      (7)   Residential (e.g. not commercial) vehicle wash water where cleaning
agents are not utilized; and
      (8)   Non-contaminated hydrostatic test water discharges, if such
discharges do not contain detectable concentrations of TRC.
   (D)   In the event that the township or DEP determines that any of the
discharges identified in division (C) above significantly contribute pollutants
to a regulated small MS4 or to the waters of the commonwealth, the township or
DEP will notify the responsible person(s) to cease the discharge.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.121 ROOF DRAINS AND SUMP PUMPS.
   (A)   Roof drains and sump pumps shall discharge to infiltration areas or
vegetative BMPs and to the maximum extent   practicable satisfy the criteria
for disconnected impervious areas (DIAs), except as described in the other
provisions of this section. Roof drains and sump pumps shall not be connected
to streets through the curb or to sanitary sewers; and shall only be connected
to storm sewer or swales (located within an easement) when designed as part of
a stormwater BMP.
   (B)   On lots greater than 20,000 square feet in area, all plans wherein a
sump pump or basement drain is proposed to be installed shall provide for
discharge of the sump pump/drain to a natural watercourse, drainage swale or
storm sewer system.
   (C)   On lots smaller than 20,000 square feet in area, all such pumps and
drains shall discharge directly into an enclosed storm sewer for conveyance to
a stormwater management facility and shall not discharge onto the ground or
into a swale.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.122 WASTE DISPOSAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall throw, deposit, leave, maintain, keep or permit to be
thrown, deposited, left or maintained in or upon any public or private
property, driveway, parking area, street, alley, sidewalk or component of a
stormwater management system, any refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other
discarded or abandoned objects, articles and accumulations, so that the same
may cause, constitute or contribute to pollution. Refuse, rubbish, garbage,
litter or other discards deposited in proper waste receptacles for the purpose
of collection are exempted from this prohibition.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.123 ALTERATION OF SWM BMPS.
   No person shall modify, remove, fill, landscape or alter any SWM BMPs,
facilities, areas or structures that were installed as a requirement of this
chapter without the prior written approval of the township.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020) Penalty, see §
151.999
 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
§ 151.135 RIGHT-OF-ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the township or its designated
agent may enter, at reasonable times, upon any property within the township to
inspect the condition and maintenance of stormwater structures and facilities
in regard to any aspect regulated by this chapter. Unless extraordinary
circumstances dictate otherwise, entry shall be limited to the hours between 7:
00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.136 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any owner of land containing stormwater management facilities or its
designee (including the township for dedicated and owned facilities) shall
inspect SWM BMPs, facilities and/or structures installed or established under
this chapter according to the following frequencies, at a minimum to ensure the
facilities and/or BMPs continue to function as intended:
      (1)   Annually for the first five years,
      (2)   Once every three years thereafter; and
      (3)   During or immediately after the cessation of a ten-year or greater
storm.
   (B)   These required inspections should be conducted during or immediately
following precipitation events.
   (C)   Where the facility/BMP being inspected was installed as a part of a
project which required an NPDES permit (earth disturbance of one acre or
greater), a written inspection report shall be created to document the
inspection. The inspection report shall contain the date and time of the
inspection, the individual(s) who completed the inspection, the location of the
inspected BMP/facility, observations on performance and recommendations for
improving performance, if applicable. Inspection reports shall be submitted to
the township within 30 days following completion of the inspection.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.137 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to undertake any regulated activity
except as provided in an approved SWM site plan and except as provided in this
chapter, unless specifically exempted in §
151.006.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to violate §
151.122.
   (C)   Inspections regarding compliance with the SWM site plan are the
responsibility of the township.
   (D)   An applicant shall comply with all applicable requirements of this
chapter and shall undertake its activities in compliance with this chapter and
its approved SWM site plan.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.138 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any approval or permit issued by the township pursuant to this chapter
may be suspended or revoked for:
      (1)   Non-compliance with or failure to implement any provision of the
approved SWM site plan or operation and maintenance agreement;
      (2)   A violation of any provision of this chapter or any other
applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation relating to the regulated
activity;
      (3)   The creation of any condition or the commission of any act during
the regulated activity which constitutes or creates a hazard, nuisance,
pollution or endangers the life or property of others; and
      (4)   Lack of project completion within the permit period.
   (B)   A suspended approval may be reinstated by the township when:
      (1)   The township has inspected and approved the corrections to the
violation that caused the suspension; and
      (2)   The township is satisfied that the violation has been corrected.
   (C)   An approval that has been revoked by the township cannot be
reinstated. The applicant may apply for a new approval under the provisions of
this chapter.
   (D)   If a violation causes no immediate danger to life, public health or
property, at its sole discretion, the township may provide a limited time
period for the violator to correct the violation. In these cases, the township
will provide the violator or its designee, with a written notice of the
violation and the time period allowed for the violator to correct the
violation. If the violator does not correct the violation within the allowed
time period, the township may revoke or suspend any or all applicable approvals
and permits pertaining to any provision of this chapter, along with seeking
other penalties for the violation in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.139 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter is hereby deemed a
public nuisance.
   (B)   Any person engaged in the implementation, construction, installation,
inspection, maintenance, repair, rehabilitation, replacement or removal of a
stormwater management system, stormwater management facility or BMP shall
undertake such activities consistent with the stormwater management permit, the
SWM site plan and this chapter. Any such activity conducted in violation of the
issued permit, approved plan, or this chapter is hereby declared a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.140 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals from the determination of the Township Zoning Officer,
Township Engineer or township designee in the administration of this chapter
that relate to applications for land development under the Municipalities
Planning Code Article V and VII shall be made to the Board of Supervisors
within 30 days of that determination or decision, pursuant to the
Municipalities Planning Code § 909.1(b)(6).
   (B)   Appeals from the determination of the Township Zoning Officer,
Township Engineer or township designee in the administration of this chapter
that do not relate to applications for land development under the
Municipalities Planning Code Article V and VII shall be made to the Township
Zoning Hearing Board within 30 days of that determination or decision, pursuant
to the Municipalities Planning Code § 909.1(a)(9).
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Township Zoning Hearing
Board may appeal to the Bucks County Court of Common Pleas within 30 days of
the decision of the Zoning Hearing Board.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating a provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
summary offense, and upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not more
than $600, nor less than $200, for each violation, plus any and all costs
incurred by the township in prosecuting this action, including, but not limited
to, consultant fees, attorneys’ fees and expert witness fees. Each provision of
the chapter being violated constitutes a separate offense and each day each
violation continues shall be a separate offense. All penalties shall be
cumulative.
   (B)   In addition, the township may institute injunctive, mandamus or any
other appropriate action or proceeding at law or in equity for the enforcement
of this chapter and/or to restrain, prevent or abate a violation of this
chapter. Any court of competent jurisdiction shall have the right to hearing
such actions and issue restraining orders, temporary or permanent injunctions,
mandamus or other appropriate forms of remedy or relief. The expense of such
proceedings shall be recoverable from the violator in any manner as may now or
hereafter be provided by law.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
APPENDIX A: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT (O&M)
Prepared By:
 
Return To:
 
TMP #
 
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
STORMWATER FACILITIES
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT
   THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this _________ day of
_________________, 20____, by and between _____________________________ a
Pennsylvania corporation with an registered office at
____________________________________ (hereinafter the “Landowner”), and
BEDMINSTER TOWNSHIP, Bucks County, Pennsylvania (hereinafter “Township”);
W I T N E S S E T H
   WHEREAS, Landowner is the owner of a tract of land in Bedminster Township,
Bucks County, Pennsylvania located at __________________________, otherwise
known as Bucks County TMPs _________________________ and recorded by deed in
the land records of Bucks County, Pennsylvania, Deed Book ___________ at Page
______, (hereinafter referred to as the “Property”); and
   WHEREAS, on ____________________, Landowner obtained final plan approval
from the Township for a _______________ of the Property pursuant to plans
prepared by ____________________________, consisting of _______________ (___)
sheets, numbered 1 through ___, dated _________________, last revised
___________________; said plans being made a part hereof and incorporated
herein by reference although not physically attached hereto (hereinafter
referred to as the “Final Plans”); and
   WHEREAS, the Final Plans include the Operations and Maintenance Plan
approved by the Township (hereinafter referred to as the “Plan”) for the
Property, which is attached hereto as Exhibit A and made part hereof, as
approved by the Township, provides for management of stormwater within the
confines of the Property; and
   WHEREAS, Landowner is proceeding to build and develop the Property in
accordance with the Final Plans; and
   WHEREAS, the Township requires, though the implementation of stormwater
management regulations that Stormwater Management Facilities as shown on the
Plan be constructed and adequately maintained by Landowner, his or her heirs,
successors and assigns; and
   WHEREAS, the Township and Landowner agree that the health, safety, and
welfare of the residents of the Township require that onsite Stormwater
Management Facilities be constructed and maintained on the Property; and
   WHEREAS, Landowner proposes to locate, construct, install and maintain
certain Stormwater Management Facilities on the Property, as shown on the Plan;
and
   WHEREAS, as a condition of obtaining final approval of the Plan from the
Township, the Township required that Landowner execute and record this
Agreement in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of Bucks County, Pennsylvania
for the purpose of ensuring that: (1) the Stormwater Management Facilities are
located, constructed, installed, operated and maintained by Landowner in
accordance with the Plan; (2) following the completion of the duties of
Landowner pursuant to the Plan, the Stormwater Management Facilities are
continually and perpetually maintained, repaired, refurbished, reconstructed
and replaced by owner(s) of the land on which the facilities are located; and
(3) in the event of default of this Agreement by Landowner or its successor and
assigns, the Township shall have the right to enter upon the Property to cure
such default; and
   WHEREAS, the Township requires, through the implementation of the Plan, that
Stormwater Management Facilities as required by said Plan and the Bedminster
Township Stormwater Management Ordinance be constructed and adequately operated
and maintained by the Landowner, his or her successors and assigns.
   NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing statements, the Township’s
approval of the Final Plans and the Plan, and the following terms and
conditions, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1.   For the purposes of this agreement, the following definitions shall apply:
   BMP (Best Management Practice) -Activities, facilities, designs, measures or
procedures used to manage stormwater impacts from land development, to protect
and maintain water quality and groundwater recharge and to otherwise meet the
purposes of the Township’s Stormwater Management Ordinance, including but not
limited to infiltration trenches, seepage pits, filter strips, bioretention,
wet ponds, permeable paving, rain gardens, grassed swales, forested buffers,
sand filters and detention basins.
   Infiltration Trench - A BMP surface structure designed, constructed, and
maintained for the purpose of providing infiltration or recharge of stormwater
into the soil and/or groundwater aquifer.
   Rain Garden - A BMP overlain with appropriate mulch and suitable vegetation
designed, constructed and maintained for the purpose of providing infiltration
or recharge of stormwater into the soil and/or underground aquifer.
   Seepage Pit - An underground BMP structure designed, constructed, and
maintained for the purpose of providing infiltration or recharge of stormwater
into the soil and/or groundwater aquifer.
   Stormwater Management Facility - Any structure, device, construct, or
improvement, including, but not limited to, BMPs designed, installed,
constructed and maintained for the purpose controlling stormwater.
2.   All Stormwater Management Facilities shall be constructed by Landowner in
accordance with the terms, conditions and specifications identified in the
Plan.
3.   The Landowner shall operate and maintain the Stormwater Management
Facilities as shown on the Plan in good working order acceptable to the
Township and in accordance with the specific maintenance requirements noted on
the Plan.
4.   The intent and purpose of this Agreement is to ensure the proper
maintenance of the onsite Stormwater Management Facilities by the Landowner;
provided, however, that this Agreement shall not be deemed to create or affect
any additional liability of any party for damage alleged to result from or be
caused by stormwater runoff.
5.   Landowner shall keep and maintain the Stormwater Management Facilities in
good working condition. Landowner shall continually and perpetually perform
such maintenance, repair, refurbishment, reconstruction and replacement of said
facilities shown on the Plan and located on the Property, including but not
limited to BMPs, drainage swales, detention and retention basins, stormwater
piping systems, headwalls, inlet and outlet structures and all structures and
facilities appurtenant to the foregoing, as may be necessary or advisable in
the opinion of the Township to ensure the structural integrity and the proper
functioning thereof and to ensure compliance with all federal, state and local
laws, rules and regulations pertaining thereto. At no time shall the Stormwater
Management Facilities be removed or altered in any manner without the prior
written approval of the Township. In particular, Landowner agrees to the
following:
   a.   Landowner shall regularly perform all inspection and maintenance of the
Stormwater Management Facilities as is necessary and desirable to ensure the
property functioning of the Facilities.
   b.   Landowner shall not alter the area of the Stormwater Management
Facilities in a manner which would cause the Facilities to differ from what is
shown on the Plan without written approval of the Township.
   c.   Landowner shall remove debris and silt from the facilities to ensure
that the Stormwater Management Facilities remain in good working order.
   d.   Landowner shall make all repairs necessary to ensure the continued
proper operation of the Stormwater Management Facilities.
6.   All Stormwater Management Facilities that have been damaged or fail to
function properly, for any reason, shall be stabilized and reconstructed by
Landowner to approved design grades and specifications as shown on the Plan and
approved by the Township.
7.   All drainage, detention and/or retention basin easements shown on the Plan
shall be maintained in a grassed or otherwise improved condition, in accordance
with the grades and designs shown on the Plan. All these easements shall be
kept free of all obstructions, including but not limited to, fill, temporary or
permanent structures and plants (other than what is approved on the Plan).
8.   Whenever sedimentation is caused by stripping vegetation, grading or other
earth moving activities, it shall be the responsibility of Landowner to remove
the sedimentation from all adjoining surfaces, drainage systems and
watercourses, and to correct and repair any damage caused by such sedimentation
at its sole expense.
9.   For all Stormwater Management Facilities approved for the Property which
include underground stormwater retention, detention or disbursement structures,
Landowner hereby agrees to retain a reputable service company to inspect these
stormwater structures on an annual basis and, if required, clean such
structures by removing any debris or other material from them. The material
removed must be disposed of at a DEP-permitted landfill or some other facility
approved by DEP for the handling of such material. Landowner is specifically
prohibited from flushing any debris or other material out of the stormwater
structures.
10.   Every three years, Landowner shall provide Township with an inspection
report issued by a professional engineer registered to practice within the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. This report must certify that the Stormwater
Management Facilities are functioning as designed or, if not functioning as
designed, the report shall include recommendations regarding remedial measures
or repairs required to correct the deficiencies. All necessary remedial
measures and repairs shall be completed by Landowner within 30 days of the
identification of deficiencies, unless some other period is authorized by
Township. A subsequent report shall filed within 60 days of the remedial
measures and repairs being finished and shall include an engineer’s
certification that the corrective work has been acceptably completed.
11.   Landowner hereby grants permission to the Township, its authorized agents
and employees, upon presentation of proper identification, to enter upon the
Property at reasonable times to inspect the Stormwater Management Facilities
whenever the Township deems necessary. The purpose of the inspection is to
ensure safe and proper functioning of the facilities. The inspection shall
cover the entire Facilities, including BMPs, berms, outlet structures, pond
areas, access roads and the like. When inspections are conducted, the Township
shall give Landowner copies of any inspection report which may have been
prepared, with findings and evaluations. Maintenance inspections shall be
performed at the discretion of the Township. All reasonable costs for said
inspections shall be borne by the Landowner and payable to the Township.
12.   Landowner hereby grants and conveys to the Township, its authorized
agents and employees, a non-exclusive access easement over the Property for the
sole purposes of: inspecting the Stormwater Management Facilities; maintaining,
when necessary, these Facilities; curing any default by Landowner; and
exercising the rights granted to the Township under this Agreement.
13.   In the event of an emergency or the occurrence of special or unusual
circumstances or situations, the Township may enter the Property, even if the
Landowner is not immediately available, without notification or identification,
to inspect the Stormwater Management Facilities and to perform any necessary
maintenance and repairs to the facilities, if the health, safety or welfare of
the citizens is at jeopardy. Under such circumstances, the Township shall
notify the Landowner of any inspection, maintenance or repair undertaken within
five days of the activity. Landowner shall reimburse the Township for its
costs.
14.   It is expressly understood and agreed that the Township is under no
obligation to maintain or repair any of the Stormwater Management Facilities on
the Property, and, in no event shall this document be construed to impose any
such obligation upon the Township.
15.   In the event the Township, pursuant to this Agreement, performs work of
any nature on the Stormwater Management Facilities on the Property or expends
any funds in performance of said work on account of Landowner’s failure to
perform such work, Landowner shall reimburse the Township within 30 days of
receipt of an invoice for all costs and expenses (direct and indirect) incurred
by the Township related to such work. If this invoice is not paid within said
thirty-day period, the Township may enter a lien against the Property in the
amount of such costs, or may proceed to recover its costs through proceedings
in equity or at law as authorized under provisions of the Pennsylvania Second
Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq.
16.   Landowner releases Bedminster Township, its engineer, solicitor and all
other agents, servants or employees from all damages, accidents, casualties,
occurrences, claims, losses, liabilities or any other demand for money or
damages whatsoever, including, without limitation, all attorneys’ fees, arising
out of or related in any way to the construction, presence, existence or
maintenance of the Stormwater Management Facilities on the Property; the grant
of this Agreement; Landowner’s compliance with this Agreement or the exercise
of the rights granted to the Township by this Agreement. Furthermore, Landowner
warrants and shall forever defend against any such claims. In the event a claim
is asserted against the Township, its engineer, solicitor and all other agents,
servants or employees, the Township shall promptly notify Landowner, and
Landowner shall defend, at its own expense, any suit based on such claim. If
any judgment or claims against the Township, its engineer, solicitor and all
other agents, servants, or employees, shall be allowed, Landowner shall pay all
costs and expenses in connection therewith.
17.   If Township determines that a violation of the terms of this Agreement
has occurred or is threatened, it shall give written notice to Landowner of
such violation, along with a list of responsibilities which have not been
properly performed by Landowner, and demand corrective action sufficient to
cure the violation. Landowner shall have 20 days to accomplish, to the
Township’s satisfaction, the responsibilities on the list. If Landowner fails
to cure the violations within these 20 days after receipt of notice thereof
from Township, Township may bring an action at law or in equity in a court of
competent jurisdiction to enforce the terms of this Agreement and to enjoin the
violation, ex parte as necessary, by temporary or permanent injunction.
Township’s remedies described in this Agreement shall be cumulative and shall
be in addition to all remedies now or hereafter existing at law or in equity.
Landowner agrees that Township’s remedies at law for any violation of the terms
of this Agreement are inadequate and that Township shall be entitled to the
injunctive relief described above, both prohibitive and mandatory, in addition
to such other relief to which Township may be entitled, including specific
performance of the terms of this Agreement, without the necessity of proving
either actual damages or the inadequacy of otherwise available legal remedies.
All reasonable costs incurred by Township in enforcing the terms of this
Agreement against Landowner, including, without limitation, costs and expenses
of suit, and reasonable attorneys’ fees, shall be borne by Landowner, if
Township prevails.
Forbearance by Township to exercise its rights under this Agreement in the
event of any breach of any term of this Agreement by Landowner shall not be
deemed or construed to be a waiver by Township of such terms, or of any
subsequent breach of the same, or any other term of this Agreement, or of any
of Township’s rights under this Agreement. No delay or omission by Township in
the exercise of any right or remedy upon any breach by Landowner shall impair
such right or remedy or be construed as a waiver. Landowner hereby waives any
defense of laches, estoppel or prescription.
In addition, upon failure of Landowner to fulfill any of its obligations under
this Agreement, after notice to do so is provided as required above, the
Township may enter upon the Property and take such necessary and prudent work
needed, in its sole and absolute discretion, to bring Landowner into compliance
with this Agreement. All such work shall be conducted at Landowner’s expense,
and Landowner hereby agrees to assume and pay all costs incurred by the
Township in completing this work, including a 20% surcharge for the Township’s
administrative expenses, all professional fees and costs, and any costs
associated with the filing of a municipal lien or lawsuit. In the event that
Landowner fails to pay all sums due to Township for this work within 30 days of
demand therefor, the Township is expressly authorized to collect these sums in
the manner prescribed by law for the collection of municipal claims and liens,
and, in so doing, may claim all legal fees, costs and expenses associated
therewith, as authorized by Act 1996-1.
18.   This Agreement shall be recorded with the Bucks County Recorder of Deeds.
This Agreement is appurtenant to Property and shall be construed to be
covenants running with the land binding upon the Landowner, its heirs,
successors and assigns.
19.   This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
parties hereto and their respective heirs, successors and assigns, and the
terms “Landowner,” “Bedminster Township,” and “Township” herein shall include
their respective heirs, successors and assigns.
20.   The parties agree that this Agreement contains all of the agreements
between the parties regarding the operation and maintenance of the Stormwater
Management Facilities and that there are no other agreements or representations
made by either of them. This Agreement sets forth the entire understanding
between the parties and any representations, oral or written, not contained
therein, are without effect.
21.   Landowner shall not assign this Agreement, in whole or any part, to any
person or other entity without the prior written consent of Township. Any
attempt at assignment without the prior written consent of Township shall be
null and void, not binding on Township, and the same shall constitute a default
under this Agreement.
22.   This Agreement may not be modified except by written agreement of the
parties.
23.   It is expressly understood and agreed that no third party beneficiaries
are created by this Agreement.
24.   This Agreement shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and Ordinances of Bedminster Township. All the
parties to this Agreement hereby consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the
Court of Common Pleas of Bucks County, Pennsylvania regarding any dispute
arising out of or in connection with this Agreement. All the easement rights
and responsibilities shall be exercised in compliance with all applicable laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations along with all approvals granted by all
governmental authorities having jurisdiction over the Property and/or the
Project, including, without limitation, Bedminster Township.
25.   If any ambiguity or ambiguities in this Agreement should be claimed by
either Landowner or Township, or if any court of competent jurisdiction should
determine that any ambiguity exists in this Agreement, any such ambiguity shall
be resolved in favor of Township and against Landowner.
26.   If any provision of this Agreement is determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be illegal, invalid, unenforceable, unconstitutional or void,
for any reason, only such provision shall be illegal, invalid, unenforceable,
unconstitutional or void and the remainder of this Agreement shall be in full
force and effect.
27.   In the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement should, for any
reason whatsoever, not be noted or recited in any subsequent deed for the
Property or any portion thereof, such terms, conditions and restrictions shall
attach to the Property or any portion thereof under and pursuant to this
Agreement notwithstanding the absence of such provisions in said deed.
BEDMINSTER TOWNSHIP
STORMWATER FACILITIES OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT
_______________________Subdivision
(Signatures)
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, and intending to be legally bound, the parties hereby
cause this Agreement to be executed the day and year first above written.
LANDOWNER                              ____________________________________
Witness: ____________________________       By:
_____________________________________
                           Name:
                           Title:
 
TOWNSHIP                        BEDMINSTER TOWNSHIP
                           BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
   Approved by the proper action of the Board of Supervisors of Bedminster
Township on the ________ day of _________________________, A.D., 20_____, at an
official public meeting of the Township with a quorum present and voting, with
the proper officers of the Township being directed to execute this Agreement
and the Township Secretary or Assistant Secretary, being directed to note this
action upon the minutes of said meeting.
                           _________________________________
                           Chair
                           _________________________________
                           Vice-Chair
                           _________________________________
                           Member
BEDMINSTER TOWNSHIP
STORMWATER FACILITIES OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT
________________________Subdivision
(Acknowledgments)
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA   :
                     :   ss.
COUNTY OF __________________________   :
   ON THIS _______ day of __________________, A.D., 20___, before me, a Notary
Public, personally appeared ____________________________________, known to me
(or satisfactorily proven) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the
within instrument, and acknowledged that he or she executed the same for the
purposes therein contained.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and official seal.
                           ___________________________________(SEAL)
                           Notary Public
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA   :
                     :   SS.
COUNTY OF BUCKS            :
   ON THIS  _______day of ________________, A.D., 20___, before me, a Notary
Public, personally appeared __________________________________________________,
who acknowledged that they are the Supervisors of Bedminster Township, and as
such, being authorized to do so, executed the foregoing instrument on its
behalf for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set my hand and official seal.
                           _____________________________________(SEAL)
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
APPENDIX B: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT DESIGN CRITERIA
TABLE B-1
DESIGN STORM RAINFALL AMOUNT
Source: NOAA Atlas 14 website, Doylestown Gage (36-2221)
http://hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/orb/pa_pfds.html
FIGURE B-1
ATLAS 14 TYPE II S-CURVES FOR ALL FREQUENCY STORMS - DOYLESTOWN
GAGE (36-2221)
Source: NOAA Atlas 14 website, Doylestown Gage (36-2221) http://
hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/orb/pa_pfds.html.
TABLE B-2
NATURAL RESOURCE PROTECTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT CONTROLS
Source: PA BMP Manual Chapter 8, pg. 33
TABLE B-3
GUIDANCE TO CALCULATE THE 2-YEAR, 24-HOUR VOLUME INCREASE FROM PRE-DEVELOPMENT
TO POST-DEVELOPMENT CONDITIONS
Source: PA BMP Manual Chapter 8, pg. 37
TABLE B-4
RUNOFF CURVE NUMBERS
Source: NRCS (SCS) TR-55
TABLE B-5
VOLUME CONTROL CALCULATION GUIDANCE FOR NONSTRUCTURAL BMPS
Source: PA BMP Manual Chapter 8, pg. 34
TABLE B-6
VOLUME CONTROL CALCULATION GUIDANCE FOR STRUCTURAL BMPS
Source: PA BMP Manual Chapter 8, pg. 38
TABLE B-7
RATIONAL RUNOFF COEFFICIENTS
Source: New Jersey Department of Transportation, Technical Manual for Stream
Encroachment, August, 1984
TABLE B-8
MANNING ROUGHNESS COEFFICIENTS
TABLE B-1
DESIGN STORM RAINFALL AMOUNT (INCHES)
The design storm rainfall amount chosen for design should be obtained from the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Atlas 14 interactive website:
http://hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/orb/pa_pfds.html
Source: NOAA Atlas 14 website, Doylestown Gage (36-2221)
http://hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/orb/pa_pfds.html
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/25768d1392ef03191e2aa3d1318b1793514718d8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1217.png]
FIGURE B-1
ATLAS 14 TYPE II S-CURVES FOR ALL FREQUENCY STORMS –
DOYLESTOWN GAGE (36-2221)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/25768d1392ef03191e2aa3d1318b1793514718d8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1215.png]
TABLE B-2
NATURAL RESOURCE PROTECTION
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT CONTROLS
Existing Natural   Mapped in the ERSAP? Total Area (Ac.) Area to be Protected
Sensitive Resource Yes/No/n/a                            (Ac.)
Existing Natural     Mapped in the ERSAP? Total Area (Ac.) Area to be Protected
Sensitive Resource   Yes/No/n/a                            (Ac.)
Floodplains                                               
Natural drainage                                          
ways
Other:                                                    
Other:                                                    
Riparian areas/                                           
buffers
Steep slopes, 15% to                                      
25%
Steep slopes, over                                        
25%
Vernal pools                                              
Waterbodies                                               
Wetlands                                                  
Woodlands                                                 
Total Existing:
 
TABLE B-3
GUIDANCE TO CALCULATE THE TWO-YEAR, 24-HOUR VOLUME INCREASE
FROM PRE-DEVELOPMENT TO POST-DEVELOPMENT CONDITIONS
 
Existing                                                            Runoff
Conditions: Soil Type Area (sf) Area (ac) CN S Ia (0.2*S) Q Runoff  Volume
Cover Type/                                               (in)      (ft3)
Condition
Imperious                                                     
Meadow                                                        
Woodland                                                      
Total:                                                        
 
Developed                                                           Runoff
Conditions: Soil Type Area (sf) Area (ac) CN S Ia (0.2*S) Q Runoff  Volume
Cover Type/                                               (in)      (ft3)
Condition
Impervious                                                    
Meadow                                                        
Woodland                                                      
Total:                                                        
2-year Volume Increase (ft3):                                        
TABLE B-4
RUNOFF CURVE NUMBERS (FROM NRCS (SCS) TR-55)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/25768d1392ef03191e2aa3d1318b1793514718d8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1219.png]
TABLE B-5
VOLUME CONTROL CALCULATION GUIDANCE FOR NONSTRUCTURAL BMPS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/25768d1392ef03191e2aa3d1318b1793514718d8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1221.png]
TABLE B-6
VOLUME CONTROL CALCULATION GUIDANCE FOR STRUCTURAL BMPS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/25768d1392ef03191e2aa3d1318b1793514718d8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1223.png]
TABLE B-7
RATIONAL RUNOFF COEFFICIENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/25768d1392ef03191e2aa3d1318b1793514718d8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1225.png]
TABLE B-8
MANNING’S ROUGHNESS COEFFICIENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/25768d1392ef03191e2aa3d1318b1793514718d8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1227.png]
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
APPENDIX C: STORMWATER RUNOFF PEAK RATE DISTRICT MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/25768d1392ef03191e2aa3d1318b1793514718d8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1229.png]
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
APPENDIX D: CHAPTER 93 DESIGNATED USE MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/25768d1392ef03191e2aa3d1318b1793514718d8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1231.png]
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
APPENDIX E: SITE EVALUATION AND SOIL INFILTRATION TESTING
SITE EVALUATION AND SOIL INFILTRATION TESTING PROTOCOL
A.   Purpose of this Protocol
The purpose of the Site Evaluation and Soil Infiltration Testing Protocol is to
describe evaluation and field testing procedures to:
1.   Determine if infiltration BMPs are suitable at a site, and at what
locations.
2.   Obtain the required data for infiltration BMP design.
B.   When to Conduct Testing
The site development process outlined in Chapters 4 and 5 of the Pennsylvania
Stormwater Management Best Management Practices Manual, December 2006, as
amended (“Manual”) describe a process for site development and BMPs. Soil
Evaluation and Investigation shall be conducted early in the preliminary design
of the project so that information developed in the testing process can be
incorporated into the design. The Soil Evaluation and Investigation shall be
conducted prior to development of the preliminary plan. The design engineer
should possess a preliminary understanding of potential BMP locations prior to
testing. Prescreening test may be carried out in advance of site potential BMP
locations.
C.   Who Should Conduct Testing
Qualified professionals who can substantiate by qualifications/experience their
ability to carry out the evaluation shall conduct the test pit soil
evaluations. A professional, experienced in observing and evaluating soils
conditions is necessary to ascertain conditions that might affect BMP
performance, which cannot be thoroughly assessed with the testing procedures.
Such professionals must conduct these evaluations in risk areas, and areas
indicated in the Manual as non-preferred locations for testing or BMP
implementation.
D.   Importance of Stormwater BMP Areas
Sites are often defined as unsuitable for infiltration BMPs and soil based BMPs
due to proposed grade changes (excessive cut or fill) or lack of suitable
areas. Many sites will be constrained and unsuitable for infiltration BMPs.
However, if suitable areas exist, these areas must be identified early in the
design process and not be subject to a building program that precludes
infiltration BMPs. An exemption will not be permitted for development of
suitable soils that may be necessary for stormwater infiltration.
E.   Safety
As with all field work and testing, attention must be given to all applicable
OSHA regulations related to earthwork and excavation. Digging and excavation
shall not be conducted without adequate notification through the Pennsylvania
One Call system (PA One Call 1-800-242-1776 or www.paonecall.org). Excavations
shall not be left unsecured and unmarked, and all applicable authorities must
be notified prior to any work.
F.   Infiltration Testing: A Multi-Step Process
Infiltration Testing is a four-step process to obtain the necessary data for
design of the stormwater management plan. The four steps include:
1.   Background Evaluation
   ∙   Based on available published and site specific data
   ∙    Includes consideration of proposed development plan
   ∙    Used to identify potential BMP locations and testing locations
   ∙    Prior to field work (desktop)
   ∙    On-site screening test
2.   Test Pit (Deep Hole) Observation
   ∙    Includes Multiple Testing Locations
   ∙    Provides an understanding of sub-surface conditions
   ∙    Identifies limiting conditions
3.   Infiltration Testing
   ∙    Must be conducted onsite
   ∙    Different testing methods available
   ∙    Alternate methods for - additional - Screening and Verification testing
4.   Design Considerations
   ∙    Determination of suitable infiltration rate for design calculations
   ∙    Consideration of BMP drawdown
   ∙    Consideration of peak rate attenuation
Step 1. Background Evaluation
Prior to performing testing and developing a detailed site plan, existing
conditions at the site must be inventoried and mapped including, but not
limited to:
   ∙    Existing mapped individual soils and USDA Hydrologic Soil Group
classifications.
   ∙    Exiting geology, including the location of any dikes, faults, fracture
traces, solution cavities, landslide prone strata, or other features of note.
   ∙    Existing streams (perennial and intermittent, including intermittent
swales) water bodies, wetlands, hydric soils, floodplains, alluvial soils,
stream classifications, headwaters and 1st order streams.
   ∙    Existing topography, slope, and drainage patterns.
   ∙    Existing and previous land uses.
   ∙    Other natural or human-made features or conditions that may impact
design, such as past uses of site, existing nearby structures (building, walls)
and the like.
In Step 1, the designer should determine the potential location of infiltration
BMPs. The approximate location of these BMPs should be identified on the
proposed development plan and serve as the basis for the location and number of
tests to be performed onsite. A sketch plan or preliminary layout plan for
development should be evaluated, including:
   ∙    Preliminary grading plan and areas of cut and fill.
   ∙    Location and water surface elevation of all existing and location of
proposed water supply sources and wells.
   ∙    Location of all existing and proposed onsite wastewater systems.
   ∙    Location of other features of note such as utility right-of-ways, water
and sewer lines and the like.
   ∙    Existing data such as structural borings, drillings, and geophysical
testing.
   ∙    Proposed location of development features (buildings, roads, utilities,
walls and the like).
Important:   If the proposed development program is located on areas that may
otherwise be suitable for BMP location, or if the proposed grading plan is such
that potential BMP locations are eliminated, the designer must revisit the
proposed layout and grading plan and adjust the development plan as necessary.
Development on areas suitable for infiltration BMPs may not preclude the use of
BMPs for volume reduction and groundwater recharge.
Step 2.   Test Pits (Deep Holes)
A Test Pit (Deep Hole) allows visual observation of the soil horizons and
overall soil conditions both horizontally and vertically in that portion of the
site. An extensive number of Test Pit observations can be made across a site at
a relatively low cost and in a short time period. The use of soil borings as a
substitute for Test Pits is not permitted as visual observation is narrowly
limited in a soil boring and the soil horizons cannot be observed in-situ, but
must be observed from the extracted borings. Borings and other procedures,
however, might be suitable for initial screening to develop a plan for testing,
or verification testing.
A Test Pit consists of a backhoe-excavated trench, two and one-half to three
feet wide, to a depth of between 72 inches and 90 inches, or until bedrock or
fully saturated conditions are encountered. The trench should be benched at a
depth of two to three feet for access and/or infiltration testing.
At each Test Pit, the following conditions shall be noted and described. Depth
measurements shall be described as depth below the ground surface:
___ Soil horizons (upper and lower boundary)
___ Soil texture and color for each horizon
___ Color patterns
___ Depth to water table
___ Depth to bedrock
___ Observance of pores or roots (size, depth)
___ Estimated type and percent coarse fragments
___ Hardpan or limiting layers
___ Strike and dip of horizons (especially lateral direction of flow at
limiting layers)
___ Additional comments or observations
The Sample Soil Log Form at the end of this protocol may be used for
documentation of each Test Pit. (Refer Appendix C of the Pennsylvania
Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual)
At the designer’s discretion, soil samples may be collected at various horizons
for additional analysis. Following testing, the test pits must be refilled with
the original soil and the surface replaced with the original topsoil. A Test
Pit should never be accessed if soil conditions are unsuitable for safe entry,
or if site constraints preclude entry.
It is important that the Test Pit provide information related to conditions at
the bottom of the proposed infiltration BMP. If the BMP depth will be greater
than 90 inches below existing grade, deeper excavation will be required.
However, such depths are discouraged. Except for surface discharge BMPs (e.g.
filter strips, and the like) the designer is cautioned regarding the proposal
of systems that are significantly lower than the existing topography. The
suitability for infiltration may decrease, and risk factors are likely to
increase. Locations that are not preferred for testing and subsurface
infiltration BMPs include swales, the toe of slopes for most sites, and soil
mantels of less than three feet.
The designer and contractors shall limit proposed grading and earthwork to
reduce site disturbance and compaction so that a greater opportunity exists for
testing and stormwater management.
The number of Test Pits varies depending on site conditions and the proposed
development plan. General guidelines are as follows:
   ∙   For single-family residential subdivisions with on-lot BMPs, one test
pit per lot is recommended, preferably within 25 feet of the proposed BMP area.
Verification testing should take place when BMPs area sited at greater
distances.
   ∙   For multi-family and high density residential developments, one test pit
per BMP area or acre is recommended.
   ∙   For large infiltration areas (basins, commercial, institutional,
industrial, and other proposed land uses), multiple test pits should be evenly
distributed at the rate of four to six tests per acre of BMP area.
The recommendations above are guidelines. Additional tests will be required if
local conditions indicate significant variability in soil types, geology, water
table levels, bedrock, topography and the like. Similarly, uniform site
conditions may indicate that fewer test pits are necessary. Excessive testing
and disturbance of the site prior to construction is not recommended.
Step 3.   Infiltration Tests/Permeability Tests
A variety of field tests exist for determining the infiltration capacity of a
soil. Laboratory tests are not permitted, as a homogeneous laboratory sample
does not represent field conditions. Infiltration tests shall be conducted in
the field. Tests should not be conducted in the rain or within 24 hours of a
significant rainfall events (less than 0.5 inches), or when the temperature is
below freezing. However, the preferred testing is between January and June, the
wet season. This is the period when infiltration is likely to be diminished by
saturated conditions. Percolation tests carried out between June 1 and December
31 shall use a 24 hour presoaking before the testing. This procedure is not
required for infiltrometer testing, or permeometer testing.
At least one test shall be conducted at the proposed bottom elevation of an
infiltration BMP, and a minimum of two tests per Test Pit is recommended. More
tests may be warranted if the results for first two tests are substantially
different. The highest rate (inches/hour) for test results should be discarded
when more than two are employed for design purposes. The geometric mean should
be used to determine the average rate following multiple tests.
Based on observed field conditions, the proposed bottom elevation of BMP may be
revised. Infiltration testing should be proposed to adjust locations and depths
depending upon observed conditions.
Methodologies discussed in this protocol include:
   ∙   Double-ring infiltrometer tests.
   ∙   Percolation tests (such as for onsite wastewater systems and described
in PA Code Chapter 73).
There are differences between the two methods. A double-ring infiltrometer test
estimates the vertical movement of water through the bottom of the test area.
The outer ring helps to reduce the lateral movement of water in the soil. A
percolation test allows water movement through both the bottom and sides of the
test area. For this reason, the measured rate of water level drop in a
percolation test must be adjusted to represent the discharge that is occurring
on both the bottom and sides of the percolation test hole.
For infiltration basins, an infiltration test should be completed with an
infiltrometer (not percolation test) to determine the saturated hydraulic
conductivity rate. This precaution is taken to account for the fact that only
the surface of the basin functions to infiltrate, as measured by the test.
Alternatively, permeability test procedures that yield a saturated hydraulic
conductivity rate can be used (see formulas developed by Elirick and Reynolds
(1992), or others for computation of hydraulic conductivity and saturated
hydraulic conductivity.
Other testing methodologies and standards that are available but not discussed
in detail in this protocol include (but are not limited to):
   ∙   Constant head double-ring infiltrometer.
   ∙   Testing as described in the Maryland Stormwater Manual Appendix D.1
using five inch diameter casing.
   ∙   ASTM 2003 Volume 4.08, Soil and Rock (I): Designation D3385-03, Standard
Test Method for Infiltration Rate of Soils in Field Using a Double-Ring
Infiltrometer.
   ∙   ASTM 2002 Volume 4.09, Soil and Rock (II): Designation D 5093.90,
Standard Test Method for Field Measurement of Infiltration Rate Using a Double-
Ring Infiltrometer with a Sealed-Inner Ring.
   ∙   Guelph Permeameter.
   ∙   Constant Head Permeameter (Amoozemeter).
a.   Methodology for Double-Ring Infiltrometer Field Test
A Double-ring Infiltrometer consists of two concentric metal rings. The rings
are driven into the ground and filled with water. The outer ring helps to
prevent divergent flow. The drop in water level or volume in the inner ring is
used to calculate an infiltration rate. The infiltration rate is determined as
the amount of water per surface area and time unit that penetrates the soils.
The diameter of the inner ring should be approximately 50% to 70% of the
diameter of the outer ring, with a minimum inner ring size of four inches,
preferably much larger. (Bouwer, 1986).
Equipment for Double-Ring Infiltrometer Test:
___ Two concentric cylinder rings six inches or greater in height. Inner ring
diameter equal to 50% to 70% of outer ring diameter (e.g. an eight-inch ring
and a 12-inch ring).
___ Water supply.
___ Stopwatch or timer.
___ Ruler or metal measuring tape.
___ Flat wooden board for driving cylinders uniformly into soil.
___ Rubber mallet.
___ Log sheets for recording data.
Procedure for Double-Ring Infiltrometer Test:
___ Prepare level testing area.
___ Place outer ring in place; place flat board on ring and drive ring into
soil to a minimum depth of two inches.
___ Place inner ring in center of outer ring; place flat board on ring and
drive ring into soil a minimum of two inches. The bottom rim of both rings
should be at the same level.
___ The test area should be presoaked immediately prior to testing. Fill both
rings with water to water level indicator mark or rim at 30-minute intervals
for one hour. The minimum water depth should be four inches. The drop in water
level during the last 30 minutes of the presoaking period should be applied to
the following standard to determine the time interval between readings.
   ∙    If water level drop is two inches or more, use ten minute measurement
intervals.
   ∙    If water level drop is less than two inches, use 30 minute measurement
intervals.
___ Obtain a reading of the drop in water level in the center ring at
appropriate time intervals. After each reading, refill both rings to water
level indicator mark or rim. Measurement to the water level in the center ring
shall be made from a fixed reference point and shall continue at the interval
determined until a minimum of eight readings are completed or until a
stabilized rate of drop is obtained, whichever occurs first. A stabilized rate
of drop means a difference of one quarter one-half inch or less of drop between
the highest and lowest readings of four consecutive readings.
___ The drop that occurs in the center ring during the final period or the
average stabilized rate, expressed as inches per hour, shall represent the
infiltration rate for that test location.
b.   Methodology for Percolation Test
Equipment for Percolation Test:
___ Post hole digger or auger.
___ Water supply.
___ Stopwatch or timer.
___ Ruler of metal measuring tape.
___ Log sheets for recording data.
___ Knife blade or sharp pointed instrument (for soil scarification).
___ Course sand or fine gravel.
___ Object for fixed reference point during measurement (nail, toothpick and
the like).
Procedure for Percolation Test
This percolation test methodology is based largely on the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) criteria for onsite sewage
investigation of soils (as described in Chapter 73 of the Pennsylvania Code).
This must include the 24-hour presoak procedure. The presoak is done primarily
to simulate saturated conditions in the environment and to minimize the
influence of unsaturated flow.
Prepare level testing area.
___ Prepare hole having a uniform diameter of six to ten inches and depth of
eight to 12 inches. The bottom and sides of the hole should be scarified with a
knife blade or sharp pointed instrument to completely remove any smeared soil
surfaces and to provide a natural soil interface into which water may
percolate. Loose material should be removed from the hole.
___ (Optional) two inches of coarse sand or fine gravel may be placed in the
bottom of the hole to protect the soil from scouring and clogging of the pores.
___ Test holes should be presoaked immediately prior to testing. Water should
be placed in the hole to a minimum depth of six inches over the bottom and
readjusted every 30 minutes to one hour.
___ The drop in the water level during the last 30 minutes of the final
presoaking period should be applied to the following standard to determine the
time interval between readings for each percolation hole:
   ∙    If water remains in the hole, the interval for readings during the
percolation test should be 30 minutes.
   ∙    If no water remains in the hole, the interval for readings during the
percolation test may be reduced to ten minutes.
___ After the final presoaking period, water in the hole should again be
adjusted to a minimum depth of six inches and readjusted when necessary after
each reading. A nail or marker should be placed at a fixed reference point to
indicate the water refill level. The water level depth and hole diameter should
be recorded.
___ Measurement to the water level in the individual percolation holes should
be made from a fixed reference point and should continue at the interval
determined from the previous step for each individual percolation hole until a
minimum of eight readings are completed or until a stabilized rate of drop
means a difference of one-quarter (0.25) inch or less of drop between the
highest and lowest readings of four consecutive readings.
___ The drop that occurs in the percolation hole during the final period,
expressed as inches per hour, shall represent the percolation rate for that
test location.
___ The average measured rate must be adjusted to account for the discharge of
water from both the sides and bottom of the hole to develop a representative
infiltration rate. The average/final percolation rate should be adjusted for
each percolation test according to the following formula:
Infiltration Rate = (Percolation Rate) / (Reduction Factor)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/25768d1392ef03191e2aa3d1318b1793514718d8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1233.png]
 
The Percolation Rate is simply divided by the Reduction Factor as calculated
above or shown in the table below to yield the representative Infiltration
Rate. In most cases, the Reduction Factor varies from about two to four
depending on the percolation hole dimensions and water level drop - wider and
shallower tests have lower Reduction Factors because proportionately less water
exfiltrates through the sides. For design purposes additional safety factors
are employed (see Protocol 2, Infiltration Systems Design and Construction
Guidelines).
** The area Reduction Factor accounts for the exfiltration occurring through
the sides of percolation hole. It assumes that the percolation rate is affected
by the depth of water in the hole and that the percolating surface of the hole
is in uniform soil. If there are significant problems with either of these
assumptions then other adjustments may be necessary.
Source: Pennsylvania Stormwater Best Management Practice Manual, December 2006.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
APPENDIX F: LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT TECHNIQUES
ALTERNATIVE APPROACH FOR MANAGING STORMWATER RUNOFF
Natural hydrologic conditions may be altered radically by poorly planned
development practices. Deleterious activities include introducing unneeded
impervious surfaces, destroying existing drainage swales, constructing
unnecessary storm sewers, and changing local topography. A traditional drainage
approach of development has been to remove runoff from a site as quickly as
possible and capture in a detention basin in accordance with the local
regulations. This approach leads ultimately to the expenditure of additional
resources for detaining and managing concentrated runoff at some downstream
locations.
The recommended alternative approach is to promote practices that will minimize
postdevelopment runoff rates and volumes, which will minimize needs for
artificial conveyance and storage facilities. To simulate predevelopment
hydrologic conditions, forced infiltration is often necessary to offset the
loss of infiltration by creation of impervious surfaces. The ability of the
ground to infiltrate depends upon the soil types and its conditions.
Preserving natural hydrologic conditions requires careful alternative site
design considerations. Site design practices include preserving natural
drainage features, minimizing impervious surface area, reducing the hydraulic
connectivity of impervious surfaces, and protecting natural depression storage.
A well designed site will contain a mix of all those features. The following
describes various techniques to achieve for the alternative approach:
A.   Protect Sensitive and Special Value Resources: (Refer Section 5.4 of the
Pennsylvania Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual, Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) no. 363-0300-002 (2006).
1.   Preserving Natural Drainage Features. Protecting natural drainage
features, particularly vegetated drainage swales and channels, is desirable
because of their ability to infiltrate and attenuate flows and to filter
pollutants. However, this objective is often not accomplished in modern
developments. In fact, commonly held drainage philosophy encourages just the
opposite pattern. Streets and adjacent storm sewers typically are located in
the natural headwater valleys and swales, thereby replacing natural drainage
functions with a completely impervious system. Runoff and pollutants generated
from impervious surfaces flow directly into storm sewers with no opportunity
for attenuation, infiltration or filtration. Developments designed to fit site
topography also minimizes the amount of grading onsite.
2.   Protecting Natural Depression Storage Areas. Depressional storage areas
have not surface outlet or drain very slowly following a storm event. They can
be commonly seen as ponded areas in farm fields during the wet season or after
large runoff events. Traditional development practices eliminate these
depressions by filling or draining, thereby obliterating their ability to
reduce the surface runoff volumes and trap pollutants. The volume and release
rate characteristics of depressions should be protected in the design of the
development site. The depressions can be protected by simply avoiding the
depression or by incorporating its storage as additional capacity in required
detention facilities.
B.   Reduce Impervious Coverage: (Refer Section 5.7 of the Pennsylvania
Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual, Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection (PADEP) no. 363-0300-002 (2006).
1.   Avoiding Introduction of Impervious Areas. A careful site planning should
consider reducing impervious coverage to the maximum extent possible. Building
footprints, sidewalks, driveways and other features producing impervious
surfaces should be evaluated to minimize impacts on runoff.
2.   Disconnecting Impervious Surfaces (DIAs). Impervious surfaces are
significantly less of a problem if they are not directly connected to an
impervious conveyance system (such as storm sewer). Two basic ways to reduce
hydraulic connectivity are routing of roof runoff over lawns and reducing the
use of storm sewers. Site grading should promote increasing travel time of
stormwater runoff, and should help reduce concentration of runoff to a single
point in the development.
C.   Disconnect/Distribute/Decentralize: (Refer Section 5.8 of the Pennsylvania
Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual, Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection (PADEP) no. 363-0300-002 (2006).
   1.   Routing Roof Runoff Over Lawns. Roof runoff can be easily routed over
lawns in most site designs. The practice discourages direct connections of
downspouts to storm sewers or parking lots. The practice also discourages
sloping driveways and parking lots to the street. By routing roof drains and
crowning the driveway to run off to the lawn, the lawn is essentially used as a
filter strip.
   2.   Reducing the Use of Storm Sewers. By reducing use of storm sewers for
draining streets, parking lots, and backyards, the potential for accelerating
runoff from the development can be greatly reduced. The practice requires
greater use of swales and may not be practical for some development sites,
especially if there are concerns for areas that do not drain in a “reasonable”
time. The practice requires educating local citizens and public works
officials, who expect runoff to disappear shortly after a rainfall event.
   3.   Reducing Street Widths. Street widths can be reduced by either
eliminating on-street parking or by reducing roadway widths. Municipal planners
and traffic designers should encourage narrower neighborhood streets which
ultimately could lower maintenance.
   4.   Limiting Sidewalks to One Side of the Street. A sidewalk on one side of
the street may suffice in low-traffic neighborhoods. The lost sidewalk could be
replaced with bicycle/recreational trails that follow back-of-lot lines. Where
appropriate, backyard trails should be constructed using pervious materials.
   5.   Using Permeable Paving Materials. These materials include permeable
interlocking concrete paving blocks or porous bituminous concrete. Such
materials should be considered as alternatives to conventional pavement
surfaces, especially for low use surfaces such as driveways, overflow parking
lots and emergency access roads.
   6.   Reducing Building Setbacks. Reducing building setbacks reduces driveway
and entry walks and is most readily accomplished along low traffic streets
where traffic noise is not a problem.
D.   Constructing and Concentrate: (Refer Section 5.5 of the Pennsylvania
Stormwater Best Practices Manual, Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection (PADEP) no. 363-0300-002 (2006). Cluster developments can also
reduce the amount of impervious area for a given number of lots. The biggest
savings is in street length, which also will reduce costs of the development.
Cluster development clusters the construction activity onto less-sensitive
areas without substantially affecting the gross density of development.
In summary, a careful consideration of the existing topography and
implementation of a combination of the above mentioned techniques may avoid
construction of costly stormwater control measures. Benefits included reduced
potential of downstream flooding, water quality degradation of receiving
streams/water bodies, and enhancement of aesthetics and reduction of
development costs. Other benefits include more stable baseflows in receiving
streams, improved groundwater recharge, reduced flood flows, reduced pollutant
loads and reduced costs for conveyance and storage.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
APPENDIX G: NONSTRUCTURAL STORMWATER MANAGEMENT BMPs
1.   Tree Plantings and Preservation
Trees and forests reduce stormwater runoff by capturing and storing rainfall in
the canopy and releasing water into the atmosphere through evapotranspiration.
Tree roots and leaf litter also create soil conditions that promote the
infiltration of rainwater into the soil. In addition, trees and forests reduce
pollutants by taking up nutrients and other pollutants from soils and water
through their root systems. A development site can reduce runoff volume by
planting new trees or by preserving trees which existed on the site prior to
development. The volume reduction calculations either determine the cubic feet
to be directed to the area under the tree canopy for infiltration or determine
a volume reduction credit which can be used to reduce the size of any one of
the planned structural BMPs on the site.
Tree Considerations:
Existing trees must have at least a four inch trunk caliper or larger.
   ∙    Existing tree canopy must be within 100 feet of impervious surfaces.
   ∙    A tree canopy is classified as the continuous cover of branches and
foliage formed by a single tree or collectively by the crowns of adjacent
trees.
   ∙    New tree plantings must be at least six feet in height and have a two
inch trunk caliper.
   ∙   All existing and newly planted trees must be native to Pennsylvania. See
http://www.dcnr.state.pa.us/forestry/commontr/commontrees.pdf for a guide book
titled Common Trees of Pennsylvania for a native tree list.
   ∙    When using trees as volume control BMPs, runoff from impervious areas
should be directed to drain under the tree canopy.
Determining the required number of planted trees to reduce the runoff volume:
   1.   Determine contributing impervious surface area:
 
Garage roof (right) 6 ft. x 24 ft. = 144 ft.
 
   2.   Calculate the required control volume:
      (144 sq. ft. x 2 inches of runoff) / 12 inches = 24 cu. ft.
   3.   Determine the number of tree plantings:
      ∙    A newly planted deciduous tree can reduce runoff volume by 6 cu. ft.
      ∙    A newly planted evergreen tree can reduce runoff volume by 10 cu.
ft.
         24 cu. ft./ 6 cu. ft. = 4 Deciduous Trees
Determining the volume reduction for preserving existing trees:
   1.   Calculate approximate area of the existing tree canopy:
      ~22 sq. ft. x ~23 sq. ft. = 500 sq. ft.
   2.   Measure distance from impervious surface to tree canopy: 35 ft.
   3.   Calculate the volume reduction credit by preserving existing trees:
      ∙    For Trees within 20 feet of impervious cover:
         Volume Reduction cu. ft. = (Existing Tree Canopy sq. ft. x 1 inch) /
12
      ∙    For Trees beyond 20 feet but not farther than 100 feet from
impervious cover:
         Volume Reduction cu. ft. = (Existing Tree Canopy sq. ft. x 0.5 inch) /
12
         (500 sq. ft. x 0.5 inches) / 12 = 21 cu. ft.
   This volume credit can be utilized in reducing the size of any one of the
structural BMPs planned on the site. For example, the 21 cu. ft. could be
subtracted from the required infiltration volume when sizing the infiltration
trench;
         510 cu. ft. - 21 cu. ft. = 489 cu. ft.
         489 cu. ft. / 3 ft. (Depth) = 163 / 6 ft. (Width) = 27.1 ft. (Length)
   Using the existing trees for a volume credit would decrease the length of
the infiltration trench to 27.1 ft. instead of 28.3 ft.
2.   Minimize Soil Compaction and Replant with Lawn or Meadow
When soil is overly compacted during construction it can cause a drastic
reduction in the permeability of the soil and rarely is the soil profile
completely restored. Runoff from vegetative areas with highly compacted soils
similarly resembles runoff from an impervious surface. Minimizing soil
compaction and re-planting with a vegetative cover like meadow or lawn, not
only increases the infiltration on the site, but also creates a friendly
habitat for a variety of wildlife species.
Design Considerations:
   ∙    Area shall not be stripped of topsoil.
   ∙    Vehicle movement, storage, or equipment/material lay down shall not be
permitted in areas preserved for minimum soil compaction.
   ∙    The use of soil amendments and additional topsoil is permitted.
   ∙    Meadow should be planted with native grasses. Refer to Meadows and
Prairies: WildlifeFriendly Alternatives to Lawn at http://pubs.cas.psu.edu/
FreePubs/pdfs/UH128.pdf for reference on how to properly plant the meadow and
for a list of native species.
Determining the volume reduction by minimizing soil compaction and planting a
meadow:
   1.   Calculate approximate area of preserved meadow:
      ~22 sq. ft. x ~23 sq. ft. = 500 sq. ft.
   2.   Calculate the volume reduction credit by minimizing the soil compaction
and planting a lawn/meadow:
   ∙    For Meadow Areas: Volume Reduction (cu. ft.) = (Area of Min. Soil
Compaction (sq. ft.) x 1/3 inch of runoff) / 12
      (500 sq. ft. x 1/3 inch of runoff) / 12 = 13.8 cu. ft.
   ∙    For Lawn Areas: Volume Reduction (cu. ft.) = (Area of Min. Soil
Compaction (sq. ft.) x 1/4 inch of runoff) / 12
      (500 sq. ft. x 1/4 inch of runoff) / 12 = 10.4 cu. ft.
This volume credit can be used to reduce the size of any one of the structural
BMPs on the site. See explanation under the volume credit for preserving
existing trees for details.
Alternative BMP to Capture and Reuse Stormwater
Rain Barrels
Rain barrels are large containers that collect drainage from roof leaders and
temporarily store water to be released to lawns, gardens and other landscaped
areas after the rainfall has ended. Rain barrels are typically between 50 and
200 gallons in size. It is not recommended for rain barrels to be used as a
volume control BMP because infiltration is not guaranteed after each storm
event. For this reason, a rain barrel is not utilized in the site plan example.
However, the information is included to provide an alternative for a homeowner
to utilize when considering capture and reuse stormwater methods.
Design Considerations:
   ∙    Rain barrels should be directly connected to the roof gutter/spout.
   ∙    There must be a means to release the water stored between storm events
to provide the necessary storage volume for the next storm.
   ∙    When calculating rain barrel size, rain barrels are typically assumed
to be 25% full because they are not always emptied before the next storm.
   ∙    Use screens to filter debris and cover lids to prevent mosquitoes.
   ∙    An overflow outlet should be placed a few inches below the top with an
overflow pipe to divert flow away from structures.
   ∙    It is possible to use a number of rain barrels jointly for an area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/25768d1392ef03191e2aa3d1318b1793514718d8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1238.png]
 
Sizing Example for a Rain Barrel
   1.   Determine contributing impervious surface area:
 
Garage Roof (right) 6 ft. x 24 ft. = 144 sq. ft.
 
   2.   Determine the amount of rainfall to be captured by the Rain Barrel. A
smaller storm, no more than two inches, is recommended to calculate the runoff
to be captured. This example chose the one-inch storm event.
   3.   Calculate the volume to be captured and reused:
      (144 sq. ft. x 1 inch of runoff ) / 12 inches = 12 cu. ft.
   4.   Size the rain barrel:
      12 cu. ft. x 7.48 = 90 gallons
      90 gallons x (0.25*) = 22.5 gallons (*assuming that the rain barrel is
always at least 25% full)
      90 gallons + 22.5 gallons = 112 gallons
      The rain barrel or barrels should be large enough hold at least 112
gallons of water.
REFERENCES:
   Center for Watershed Protection and US Forest Service Watershed Forestry
Resource Guide (2008). Retrieved on May 26, 2010 from http://
www.forestsforwatersheds.org/reduce-stormwater/.
   Department of Environmental Protection. Pennsylvania Stormwater Best
Management Practices Manual (2006).
   Wissahickon Watershed Partnership. Pennsylvania Rain Garden Guide. Retrieved
on May 4, 2010 from http://pa.audubon.org/habitat/PDFs/RGBrochure_complete.pdf.
   Building a Backyard Rain Garden. North Carolina Cooperative Extension.
Retrieved on May 4, 2010 from http://www.bae.ncsu.edu/topic/raingarden/
Building.htm.
   Delaware County Planning Commission. Draft Crum Creek Watershed Act 167
Stormwater Management Plan. Ordinance Appendix B. Simplified Approach to
Stormwater Management for Small Projects (2010).
   Solebury Township. Solebury Township Stormwater Management Ordinance (2008).
“Appendix J Simplified Stormwater Management Procedures for Existing Single
Family Dwelling Lots”
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
APPENDIX H: HOT SPOTS
Hot spots are sites where the land use or activity produces a higher
concentration of trace metals, hydrocarbons, or priority pollutants than
normally found in urban runoff.
1.   EXAMPLES OF STORMWATER HOT SPOTS
   ∙    Vehicle salvage yards and recycling facilities
   ∙    Vehicle fueling stations
   ∙    Vehicle service and maintenance facilities
   ∙    Vehicle and equipment cleaning facilities
   ∙    Fleet storage areas (bus, truck and the like)
   ∙    Industrial sites (based on Standard Industrial Codes defined by the
U.S. Department of Labor)
   ∙    Marinas (service and maintenance)
   ∙    Outdoor liquid container storage
   ∙    Outdoor loading/unloading facilities
   ∙    Public works storage areas
   ∙    Facilities that generate or store hazardous materials
   ∙    Commercial container nursery
   ∙    Other land uses and activities as designated by an appropriate review
authority
2.   LAND USE AND ACTIVITIES NOT NORMALLY CONSIDERED HOT SPOTS
   ∙    Residential streets and rural highways
   ∙    Residential development
   ∙    Institutional development
   ∙    Office developments
   ∙    Nonindustrial rooftops
   ∙    Pervious areas, except golf courses and nurseries (which may need an
Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Plan).
3.   LIST OF ACCEPTABLE BMPs for Hot Spot Treatment: The following BMPs listed
under the Best Management Practice column are BMPs appropriate for application
on hot spot sites. BMPs which facilitate infiltration are prohibited by this
chapter. In many design manuals the BMPs with a * designation are designed with
infiltration, however it is possible to design these without infiltration.
The numbers listed under the design reference number column correlate with the
Reference Table which lists materials that can be used for design guidance.
Best Management Practices Design Reference Number
Best Management Practices                               Design Reference Number
Bioretention*                                           4, 5, 11, 16
Capture/reuse                                           4, 14
Constructed wetlands                                    4, 5, 8, 10, 16
Dry extended detention ponds                            4, 5, 8, 12, 18
Minimum disturbance/minimum maintenance practices       1, 9
Significant reduction of existing impervious cover      N/A
Stormwater filters* (sand, peat, compost, and the like) 4, 5, 10, 16
Vegetated buffers/filter strips                         2, 3, 5, 11, 16, 17
Vegetated roofs                                         4, 13
Vegetated swales*                                       2, 3, 5, 11, 16, 17
Water quality inlets (oil/water separators, sediment
traps/catch basin sumps, and trash/debris collectors in 4, 7, 15, 16, 19
catch basins)
Wet detention basins                                    4, 5, 6, 8
 
Reference Table
Number Design Reference Title
Number Design Reference Title
       “Conservation Design For Stormwater Management – A Design Approach to Reduce
1      Stormwater Impacts From Land Development and Achieve Multiple Objectives Related
       to Land Use,” Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control,
       The Environmental Management Center of the Brandywine Conservancy, September 1997.
       “A Current Assessment of Urban Best Management Practices: Techniques for Reducing
2      Nonpoint Source Pollution in the Coastal Zone,” Schueler, T. R., Kumble, P. and
       Heraty, M., Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments, 1992.
       “Design of Roadside Channels with Flexible Linings,” Federal Highway
3      Administration, Chen, Y. H. and Cotton, G. K., Hydraulic Engineering Circular 15,
       FHWA-IP-87-7, McLean, Virginia, 1988.
4      “Draft Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual,” Pennsylvania Department of
       Environmental Protection, January 2005.
5      “Evaluation and Management of Highway Runoff Water Quality,” Federal Highway
       Administration, FHWA-PD-96-032, Washington, D.C., 1996.
       “Evaporation Maps of the United States,” U.S. Weather Bureau (now the NOAA/
6      National Weather Service) Technical Paper 37, Published by Department of Commerce,
       Washington D.C., 1959.
       “Georgia Stormwater Manual,” AMEC Earth and Environmental, Center for Watershed
7      Protection, Debo and Associates, Jordan Jones and Goulding, Atlanta Regional
       Commission, Atlanta, Georgia, 2001.
8      “Hydraulic Design of Highway Culverts,” Federal Highway Administration, FHWA HDS
       5, Washington, D.C., 1985 (revised May 2005).
9      “Low Impact Development Design Strategies An Integrated Design Approach,” Prince
       Georges County, Maryland Department of Environmental Resources, June 1999.
10     “Maryland Stormwater Design Manual,” Maryland Department of the Environment,
       Baltimore, Maryland, 2000.
11     “Pennsylvania Handbook of Best Management Practices for Developing Areas,”
       Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, 1998.
12     “Recommended Procedures for Act 167 Drainage Plan Design,” LVPC, Revised 1997.
13     “Roof Gardens History, Design, and Construction,” Osmundson, Theodore. New York:
       W.W. Norton & Company, 1999.
14     “The Texas Manual on Rainwater Harvesting,” Texas Water Development Board, Austin,
       Texas, Third Edition, 2005.
15     “VDOT Manual of Practice for Stormwater Management,” Virginia Transportation
       Research Council, Charlottesville, Virginia, 2004.
16     “Virginia Stormwater Management Handbook,” Virginia Department of Conservation and
       Recreation, Richmond, Virginia, 1999.
17     “Water Resources Engineering,” Mays, L. W., John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2005.
18     “Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds,” Technical Report 55, US Department of
       Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service, 1986.
19     US EPA, Region 1 New England web site (as of August 2005) http://www.epa.gov/NE/
       assistance/ceitts/stormwater/techs/html.
 
4.   RECOMMENDED PRE-TREATMENT METHODS FOR “HOT SPOT” LAND USES: The following
table recommends what is considered the best pre-treatment option for the
listed land use. These methods are either a BMP or can be applied in
conjunction with BMPs.
Hot Spot Land Use Pre-treatment Method(s)
Hot Spot Land Use                       Pre-treatment Method(s)
Certain industrial uses (listed under   - BMPs that are a part of a stormwater
NPDES)*                                 pollution prevention plan under an
                                        NPDES permit
                                        - Vegetated swales/filter strips
Commercial nursery operations           - Constructed wetlands
                                        - Stormwater collection and reuse
Facilities that store or generate       - BMPs That are a part of a stormwater
regulated substances*                   pollution prevention plan under an
                                        NPDES permit
Fleet storage yards and vehicle         - BMPs That are a part of a stormwater
cleaning facilities*                    pollution prevention plan under an
                                        NPDES permit
                                        - BMPs that are a part of a stormwater
Marinas*                                pollution prevention plan under an
                                        NPDES permit
Outdoor storage of liquids              - Spill prevention and response program
                                        - BMPs that are a part of a stormwater
Salvage yards and recycling facilities* pollution prevention plan under an
                                        NPDES permit
                                        - Water quality inlets
                                        - Use of drip pans and/or dry sweep
                                        material under vehicles/equipment
Storage areas for public works          - Use of absorbent devices to reduce
                                        liquid releases
                                        - Spill prevention and response program
                                        - Diversion of stormwater away from
                                        potential contamination areas
Vehicle fueling stations                - Water quality inlets
                                        - Spill prevention and response program
                                        - Water quality inlets
                                        - Use of drip pans and/or dry sweep
Vehicle maintenance and repair          material under vehicles/equipment
facilities including auto parts stores  - Use of absorbent devices to reduce
                                        liquid releases
                                        - Spill prevention and response program
* Regulated under the NPDES Stormwater Program
 
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
APPENDIX I: SIMPLIFIED STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES
FOR EXISTING SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING LOTS
Projects eligible for this procedure
The following two types of projects may utilize the simplified procedure
contained in this appendix to meet volume requirements of this Part and are not
required to submit detailed stormwater management plans as required by Article
IV to the township:
   ∙    Any proposed individual home construction projects, accessory
structures projects, and/or other projects involving the construction or
installation of impervious surfaces, taking place on residential lots of one
acre or less, which, solely and/or cumulatively, propose from 500 square feet
up to 1,000 square feet of additional impervious surface; and
   ∙    Individual-home construction projects on single family lots which
result in less than 2,500 square feet of new impervious area (including the
building footprint, driveway, sidewalks and parking areas) and less than 5,000
square feet of earth disturbance.
This procedure may not be utilized for proposed subdivisions or land
developments.
Are professional services necessary to meet these requirements?
This appendix has been developed to assist the individual homeowner in meeting
the water quality and groundwater recharge goals of the Stormwater Management
Ordinance. If the guidelines are followed, the homeowner will not require
professional services to comply with these water quality and groundwater
recharge goals.
What do I need to submit to Bedminster Township?
Even though a formal stormwater management plan is not required for individual
lot owners, a brief description of the proposed infiltration facilities,
including types of material to be used, total impervious areas and volume
calculations, and a simple sketch plan showing the following information shall
be submitted to the township prior to construction:
   ∙    Location of proposed structures, driveways or other paved areas with
approximate surface area in square feet.
   ∙    Location of any existing or proposed onsite septic system and/or
potable water wells showing proximity to infiltration facilities.
   ∙    Bucks County Conservation District erosion and sediment control
“Adequacy” letter.
Determination of Recharge Volume
The amount of recharge volume that must be provided is determined by following
the simple steps below. Impervious area calculations must include all areas on
the lot proposed to be covered by roof area or pavement which would prevent
rain from naturally percolating into the ground, including sidewalks, driveways
or parking areas. Sidewalks, driveways or patios that are constructed with turf
pavers and are not included in this calculation.
Example Recharge Volume:
STEP 1 - Determine Total Impervious Surfaces.
 
Driveway           12 ft. x 50 ft. = 600 sq. ft.
House roof (front) 12 ft. x 48 ft. = 576 sq. ft.
House roof (rear)  12 ft. x 48 ft. = 576 sq. ft.
Parking pad        12 ft. x 12 ft. = 144 sq. ft.
Walkway            4 ft. x 20 ft.  = 80 sq. ft.
                                    -------------
                                    1,976 sq. ft.
 
STEP 2 - Determine Required Infiltration Volume (Rv) Using the Following
Equation.
Rv = 3.26 inches x (total impervious area in square feet) = _________ cubic
feet of recharge
            12
            Rv = 3.26 x 1,976 sq. ft. = 537 cu. ft.
                  12
Note: This example is located within the Neshaminy Creek Watershed. Use 2.0
inches in other watersheds.
STEP 3 - Sizing of Selected Infiltration Method.
The following pages identify several methods to infiltrate stormwater runoff.
Their appropriateness depends on the amount of required infiltration volume and
amount of available land. More than one method may be implemented on a site,
depending on site constraints. Dry wells may be used only for receiving runoff
from roof drains. Infiltration trenches are appropriate for receiving runoff
from driveways, sidewalk or parking areas. Other methods may be appropriate,
but these must be reviewed with the Township Engineer prior to installation.
Dry Wells
Dry wells are effective methods to infiltrate runoff from roof leaders. These
facilities must be located based upon a determination by the design
professional to reduce potential basement seepage problems but not less than a
minimum of 20 feet from the building foundation. A dry well maybe either a
structural prefabricated chamber or an excavated pit filled with aggregate. Dry
well shall not be constructed until all other areas of the site are stabilized,
to avoid clogging. During construction, compaction of the subgrade soil shall
be avoided, and construction may be performed with only light machinery. Depth
of dry wells in excess of three and one-half feet should be avoided unless
warranted by soil conditions. “Clean” gravel fill should average one and one-
half to three inches in diameter. Dry wells should be inspected at least four
times annually as well as after large storm events.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/25768d1392ef03191e2aa3d1318b1793514718d8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1240.png]
 
Example Sizing For Drywells:
STEP 1 - Determine Total Impervious Surfaces
House Roof Area:   12 ft. x 48 ft. = 576 sq. ft.
STEP 2 - Determine Required Infiltration Volume using Equation
3.26 in. x 576 sq. ft. = 156 cu. ft.
   12
156 cu. ft. = 390 cu. ft. (*assumes 40% void ratio in gravel)
   0.4*
STEP 3 - Sizing of Selected Infiltration Method
Volume of facility = Depth x Width x Length
Set D = 3.5 ft; Set W = L for a square chamber
390 cu. ft. = 3.5 x L X L ; L = 10.5 ft.
Final Facility Dimensions: 3.5 ft. (D) x 10.5 ft. (W) x 10.5 ft. (L)
Infiltration Trenches
An infiltration trench is a long, narrow, rock-filled trench with no outlet
that receives stormwater runoff. Runoff is stored in the void space between the
stones and infiltrates through the bottom and into the soil matrix.
Infiltration trenches perform well for removal of fine sediment and associated
pollutants. Pretreatment using buffer strips, swales, or detention basins is
important for limiting amounts of coarse sediment entering the trench which can
clog and render the trench ineffective.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/25768d1392ef03191e2aa3d1318b1793514718d8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1242.png]
Example Sizing Infiltration Trenches:
STEP 1 - Determine Total Impervious Surfaces
 
Driveway    12 ft. x 50 ft. = 600 sq. ft
Parking pad 12 ft. x 12 ft. = 144 sq. ft.
Walkway     4 ft. x 20 ft.  = 80 sq. ft.
                           ------------
                           824 sq. ft.
 
STEP 2 - Determine REquired Infilitration Volume using Equasion
3.26 in. x 824 sq. ft. = 224 cu. ft
   12
224 cu. ft. = 560 cu. ft. (*assumes 40% void ratio in gravel bed)
    0.4*
Note: This example is located within the Neshaminy Creek Watershed. Use 2.0
inches in other watersheds.
STEP 3 - Sizing of Selected Infiltration Method
Volume of facility = Depth x Width x Length
Set D = 3 ft; determine required surface area of trench
560 cu. ft. / 3 ft. = 187 sq. ft.
The width of the trench should be greater than 2 times it depth (2 x D);
therefore, in this example a trench width of 6 feet is selected;
Determine trench length: L = 187 sq. ft. / 6 ft. = 31 ft.
Final trench dimensions: 3 ft. (D) x 6 ft. (W) x 31 ft. (L)
Rain Gardens
A Rain Garden is a planted shallow depression designed to catch and filter
rainfall runoff. The garden captures rain from a downspout or a paved surface.
The water sinks into the ground, aided by deep rooted plants that like both wet
and dry conditions. The ideal location for a rain garden is between the source
of runoff (roofs and driveways) and the runoff destination (drains, stream, low
spots and the like).
Design Considerations:
   ∙    A maximum of 3:1 side slope is recommended.
   ∙    The depth of a rain garden can range from six to eight inches. Ponded
water should not exceed six inches.
   ∙    The rain garden should drain within 72 hours.
   ∙    The garden should be at least ten to 20 feet from a building’s
foundation and 25 feet from septic system drain fields and wellheads.
   ∙    If the site has clay soils, soil should be amended with compost or
organic material.
   ∙   Choose native plants. See http://pa.audubon.org/habitat/PDFs/
RGBrochure_complete.pdf for a native plant list. To find native plant sources
go to www.pawildflower.org.
   ∙    At the rain garden location, the water table should be at least two
feet below the soil level. If water stands in an area for more than one day
after a heavy rain you can assume it has a higher water table and is not a good
choice for a rain garden.
Maintenance:
   ∙    Water plants regularly until they become established.
   ∙    Inspect twice a year for sediment buildup, erosion and vegetative
conditions.
   ∙    Mulch with hardwood when erosion is evident and replenish annually.
   ∙    Prune and remove dead vegetation in the spring season.
   ∙    Weed as you would any garden.
   ∙    Move plants around if some plants would grow better in the drier or
wetter parts of the garden.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/25768d1392ef03191e2aa3d1318b1793514718d8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1244.png]
 
Sizing Example for Rain Garden
   1.   Pick a site for the rain garden between the source of runoff and
between a low lying area, a.k.a., a drainage area.
   2.   Perform an infiltration test to determine the depth of the rain garden:
   ∙    Dig a hole eight inches by eight inches
   ∙    Fill with water and put a popsicle stick at the top of the water level.
   ∙    Measure how far it drains down after a few hours (ideally four).
   ∙    Calculate the depth of water that will drain out over 24 hours.
   3.   Determine total impervious surface area to drain to rain garden:
 
House roof (front) 14 ft. x 48 ft. = 672 sq. ft.
 
4.   Sizing the rain garden:
   For this example, the infiltration test determined six inches of water
drained out of a hole in 24 hours. The depth of the rain garden should be set
to the results of the infiltration test so six inches is the depth of the rain
garden. The sizing calculation below is based on controlling one inch of
runoff. First divide the impervious surface by the depth of the rain garden.
(672 sq. ft. / 6 ft.) = 112 sq. ft.
In order to control two inch of runoff volume, the rain garden area needs to be
multiplied by two.
112 sq. ft. * 2 = 224 sq. ft.
The rain garden should be about 225 sq. ft. in size and six inches deep.
Field Conditions/Construction
Construction of the stormwater management facility must be observed by the
Township Engineer pursuant to §
151.075. If soil conditions indicate a limiting zone (e.g. high water table,
depth to bedrock) will encroach within the infiltration/dry well, the
stormwater management facility construction details (width/depth/length) must
be revised as determined by the Township Engineer and field documented.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/25768d1392ef03191e2aa3d1318b1793514718d8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1246.png]
 
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020; Ord. 248, passed 7-14-2021)
APPENDIX J: IMPERVIOUS HARDSCAPING DESIGN AND CREDIT CRITERIA
An impervious surface area credit for construction of pervious hardscaping
systems may be approved provided they comply with the design guidelines herein
and approval is received from Bedminster Township.
An impervious surface credit shall only be considered by the Township for
driveways, parking areas, and other hardscaping surfaces that are constructed
at a slope greater than 1%, but less than 5%.
Numbers shown in the following table are the percentage of hardscaping surface
area (proposed) that must be considered “IMPERVIOUS” based on factors such as
paver block open void area and the material installed in the voids/openings of
these surfaces.
TABLE 1.0
HARDSCAPING SURFACE AREA THAT MUST BE CONSIDERED IMPERVIOUS SURFACE:
 
             Hardscaping Material
Fill         Paver/block                         Clean stone or structural
Materials in “geoweb”1
Paver Block  Surface Open Area Percentage
Voids        50% to 60% to 69.99% 70% to 79.99% 80% to 89.99% 90% to 100%
             50.99%
Soil/grass   67%    60%           54%           48%           Not permitted
Clean stone
(no fines or
other clean, 52%    43%           33%           24%           14%
non-
erodible
fill
1 Driveways and parking areas must either be bituminous paving, stone
(residential driveways, only), or some other combination of load bearing
paver block backfilled with stone or soil. Geoweb, alone, with earth backfill
may not be used for driveways and parking areas; therefore, is not eligible
for an impervious surface area credit.
 
Notes:
   1.   An impervious surface area credit, if approved by the Township, will
only be valid if a proper sub-base is used and when filter fabric is installed
to separate all soil/stone interfaces and clean stone/sand leveling bed
surfaces, as more particularly shown on the attached conceptual installation
detail.
   2.   Pervious hardscaping systems with less than 50% open surface void
percentage is not eligible for an impervious surface credit and the entire
surface of such hardscaping will be considered 100% impervious for the purpose
of calculating on-site impervious surface area and stormwater runoff. However,
such systems may be considered a “Best Management Practice” if constructed in
compliance with the criteria herein.
   3.   The hardscaping surface area which is intended and approved for
impervious credit must be fully protected (by super silt fence) during the
entire construction process to prevent compaction of the underlying soils by
construction equipment and vehicles. A note must be added to the plan
indicating this requirement.
   4.   The sequence of construction must specify the area of pervious
hardscaping may only be constructed upon stabilization of the remainder of the
site to prevent sediment from contaminating the surface.
   5.   General design and construction of these surfaces must conform to the
attached construction detail and installation and maintenance procedures for
the designated pervious hardscaping system must be identified on the plan.
   6.   Each request for impervious credit must include the manufacturer,
style/product number, surface open area percentage (as identified by the
manufacturer), and product data sheets. This information must also be shown on
the plan including a notation that hardscaping system may only be modified with
the written approval of the Township. No other “paver” block or stone may be
substituted for that approved.
   7.   If the impervious surface credit is approved by the Township, the
resulting (“net”) total of impervious surface area from the “paver” must be
included in the impervious surface tabulation which must also identify the
total area of “paver” block and percentage of hardscaping area that must be
considered impervious (refer Table 1.0). The calculation of impervious surface
area (refer sample herein) must be shown on the plan.
   8.   All applications for impervious surface area credit shall be reviewed
by the Township Engineer for completeness and technical content to satisfy the
above requirements and any other applicable ordinance requirements. Design and
installation must be permanent and will be evaluated based on criteria herein,
feasibility, effectiveness, and longevity. The Township retains the right to
require infiltration testing at pervious paver locations, as well as the right
to deny any application due to unforeseen circumstances unique to the site or
application. Finally, Construction of the pervious hardscaping system must be
inspected by the Township Engineer with advance notice of 48-hours to schedule
required inspections.
CALCULATION OF HARDSCAPING SURFACE THAT MUST BE CONSIDERED IMPERVIOUS SURFACE
AREA:
Proposed Pervious Hardscaping Surface Area = PHSA
Percentage of (Hardscaping) surface that must be considered Impervious (from
Table 1.0)= PI Total Area of Hardscaping Surface that must be considered
Impervious = TI
TI = PHSA x (PI - 100)
SAMPLE CALCULATIONS:
   1.   If 1,250 SF of lot area is covered with “Hastings Checkerblock” (70%
open area) with voids backfilled with clean stone, the quantity of hardscaping
area that must be considered impervious surface area is:
1,250 SF x (33% - 100) (from Table 1.0) = 413 SF = TI; therefore, the
“impervious surface credit” would be: 1,250 SF - 413 SF = 837 SF
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
APPENDIX K: STORMSEWER BEDDING/BACKFILL REQUIREMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/25768d1392ef03191e2aa3d1318b1793514718d8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1248.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/25768d1392ef03191e2aa3d1318b1793514718d8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1250.png]
 
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
APPENDIX L: REFERENCES
1.   U.S. Department of Agriculture, National Resources Conservation Service
(NRCS). National Engineering Handbook. Part 630: Hydrology, 1969-2001.
Originally published as the National Engineering Handbook, Section 4:
Hydrology. Available from the NRCS online at http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/.
2.   U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service.
1986. Technical Release 55: Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds, 2nd Edition.
Washington, DC.
3.   Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. No. 363-0300-002
(December 2006), as amended and updated. Pennsylvania Stormwater Best
Management Practices Manual. Harrisburg, PA.
4.   Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. No. 363-21234-008
(March 31, 2012), as amended and updated. Erosion and Sediment Pollution
Control Program Manual. Harrisburg, PA.
5.   U.S. Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, National Weather Service, Hydrometeorological Design Studies
Center. 2004-2006. Precipitation-Frequency Atlas of the United States, Atlas
14, Volume 2, Version 3.0, Silver Spring, MD. Internet address: http://
hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds.
(Ord. 239, passed 10-14-2020)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Section
   
152.01   Adopted by reference
§ 152.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The subdivision_and_land_development_ordinance_(SALDO), copies of which are
available in the township offices, is adopted by reference and incorporated as
an appendix directly following this Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances as
fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 181, passed 3-14-2007; Ord. 189, passed 9-10-2008; Ord. 240, passed 10-
14-2020)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Adopted by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The zoning_ordinance, copies of which are available in the township offices,
is adopted by reference and incorporated as an appendix directly following this
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 183, passed 6-13-2007; Ord. 191, passed 1-14-2009; Ord. 192, passed 1-14-
2009; Ord. 198, passed 10-13-2010; Ord. 202, passed 1-12-2011; Ord. 203, passed
4-13-2011; Ord. 208, passed 12-14-2011; Ord. 216, passed 12-27-2013; Ord. 223,
passed 3-11-2015; Ord. 227, passed 1-11-2017; Ord. 228, passed 1-11-2017; Ord.
229, passed 4-12-2017; Ord. 234, passed 2-13-2019; Ord. 235, passed 5-8-2019;
Ord. 236, passed 1-8-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   AGREEMENTS
      
III.   STREETS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a franchise to North American Cablevision, its
64       - -         successors and assigns, to build, construct, operate and
                     maintain a cable television system in the township for a
                     period of 15 years.
                     Setting forth the rights and obligations of individuals or
131      8-11-1999   entities which provide cable television service in the
                     township or provide transmission and distribution of audio
                     and video digital impulses (Suburban Cable TV Co.).
                     Authorizing the execution of a nonexclusive cable
                     franchise agreement with Verizon Pennsylvania, Inc., to
172      9-13-2006   allow the construction, installation, maintenance,
                     extension and operation of a cable communications system
                     in the township.
                     Authorizing the execution of a cable franchise agreement
187      4-9-2008    between the township and Comcast of Southeast
                     Pennsylvania, LLC. for a period of 12 years.
                     Authorizing the execution of a cable franchise agreement
243      12-9-2020   between the township and Comcast of Southeast
                     Pennsylvania, LLC. for a period of ten years.
                     Authorizing the execution of a cable franchise agreement
244      1-13-2021   between the township and Verizon, Pennsylvania, LLC. for a
                     period of five years.
                    
 
TABLE II: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the township to join with other local
105      12-11-1991  government units as a settlor of the Pennsylvania Local
                     Government Investments Trust for the purpose of purchasing
                     shares of the trust.
                     Authorizing the appropriate officers of the township to
                     enter into an intergovernmental agreement with other
165      10-12-2005  county municipalities for legal services for negotiation
                     of an agreement with Verizon for cable television services
                     for the township.
                     Establishing membership in the Upper Bucks County
196      12-29-2009  Municipal Cooperative; authorizing the execution of an
                     intergovernmental cooperation agreement; and establishing
                     conditions of said membership.
                     Authorizing the township to enter into an
226      11-9-2016   intergovernmental cooperation agreement and authorizing
                     participation in the Delaware Valley Health Trust.
                    
 
TABLE III: STREETS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Vacating and closing for public travel portions of
12       5-12-1965   Township Roads 376, 390, 398, 416, 418, 437 and 452 in
                     Tohickon State Park.
                     Providing for the vacation of that portion of Rolling
69       7-13-1983   Hills Road which lies between Easton Road (Route 611) and
                     Old Easton Road.
                     Accepting dedication of the following streets, provided
                     the township is not accepting any street lights, street
80       3-25-1987   light poles or wiring: Forrest Drive; Wigton Circle; Dean
                     Drive; Houghes Lane; Gibson Circle; Green Court; Bucks
                     Road; Stewer Lane; Fetter Court; Kern Drive; Stoney Bridge
                     Road; Ruhl Drive; Mitman Lane; and Kolb Court.
                    
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Amending the township zoning map to increase to 400 feet the depth of the C-
117  - -    2 Commercial Zoning District along the following areas of State Route 611 in
            the township:
            1. The portion of the C-2 District which lies along the west side of State
          Route 611 immediately south of the intersection of State Route 611 and Creek
            Road; and
            2. The portion of the C-2 District which lies along the west side of State
          Route 611 immediately north of the intersection of State Route 611 and Quarry
            Road.
44   4-13-  Rezoning from R-2 Residential to I- Industrial a parcel of land containing
     1977   41.976 acres.
            Amending the township zoning map and relocating the boundary line by placing
            the line between the R-2 and R-3 Districts starting at the border between the
     2-14-  Township of Plumstead and Bedminster, thence extending along Smith School Road
52   1979   to its intersection with Scott Road then along Scott Road to a point then
            along the rear of the tax parcel 1-11-124 and the east side of 1-11-127,
            thence along Twin Oaks Drive to the intersection of Twin Oaks Drive and
            Elephant Road, thence along Elephant Road to Dublin Borough line.
            Amending the township zoning map and relocating the boundary line by placing
            the line between the R-2 and R-3 Districts starting at the border between the
     12-3-  Township of Plumstead and Bedminster, thence extending along Smith School Road
53   1979   to its intersection with Deep Run Road and Township Road #452, then along
            Township Road #452 to its intersection with Twin Oaks Drive, then along Twin
            Oaks Drive to its intersection with Elephant Road, thence along Elephant Road
            to Dublin Borough line.
            Amending the township zoning map and relocating the boundary line by placing
            the line between the I and R-2 Districts starting at a point where tax map
            parcels 1-19-8, 1-19-11 and 1-19-11-7; and said line continuing from that
            point along the rear property line of tax map parcel 1-19-11-7 and continuing
            along the rear property lines of tax map parcels 1-19-11-6 and 1-19-11-5; then
67   5-11-  northward along the property line between tax map parcel 1-19-11-5 and tax map
     1983   parcel 1-19-19; to the rear property line of tax map parcel 1-19-11-4; and
            from there the boundary between the R-2 and I Districts shall run westward
            along the rear property line of 1-19-11-4; then northward and westward along
            the property lines between tax map parcel 1-19-11-4 and 1-19-20-2 until the
            point where the property lines between tax map parcel 1-19-11-3, 1-19-11-4 and
            1-19-20-2 meet.
115  5-10-  Reclassifying a portion of county tax parcel 1-12-129 from “scenic” zoning
     1995   classification to C-2 zoning classification; containing 2.541 acres.
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Pennsylvania Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes Annotated
References to Pennsylvania Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA STATUTES
P.S. Cites Code Section
P.S. Cites                                    Code Section
3 P.S. §§ 1501 et seq.                      96.01
32 P.S.                                       151.004
32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq.                  10.03
32 P.S. §§ 680.1 et seq.                    10.03
32 P.S. §§ 693.1 et seq.                    10.03
                                              10.03;
32 P.S. §§ 5001 et seq.                     34.015;
                                              34.031
32 P.S. § 5007.1                             34.015
35 P.S. §§ 691.1 through 691.1001           51.150;
                                              91.08
                                              10.03;
                                              51.003;
                                              51.085;
35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq.                    51.125;  
                                              91.04;
                                              91.08;
                                              151.012
35 P.S. §§ 721.1 et seq.                    10.03;
                                              94.16
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 through 750.20a            51.150
                                              10.03;
                                              51.150;
                                              91.03;
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.                    91.04;
                                              91.08;
                                              91.11;
                                              91.12
35 P.S. §§ 752.1 et seq.                    51.049
35 P.S. §§ 1271 et seq.                     99.04
35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 through 6018.1003       91.14
35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq.                 10.03;
                                              50.02
35 P.S. §§ 6022.101 et seq.                 10.03
35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 through 7210.1103, 501(c31.20
35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 through 7210.1103       95.01
35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 through 7210.1103, 503  95.02
43 P.S. §§ 951 et. seq.                     10.03
53 P.S. §§ 881.101 et seq.                  32.02;
                                              33.03
53 P.S. §§ 888.101 et seq.                  10.03;
                                              33.03
53 P.S. §§ 895.101 et seq.                  32.02;
                                              33.03
53 P.S. § 10101                              151.004
53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.                    10.03
53 P.S. § 10203                              31.04
53 P.S. § 10209.1                            31.05
53 P.S. §§ 10401 et seq.                    150.01;
                                              150.06
53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq.                 10.03 ;
                                              34.030
53 P.S. § 6924.502                           34.030
53 P.S. §§ 65101 through 68701              90.01
                                              10.03;
                                              10.99;
                                              30.06;
                                              31.01;
                                              32.01;
                                              34.999;
                                              50.99;
                                              51.049;
                                              52.20;
                                              52.99;
53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq.                    91.08;
                                              91.99;
                                              93.99;
                                              95.03;
                                              95.05;
                                              97.99;
                                              98.99;
                                              99.99;
                                              130.99;
                                              151.012;
                                              Ch. 151, App. A
53 P.S. § 65727                              91.04
53 P.S. § 65729                              91.04
53 P.S. § 65751                              95.03;
                                              95.05
53 P.S. § 66601                              10.99
53 P.S. §§ 66601(d)                         10.01
53 P.S. §§ 66803(b)                         11.01
53 P.S. §§ 66905                            131.01
53 P.S. § 66951                              91.04
53 P.S. §§ 67322                            53.20;
                                              53.22
                                              10.03;
53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq.                     11.02;
                                              34.003
68 P.S. §§ 5101 et seq                      91.08
72 P.S.                                       10.03
72 P.S. § 806                                34.003
72 P.S. §§ 5490.1 et seq.                   10.03
72 P.S. §§ 5511.1 et seq.                   10.03;
                                              34.054
72 P.S. § 8102-D                             34.002
75 P.S. §§ 101 et seq.                      Ch. 72, Schd. I
75 P.S. §§ 1000 et seq.                     Ch. 71, Schd. IV
77 P.S.                                       10.03;
                                              33.01
77 P.S. §§ 1201 et seq.                     10.03;
                                              33.01
                                              
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES
Pa.C.S. Cites Code Section
Pa.C.S. Cites              Code Section
18 Pa.C.S. § 5503         131.01
18 Pa.C.S. § 5505         131.01
18 Pa.C.S. § 5507         131.01
18 Pa.C.S. § 6308         131.01
42 Pa.C.S. § 8902         131.01
53 Pa.C.S. §§ 5601 et seq51.150;
                           91.08
75 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.112.18
75 Pa.C.S. §§ 1000 et seqCh. 71, Schd. III
                           
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES ANNOTATED
Pa.C.S.A. Cites Code Section
Pa.C.S.A. Cites              Code Section
2 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq. 51.050;
                             132.04
18 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq.51.999
18 Pa.C.S.A. § 908          12.08
18 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 4901 et seq51.050
42 Pa.C.S.A. § 6324         131.01
                             10.03;
53 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 2301 et seq32.01;
                             33.01
53 Pa.C.S.A. § 46006         
                             33.02
68 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 3101 et seq10.03;
                             91.08
68 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 5101 et seq10.03
75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 1 et seq.  Ch. 71, Schd. II;
                             Ch. 71, Schd. IV
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CODE
Pa. Code Cites Code Section
Pa. Code Cites                                  Code Section
25 Pa. Code                                     91.08;
                                                151.012
25 Pa. Code § 92                               151.012
25 Pa. Code § 92.1                             151.012
25 Pa. Code § 93                               151.003
25 Pa. Code § 102                              151.012
25 Pa. Code Chapter 71                          91.08
25 Pa. Code Chapter 72                          91.08
                                                91.08;
25 Pa. Code Chapter 73                          91.11;
                                                151.028
25 Pa. Code Chapter 75                          50.02
25 Pa. Code Chapter 93                          151.012
25 Pa. Code Chapter 93, § 93.4b(b)             151.012
25 Pa. Code Chapter 93.4.a                      151.003
25 Pa. Code Chapter 96                          151.012
25 Pa. Code Chapter 102                         151.012;
                                                151.028
25 Pa. Code Chapter 271                         50.02
25 Pa. Code Chapter 285, Subchapter B           50.04
25 Pa. Code Chapter 285                         50.08
34 Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405            95.02
34 Pa. Code Part XIV, Chapter 403, § 403.102(1)95.02
34 Pa. Code § 403.82                           95.02
34 Pa. Code § 403.121                          31.20
                                                
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
64       - -         TSO I
117      - -         TSO IV
1        6-7-1958    130.03;
                     130.99
2        4-12-1961   31.01 -
                     31.05
                     50.20;
8        7-6-1963    50.21;
                     50.99
12       5-12-1965   TSO III
27       - -1967     34.050 -
                     34.057
                     130.01;
23       2-8-1967    130.02;
                     130.99
                     34.070 -
26       12-13-1967  34.077;
                     34.999
29       8-14-1968   130.99
31       5-14-1969   Ch. 71, Schd. V
36       9-12-1973   Ch. 71, Schd. II
39       10-9-1974   53.35
44       4-13-1977   TSO IV
                     93.01 -
50       4-12-1978   93.04;
                     93.99
52       2-14-1979   TSO IV
53       12-3-1979   TSO IV
                     111.01 -
55       6-11-1980   111.06;
                     111.99
59       2-11-1981   52.20 -
                     52.22
60       3- -1981    Ch. 71, Schd. V
63       8-11-1982   70.01
67       5-11-1983   TSO IV
69       7-13-1983   TSO III
72       12-9-1983   51.999
77       6-11-1986   33.03
80       3-25-1987   TSO III
81       6-10-1987   Ch. 72, Schd. I
                     Ch. 71, Schd. I;
82       8-12-1987   Ch. 71, Schd. IV;
                     Ch. 72, Schd. I
87       5-5-1988    95.04
86       5-11-1988   95.05;
                     95.99
88       5-11-1988   95.03;
                     95.99
90       7-13-1988   51.999
                     130.15;
95       5-10-1989   130.16;
                     130.99
                     92.01 -
99       3-14-1990   92.03;
                     92.99
100      5-9-1990    11.03
101      7-11-1990   33.03
                     98.01 -
104      6-12-1991   98.04;
                     98.99
105      12-11-1991  TSO II
108      3-11-1992   52.55;
                     52.56
                     130.30 -
110      9-9-1992    130.32;
                     130.99 
                     91.35 -
111      4-14-1993   91.45;
                     91.99
112      5-11-1994   Ch. 71, Schd. I
114      5-10-1995   Ch. 71, Schd. IV
115      5-10-1995   TSO IV
116      8-9-1995    Ch. 71, Schd. IV
120      11-13-1996  Ch. 71, Schd. II
131      8-11-1999   TSO I
134      6-14-2000   11.02
                     53.20 -
138      5-9-2001    53.24;
                     53.99
                     90.01 -
143      1-9-2002    90.12;
                     90.99
154      4-14-2004   Ch. 71, Schd. IV
                     31.20 -
155      6-9-2004    31.27;
                     95.01;
                     95.02
                     51.085 -
159      2-9-2005    51.112;
                     51.999
160      3-9-2005    150.01 -
                     150.06
165      10-12-2005  TSO II
                     53.01 -
166      11-9-2005   53.08;
                     53.99
                     34.030 -
167      12-14-2005  34.035;
                     34.999
168      12-14-2005  30.01 -
                     30.08
167a     3-8-2006    32.01
170      6-14-2006   34.015
172      9-13-2006   TSO I
                     52.35 -
174      10-11-2006  52.41;
                     52.99
                     52.01 -
175      10-11-2006  52.05;
                     52.99
176      10-11-2006  34.001 -
                     34.003
                     51.125 -
179      11-8-2006   51.136;
                     51.999
181      3-14-2007   152.01
                     51.150 -
182      5-9-2007    51.162;
                     51.999
183      6-13-2007   153.01
184      6-13-2007   11.01
                     50.01 -
185      8-8-2007    50.09;
                     50.99
                     94.01 -
                     94.03;
                     94.15 -
                     94.21;
186      1-9-2008    94.35;
                     94.36;
                     94.50;
                     94.65 -
                     94.67;
                     94.99
187      4-9-2008    TSO I
188      9-10-2008   130.99
189      9-10-2008   152.01
190      11-12-2008  Ch. 72, Schd. I
191      1-14-2009   153.01
192      1-14-2009   153.01
193      3-18-2009   Ch. 71, Schd. IV
195      12-29-2009  Ch. 71, Schd. IV
196      12-29-2009  TSO II
                     51.065 -
197      4-14-2010   51.073;
                     51.999
198      10-13-2010  153.01
                     51.001 -
199      10-13-2010  51.053;
                     51.999
200      11-10-2010  Ch. 71, Schd. IV
201      12-29-2010  Ch. 71, Schd. III
202      1-12-2011   153.01
203      4-13-2011   153.01
204      7-13-2011   Ch. 71, Schd. IV
                     97.01 -
206      10-12-2011  97.05;
                     97.99
                     91.01 -
207      12-14-2011  91.24;
                     91.99
208      12-14-2011  153.01
209      12-14-2011  Ch. 72, Schd. I
210      4-11-2012   Ch. 72, Schd. I
211      4-11-2012   Ch. 72, Schd. I
214      12-11-2013  53.03
213      12-27-2013  33.03
215      12-27-2013  32.02
216      12-27-2013  153.01
217      1-8-2014    33.02
218      1-8-2014    33.01
221      4-9-2014    Ch. 71, Schd. IV
222      10-8-2014   Ch. 72, Schd. I
223      3-11-2015   153.01
224      9-9-2015    Ch. 72, Schd. I;
                     Ch. 72, Schd. II
225      10-14-2015  Ch. 71, Schd. II;
                     Ch. 71, Schd. IV
226      11-9-2016   TSO II
227      1-11-2017   153.01
228      1-11-2017   153.01
229      4-12-2017   153.01
230      6-14-2017   Ch. 71, Schd. III
231      8-9-2017    91.13;
                     91.22
                     70.15 -
232      8-9-2017    70.18;
                     70.99
234      2-13-2019   153.01
235      5-8-2019    153.01
236      1-8-2020    153.01
                     12.01 -
237      1-8-2020    12.18;
                     12.99
                     151.001 -
                     151.012;
                     151.025 -
                     151.035;
                     151.050 -
                     151.061;
                     151.075;
                     151.076;
                     151.090 -
239      10-14-2020  151.092;
                     151.105 -
                     151.109;
                     151.120 -
                     151.123;
                     151.135 -
                     151.140;
                     151.999; Ch. 71,
                     App. A -
                     App. L
240      10-14-2020  152.01
                     112.01 -
                     112.03;
242      12-9-2020   112.15 -
                     112.23;
                     112.99
243      12-9-2020   TSO I
244      1-13-2021   TSO I
245      1-13-2021   131.01 -
                     131.03
                     54.01 -
                     54.13;
246      1-14-2021   54.99;
                     73.01 -
                     73.03;
                     73.99
                     110.01 -
2021-247 5-12-2021   110.09;
                     110.99
                     151.005;
248      7-14-2021   151.006;
                     151.999;
                     Ch. 151, App. I
                     132.01 -
249      7-14-2021   132.04;
                     132.99
2021-250 9-8-2021    Ch. 71, Schd. IV
2021-251 12-8-2021   Ch. 71, Schd. III
2021-252 12-8-2021   96.01
                     10.01 -
-        - -2022     10.10;
                     10.99
2022-253 3-9-2022    Ch. 71, Schd. III
256      3-8-2023    Ch. 71, Schd. IV
258      5-10-2023   Ch. 71, Schd. IV
257      6-14-2023   Adopting Ordinance
                     99.01 -
260      10-11-2023  99.07,
                     99.99
                     113.01 -
261      12-13-2023  113.06,
                     113.99
                    
 
