CONEMAUGH TOWNSHIP, PENNSYLVANIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through February 15, 2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE No. 702
CONEMAUGH TOWNSHIP, SOMERSET COUNTY
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWNSHIP OF CONEMAUGH,
SOMERSET COUNTY, OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA, REVISING, AMENDING,
RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE
POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of Conemaugh Township are
inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and substance
for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
specifically, the Second Class Township Code, empower and authorize the
township to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any existing ordinances
and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate
such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Second Class Township Code has authorized a general compilation,
revision and codification of the ordinances of the Conemaugh Township of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the continuation of the usual daily
operation of the municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health, safety and general welfare of the municipality that this
ordinance take effect at an early date.
NOW, Therefore, Be it Ordained by the Board of Supervisors of Conemaugh
Township, Somerset County, Pennsylvania.
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Township of Conemaugh, Somerset
County, as revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are
hereby adopted as and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Conemaugh
Township, Somerset County, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania)."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISION
    10. General Provisions
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   30.   General Provisions
   31.   Township Organizations
   32.   Police and Fire
   33.   Township Policies
   34.   Taxation and Finance
   35.   Fee Schedule
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   50.   General Provisions
   51.   Solid Waste and Recycling
   52.   Sewers
   53.   Wastewater
   54.   Drought
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   70.   Traffic and Parking Regulations
   71.   Weight Limits
   72.   Electrical Speed Time and Monitoring Devices
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   90.   Animals
   91.   Fire Prevention/Open Burning
   92.   Nuisances
   93.   Streets, Sidewalks and Driveways
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   110. Commercial Establishments with Projectiles Leaving Property
   111. Solicitors, Canvassers and Peddlers
   112. Junk Yards
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   130. Drug, Alcohol and Tobacco Offenses
   131. Offense Against Property
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   150. Building Regulations
   151. Floodplain Management
   152. Stormwater Management
   153. Subdivision Regulations
   154. Zoning
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   [Reserved]
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Pennsylvania Statutes
   References to Pennsylvania Code
   References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes
   References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes Annotated
   References to Resolutions
   References to Ordinances
   INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the duly appointed Secretary of
Conemaugh Township is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code
of Ordinances in the official records of the Township and in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds for Somerset County.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
         This Ordinance shall become effective five (5) days after its
adoption.
         ENACTED AND ORDAINED this 18th day of December, 2019
                                       TOWNSHIP OF CONEMAUGH
                                       By: /S/
                                       Steven M. Buncich, Supervisor
                                       By: /S/
                                       Matt Mlaker, Supervisor
ATTEST:
/S/ (Seal)
Cindy L. Walerysiak, Secretary
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Designation; citation; headings
   
10.02   Amendments and supplements; numbering
   
10.03   Definitions and interpretation
   
10.04   Separability of provisions
   
10.05   Sections and ordinances repealed
   
10.06   Exemptions from repeal
 
   
10.99   General code penalty
§ 10.01 DESIGNATION; CITATION; HEADINGS.
   (A)   This volume consists of all ordinances and resolutions of a general
and permanent nature of the municipality, as revised, codified, arranged,
numbered and consolidated into component codes, titles, chapters and sections,
and as such shall be known and designated as the “Codified Ordinances of
Conemaugh Township”, for which designation “codified ordinances” may be
substituted. Title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the codified ordinances.
   (B)   All references to titles, chapters and sections are to such components
of the codified ordinances unless otherwise specified. Any component code may
be referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may
be referred to and cited by the designation section symbol (“§”) followed by
the number, such as “§
10.01”.
§ 10.02 AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS; NUMBERING.
   (A)   The codified ordinances of Conemaugh Township may be amended or
supplemented at any time and, when any amendment or supplement is adopted in
such form as to indicate the intention of the Board of Supervisors to make the
same a part thereof, such amendment or supplement shall be incorporated in, and
deemed a part of, the codified ordinances, so that a reference to the codified
ordinances shall be understood and construed as including the codified
ordinances of Conemaugh Township and any and all such amendments and
supplements.
   (B)   All amendments and supplements enacted as a part of the codified
ordinances shall be integrated therewith by following the form of arrangement
and plan set forth as follows: each title shall be subdivided into chapters,
and each chapter shall be subdivided into sections, which shall be numbered in
accordance with the decimal numbering system. The numbering of all sections,
except penalty sections, shall be consecutive within each chapter commencing
with the first section of
Chapter 10, which shall be numbered 10.01, the first “10” signifying the
chapter number within the code, and the two figures “01” after the decimal
signifying the first section in
Chapter 10 of the code. Penalty sections shall be designated “99” and shall be
the last section of a chapter.
§ 10.03 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   In the construction of the codified ordinances, the following rules and
definitions shall control, excepting those inconsistent with the manifest
intent of the Board of Supervisors as disclosed in a particular provision,
section or chapter. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   ADOPTING ORDINANCE. The ordinance of the municipality adopting the codified
ordinances of Conemaugh Township in conformity with the Second Class Township
Code.
   AUTHORITY. Whenever in the codified ordinances authority is given to an
officer or an act is required to be performed, such AUTHORITY may be exercised
and such act may be performed, at the insistence of such officer, by a deputy
or subordinate, unless contrary to law or to the clear intent of any such
particular provision.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The legislative authority of the township.
   CALENDAR; COMPUTATION OF TIME. The terms MONTH and YEAR mean the calendar
month or year. The time expressed in days within which an act is to be done or
a period is to expire shall be computed by excluding the first and including
the last day, unless the last day is a Sunday, in which case it shall be
excluded. If time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday shall be excluded.
   CONJUNCTIONS. AND includes OR and OR includes AND, if the sense so requires.
   COUNTY. The County of Somerset, Pennsylvania.
   GENDER. Words importing the masculine shall extend and be applied to the
feminine and neuter genders.
   GENERAL RULE. Except as otherwise provided in this section, words and
phrases shall be construed according to the common usage of the language;
provided, however, that technical words and phrases and such others as may have
acquired a special meaning in the law shall be construed according to such
technical or special meaning.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. Words giving authority to a board, commission, authority or
to three or more officers or employees or other persons shall be construed as
giving authority to a majority thereof, unless otherwise specifically provided.
   KEEPER and PROPRIETOR. Persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and
co-partnerships, whether acting themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND and REAL ESTATE. Include rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   LAW. All applicable laws of the United States of America and the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   MUNICIPALITY. Conemaugh Township, Pennsylvania.
   NUMBER. Words in the plural include the singular and words in the singular
include the plural.
   OATH. Includes affirmation. When an OATH is required or authorized by law,
an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken by a person having conscientious
scruples about taking an oath. An affirmation shall have the same force and
effect as an OATH.
   ORDINANCE. Includes any ordinance of the municipality, including any
provision of these codified ordinances.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes a part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or any part of such property.
   PERSON. An individual, association, club, corporation, firm, partnership,
body politic or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. When used as applicable to property, extends to and includes land
and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property and any mixed and lesser
estates or interests therein. PERSONAL PROPERTY includes every kind of property
except real property; REAL PROPERTY includes lands, tenements and
hereditaments.
   PUBLISH. To print in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality
the entire document or a brief summary thereof with a listing of places where
copies have been filed and times when they are available for inspection.
   REASONABLE TIME. In all cases where provision is made for an act to be done
or notice to be given within a REASONABLE TIME, it shall be deemed to mean such
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such act or the
giving of such notice.
   RESIDENCE. An abode in which a person permanently resides.
   RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. A determination of policy or effect
of law formalized of Conemaugh Township by vote of the Board of Supervisors.
   SECOND CLASS TOWNSHIP CODE. The Second Class Township Code of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, being the Act of May 1, 1933 (P.L. 103, No. 69),
re-enacted and amended November 9, 1995 (P.L. 350, No. 60), as amended, being
53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq.
   SHALL and MAY. SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
   STATE and COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   STREET. Alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, streets, state highways
and other public ways in the municipality.
   TENANT and OCCUPANT. As applied to buildings or land, shall extend and be
applied to any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the
whole or any part of, a building or land, alone or with others.
   TENSES. The use of any verb in the present tense includes the future.
   TIME. Whenever any time established in the codified ordinances for the
taking of any action expires on a Sunday or a legal holiday, such time shall
not expire on such day but shall expire on the next week day.
   TOWNSHIP. The Municipality of Conemaugh, Pennsylvania.
   UNIT. Any governmental entity of the municipality.
§ 10.04 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section and each part of each section of these codified ordinances,
including each section and each part of each section of any standard technical
code adopted by reference in these codified ordinances, is hereby declared to
be an independent section or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is hereby declared to be the controlling
legislative intent that if any such section or part of a section, or any
provision thereof, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is
held to be invalid or unconstitutional, the remaining sections or parts of
sections and the application of such provision to any other person or
circumstance, other than those as to which it is held invalid or
unconstitutional, shall not be affected thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that these codified ordinances would have been
adopted independently of such section or part of a section so held to be
invalid or unconstitutional.
§ 10.05 SECTIONS AND ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the municipality, and
parts of the same, in conflict with any of the provisions of these codified
ordinances, are hereby repealed.
§ 10.06 EXEMPTIONS FROM REPEAL.
   The repeal provided for in §
10.05 shall not affect:
   (A)   Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing, before the adoption
of these codified ordinances;
   (B)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money by or to the municipality, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of
the municipality, or any evidence of the municipality’s indebtedness, or any
contract or obligation assumed by the municipality;
   (C)   The administrative ordinances and resolutions of the Board of
Supervisors not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of these
codified ordinances;
   (D)   Any right, license or franchise conferred by any ordinance or
resolution of the Board of Supervisors on any person;
   (E)   Any ordinance or resolution establishing, naming, relocating or
vacating any street or other public way;
   (F)   Any ordinance or resolution or part thereof providing for the
establishment of positions, for salaries or compensation;
   (G)   Any prosecution, suit or other proceeding pending, or any judgment
rendered, on or prior to the adoption of these codified ordinances;
   (H)   Any ordinance or resolution levying or imposing taxes or assessments;
   (I)   Any ordinance or resolution establishing or changing the boundaries of
the municipality; or
   (J)   Any ordinance or resolution adopted by the Board of Supervisors after
the adoption of these codified ordinances.
§ 10.99 GENERAL CODE PENALTY.
   (A)   All township ordinances previously enacted which provide for fines for
violation of a building, housing, property maintenance, health, fire or public
safety code or ordinance, and for water, air and noise pollution violations,
and for the violation of any other township ordinance shall hereinafter be
enforced in a civil enforcement proceeding commenced by the township before a
District Justice with jurisdiction. Notice of such civil enforcement proceeding
shall be made in accordance with the applicable Pennsylvania Rules of Civil
Procedure. If a defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the
municipality may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable Rule of Civil
Procedure.
   (B)   For all township ordinances governing a building, housing, property
maintenance, health, fire or public safety code, and for water, air and noise
pollution violations, each such violation shall carry a fine not exceeding
$1,000 per day during which such violation shall continue, plus all court costs
and reasonable attorney fees incurred by the township in enforcing the
violation. For all other township ordinances, the maximum fine shall be not
more than $600 per day during every day in which such violation shall continue.
Statutory reference:
   Ordinances; penalty, see 53 P.S. § 66601
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   POLICE AND FIRE
      
33.   TOWNSHIP POLICIES
      
34.   TAXATION AND FINANCE
      
35.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Participation in the PSATS Unemployment Compensation Group Trust
§ 30.01 PARTICIPATION IN THE PSATS UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION GROUP TRUST.
   (A)   (1)   The township adopts the governing declaration and agreement of
trust for the trust, which has been comprehensively updated, amended and
restated effective July 16, 2014 (hereinafter restated trust agreement) and
agrees to participate in the trust in accordance with the amended and updated
terms of the restated trust agreement and that the Chairperson of the Board of
Supervisors and Secretary of the township are hereby authorized to sign the
restated trust agreement and any other agreements necessary for the township’s
participation in the trust.
      (2)   The restated trust agreement is on file for inspection and review
at the township’s offices at 1120 Tire Hill Road, Johnstown, Pennsylvania
15905. The restated trust agreement may be subsequently modified or amended in
accordance with its terms, but in no event shall such modifications or
amendments divert any of the trust funds from the purposes of the trust. The
township may withdraw from the trust in accordance with the restated trust
agreement, including if the Board of Supervisors determines the modifications
or amendments are not in the best interests of the township.
   (B)   The participation of the township in the trust is authorized for the
purpose of pooling resources for the purpose of providing unemployment
compensation insurance for participating employers at reasonable cost.
   (C)   As set forth in greater detail in the restated trust agreement and as
otherwise stated herein, the following conditions apply to the participation of
the township in the trust:
      (1)   Each participating employer must meet the admission and eligibility
requirements set forth therein;
      (2)   Each participating employer agrees to pay all contributions when
due as provided in the restated trust agreement or as otherwise established by
the Board of Trustees; and
      (3)   Each participating employer complies with all other conditions of
the restated trust agreement.
   (D)   The township agrees to participate in the trust and may withdraw for
any reason and in accordance with the restated trust agreement provided that it
has fulfilled all its financial obligations to the trust upon withdrawal.
   (E)   The effective date of the township’s agreement to and joinder in the
restated trust agreement and the participation of the township in the trust
pursuant to the terms of the restated trust agreement will be January 1, 2015.
   (F)   Each participating employer delegates to the Board of Trustees the
powers enumerated in the restated trust agreement.
   (G)   The organizational structure of the trust shall consist of a Board of
Trustees. Under the restated trust agreement, the Board of Trustees is
authorized to, among other things, enter into contracts with third parties to
perform various services necessary for the administration of the trust.
   (H)   The funds required for the operation of the trust shall be provided by
the participating employers through scheduled appropriations as determined by
the Board of Trustees.
   (I)   The trust is empowered to enter into contracts for policies of group
insurance and employee benefits, including Social Security, for employees of
the trust, if any.
   (J)   As a condition of participating in the trust, the township agrees to
comply with all of the terms and conditions in the restated trust agreement.
   (K)   The Secretary of the township shall provide a certified copy of this
section upon its enactment to the Board of Trustees of the trust.
   (L)   The Chairperson of the Board of Supervisors of the township is hereby
authorized to take any and all such other actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section and comply with the
requirements of the restated trust agreement, attached to the ordinance
codified herein and adopted by reference as if set out in length, and any duly
adopted amendments thereto.
   (M)   The duration of the term of the township’s participation in the trust
and obligations under the restated trust agreement shall continue until
withdrawal from the trust by the township in accordance with the terms of the
restated trust agreement.
   (N)   The Board of Supervisors hereby specifically finds and determines as
follows.
      (1)   The conditions of the intergovernmental cooperative agreement are
set forth in the restated trust agreement incorporated by reference herein.
      (2)   The township shall participate in the trust in accordance with the
restated trust agreement until it withdraws by giving notice to the Board of
Trustees in accordance with the terms of the restated trust agreement.
      (3)   The purpose and objectives of the intergovernmental cooperative
arrangement, including powers and scope of authority delegated to the Board of
Trustees, are set forth in the incorporated restated trust agreement.
      (4)   The manner and extent of financing of the agreement are that:
         (a)   Funds to implement the township’s obligations under the
agreement shall come from the normal and usual budgeted amounts for township
employee compensation and employee benefits; and
         (b)   No borrowing is anticipated to be required.
      (5)   The trust shall be managed by the Board of Trustees pursuant to the
terms of the restated trust agreement.
      (6)   All assets and property, real or personal, of the trust shall be
titled to, acquired, managed, licensed or disposed of by the trust, and its
Board of Trustees, in accordance with the terms of the restated trust
agreement.
      (7)   The trust, in accordance with the restated trust agreement, shall
be empowered to enter into contracts for policies of group insurance and
employee welfare benefits to be offered to participating employers for their
eligible employee and dependents.
(Ord. 696, passed 4-15-2015)
CHAPTER 31: TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
31.01   Established
   
31.02   Residence; salary; expenses
   
31.03   Vacancy
   
31.04   Holding another township position
   
31.05   Authority; powers and duties
Recreation Commission
   
31.20   Established
   
31.21   Designation
   
31.22   Membership; term; vacancies
   
31.23   Rules and regulations
   
31.24   Jurisdiction
   
31.25   Budget
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Township Planning Commission shall consist of seven members,
instead of the nine previous members.
   (B)   As of 2007, all currently appointed members of the Township Planning
Commission shall serve until the end of their appointed term through the first
Monday in January.
   (C)   Upon the occurrence of vacancies by expiration of term, resignation or
otherwise, the Township Supervisors shall appoint additional members up to a
total of seven members of the Township Planning Commission and such
appointments after the effective date hereof shall be for terms of three years
so that members’ terms shall expire two members in 2008, two members in 2009
and three members in 2010.
   (D)   Board members thereafter shall serve a three-year term.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-4-1966; Ord. 585, passed 3-2-1989; Ord. 664, passed 9-4-
2007)
§ 31.02 RESIDENCE; SALARY; EXPENSES.
   All members of the Commission shall reside in the township and shall receive
$25 per meeting attended no more than once a week and shall be reimbursed for
necessary expenses incurred in performance of their duties as Commission
members.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-4-1966)
§ 31.03 VACANCY.
   An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be only for the unexpired portion of
the term.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-4-1966)
§ 31.04 HOLDING ANOTHER TOWNSHIP POSITION.
   The Commission members shall hold no other township position or office,
except that as members of the Township Zoning Commission or the Township Zoning
Hearing Board.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-4-1966)
§ 31.05 AUTHORITY; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Township Planning Commission shall have such authority, powers and
duties and such limitations as are provided by the Second Class Township Code,
being 53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq., and its amendments.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-4-1966)
RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 31.20 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created a playground and recreation board for the township,
in accordance with Act of Assembly of May 1, 1933, P.L. 103, Article XIX (53
P.S. § 66902), as amended.
(Ord. 390, passed 3-15-1974)
§ 31.21 DESIGNATION.
   The board shall be designated as the “Conemaugh Township Recreation
Commission”.
(Ord. 390, passed 3-15-1974)
§ 31.22 MEMBERSHIP; TERM; VACANCIES.
   The Recreation Commission shall consist of seven members appointed by the
Supervisors, who shall serve a term of five years, or until their successors
are appointed, except that the members of the board first appointed shall be
appointed for such terms that the term of not more than two members shall
expire annually thereafter; vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as
original appointments are made.
(Ord. 390, passed 3-15-1974)
§ 31.23 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Recreation Commission shall have the power to adopt rules and
regulations for the conduct of all business within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 390, passed 3-15-1974)
§ 31.24 JURISDICTION.
   The Recreation Commission shall have control and jurisdiction over all
playgrounds, recreation centers and other places which have previously, or may
in the future, be dedicated to the purpose of public recreation and given over
to it for control.
(Ord. 390, passed 3-15-1974)
§ 31.25 BUDGET.
   Any proposed expenditure of tax funds shall first be approved by the
Township Supervisors, and any budget adopted by the Recreation Commission shall
be submitted to the Township Supervisors for approval.
(Ord. 390, passed 3-15-1974)
CHAPTER 32: POLICE AND FIRE
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Mutual aid agreement between all municipalities with police departments
Volunteer Fire Departments
   
32.30   Volunteer fire departments
   
32.31   Reimbursement for hazardous abatement material
   
32.32   Schedule of billing rates
   
32.33   Credit for township earned income tax and township real estate taxes
   
32.34   Authorizing the Conemaugh Township Fire Department and Jerome Volunteer
Fire Company to engage in certain acts
Fire Insurance Proceeds
   
32.45   Use of fire insurance proceeds
   
32.46   Limits of liability
   
32.47   Insurance company rights reserved
   
32.48   Construction
 
   
32.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations, see
Chapter 150
   Floodplain management, see
Chapter 151
   Open burning, see §§
91.01 through
91.05
   Stormwater management, see
Chapter 152
   Subdivision regulations, see
Chapter 153
   Zoning, see
Chapter 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT BETWEEN ALL MUNICIPALITIES WITH POLICE
DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   Background.
      (1)   The township desires to provide and receive adequate police
protection and law enforcement for the citizens of the township and the county
and has determined it is advisable to enter a mutual aid agreement with all
police departments in the county to ensure such services.
      (2)   Pursuant to 42 Pa.C.S.A. § 8953, each municipality of this
commonwealth is empowered to maintain current or enter into new cooperative
police service agreements with another municipality or municipalities for
purposes including, but not limited to, describing conditions of mutual aid,
assigning liability and determining appropriate costs of these cooperative
efforts.
      (3)   The parties desire to enter into an agreement for such mutual
services and aid.
   (B)   Declaration. Now, therefore, be it ordained by this municipality, and
it is hereby ordained as follows.
      (1)   The background as set forth in division (A) above is incorporated
by reference as set out at length in full herein.
      (2)   The above-mentioned mutual aid agreement (“agreement”), as
presented for action to this municipality, is hereby adopted, and this
municipality shall be bound by same.
   (C)   Conditions, duration, purposes, scope of authority. The conditions,
duration, purposes, scope of authority of the agreement are as follows.
      (1)   Each party shall designate the appropriate official within its
jurisdiction who has the legal authority to bind its jurisdiction to this
agreement and who shall sign this agreement.
      (2)   All municipal boundaries of the parties to this agreement shall
remain in force unless changed by operation of the law.
      (3)   Each party agrees that in the event of an emergency or upon a call
for assistance, each other party to this agreement will furnish such personnel,
equipment, facilities or services as are available, provided that such actions
would not unreasonably diminish its capacity to provide basic law enforcement
services to its own jurisdiction. Assistance will be rendered only in
accordance with the law enforcement agency’s own policies and procedures.
      (4)   The responding agency’s assistance may be withdrawn when
circumstances require redeployment of assets to the responding agency’s own
jurisdiction. Vacancies left in a responding agency’s home jurisdiction can be
covered by adjoining jurisdictions without the need for recalling responding
personnel and equipment from the incident scene.
      (5)   To invoke assistance under the provisions of this agreement, the
designated official from the requesting party shall be required to contact the
designated official of the responding party by telephone, in writing, or e-
mail. The responding party may request such information from the requesting
party as necessary to confirm the emergency situation and to assess the types
and amounts of assistance that shall be provided.
      (6)   The requesting agency shall have command authority during an
emergency or call for assistance situation. All personnel from responding
agencies shall report to and work under the direction of the designated
incident commander. Personnel from either the requesting or the assisting
agency may receive supervision from any command personnel from the combined
participating localities if authorized by the incident commander or his or her
designee in the incident command structure, depending on identified needs and
available resources deemed most qualified to meet mission goals and objectives.
Each responding agency retains control over its own personnel under the overall
command of the incident commander.
      (7)   Personnel responding to a call for assistance outside their
appointed jurisdiction shall have those law enforcement powers provided for by
state law.
      (8)   In any emergency situation where the agreement has been invoked,
radio communications should be established between all of the parties where
possible, through the use of local public mutual aid radio system or other
shared communication system.
      (9)   Any personnel of any responding agency furnishing aid to a
requesting agency shall, at all times, remain the employee and personnel of the
responding agency. The responding agency, at all times, is responsible for
paying all wages of such personnel; for carrying worker’s compensation upon him
or her; and for all other duties and responsibilities pertaining to the
employment of such personnel.
      (10)   The parties shall agree to meet on a regular basis to review all
interagency assistance plans and provisions of this agreement.
      (11)   This agreement shall become effective as to each party’s public
entity when approved and executed by that public entity. The agreement shall
remain in effect as between each and every party until this agreement is
terminated by the party in writing. Termination of participation in this
agreement by a party shall not affect the continued operation of this agreement
as between the remaining parties. Any party to this agreement may terminate
participation in this agreement upon 60 days’ written notice addressed to the
designated public official of each of the other signatory public entities that
are parties to the agreement.
      (12)   The execution of this agreement shall not give rise to any
liability or responsibility for failure to respond to any request for
assistance made pursuant to this agreement. This agreement shall not be
construed as or deemed to be an agreement for the benefit of any third party or
parties, and no third party or parties shall have any right of action
whatsoever hereunder for any cause whatsoever.
      (13)   This agreement is binding on all parties and its jurisdictions and
all future agency chiefs within those jurisdictions, unless and until the
agency withdrawal provisions of the agreement have been complied with.
   (D)   Execution. The execution of any portion of the mutual aid agreement by
any Supervisor of the township is hereby ratified and confirmed, and
Supervisors of the township, as appropriate, are authorized to execute such
agreements, resolutions, authorizations or other documents and take such
actions and make such advertisements as may be necessary to adopt, ratify and
affirm all or any portion of the mutual aid agreement or to implement any of
its provisions, and the signatures of such township officials shall
conclusively establish that the documents they sign are the documents referred
to in or authorized by this section.
(Ord. 690, passed 11-21-2012)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENTS
§ 32.30 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TOWNSHIP. Conemaugh Township, Somerset County, Pennsylvania.
      VOLUNTEER FIRE COMPANIES. All volunteer fire companies located in the
township, including, but not limited to, Jerome Volunteer Fire Company and
Conemaugh Township Volunteer Fire Company.
   (B)   Volunteer fire companies and their members are authorized to respond
to all fire, emergency and other calls for their services within the township.
   (C)   Volunteer fire companies and their members are authorized to respond
to all requests for services, received from organized fire companies,
firefighting or ambulance associations located outside the township.
   (D)   Volunteer fire companies and their members are authorized to engage in
all training, maintenance, fundraising activities, activities aimed at securing
memberships and procuring equipment and other activities and duties normally
associated with the operation of a volunteer fire company, when specifically
authorized by any officer of the volunteer fire companies, which authorized
activities include, but shall not be limited to, acting as ambulance driver and
ambulance assistant, conducting first aid courses, conducting firefighting
training, conducting and attending fire schools, conducting and attending fire
drills, conducting and participating in fire equipment demonstrations,
conducting and providing supportive services for fireworks exhibitions,
conducting and participating in parades, performing services in connection with
drownings and other water emergencies, conducting and participating in search
and rescue operations, performing services as fire police and conducting and
participating in firefighting and related services.
   (E)   Any member of the volunteer fire companies is authorized to engage in
the performance of any duty, activity or function authorized by an officer of
the volunteer fire companies, unless such authorization as to a specific duty,
activity or function, or as to a specific officer of the volunteer fire
companies, has been withdrawn by the Board of Supervisors of the township, in
writing, addressed to the volunteer fire company affected by such withdrawal of
authorization.
   (F)   The Board of Supervisors is hereby authorized to enter into
cooperation agreements with other municipal corporations and volunteer fire
companies, in such form as may be approved by the Supervisors.
(Ord. 566, passed 7-14-1983)
§ 32.31 REIMBURSEMENT FOR HAZARDOUS ABATEMENT MATERIAL.
   (A)   The Township Supervisors, by and through their authority and
relationship with Jerome Volunteer Fire Company, Conemaugh Township Volunteer
Fire Department and Conemaugh Township EMS, Inc., hereby recognizes the
authority and authorizes the aforesaid emergency service providers to recover
the reasonable costs of firefighting materials, equipment, personnel hours and
hazardous abatement materials involving any hazardous material incident,
environmental incident or safety and rescue incident or operation, including
vehicular accidents.
   (B)   Said reasonable costs as outlined above may be recovered directly by
the emergency service providers, or through the township with the consent of
the Supervisors, or by agreement with a collection agency provided such
agreement is approved in advance by motion of the supervisors.
   (C)   In addition to the aforementioned reasonable costs, the aforesaid
emergency service providers, township or collection agency, shall be authorized
to collect legal interest of 6% per year, as well as a reasonable
administrative fee for collecting the same and any and all additional fees as
may be authorized by the Hazardous Material and Emergency Planning and Response
Act, being 35 P.S. Ch. 29E or authorized by any other statute, case law or
common law.
   (D)   Fees shall be submitted at least annually by the emergency service
providers to the Board of Supervisors for approval. Except for extraordinary
situations involving charges that are not regularly incurred by the emergency
services provider, only charges approved by motion at a public meeting shall be
deemed reasonable an eligible for reimbursement.
   (E)   Emergency service recipients questioning the reasonableness or right
to collect any charge may appeal the assessment to the Township Supervisors
under provisions of the Pennsylvania Local Public Agency Law, within 30 days of
receipt of the assessment. Failure to so appeal within 30 days shall constitute
a waiver of the recipient’s right to contest the charge. Charges incurred
hereunder may be collected directly by the emergency service provider at the
District Magistrate’s office by prosecuting an action in the name of the
township.
(Ord. 627, passed 12-20-2000)
§ 32.32 SCHEDULE OF BILLING RATES.
Apparatus Fee
Apparatus                             Fee
Aerial/ladder                         $400/hour
Engine                                $350/hour
Rescue                                $300/hour
Squad/utility/support                 $150/hour
Tanker/tender                         $300/hour
Equipment/Service                     Fee
Cribbing
   Passenger                       $100 each
   Class B                         $200 each
   Trucks - Class A                $500 each
Debris cleanup/removal                $250
Deodorizer                            $25/use
Extinguisher (any class)              $50/use
Fire line tape                        $0.25/foot
Fire police services                  $100/hour
Flares                                $8 each
Foam                                  $65/gallon
Gas/CO detector/heat gun              $50/use
Generator                             $50/hour
Hand lights                           $5/use
Hand tools                            $15 each
Hose (per 50 feet)                    $25
Hydraulic rescue tools                $200 each
IR camera                             $100 each
Ladders                               $35/use
Latex gloves                          $2/pair
Medical extrication (with hydraulics) $1,500/patient
Oil absorbent sheets                  $2.50 each
Oil booms                             $20 each
Oil dry                               $35/bucket
Portable pond                         $150/use
Portable pumps                        $30/hour
Power tools                           $50 each
Road closing/traffic control          $100/hour
Salvage covers                        $35 each
SCBA                                  $50 each
Scene lighting                        $75/hour
Stabilization struts                  $50/use
Ventilation fans                      $50 each
Wetting agent                         $25/unit
 
(Ord. passed 8-17-2016; Ord. passed 9-20-2017)
§ 32.33 CREDIT FOR TOWNSHIP EARNED INCOME TAX AND TOWNSHIP REAL ESTATE TAXES.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   Except as specifically stated in this section, terms in this
section shall have the same meaning as set forth in Act 172 of 2016, being 35
Pa.C.S. §§ 79A01 et seq.
      (2)   VOLUNTEER FIRST RESPONDERS shall mean uncompensated first
responders in fire, rescue, fire police or emergency management within the
township who perform their services without compensation and are otherwise
qualified to receive the benefits as set forth hereinafter.
      (3)   The use of the word “he” in this section, shall be interpreted to
include the term “she”. It is intended that the benefits of this section should
to apply to township volunteers first responders irrespective of gender.
      (4)   Where two or more eligible first responders reside in the same
household, each shall be eligible for the full benefit as described herein in
the same manner and amount to which they would be eligible if they did not co-
habitate with another eligible first responder.
   (B)   Qualified participants.
      (1)   Volunteer first responders eligible for the tax credit provided by
this section shall be limited to only those persons who provide at least 100
hours annually of volunteer services, for time and hours spent in first
responses to emergencies and various support activities authorized by the
township, including, but not limited to, fund raising and work details and any
of the qualifying activities set forth in § 79A21 of Act 172, being 35 Pa.C.S.
§§ 79A01 et seq.
      (2)   The tax credit provided by Act 172, being 35 Pa.C.S. §§ 79A01 et
seq. is for residents of the township engaged in volunteer work for the benefit
of township residents, as a reimbursement of real property and earned income
taxes paid to the township. The tax credit does not apply to any other taxes or
taxes assessed in other municipalities.
      (3)   Volunteer first responders are only eligible to count time which is
not reimbursed or paid. Reimbursement of expenses shall not disqualify an
otherwise qualified volunteer first responder.
   (C)   Required level of activity and certification.
      (1)   A qualified volunteer first responder shall provide certification
as specified in Act 172, being 35 Pa.C.S. §§ 79A01 et seq. showing at least 100
hours of activities in support of the volunteer first responder organization to
which he or she belonged in the prior year. A volunteer first responder who has
previously qualified for the tax credit but who has since become injured to the
extent that he or she is unable to continue to participate in any fire company
activities shall remain eligible for certification for a period of five years
from the time he or she is first injured.
      (2)   The township volunteer fire companies shall be responsible for
maintaining a list of activities and time spent by each qualified volunteer
first responder who is a member of their organization.
      (3)   Certifications shall be due by the end of the month of January of
each year, for the prior year, and shall be submitted on a form acceptable to
the township. The list shall be certified by the Chief and President of the
volunteer fire company under penalty of law for false statements to
governmental authorities. The Supervisors shall vote to accept or reject the
persons named on the list at their next meeting following receipt of the list.
      (4)   Individual volunteer first responders seeking the tax credit shall
submit an application stating under penalty of law for false statements, that
he or she has performed the hours of service recorded in the fire company log
during the year preceding and provide a receipt of township real estate taxes
paid for the current year and/or earned income taxes paid to the township for
the prior year. Such applications must be submitted no later than June 1 of any
given year. Applications received after June 1 will be denied.
   (D)   Amount of tax credit.
      (1)   Earned income tax credit. The qualified volunteer first responder
who has provided proper document certification on or before June 1 shall
receive a reimbursement against earned income tax paid to the township in the
amount of up to $200 provided that if an individual’s tax liability is less
than $200, then the credit shall be equal to that lesser amount due.
      (2)   Real estate tax credit. The qualified volunteer first responder who
has provided proper document certification on or before June 1 shall receive
reimbursement of township real property tax paid against property in the
township which the qualified volunteer first responder both owns and resides
in. The amount of the credit is 20% of the township realty tax paid.
   (E)   Rules and forms. The Township Supervisors are hereby authorized to
adopt such rules and regulations and prescribe such forms for the
implementation of this section, by motion at a public meeting as the
Supervisors shall find to be helpful and convenient in effectuating the
purposes of this section and Act 172 of 2016, being 35 Pa.C.S. §§ 79A01 et seq.
   (F)   Appeal of adverse decision. Any person aggrieved by a denial of the
tax credit provided for in this section may request a hearing pursuant to the
Local Public Agency Law, 2 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 551 et seq. The hearing may be held by
the Supervisors, or any person designated by the Supervisors to act as Hearing
Officer. A request for such a hearing shall be made no later than 30 days
following the designation of persons entitled to tax credits by the Township
Supervisors at a public meeting.
   (G)   Effective date. This section shall take effect on January 1, 2019 and
apply to earned income taxes incurred in 2018 and apply to real estate taxes
assessed and due in 2019.
(Ord. 700, passed 6-20-2018) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.34 AUTHORIZING THE CONEMAUGH TOWNSHIP FIRE DEPARTMENT AND JEROME VOLUNTEER
FIRE COMPANY TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN ACTS.
   (A)   The Conemaugh Township Volunteer Fire Company and Jerome Volunteer
Fire Company and their members be specifically authorized to respond to all
fire, emergency and any other calls for their services from within the
township, and the geographic limits of the township are hereby specified as the
service area for all services provided by the Conemaugh Township Volunteer Fire
Company and Jerome Volunteer Fire Company.
   (B)   The aforesaid fire companies and their members are hereby specifically
authorized to respond to any and all requests for assistance from other
organized and municipally recognized firefighting, fire, police or ambulance
associations for assistance.
   (C)   The aforesaid fire companies and their members be and are hereby
specifically authorized to engage in the following activities, when
specifically directed by either the President, Fire Chief and Assistant Fire
Chief or other designated person in charge, from time to time, of the members’
respective fire company: training; cooperative assistance; maintenance;
fundraising activities; any other activities aimed at securing memberships and
procuring equipment; attendance at official conventions; attendance at regular
and special meetings of the aforesaid fire companies; attendance at funerals of
fellow firefighters (when done as a group representing the fire companies);
attendance at civic functions and/or parades, both inside the township and
outside the township; fire prevention inspection and pre-planning activities;
fire hydrant inspection, maintenance and placement planning activities; and any
and all other activities and/or functions which are of a type normally engaged
in by volunteer fire companies and their members.
   (D)   Either the President, Fire Chief or other officer designated by the
President or Fire Chief of each of the fire companies shall report to the Board
of Supervisors of the township all activities planned by the fire companies for
the following month at the regular meeting of the Board of Supervisors in each
month. Failure of the designated representative to notify the Board of
Supervisors in advance shall not invalidate authorization set forth in
divisions (A), (B) and (C) above.
   (E)   Any member of the aforesaid fire companies is hereby authorized to
engage in the performance of any duty authorized by an officer of his or her
respective fire company, unless such authorization as to a specific duty or as
to a specific officer has been withdrawn by the Board of Supervisors of the
township in writing addressed to the President or Fire Chief of his or her
respective fire company. Such revocation shall be effective upon receipt
thereof by the said President or Fire Chief, irrespective of when the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the said fire company is to be held.
   (F)   The adoption of this section shall be construed as the official
designation of the Conemaugh Township Volunteer Fire Company and Jerome
Volunteer Fire Company as the volunteer fire and emergency provider for the
township within their respective areas previously designated by Somerset County
Emergency Services and shall constitute authority for the Conemaugh Township
Volunteer Fire Company and Jerome Volunteer Fire Company to engage in mutual
aid with any other volunteer fire company or official ambulance, or emergency/
rescue organization.
   (G)   Any firefighter or ambulance personnel engaged in acts of mutual aid
authorized by an officer or other pre-designated person of their respective
volunteer fire company actually in charge of the situation shall have the
explicit authority of the township to so act. Members of the Conemaugh Township
Volunteer Fire Company and Jerome Volunteer Fire Company should not respond to
disasters or conflagrations outside of the township unless requested to do so
by the fire company in charge of the area or unless requested as part of
disaster pre-planning.
   (H)   Any firefighter, fire police or ambulance personnel finding themselves
at the scene of any fire, accident, emergency, disaster or conflagration may
engage in mutual aid or individual actions without the authority of an officer
or other pre-designated person from his or her own fire company, i.e., provided
that:
      (1)   As soon as a primary protection provider arrives on the scene, he
or she seeks out the officer in charge of the situation from the primary
protection provider;
      (2)   He or she informs him or her of his or her name, fire company and
level of training; and
      (3)   He or she notifies an officer from his or her own company or
prepares pre-established forms for such purpose immediately upon return to the
home municipality.
(Ord. 646, passed 8-21-2002)
FIRE INSURANCE PROCEEDS
§ 32.45 USE OF FIRE INSURANCE PROCEEDS.
   (A)   No insurance company, association of exchange (hereinafter “insurer”)
doing business in the commonwealth shall pay a claim of a named insured for
fire damage to a structure located within the township where the amount
recoverable for the fire loss to the structure under all policies exceeds
$7,500 unless the insurer is furnished by the Secretary of the township with a
certificate pursuant to § 508(b) of the Insurance Company Law of 1921 as
amended by Act 98 of 1992 and Act 93 of 1994 (collectively the “Act”), being 40
P.S. §§ 361 et seq. and unless there is compliance with the procedures set
forth in § 508(c) and 508(d) of the Act.
   (B)   (1)   Where there are delinquent taxes, assessments, penalties or user
charges against the property (“municipal claims”), or there are expenses which
the township has incurred as costs for removal, repair or securing of a
building or other structure on the property (collectively “municipal
expenses”), the Secretary of the township shall immediately render a bill for
such work, if not already done. Upon written request of the named insured
specifying the description of the property, the name and address of the insurer
and the date of receipt by the insurer of a loss report of the claim, the
Secretary of the township shall furnish a certificate within 14 days after the
request to the insurer either:
         (a)   Stating that there are no unpaid municipal claims or municipal
expenses against the property; or
         (b)   Specifying the nature and amount of such claims or expenses,
accompanied by a bill for such amounts.
      (2)   Taxes, assessments, penalties and user charges shall be deemed
delinquent for this purpose if a lien could have been filed for such claims
under applicable law. Upon receipt of a certificate and bill pursuant to
division (B)(1) above, the insurer shall transfer to the Secretary of the
township an amount from the insurance proceeds sufficient to pay said sums
prior to making payment to the named insured, subject to the provisions of
division (C) below.
   (C)   When all municipal claims and municipal expenses have been paid
pursuant to division (B) above or when the Township Secretary has issued a
certificate described in division (B)(1) above indicating that there are no
municipal claims or municipal expenses against the property, the insurer shall
pay the claim of the named insured; provided, however, that if the loss agreed
upon by the named insured and the insurer equals or exceeds 60% of the
aggregate limits of liability on all fire policies covering the building or
structure, the following procedures must be followed.
      (1)   The insurer shall transfer from the insurance proceeds to the
Township Secretary, in the aggregate, $2,000 for each $15,000 of such claim or
fraction thereof.
      (2)   If at the time a loss report is submitted by the insured, such
insured has submitted to the insurer, with a copy to the township, a
contractor’s signed estimate of the cost of removing, repairing or securing the
building or other structure in an amount less than the amount calculated under
the foregoing transfer formula, the insurer shall transfer to the Secretary of
the township from the insurance proceeds the amount specified in the estimate.
If there is more than one insurer, the transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro-
rated basis by all insurers insuring the building or other structure.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the above described portion of the insurance
proceeds, the Secretary of the township shall do the following:
         (a)   Place the proceeds in a separate fund to be used solely as
security against the total municipal expenses anticipated by the township to be
required in removing, repairing or securing the building or structure as
required by this subchapter. Such costs shall included, without limitation, any
engineering, legal or administrative costs incurred by the township in
connection with such removal, repair or securing or any proceedings related
thereto;
         (b)   Mail to the named insured at the address received from the
insurer a notice that the proceeds have been received by the township and that
the procedures under this division (C)(3) shall be followed;
         (c)   After the transfer, the named insured may submit to the township
a contractor’s signed estimate of the cost of removing, repairing or securing
the building or other structure, in which event the Township Secretary shall,
if such estimates deemed by the Township Secretary to be reasonable return to
the insured the amount of the funds transferred to the township in excess of
that amount required to pay the municipal expenses; provided, however, that the
township has not commenced to remove, repair or secure the building or other
structure in which case the township will complete the work;
         (d)   Pay to the Secretary of the township for reimbursement to the
Township General Fund, the amount of the municipal expenses paid to the
township;
         (e)   Pay the remaining balance in the fund without interest to the
named insured upon receipt of a certificate issued by the Township Secretary
that the repair, removal or securing of the building or other structure has
been completed in accordance with all applicable codes and regulations of the
township; and
         (f)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ability
of the township to recover any deficiency in the amount of municipal claims or
municipal expenses recovered pursuant to this subchapter, or to insurance
proceeds, by an action at law or in equity to enforce the township codes or to
enter into an agreement with the named insured with regard to such other
disposition of the proceeds as the township may deem responsible.
(Ord. 676, passed 6-16-2010) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.46 LIMITS OF LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to make an insurance company
association or exchange liable for any amount in excess of proceeds payable
under its insurance policy or for any other act performed pursuant to this
subchapter or to make the township or any public official of the township an
insured under a policy of insurance or to create an obligation to pay
delinquent property taxes or unpaid removal liens or expenses other than as
provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 676, passed 6-16-2010)
§ 32.47 INSURANCE COMPANY RIGHTS RESERVED.
   An insurance company, association or exchange making payment of policy
proceeds under this subchapter for delinquent taxes or structural removal liens
or removal expenses incurred by the township shall have full benefit of such
payment including all rights of subrogation and of assignment.
(Ord. 676, passed 6-16-2010)
§ 32.48 CONSTRUCTION.
   This subchapter shall be liberally construed to accomplish its purpose to
deter the commission of arson and related crimes, to discourage the abandonment
of property and to prevent urban blight and deterioration.
(Ord. 676, passed 6-16-2010)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 676, passed 6-16-2010; Ord. 700, passed 6-20-2018)
CHAPTER 33: TOWNSHIP POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Moving into or removal from the township
   
33.02   Retention of digital and/or audio tape recordings of meetings of the
Board of Supervisors
   
33.03   Implementing National Incident Management System
   
33.04   Adopting County Hazard Mitigation Plan
   
33.05   Adopting Emergency Operations Plan
Right to Know Policy
   
33.20   Open Record Officer
   
33.21   General
   
33.22   Requests
   
33.23   Fees
   
33.24   Response
   
33.25   Contact information for appeals
   
33.26   Appeals process
 
   
33.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 MOVING INTO OR REMOVAL FROM THE TOWNSHIP.
   (A)   On and after the effective date of this section, no person,
organization, firm or corporation shall move into or remove from, together with
their personal property from any house, dwelling or other building, within the
township, without first having obtained a permit therefor from the Secretary of
the township.
   (B)   Every person, organization, firm or corporation seeking a permit to
occupy any premises shall file an application with the Secretary of the
township setting forth his or her name, location of the premises, name of
owner, and his or her address, the nature of the proposed use of the building,
and, if for residence purposes, the name and ages of the occupants, and should
such application comply with all ordinances of the township and all other laws;
then and in that event, the aforesaid Secretary shall forthwith issue a permit
of occupancy upon payment of a permit fee of $1.
   (C)   Every person, firm or corporation seeking a permit to remove from any
premises in the said township shall file an application with the Secretary of
the township at least five days prior to such expected time of removal setting
forth his or her name, address and the expected time of departure.
   (D)   Upon receipt of such application, it shall be the duty of the
Secretary of the township to issue the requested permit, if the indicated use
does not violate any of the ordinances of the township, or if there are no
outstanding obligations due the township.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to transport
or remove its own or the personal property of another person which said person
is moving into or removing from a house, dwelling or other building within the
township unless such person so moving into or removing from the said township
shall have first obtained the permit hereinbefore provided. It shall be the
duty of such person, firm or corporation transporting or removing the personal
property of itself or of another person to or from the township to ascertain
that the person, firm or corporation whose property is to be so transported or
removed has obtained the permit as hereinbefore required.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-15-2010) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.02 RETENTION OF DIGITAL AND/OR AUDIO TAPE RECORDINGS OF MEETINGS OF THE
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
   Any employee responsible for preparation of the minutes or any other
employee of the township is authorized and directed to destroy and/or reuse
(record over) all recordings of Board meetings once the minutes of the meeting
have been approved by the Board at a public meeting, and after a period of one
year.
(Res. R09-09, passed 4-15-2009)
§ 33.03 IMPLEMENTING NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The municipality hereby adopts the National Incident Management System
(NIMS) and recommends all public safety agencies, emergency responders,
hazardous materials users and transporters, hospitals and school districts
situated within the municipality do the same.
(Res. R06-18, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 33.04 ADOPTING COUNTY HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)   The Somerset County 2015 Hazard Mitigation Plan is hereby adopted as
the official hazard mitigation plan of the township.
   (B)   The respective officials and agencies identified in the implementation
strategy of the Somerset County 2015 Hazard Mitigation Plan are hereby directed
to implement the recommended activities assigned to them.
(Res. R07-04, passed 9-15-2004; Res. R06-10, passed 11-17-2010; Res. R06-15,
passed 10-21-2015)
§ 33.05 ADOPTING EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN.
   (A)   Section 7503 of the Pennsylvania Emergency Management Services Code,
35 Pa.C.S. §§ 7101 et seq. mandates that the township prepare, maintain and
keep current an emergency operations plan for the prevention and minimization
of injury and damage caused by a major emergency or disaster within this
township.
   (B)   In response to the mandate stated above, this township has prepared an
emergency operations plan to provide prompt and effective emergency response
procedures to be followed in the event of a major emergency or disaster.
   (C)   This township has also prepared an emergency operations plan in order
to reduce the potential affects of a major emergency or disaster and to protect
the health, safety and welfare of the residents of this township.
   (D)   The Supervisors of the township do hereby approve, adopt and place
into immediate effect the Emergency Operations Plan of Conemaugh Township. This
plan shall be reviewed every two years to make certain that it conforms with
the requirements of the Somerset County Emergency Operations Guideline.
(Res. R01-11, passed 1-19-2011)
RIGHT TO KNOW POLICY
§ 33.20 OPEN RECORD OFFICER.
   (A)   The township hereby designates the Township Secretary as the Township
Open Records Officer.
   (B)   The Open Records Officer may be reached at: Conemaugh Township
Municipal Building, 1120 Tire Hill Road, Johnstown, Pennsylvania 15905, phone
814-288-1400 extension 2, facsimile 814-288-2135, email: supers@contwpsupers.us
(Res. R13-08, passed 12-17-2008)
§ 33.21 GENERAL.
   All documents deemed public records shall be available for inspection,
retrieval and duplication at the Municipal Building during established business
hours (7:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.) with the exception of weekends and holidays.
(Res. R13-08, passed 12-17-2008)
§ 33.22 REQUESTS.
   Requests shall be made in writing to the Township Open Records Officer on a
form provided by the township.
(Res. R13-08, passed 12-17-2008)
§ 33.23 FEES.
   Paper copies shall be $0.25 per page per side. The certification of a record
is $1 per record. Specialized documents including, but not limited to, blue
prints, color copies and non-standard sized documents shall be charged the
actual cost of production. If mailing is requested, the cost of postage will be
charged. The township shall require prepayment if the total fees are estimated
to exceed $100.
(Res. R13-08, passed 12-17-2008)
§ 33.24 RESPONSE.
   (A)   (1)   The township shall make a good faith effort to provide the
requested public record(s) as promptly as possible.
      (2)   The Open Records Officer shall cooperate with those requesting
records to review and/or duplicate original township documents while taking
reasonable measure to protect township documents from the possibility of theft,
damage and/or modification.
   (B)   (1)   The Open Records Officer shall review all written requests for
access to public records.
      (2)   As soon as possible, but no later than five business days after
receiving a written request to access public records, the Open Records Officer
shall respond to such requests in writing consistent with Act 3 of 2008, the
Right to Know Law, being 65 P.S. §§ 67.101 et seq.
   (C)   If access to a record is denied, the response shall include a reason
for denial as stipulated in Act 3 of 2008, the Right to Know Law, being 65 P.S.
§§ 67.101 et seq.
(Res. R13-08, passed 12-17-2008)
§ 33.25 CONTACT INFORMATION FOR APPEALS.
   (A)   If a written request is denied or deemed denied, the requester may
file an appeal in writing to Office of Open Records, Commonwealth Keystone
Building, 400 North Street, Plaza Level, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17120-0225.
   (B)   Appeals concerning criminal records shall be made to the District
Attorney of Somerset County at the District Attorney’s Office, 111 East Union
Street, Suite 30, Somerset, Pennsylvania 15501, phone 814-445-1456, facsimile
814-445-1458.
(Res. R13-08, passed 12-17-2008)
§ 33.26 APPEALS PROCESS.
   The appeal shall be filed within 15 business days of the mailing date of the
township’s response or within 15 business days of a deemed denial. The appeal
shall state the grounds upon which the requester asserts the records is a
public record and shall address any grounds stated by the township for delaying
or denying the request.
(Res. R13-08, passed 12-17-2008)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-15-2010)
CHAPTER 34: TAXATION AND FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.001   Filing of municipal liens for unpaid tax assessments and claims
   
34.002   Tax structure
Township Tax Collector
   
34.015   Collections and payments
   
34.016   Delinquent Tax Collector
Local Services Tax
   
34.030   Definitions
   
34.031   Levy of tax
   
34.032   Exemption and refunds
   
34.033   Duty of employers to collect
   
34.034   Returns
   
34.035   Dates for determining tax liability and payment
   
34.036   Self-employed individuals
   
34.037   Individuals engaged in more than one occupation or employed in more
than one township
   
34.038   Nonresidents subject to tax
   
34.039   Administration of tax
   
34.040   Suits for collection
   
34.041   Interpretation
Per Capita Tax
   
34.055   Per capita tax
Earned Income Tax
   
34.070   Definitions
   
34.071   Imposition of tax
   
34.072   Collector of Income Tax
   
34.073   Filing a return
   
34.074   Employer within the township
   
34.075   Records
   
34.076   Enforcement
   
34.077   Examination of books and records
   
34.078   Interest on unpaid taxes
   
34.079   Solicitor’s duty
   
34.080   Application
Realty Transfer Tax
   
34.095   Short title
   
34.096   Authority
   
34.097   Definitions
   
34.098   Imposition of tax; interest
   
34.099   Exempt parties
   
34.100   Excluded transactions
   
34.101   Documents relating to associations or corporations and members,
partners, stockholders or shareholders thereof
   
34.102   Acquired company
   
34.103   Credits against tax
   
34.104   Extension of lease
   
34.105   Proceeds of judicial sale
   
34.106   Duties of Recorder of Deeds
   
34.107   Statement of value
   
34.108   Civil penalties
   
34.109   Lien
   
34.110   Enforcement
 
   
34.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.001 FILING OF MUNICIPAL LIENS FOR UNPAID TAX ASSESSMENTS AND CLAIMS.
   (A)   Legislative intent. By Act 1 of 1996, the General Assembly amended the
Municipal Claim and Tax Lien Law Act of May 16, 1923, P.L. 207, No. 153, being
53 P.S. §§ 7106 et seq., as amended, to specifically authorize inclusion of
interest, penalty, charges, expenses and fees, including attorney fees incurred
in the collection of delinquent accounts as part of a municipal lien. Act 1
requires that municipal entities adopt a schedule of expenses, costs, attorney
fees and interest. Act 1 further requires that, prior to imposing attorney
fees, the municipality must notify the owner of the property with the
delinquent account by certified mail of the municipality’s intent to recover
these fees and the manner by which assessment of the fees may be avoided by
payment of the delinquent account. It is the intention of the township in
enacting this section to comply with the requirements of Act 1 of 1996.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The governing body of the township.
      DELINQUENT ACCOUNT. Any sums due and owing to the township which have not
been paid within the time required by the township’s ordinances, rules,
regulations or policies including, but not limited to, charges for sewer
service, water service, tap fees, taxes, removal of nuisances or any other
charge which may lawfully be imposed by the township and for which a municipal
claim may be filed.
      HOURLY RATE. The hourly fee charged by the Township Solicitor to the
township consistent with the ordinary and customary charges by the Township
Solicitor for similar services in the community, but in no event shall the
hourly rate exceed the rate charged by the Township Solicitor to the township
when fees are not reimbursed by or otherwise imposed upon delinquent customers
of the township.
      TOWNSHIP. The Township of Conemaugh.
      TOWNSHIP SOLICITOR. The person or law firm appointed by the Township
Supervisors to serve as legal counsel to the township.
   (C)   Imposition of attorney fees for collection of delinquent accounts. The
township specifically authorizes the recovery of attorney fees incurred by the
township in the collection of delinquent accounts from the person or persons
who are responsible for the payment of such delinquent accounts. The township
authorizes the Township Secretary or the Assistant Secretary to take all
actions required by applicable law to enable the township to recover attorney
fees incurred from the persons responsible for this cost and to include such
attorney fees in municipal claims. This authorization includes, but is not
limited to, sending notification to such persons of the intention of the
township to impose attorney fees incurred in collection efforts upon such
persons.
   (D)   Schedule of attorney fees for services related to collection of
delinquent accounts. The township shall impose attorney fees upon persons who
have delinquent accounts in accordance with the following schedule of the
minimum time required by the Township Solicitor for the listed service times
the hourly rate of the Township Solicitor in effect at the time the Township
Solicitor performed the service on behalf of the township:
Service Time (tenth of minimum hours)
Service                                         Time (tenth of minimum hours)
File municipal lien                             0.2
Forward copy of municipal lien to township      0.2
Obtain and review deed of property              0.2
Prepare and file satisfaction of municipal lien 0.2
Prepare certification of amount owing, to       0.3
township and transmit certification to township
Prepare civil action complaint before district  0.7
justice for collection of amount
Prepare collection warning letter, including    0.4
review of township information
Prepare for and attend hearing before district
justice concerning civil action to collect      2.5
delinquent account
Prepare municipal lien                          0.5
 
   (E)   Recovery of additional attorney fees in specific circumstances. The
services and minimum times expended by the Township Solicitor for the services
set forth in division (D) above are based upon the experience of the Township
Solicitor and upon standard collection practices. Should the person or persons
responsible for payment of a delinquent account take action which will require
the Township Solicitor to perform additional or more time consuming services
than contemplated by division (D) above (i.e., such as scire facais proceedings
or inquiries from the delinquent or their agents), it is the intention of the
township to recover all of its attorney fees so incurred. A charge is hereby
assessed in the amount of actual attorney fees incurred. Such actions include,
but are not limited to, filing of counterclaims, challenging the legal power of
the township to impose and collect the fee, rate, charge or other cost or
similar actions.
   (F)   Recovery of costs. Filing fees, postage charges and other direct
expenditures incurred in the collection of delinquent accounts shall be
chargeable to the account.
   (G)   Interest on filed liens. Liens filed with the Court of Common Pleas
shall bear interest at a rate of 10% per annum, from the date of filing (53
P.S. § 7143).
   (H)   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to all
collection efforts and liens filed following adoption of this section. The
provisions shall apply to all previously filed liens which have not been fully
settled or discharged within 90 days of the adoption of this section.
(Ord. 668, passed 12-17-2008) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.002 TAX STRUCTURE.
   The Township Supervisors hereby re-establish the following tax structure:
 
                           0.5% on the earned income of residents and
Earned income tax          nonresidents of the township and 0.5% on the net
                           profits of residents and nonresidents of the
                           township
                           0.5 mill for each $1 (or $0.05 for each $100)
                           assessed on the adjusted real estate valuation of
Fire hydrant assessment    property for county tax purposes on surface owners
                           in the township owning property within 780 feet of
                           each public fire hydrant
                           $52 a year for the privilege of engaging in an
                           occupation with a primary place of employment within
                           the township during the tax year; as long as the
                           Conemaugh Township School District continues to
Local services tax         impose an occupational privilege tax, the amount of
                           $5 shall be deducted from the tax so that taxpayers
                           obligated to pay this local services tax shall only
                           pay the amount of $47 as local services tax to the
                           township; those earning less than $12,000/year are
                           exempt from this tax
                           $5 upon each person 18 years and older residing
Per capita tax             within the boundaries of the township; some
                           exemptions apply
                           8.0 mills for each $1 (or $0.80 for each $100) of
Real estate tax            assessed valuation based upon the county assessment
                           of all real estate located within the municipal
                           boundaries of the township
                           0.5% upon deeds that transfer and convey lands,
Real estate transfer tax   tenements or hereditaments situated wholly or
                           partially within the township
                           $0.33 for each lineal foot frontage on improved
                           property and $0.08 for each lineal foot frontage on
Street lighting assessment undeveloped property on streets, roads, alleys and
                           highways within 250 feet of each street lighting
                           facility
 
(Res. R07-17, passed 12-20-2017)
TOWNSHIP TAX COLLECTOR
§ 34.015 COLLECTIONS AND PAYMENTS.
   The following rules are hereby adopted governing the collections and
payments of the Township Tax Collector.
   (A)   Deposit of taxes collected.
      (1)   The Township Tax Collector shall deliver to the Township Secretary
Treasurer, in the form of a bank check, all funds collected on behalf of the
township as follows:
         (a)   On a weekly basis; or
         (b)   After accumulation of $1,000 in payments during slow tax
collection periods.
      (2)   If there is a non-sufficient funds check, the Tax Collector will
notify the Secretary Treasurer of such, and funds in the amount of that check
may remain in the account of the Tax Collector until such check is cleared.
   (B)   Account reconciliation.
      (1)   The Township Tax Collector shall provide the Township Supervisors
with a report and reconciliation of taxes collected and deposits made by the
tenth of every month.
      (2)   The reconciliation shall include:
         (a)   Copies of all deposit slips involving township taxes; and
         (b)   A report listing all taxpayers and their payments, coinciding
with the deposit slips.
   (C)   Remedies. Failure of the Tax Collector to comply with the rules
established by the Supervisors shall be grounds for withholding periodic salary
payment, until such time as full compliance is achieved.
(Res. R02-09, passed 2-18-2009)
§ 34.016 DELINQUENT TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors of the township hereby appoints the elected
Tax Collector as the Delinquent Tax Collector.
   (B)   The elected Tax Collector, acting as Delinquent Tax Collector shall
have the same powers, rights, privileges, duties and obligations as set forth
in 24 P.S. § 6-686 of the Public School Code of 1949.
(Ord. 642, passed 1-7-2002)
LOCAL SERVICES TAX
§ 34.030 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR. The person, public employee or private agency designated by the
township to collect and administer the tax herein imposed.
   DCED. The Department of Community and Economic Development of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   EARNED INCOME. Compensation as this term is defined in § 13 (relating to
earned income taxes) of the Local Tax Enabling Act, the Act of December 31,
1965, P.L. 1257, § 13, as amended, 53 P.S. § 6913, as amended.
   EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, limited liability
corporation, limited liability partnership, corporation, governmental body,
agency or other entity employing one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission or other compensation basis, including a self-employed person.
   HE, HIS or HIM. Indicates the singular and plural number, as well as male,
female and neuter genders.
   INDIVIDUAL. Any person, male or female, engaged in any occupation, trade or
profession within the corporate limits of the township.
   NET PROFITS. The net income from the operation of a business, profession or
other activity, as this term is defined in § 13 (relating to earned income
taxes) of the Local Tax Enabling Act, the Act of December 31, 1965, P.L. 1257,
§ 13, as amended, 53 P.S. § 6913, as amended.
   OCCUPATION. Any trade, profession, business or undertaking of any type, kind
or character, including services, domestic or other, earned on or performed
within the corporate limits of the township for which compensation is charged
or received; whether by means of salary, wages, commission or fees for services
rendered.
   TAX. The local services tax at the rate fixed in §
34.031.
   TAX YEAR. The period from January 1 until December 31 in any year; a
calendar year.
   TOWNSHIP. The area within the corporate limits of Conemaugh Township.
(Ord. 689, passed 11-21-2012)
§ 34.031 LEVY OF TAX.
   (A)   For specific revenue purposes, an annual tax is hereby levied and
assessed, commencing January 1, 2013, upon the privilege of engaging in an
occupation with a primary place of employment within the township during the
tax year. Each natural person who exercises such privilege for any length of
time during any tax year shall pay the tax for that year in the amount of $52,
assessed on a pro rata basis, in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter. This tax is in addition to all other taxes of any kind or nature
heretofore levied by the township. The tax shall be no more than $52 on each
person for each calendar year, irrespective of the number of townships within
which a person may be employed.
   (B)   So long as the Conemaugh Township School District continues to impose
an occupational privilege tax, the amount of $5 shall be deducted from the tax
so that taxpayers obligated to pay this local services tax shall only pay the
amount of $47 as local services tax to the township, as provided for by law.
(Ord. 689, passed 11-21-2012)
§ 34.032 EXEMPTION AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   Exemption.
      (1)   Any person whose total earned income and net profits from all
sources within the township is less than $12,000 for any calendar year in which
the tax is levied is exempt from the payment of the tax for that calendar year.
      (2)   In addition, the following persons are exempt from payment of the
tax:
         (a)   Any person who has served in any war or armed conflict in which
the United States was engaged and is honorably discharged or released under
honorable circumstances from active service if, as a result of military
service, the person is blind, paraplegic or a double or quadruple amputee or
has a service-connected disability declared by the United States Veterans’
Administration or its successor to be a total 100% disability; and
         (b)   Any person who serves as a member of a reserve component of the
armed forces and is called to active duty at any time during the taxable year.
For the purposes of this division (A)(2)(b), RESERVE COMPONENT OF THE ARMED
FORCES shall mean the United States Army Reserve, United States Navy Reserve,
United States Marine Corps Reserve, United States Coast Guard Reserve, United
States Air Force Reserve, the Pennsylvania Army National Guard or the
Pennsylvania Air National Guard.
   (B)   Procedure to claim exemption.
      (1)   A person seeking to claim an exemption from the local services tax
may annually file an exemption certificate with the township and with the
person’s employer affirming that the person reasonably expects to receive
earned income and net profits from all sources within the township of less than
$12,000 in the calendar year for which the exemption certificate is filed. In
the event the township utilizes a Tax Collection Officer, it shall provide a
copy of the exemption certificate to that officer. The exemption certificate
shall have attached to it a copy of all the employee’s last pay stubs or W-
2 forms from employment within the township for the year prior to the fiscal
year for which the employee is requesting to be exempted from the tax. Upon
receipt of the exemption certificate and until otherwise instructed by the
township or except as required by division (B)(2) below, the employer shall not
withhold the tax from the person during the calendar year or the remainder of
the calendar year for which the exemption certificate applies. Employers shall
ensure that the exemption certificate forms are readily available to employees
at all times and shall furnish each new employee with a form at the time of
hiring. The exemption certificate form shall be the uniform form provided by
the township.
      (2)   With respect to a person who claimed an exemption for a given
calendar year from the tax, upon notification to an employer by the person or
by the township that the person has received earned income and net profits from
all sources within the political subdivision equal to or in excess of $12,000
in that calendar year or that the person is otherwise ineligible for the tax
exemption for that calendar year, or upon an employer’s payment to the person
of earned income within the municipality in an amount equal to or in excess of
$12,000 in that calendar year, an employer shall withhold the local services
tax from the person under division (B)(3) below.
      (3)   If a person who claimed an exemption for a given calendar year from
the tax becomes subject to the tax for the calendar year under division (B)(2)
above, the employer shall withhold the tax for the remainder of that calendar
year. The employer shall withhold from the person, for the first payroll period
after receipt of the notification under division (B)(2) above, a lump sum equal
to the amount of tax that was not withheld from the person due to the exemption
claimed by the person under this division (B)(3), plus the per payroll amount
due for that first payroll period. The amount of tax withheld per payroll
period for the remaining payroll periods in that calendar year shall be the
same amount withheld for other employees. In the event the employment of a
person subject to withholding of the tax under this division (B)(3) is
subsequently severed in that calendar year, the person shall be liable for any
outstanding balance of tax due, and the township may pursue collection under
this subchapter.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) above, it is the intent of
this division (B) that employers shall not be responsible for investigating
exemption certificates, monitoring tax exemption eligibility or exempting any
employee from the local services tax.
   (C)   Refunds. The township, in consultation with the Collector and DCED,
shall establish procedures for the processing of refund claims for any tax paid
by any person who is eligible for exemption, which procedures shall be in
accord with provisions of the general municipal law relating to refunds of
overpayments and interest on overpayments. Refunds made within 75 days of a
refund request or 75 days after the last day the employer is required to remit
the tax for the last quarter of the calendar year, whichever is later, shall
not be subject to interest. No refunds shall be made for amounts overpaid in a
calendar year that do not exceed $1. The township or the Collector shall
determine eligibility for exemption and provide refunds to exempt persons.
(Ord. 689, passed 11-21-2012)
§ 34.033 DUTY OF EMPLOYERS TO COLLECT.
   (A)   Each employer within the township, as well as those employers situated
outside the township but who engage in business within the township, is hereby
charged with the duty of collecting the tax from each of his or her employees
engaged by him or her or performing for him or her within the township and
making a return and payment thereof to the Collector. Further, each employer is
hereby authorized to deduct this tax for each employee in his or her employ,
whether said employee is paid by salary, wage or commission and whether or not
all such services are performed within the township.
   (B)   A person subject to the tax shall be assessed by the employer a pro
rata share of the tax for each payroll period in which the person is engaging
in an occupation. The pro rata share of the tax assessed on the person for a
payroll period shall be determined by dividing the rate of the tax levied for
the calendar year by the number of payroll periods established by the employer
for the calendar year. For purposes of determining the pro rata share, an
employer shall round down the amount of the tax collected each payroll period
to the nearest one-hundredth of a dollar. Collection of the tax shall be made
on a payroll period basis for each payroll period in which the person is
engaging in an occupation, except as provided in division (D) below. For
purposes of this division (B), COMBINED RATE shall mean the aggregate annual
rate of the tax levied by the school district and the municipality.
   (C)   No person shall be subject to the payment of the local services tax by
more than one township during each payroll period.
   (D)   In the case of concurrent employment, an employer shall refrain from
withholding the tax if the employee provides a recent pay statement from a
principal employer that includes the name of the employer, the length of the
payroll period and the amount of the tax withheld and a statement from the
employee that the pay statement is from the employee’s principal employer and
the employee will notify other employers of a change in principal place of
employment within two weeks of its occurrence. The employee’s statement shall
be provided on the form approved by DCED.
   (E)   The tax shall be no more than $52 on each person for each calendar
year, irrespective of the number of townships within which a person may be
employed. The township shall provide a taxpayer a receipt of payment upon
request by the taxpayer.
   (F)   No employer shall be held liable for failure to withhold the tax or
for the payment of the withheld tax money to the township if the failure to
withhold taxes arises from incorrect information submitted by the employee as
to the employee’s place or plates of employment, the employee’s principal
office or where the employee is principally employed. Further, an employer
shall not be liable for payment of the local services tax in an amount
exceeding the amount withheld by the employer if the employer complies with the
provisions of this subchapter and this section and remits the amount so
withheld in accordance with this subchapter.
   (G)   Employers shall be required to remit the local services taxes 30 days
after the end of each quarter of a calendar year.
(Ord. 689, passed 11-21-2012)
§ 34.034 RETURNS.
   Each employer shall prepare and file a return showing a computation of the
tax on forms to be supplied to the employer by the Collector. If an employer
fails to file the return and pay the tax, whether or not the employer makes
collection thereof from the salary, wages or commissions paid by him or her to
an employee, except as provided hereafter in this subchapter, the employer
shall be responsible for the payment of the tax in full as though the tax had
been originally levied against the employer.
(Ord. 689, passed 11-21-2012)
§ 34.035 DATES FOR DETERMINING TAX LIABILITY AND PAYMENT.
   In each tax year, each employer shall use his or her employment records to
determine the number of employees from whom such tax shall be deducted and paid
over to the Collector on or before the thirtieth day following the end of each
calendar quarter of each such tax year.
(Ord. 689, passed 11-21-2012)
§ 34.036 SELF-EMPLOYED INDIVIDUALS.
   Each self-employed individual who performs services of any type or kind or
engages in any occupation or profession within a primary place of employment
within the township shall be required to comply with this subchapter and pay
the pro rata portion of the tax due to the Collector on or before the thirtieth
day following the end of each quarter.
(Ord. 689, passed 11-21-2012)
§ 34.037 INDIVIDUALS ENGAGED IN MORE THAN ONE OCCUPATION OR EMPLOYED IN MORE
THAN ONE TOWNSHIP.
   (A)   (1)   The situs of the tax shall be the place of employment on the
first day the person becomes subject to the tax during each payroll period.
      (2)   In the event a person is engaged in more than one occupation, that
is, concurrent employment, or an occupation which requires the person working
in more than one township during a payroll period, the priority of claim to
collect the local services tax shall be in the following order:
         (a)   First, the township in which a person maintains his or her
principal office or is principally employed;
         (b)   Second, the township in which the person resides and works if
the tax is levied by that township; and
         (c)   Third, the township in which a person is employed and which
imposes the tax nearest in miles to the person’s home.
   (B)   In case of dispute, a tax receipt of the taxing authority for that
calendar year declaring that the taxpayer has made prior payment constitutes
prima facie certification of payment to all other townships.
(Ord. 689, passed 11-21-2012)
§ 34.038 NONRESIDENTS SUBJECT TO TAX.
   All employers and self-employed individuals residing or having their places
of business outside of the township but who perform services of any type or
kind or engage in any occupation or profession within the township do, by
virtue thereof, agree to be bound by and subject themselves to the provisions,
penalties and regulations promulgated under this subchapter with the same force
and effect as though they were residents of the township. Further, any
individual engaged in an occupation within the township and an employee of a
nonresidential employer may, for the purpose of this subchapter, be considered
a self-employed person, and in the event his or her tax is not paid, the
township shall have the option of proceeding against either the employer or
employee for the collection of this tax as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 689, passed 11-21-2012)
§ 34.039 ADMINISTRATION OF TAX.
   (A)   The Collector shall be appointed by resolution of the township. It
shall be the duty of the Collector to accept and receive payments of this tax
and to keep a record thereof showing the amount received by him or her from
each employer of self-employed person, together with the date the tax was
received.
   (B)   The Collector is hereby charged with the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter and is hereby charged and empowered, subject to
municipal approval, to proscribe, adopt and promulgate rules and regulations
relating to any matter pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this
subchapter, including provisions for the examination of payroll records of any
employer subject to this subchapter, the examination and correction of any
return made in compliance with this subchapter and any payment alleged or found
to be incorrect or as to which overpayment is claimed or found to have
occurred. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Collector shall have the
right to appeal consistent with the Local Taxpayers Bill of Rights under Act 50
of 1998, being 53 Pa.C.S. §§ 8421 et seq. (municipalities may detail their
appeal processes).
   (C)   The Collector is hereby authorized to examine the books and payroll
records of any employer in order to verify the accuracy of any return made by
an employer or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax due. Each employer
is hereby directed and required to give the Collector the means, facilities and
opportunity for such examination.
(Ord. 689, passed 11-21-2012)
§ 34.040 SUITS FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   In the event that any tax under this subchapter remains due or unpaid
30 days after the due dates above set forth, the Collector may sue for the
recovery of any such tax due or unpaid under this subchapter, together with
interest and penalty.
   (B)   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate
of 6% on the amount of such tax shall be calculated beginning with the due date
of the tax and a penalty of 5% shall be added to the flat rate of such tax for
nonpayment thereof. Where suit is brought for the recovery of this tax or other
appropriate remedy undertaken, the individual liable therefore shall, in
addition, be responsible and liable for the costs of collection.
(Ord. 689, passed 11-21-2012) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.041 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to empower the
political subdivision to levy and collect the tax hereby imposed on any
occupation not within the taxing power of the township under the Constitution
of the United States and the laws of the commonwealth.
   (B)   If the tax hereby imposed under the provisions of this subchapter
shall be held by any court of competent jurisdiction to be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States or of the laws of the commonwealth as to any
individual, the decision of the court shall not affect or impair the right to
impose or collect said tax or the validity of the tax so imposed on other
persons or individuals as herein provided.
(Ord. 689, passed 11-21-2012)
PER CAPITA TAX
§ 34.055 PER CAPITA TAX.
   (A)   A tax of $5 for general revenue purposes be levied, assessed, imposed
upon and collected from each adult person residing in the territorial limits of
the township.
   (B)   Said tax shall be levied, imposed and collected for each fiscal year.
   (C)   All adult persons, residing within the territorial limits of said
township, shall pay the said tax to the Tax Collector to be appointed by the
Board of Supervisors of said township. The aforesaid tax shall be due and
payable May 1; and if said tax is not paid on or before August 1, then a
penalty of 5% shall be added and collected by said Tax Collector.
   (D)   The Tax Collector shall report in writing and account to the Board of
Supervisors at each of its regular monthly meetings for all the said taxes and
penalties so collected.
   (E)   The Tax Collector shall collect the tax of $5 from each adult person
residing in the township whose name is on the tax duplicate as prepared by the
County Board of Assessments for the township and as listed under the headings
“Freeholders”, “Tenants” and “Singles”.
   (F)   In order to enforce the provisions of this section and to ensure the
payment of the taxes and penalties herein imposed, the Tax Collector is hereby
authorized, empowered and directed to take such actions as are authorized and
set forth in §§ 20 and 21 of the Act of Assembly known as the Local Tax
Collection Law, P.L. 1050, May 25, 1945, being 72 P.S. Ch. 4, and its
amendments, and any other action he or she shall deem advisable under the law
for the collection of said tax.
(Res. 136, passed 3-2-1957; Res. 173, passed 3-6-1959; Res. 311, passed 2-17-
1967; Res. 322, passed 3-1-1968)
EARNED INCOME TAX
§ 34.070 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise, owned by two or more persons.
      BUSINESS. Includes any enterprise, activity, agency, profession, trust or
undertaking of any nature conducted for profits or ordinarily conducted for
profit, whether by an individual, agency, broker, co-partnership, association
or other entity.
      COMPENSATION EARNED or COMPENSATION PAID or EARNINGS. All salaries,
wages, commissions, bonuses, incentive payments and/or other forms of
compensation or remuneration, in cash or in property, received by an individual
and paid directly or through an agent, by an employer for services rendered.
      COMPENSATION EARNED OR RECEIVED. On or after January 1, 1965, shall not
be construed to include income earned or accruing prior to January 1, 1965,
although actually received by the taxpayer after that date.
      CORPORATION. Any corporation or joint stock association organized under
the laws of the United States, the commonwealth or any other state, territory
or foreign country or dependency.
      EMPLOYER. Any individual, co-partnership, association, corporation,
governmental body or unit or agency or any other entity, who or that employs
one or more persons on a salary, wage, commission or other compensation basis.
      NET PROFITS. The net gain from the operation of a business, profession or
enterprise, after provision for all costs and expenses incurred in the conduct
thereof, either paid or accrued in accordance with the accounting system used,
and without deduction of taxes based on income.
      NONRESIDENT. An individual, co-partnership, association or other entity
domiciled outside the Township of Conemaugh.
      PERSON. Includes natural person, co-partnership, association, firm or
fiduciary. Whenever used in any division prescribing and imposing a penalty,
the term PERSON as applied to association shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporation, the officers thereof.
      RESIDENT. An individual, co-partnership, association or other entity
domiciled in the Township of Conemaugh.
      TAXPAYER. A person, whether an individual, co-partnership, association or
other entity, required hereunder to file a return on earnings or net profits or
to pay tax thereon.
   (B)   The singular shall include the plural and the masculine shall include
the feminine and neuter.
(Ord. 266, passed 11-6-1964)
§ 34.071 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   The following annual tax is hereby imposed for township purposes:
      (1)   One-third of 1% from January 1, 1968 to July 1, 1968, and 0.5%
thereafter, on the earned income of residents of the township;
      (2)   One-third of 1% from January 1, 1968 to July 1, 1968, and 0.5%
thereafter, on the earned income of nonresidents for work done or services
rendered in the township;
      (3)   One-third of 1% from January 1, 1968 to July 1, 1968, and 0.5%
thereafter, on the net profits of residents of the township; and
      (4)   One-third of 1% from January 1, 1968 to July 1, 1968, and 0.5%
thereafter, on the net profits of nonresidents of the township.
   (B)   The applicability of the tax to earned income and to net profits shall
be separately calculated; net losses in any business or profession are not
deductible from earned income.
   (C)   The taxes levied under divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above shall relate
to and be imposed upon compensation paid by an employer or on his or her behalf
to any person who is employed or renders services to him or her. The taxes
levied under divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) above shall relate to and be imposed
upon the net profits or any business, profession or enterprise carried on by
any person or owner or proprietor, either individually or an association with
some other person or persons.
   (D)   Such taxes shall be levied with respect to the compensation or net
profits earned during the calender year for which the tax is levied; provided,
however, that where the fiscal year of business, profession or other activity
differs from the calendar year, the tax shall be applicable to the net profits
of the fiscal year.
(Ord. 266, passed 11-6-1964; Ord. 307, passed 5-6-1966; Ord. 313, passed 2-17-
1967; Ord. 326, passed 3-1-1968)
§ 34.072 COLLECTOR OF INCOME TAX.
   The Collector of Income Tax of the township is hereby designated receiver of
the taxes imposed by this subchapter. Said Collector shall be bonded by a good
and reliable bonding company in an amount sufficient to protect the township at
all times for all money coming into the Collector’s hands for the township
purposes under this subchapter, the cost of which bond shall be paid by the
township. The Collector shall collect and receive all such taxes, shall furnish
a receipt for their payment when requested to do so by the taxpayer, and shall
keep a record showing the amount received by the Collector from each taxpayer
under this subchapter and any resolution passed under the authority of the same
Act, and the date of the receipt of such payment. The Township Solicitor is
hereby empowered to prescribe rules and regulations relating to any matter or
thing pertaining to the administration and enforcement of the provisions of
this subchapter. Such rules and regulations shall be inscribed by the Collector
of Income Tax of the township in a book kept for that purpose and open to the
inspection of the public. Such rules and regulations shall have the same force
and effect as if they had been incorporated into this subchapter.
(Ord. 266, passed 11-6-1964)
§ 34.073 FILING A RETURN.
   (A)   Every person whose earnings or profits are subject to the tax imposed
by this subchapter shall, on or before March 15 of every year, beginning the
year of 1966, make and file a return with the Collector of Income Tax of the
township. Such return shall be filed on forms prescribed by the Township
Solicitor, furnished at the expense of the township, and obtainable from the
Collector of Income Tax of the township. The information on such returns shall
include the name and address of the taxpayer, his or her place of employment or
business, the aggregate amount of compensation paid to him or her or net
profits earned by him or her during the preceding year; the amount of tax due
to the township, together with such other pertinent information as may be
required; provided, however, that where a return is made for a fiscal year or
for any other period different from a calendar year, such return shall be made
within 75 days after the close of such fiscal year or other period.
   (B)   The person making such a return shall, at the time of filing thereof,
pay to the Collector of Income Tax of the township, the amount of tax as shown
thereon, less any credits for tax withheld from wages, commissions or other
compensation by any employer, less any other credits or deductions allowed by
law; provided, however, that any taxpayer other than those from whom the tax
imposed by this subchapter has been withheld from their wages, commissions or
otter compensations, by their employer, shall have the right to pay such tax or
any balance of such tax as shown on the return in four equal quarterly
installments, the first installment thereof on or before March 15, and the
other installments thereof on or before June 15, September 15 and December 15
of the year in which such shall be done; provided further, that in any case
where the sole income of any person, subject to tax under this subchapter is in
the form of compensation paid by an employer and where the entire tax due by
such employee has been withheld by his or her employer and return thereof made
to the Collector of Income Tax of the township, such employee shall not be
required to file a return thereof.
(Ord. 266, passed 11-6-1964)
§ 34.074 EMPLOYER WITHIN THE TOWNSHIP.
   (A)   Every employer within the township shall deduct, monthly or more
frequently than monthly, at the time of payment of compensation due by him or
her to an employee, the tax of 0.5% of the amount of compensation for such
period from January 1, 1965, to and including December 31, 1965. Such employer
shall quarterly make a return and pay over to the Collector of Income Tax of
the township the amount of tax deducted, or the balance of any tax deducted and
not previously, during said quarter, remitted to the Collector of Income Tax of
the township. Such quarterly returns shall be filed and the tax due herewith
paid over on or before the last day of the calendar month following the close
of each of the quarters ending March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31.
   (B)   Such return shall be on a form furnished by or obtainable from the
Collector of Income Tax of the township, and shall set forth the total amount
of wages or compensation paid by said employer during said quarter; the amount
of tax withheld; previous remittances, if any, to the Collector of Income Tax
of the township for the said quarter; and the balance remitted therewith.
   (C)   Together with the return for the quarter ending December 31, there
shall be filed in addition thereto an annual return, which return shall be on a
form furnished by and be obtainable from the Collector of Income Tax of the
township, and shall set forth the name and residence of such employees during
all or part of the preceding year, the amount of compensation earned by each of
such employees during the preceding year, and any other pertinent information
that may be required; provided, however, that the failure or omission by an
employer, either residing within or outside of the township, shall not relieve
any employee from the payment of such tax and the compliance with such
regulations with respect to making returns and payment thereof, as may be
established under this subchapter; provided, also, however, that it shall be
the duty of the employee to notify his or her employer promptly of any change
of residence or any other change affecting his or her status as taxpayer or
nontaxpayer of the tax imposed by this subchapter; any employer withholding the
tax imposed by this subchapter from any resident or nonresident shall be and is
hereby authorized to continue to withhold said tax until the employer is
notified by the employee of the change of residence of any other change.
   (D)   Any employee from whom taxes are not being withheld shall be under a
duty, as soon as such employee becomes a resident of or is employed in the
township, of notifying his or her employer so that the tax imposed by this
subchapter may be withheld.
(Ord. 266, passed 11-6-1964; Ord. 307, passed 5-6-1966; Ord. 313, passed 2-17-
1967; Ord. 326, passed 3-1-1968) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.075 RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of the Collector of Income Tax of the township, in
addition to keeping the records now required by law and ordinance to keep a
record of the amount received by him or her from each taxpayer and the date of
such receipt.
(Ord. 266, passed 11-6-1964)
§ 34.076 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Collector of Income Tax of the township is hereby charged with the
enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter, and is hereby empowered,
subject so the approval of the Solicitor for the township, to prescribe, adopt,
promulgate and enforce the rules and regulations relating to any matter or
thing pertaining to the administration and enforcement of the provisions of
this subchapter, including provisions for the re-examination and correction of
returns and payments.
(Ord. 266, passed 11-6-1964)
§ 34.077 EXAMINATION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Collector of Income Tax of the township, or any other person
designated by the township for this purpose is hereby authorized to examine the
books, papers and records of any employer or supposed employer or any taxpayer
or supposed taxpayer in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or, if
no return is made, to ascertain the amount of tax due by any person upon this
subchapter. Every such employer or supposed employer or taxpayer or supposed
taxpayer is hereby directed and required to give the Collector of Income Tax of
the township, or such other authorized person, the means, facilities and
opportunity for such examination and investigation as are hereby authorized.
The Collector of Income Tax of the township is hereby authorized to examine any
person, under oath, concerning any income which was or should have been
returned for taxation, and to this end, the township may compel the production
of books, papers and records and the attendance of all persons before such
Collector of Income Tax of the township, whether as parties or witnesses, whom
the Collector of Income Tax of the township, believes to have knowledge of such
income.
   (B)   Any information gained by the Collector of Income Tax of the township
or any other agent or official of the township, as a result of any returns,
investigations, hearings or verifications required or authorized by this
subchapter, shall be confidential except for official purposes, and except in
accordance with proper judicial order, or as otherwise provided by law. Any
disclosure of any such information, contrary to the provisions of this section,
shall constitute a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 266, passed 11-6-1964) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.078 INTEREST ON UNPAID TAXES.
   All taxes imposed by this subchapter remaining unpaid, after they shall
become due, shall bear interest in addition to the amount of the unpaid tax at
the rate of 6% per annum, and the persons upon whom such taxes are imposed
shall be further liable to the penalty of 1% of the amount of unpaid tax for
each month or fraction of a month for the first six months of non-payment.
(Ord. 266, passed 11-6-1964)
§ 34.079 SOLICITOR’S DUTY.
   All taxes imposed by this subchapter, together with all interest and
penalties, shall be recoverable by the Solicitor of the township, as other
debts of like amount are recoverable.
(Ord. 266, passed 11-6-1964)
§ 34.080 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any person or property as to whom or
which it is beyond the legal power of the township to impose the tax or duties
herein provided for.
(Ord. 266, passed 11-6-1964)
REALTY TRANSFER TAX
§ 34.095 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Realty Transfer Tax Ordinance”.
(Ord. 701, passed 9-18-2019)
§ 34.096 AUTHORITY.
    A realty transfer tax for general revenue purposes is hereby imposed upon
the transfer of real estate or interest in real estate situated within the
township, regardless of where the documents making the transfer are made,
executed or delivered, or where the actual settlements on such transfer took
place as authorized by Article XI, Section D, entitled Local Real Estate
Transfer Tax, 72 P.S. §§ 8101 D et seq. Furthermore, this subchapter is enacted
under authority of the Local Tax Reform Act of December 13, 1988, P.L. 1121,
No. 145, as amended by Act 166 of 2002.
(Ord. 701, passed 9-18-2019)
§ 34.097 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise owned or conducted by two or more persons other than
a private trust or decedent’s estate.
   BOARD. The Board of Supervisors of Conemaugh Township, Somerset County,
Pennsylvania.
   CORPORATION. A corporation, joint-stock association, business trust, or
banking institution which is organized under the laws of this Commonwealth, the
United States, or any other state, territory, foreign county or dependency, or
any other organization authorized to be made subject to this tax by the
authorizing legislation.
   DOCUMENT. Any deed, instrument or writing which conveys, transfers, demises,
vests, confirms or evidences any transfer or demise of title to real estate,
but does not include wills, mortgages, deeds of trust or other instruments or
like character given as security for a debt and deeds or releases thereof to
the debtor, land contracts whereby the legal title does not pass to the grantee
until the total consideration specified in the contract has been paid or any
cancellation thereof unless the consideration is payable over a period of time
exceeding 30 years or instruments which solely, grant, vest or confirm a public
utility easement. DOCUMENT shall also include a declaration of acquisition
required to be presented for recording under this subchapter.
   FAMILY FARM CORPORATION. A corporation of which at least 75% of its assets
are devoted to the business of agriculture and at least 75% of each class of
stock of the corporation is continuously owned by members of the same family.
The business of agriculture shall not be deemed to include:
      (1)   Recreational activities such as, but not limited to, hunting,
fishing, camping, skiing, show competition or racing;
      (2)   The raising, breeding or training of game animals or game birds,
fish, cats, dogs or pets or animals intended for use in sporting or
recreational activities;
      (3)   Fur farming;
      (4)   Stockyard and slaughterhouse operations; or
      (5)   Manufacturing or processing operations of any kind.
   MEMBERS OF THE SAME FAMILY. Any individual, such individual’s brothers and
sisters, the brothers and sisters of such individual’s parents and
grandparents, the ancestors and lineal descendants of any of the foregoing, a
spouse of any of the foregoing, and the estate of any of the foregoing.
Individuals related by the half-blood or legal adoption shall be treated as if
they are related by the whole-blood.
   PERSON. Every natural person, association or corporation. The term person as
applied to associations shall include the responsible members or general
partners thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   REAL ESTATE.
      (1)   All lands, tenements or hereditaments within this township,
including without limitation, buildings, structures, fixtures, mines, minerals,
oil, gas, quarries, spaces with or without upper or lower boundaries, trees,
and other improvements, immovables or interest which by custom, usage or law
pass with a conveyance of land, but excluding permanently attached machinery
and equipment in an industrial plant;
      (2)   A condominium unit; or
      (3)   A tenant-stockholder’s interest, in an cooperative housing
corporation, trust or association under a proprietary lease or occupancy
agreement.
   REAL ESTATE COMPANY. A corporation or association which is primarily engaged
in the business of holding, selling or leasing real estate 90% or more of the
ownership in which is held by thirty five or fewer persons and which:
      (1)   Derives 60% or more of its annual gross receipts from the ownership
or dispositions of real estate; or
      (2)   Holds real estate, the value of which comprises 90% or more of the
value of its entire tangible asset holdings exclusive of tangible assets which
are freely transferable and activity traded on an established market.
   TITLE TO REAL ESTATE.
      (1)   Any interest in real estate which endures for a period of time, the
termination of which is not fixed or ascertained by a specific number of years,
including without limitation an estate in fee simple, life estate, or perpetual
leasehold; or
      (2)   Any interest in real estate enduring for a fix period of years but
which, either by reason of the length of the term or the grant of a right to
extend the term by renewal or otherwise, consists of a group of rights
approximating those of an estate in fee simple, life estate or perpetual
leasehold, including without limitation a leasehold interest or possessory
interest under a lease or occupancy agreement for a term of 30 years or more or
a leasehold interest or possessory interest in real estate in which the lessee
has equity.
   TOWNSHIP. Conemaugh Township, Somerset County, Pennsylvania.
   TRANSACTION. The making, executing, delivering, accepting or presenting for
recording of a document.
   VALUE.
      (1)   In the case of any bona fide sale of real estate at arm’s length
for actual monetary worth, the amount of the actual consideration therefor,
paid or to be paid, including liens or other encumbrances thereon existing
before the transfer and not removed thereby, whether or not the underlying
indebtedness is assumed, and ground rents, or a commensurate part thereof where
such liens or other encumbrances and ground rents also encumber or are charged
against other real estate; provided, that where such documents shall set forth
a nominal consideration, the value thereof shall be determined from the price
set forth in for actual consideration for the contract of sale;
      (2)   In the case of a gift, sale by execution upon a judgment or upon
the foreclosure of a mortgage by a judicial officer, transactions without
consideration or for consideration less than the actual monetary worth of the
real estate, a taxable lease, an occupancy agreement, a leasehold or possessory
interest, any exchange of properties, or the real estate of an acquired
company, the actual monetary worth of the real estate determined by adjusting
the assessed value of the real estate for local real estate tax purposes for
the common level ratio factor developed by the Pennsylvania Department of
Revenue for Pennsylvania realty transfer tax base calculations;
      (3)   In the case of an easement or other interest in real estate the
value of which is not determinable under subsections (1) or (2) above, the
actual monetary worth of such interest; or
      (4)   The actual consideration for or actual monetary worth of any
executory agreement for the construction of buildings, structures or other
permanent improvements to real estate between the grantor and other persons
existing before the transfer and not remove thereby or between the grantor, the
agent or principle of the grantor of a related corporation association or
partnership and the grantee existing before or effective with the transfer.
(Ord. 701, passed 9-18-2019)
§ 34.098 IMPOSITION OF TAX; INTEREST.
   (A)   Every person who makes, executes, delivers, accepts or presents for
recording any document or in whose behalf any document is made, executed,
delivered, accepted or presented for recording, shall be subject to pay for and
in respect to the transaction or any part hereof, a tax at the rate of 1% of
the value of the real estate represented by such document, which tax shall be
payable at the earlier of the time the document is presented for recording or
within 30 days of acceptance of such document or within 30 days of becoming an
acquired company.
   (B)   The payment of the tax imposed in this subchapter shall be evidenced
by the affixing of an official stamp or writing by the Recorder of Deeds
whereon the date of the payment of the tax, amount of the tax and the signature
of the collecting agent shall be set forth.
   (C)   It is the intent of this subchapter that the entire burden of the tax
imposed on a person or transfer shall not exceed the limitations prescribed in
the Local Tax Reform Act, of December 13, 1988, P.L 1127 (72 P.S. §§ 4750.56 et
seq.) so that if any other political subdivision or school district have
imposed or hereafter shall impose such tax on the same person or transfer than
the tax levied by the township under the authority of the Act shall during the
time such duplication of the tax exists, except as hereinafter otherwise
provided, be one-half of the rate and such one-half rate shall become effective
without any action on the part of the township provided, however, that the
township and any other political subdivision which impose such tax on the same
person or transfer may agree that instead of limiting their respective rates to
one-half of the rate herein provided, they will impose respectively different
rates, the total of which shall not exceed the maximum rate permitted.
   (D)   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate
in effect at the time the tax is due, shall be added and collected.
(Ord. 701, passed 9-18-2019)
§ 34.099 EXEMPT PARTIES.
   The United States, the Commonwealth or any of their instrumentalities,
agencies or political subdivisions shall be exempt from payment or the tax
imposed by this subchapter. The exemption of such governmental bodies shall
not, however, relieve any other no exempt party to a transaction from liability
for the entire amount of the tax.
(Ord. 701, passed 9-18-2019)
§ 34.100 EXCLUDED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   The tax imposed by section shall not be imposed upon:
      (1)   A transfer to the United States, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or to
any of their instrumentalities, agencies or political subdivisions, by gift,
dedication or deed in lieu of condemnation or deed of confirmation in
connection with condemnation proceedings, or a reconveyance by the condemning
body of the property condemned by the owner of record at the time of
condemnation, which reconveyance may include property line adjustments provided
said reconveyance is made within one year from the date of condemnation;
      (2)   Any document or transaction which the township is prohibited from
taxing under the Constitution or statutes, regulations or case law of the
United States or the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania;
      (3)   The conveyance to a municipality, township, municipal school
district, county or other governmental organization pursuant to acquisition by
the municipality, township, school district, county or other governmental
organization of a tax delinquent property at sheriff sale or tax claim bureau
sale;
      (4)   A transfer for no nominal actual consideration which corrects or
confirms a transfer previously recorded but which does not extend or limit
existing record legal title or interest;
      (5)   A transfer between husband and wife, or on a transfer between
persons who were previously husband and wife but who have since been divorced;
provided such transfer is made within three months of the date of the granting
of the final decree in divorce, or the decree of equitable distribution of
marital property, whichever is later, and the property or interest therein,
subject to such transfer was acquired by the husband and wife, or husband or
wife, prior to the granting of the final decree in divorce;
      (6)   A transfer between parent and child or the spouse of such a child,
or between parent and trustee for the benefit of a child or the spouse of such
child;
      (7)   A transfer between a grandparent and grandchild or the spouse of
such grandchild, or on a transfer between brother and sister or brother and
brother or sister and sister or the spouse of such brother or sister;
      (8)   A transfer to a conservancy which possesses a tax-exempt status
pursuant to Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, and which has as
its primary purpose the preservation of land for historic, recreational,
scenic, agricultural or open space opportunities;
      (9)   A transfer by and between a principal and straw party for the
purpose of placing a mortgage or ground rent upon the premises, or on a
correctional deed without consideration;
      (10)   On a conveyance to a trustee under a recorded trust agreement for
the express purpose of holding title in trust as security for a debt contracted
at the time of the conveyance under which the trustee is not the lender and
requiring the trustee to make reconveyance to the grantor-borrower upon the
repayment of the debt;
      (11)   A transfer between nonprofit industrial development agencies and
industrial corporations purchasing from them, or on transfer to or from
nonprofit industrial development agencies;
      (12)   A transfer between corporations operating housing projects
pursuant to the Housing and Redevelopment Assistance Law, being 35 P.S. §§
1680.401 et seq. and the shareholders thereof;
      (13)   A transfer within a family from a sole proprietor family member to
a family farm corporation;
      (14)   In any sheriff sale instituted by a mortgagee in which the
purchaser of said sheriff sale is the mortgagee who instituted said sale;
      (15)   A transfer by the owner of previously occupied residential
premises to a builder of new residential premises when such previously occupied
residential premises is taken in trade by such builder as part of the
consideration from the purchaser of a new previously unoccupied single-family
residential premises;
      (16)   When the transfer is by will or mortgage or the intestate laws of
the Commonwealth; or
      (17)   Or on a privilege, transaction, subject, occupation or personal
property which is now or does hereafter become subject to a state tax or
license fee.
   (B)   In order to exercise any exclusion provided in this section, the true,
full and complete value of the transfer shall be shown on the statement of
value. A copy of the Pennsylvania Realty Transfer Tax Statement of Value shall
be submitted for this purpose. For leases of coal, oil, natural gas or
minerals, the statement of value may be limited to an explanation of the reason
such document is not subject to tax under this subchapter.
   (C)   It is the intention of the governing body in enacting these exemptions
to exempt only those transactions which are required by law to exempted, if in
the future, the Commonwealth by rule or regulations removes, limits or
otherwise qualifies any of the above listed exemptions, it is the intention of
the governing body that the exemptions listed above shall be similarly removed,
limited or qualified.
(Ord. 701, passed 9-18-2019)
§ 34.101 DOCUMENTS RELATING TO ASSOCIATIONS OR CORPORATIONS AND MEMBERS,
PARTNERS, STOCKHOLDERS OR SHAREHOLDERS THEREOF.
   Except as otherwise provided in §
34.100 of this subchapter, documents which make, confirm or evidence any
transfer or demise of title to real estate between association or corporations
and the members, partners, shareholders or stockholders thereof are fully
taxable. For the purpose of this subchapter, corporations and associations are
entitles separate from their members, partners, stockholders or shareholders.
(Ord. 701, passed 9-18-2019)
§ 34.102 ACQUIRED COMPANY.
   (A)   A real estate company is an acquired company upon a change in the
ownership interest in the company, however effected, if the change does not
affect the continuity of the company; and of itself or together with prior
changes has the effect or transferring, directly or indirectly, 90% or more of
the total ownership interest in the company within a period of three years.
   (B)   With respect to real estate acquired after February 16, 1986, a family
farm corporation is an acquired company when, because of voluntary or
involuntary dissolution, it ceases to be a family farm corporation or when,
because of issuance or transfer of stock or because of acquisition or transfer
of assets that are devoted to the business of agriculture, it fails to meet the
minimum requirements of family farm corporation under this subchapter.
   (C)   Within 30 days after becoming an acquired company, the company shall
present a declaration of acquisition with the recorder of each county in which
it holds real estate for the affixation of documentary stamps and recording.
Such declaration shall set forth the value of real estate holdings of the
acquired company in such county. A copy of the Pennsylvania Transfer Tax
Declaration of Acquisition may be submitted for this purpose.
(Ord. 701, passed 9-18-2019)
§ 34.103 CREDITS AGAINST TAX.
   (A)   Where there is a transfer of a residential property by a licensed real
estate broker which property was transferred to him or her within the preceding
year as consideration for the purchase of other residential property, a credit
for this amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to him or her shall
be given to him or her toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   (B)   Where there is a transfer by a builder of residential property which
was transferred to the builder within the preceding year as consideration for
the purchase of a new previously unoccupied residential property, a credit for
the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to the builder shall be
given to the builder toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   (C)   Where there is a transfer of real estate which is leased by the
grantor, a credit for the amount of tax paid at the time of the lease shall be
given the grantor toward the tax due upon the transfer.
   (D)   Where there is a conveyance by deed of real estate which was
previously sold under a land contract by the grantor, a credit for the amount
of tax paid at the time of the sale shall be given the grantor toward the tax
due upon the deed.
   (E)   If the tax due upon the transfer is greater than the credit given
under this section, the difference shall be paid. If the credit allowed is
greater than the amount or tax due, no refund or carry over credit shall be
allowed.
(Ord. 701, passed 9-18-2019)
§ 34.104 EXTENSION OF LEASE.
   In determining the term of a lease, it shall be presumed that a right or
option to renew or extend a lease will be exercised if the rental charge to the
lessee is fixed or if a method for calculating the rental charge is
established.
(Ord. 701, passed 9-18-2019)
§ 34.105 PROCEEDS OF JUDICIAL SALE.
   The tax in this subchapter imposed shall be fully paid and have priority out
of the proceeds or any judicial sale of real estate before any other
obligation, claim, lien, judgment, estate or costs of the sale and of the writ
upon which the sale is made except the state realty transfer tax and the
sheriff or other officer conducting said sale, shall pay the tax herein imposed
out of the first monies paid to him or her in connection therewith. If the
proceeds of the sale are insufficient to pay the entire tax herein imposed, the
purchaser shall be liable for the remaining tax.
(Ord. 701, passed 9-18-2019)
§ 34.106 DUTIES OF RECORDER OF DEEDS.
   (A)   As provided in 16 P.S. § 11011-6, as amended by Act of July 7, 1983
(P.L. 40, No. 21), the Recorder of Deeds shall be the collection agent for the
local realty transfer tax including any amount payable to the township based on
a redetermination of the amount of tax due by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
of the Pennsylvania Realty Transfer Tax, without separate compensation from the
township.
   (B)   In order to ascertain the amount of taxes due when the property is
located in more than one political subdivision, the Recorder shall not accept
for recording such a deed unless it is accompanied by a statement of value
showing what taxes are due each municipality.
   (C)   On or before the tenth of each month, the Recorder of Deeds shall pay
over to the township all local realty transfer taxes collected, less 2% for use
of the county, together with a report containing the information as is required
by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in reporting collection of the Pennsylvania
Realty Transfer Tax. The 2% commission shall be paid to the county.
   (D)   Upon a redetermination of the amount of realty transfer tax due by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the Recorder of Deeds shall re-record the deed or
record the additional realty transfer tax form only when both the state and
local amounts and a re-recording or recording fee has been tendered.
(Ord. 701, passed 9-18-2019)
§ 34.107 STATEMENT OF VALUE.
   Every document lodged with or presented to the Recorder of Deeds for
recording, shall set forth therein and as a part of such document the true,
full and complete value thereof shall be accompanied by a statement of value
executed by a responsible person in connection with the transaction showing
such connection and setting forth the true, full and complete value thereof or
the reason, if any, why such document is not subject to tax under this
subchapter. A copy of the Pennsylvania Realty Transfer Tax Statement of Value
may be submitted for this purpose. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to any excludable real estate transfers which are exempt from taxation
based on family relationship. Other documents presented for the affixation of
stamps shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the document and statement
of value executed by a responsible person connection with the transaction
showing such connection and setting forth the true, full and complete value
thereof of the reason, if any, why such document is not subject to tax under
the ordinance.
(Ord. 701, passed 9-18-2019)
§ 34.108 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   If any part of any underpayment of tax imposed by this subchapter is
due to fraud, there shall be added to the tax an amount equal to 50% of the
underpayment.
   (B)   In the case of failure to record a declaration required under this
subchapter on the date prescribed therefor, unless it is shown that such
failure is due to reasonable cause, there shall be added to the tax 5% of the
amount of such tax if the failure is for not more than one month, with an
additional 5% for each additional month or fraction thereof during which such
failure continues, not exceeding 50% in the aggregate.
   (C)   If any tax, interest or penalty as provided in this section remains
unpaid, the entire amount may be assessed against the transferee.
(Ord. 701, passed 9-18-2019)
§ 34.109 LIEN.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall become a lien upon the lands,
tenements or hereditaments, or any interest therein, lying, being situated,
wholly or in part within the boundaries of the township which lands, tenements,
hereditaments, or interest therein, are described in or conveyed by or
transferred by the deed which is the subject of the tax, imposed, assessed and
levied by this subchapter, said lien to begin at the time when the tax under
this subchapter is due and payable, and continue until discharge by payment, or
in accordance with the law, and the Solicitor is authorized to file a municipal
or tax claim in the Court of Common Pleas of Somerset County, in accordance
with the provision of the Municipal Claims and Liens Act in accordance with the
provision of the Municipal Claims and Liens Act of 1923, 53 P.S. §§ 7101 et
seq., its supplements and amendments.
(Ord. 701, passed 9-18-2019)
§ 34.110 ENFORCEMENT.
   All taxes imposed by this subchapter together with interest and penalties
prescribed in this subchapter shall be recoverable as other debts of like
character are recovered.
(Ord. 701, passed 9-18-2019)
§ 34.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 266, passed 11-6-1964; Ord. 668, passed 12-17-2008; Ord. 689, passed 11-
21-2012)
CHAPTER 35: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
35.01   Fee schedule
§ 35.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   Fees shall be determined annually by the Board of Supervisors by resolution
based on the current costs of providing services.
   (A)   Zoning/building permits.
 Application Fee Permit Fee Certificate of Occupancy Fee
                     Application Fee Permit Fee          Certificate of
                                                         Occupancy Fee
Residential - Zoning and Building Codes
Alterations/
additions/
permanently                          $100+ $1.50 per
installed swimming   $50             $1,000 over $2,000* $50
pools-requiring
Building Code
review/inspections
Multiple-family
dwelling, commercial $150+ $2 per    $100 + $4 per
building and         $1,000 over     $1,000 over         $50
alterations to such  $2,000**        $2,000**
structures*
                                     $0.35 per SF of
One-family dwelling  $100            building and living $50
                                     area
Re-inspection fee    $50 per visit for re-inspection of work not in
                     compliance with Building Code
                                     $0.35 per SF of
Two-family dwelling  $150            building and living $50
                                     area
Zoning and Building Codes
   Signs—commerc$50             $100                N/A
   Signs—residen$10l            $20                 N/A
   Signs—temporaN/A             N/A                 N/A
Zoning Hearing Board (Zoning Issue) or Board of Appeals (Building Code
Issue) Fee
   Commercial     $700                                
matters
   Residential    $400                                
matters
Zoning - Land Uses
Accessory buildings,
fences or other
accessory
structures; (exempt
from Building                        $50+ $1.50 per
Codes), demolition   $20             $1,000 over $2,000* N/A
permits and storable
swimming pools and
re-roofing existing
residential
structures
Home occupations-
home office/home     $20             $50                 $50
business
*   Plus the actual cost of any independent electrical inspection fees
**   Construction cost value - acceptable verification via estimates/bids,
or other acceptable form
Add $4 to each permit for Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry Fee
(Applicable only to construction when Building Codes are applicable)
 
   (B)   Fee schedule - various township services.
Bonding of Township Roads (Set by PennDOT)
   Dirt/gravel roadways - per mile                            $6,000
   Paved roadways - per mile                                  $12,500
Driveway Permits (For Access to Township Road Only)              $20
Lien Letters
   No lien letter - municipal                                 $15
   No lien letter - sewer                                     $15
Ordinances
   Stormwater management ordinance booklet                    $15
   Subdivision and land development ordinance booklet         $15
   Zoning ordinance booklet and map                           $25
   All other ordinances                                       $0.25 (per
                                                                 page)
Police-Related Activities
   Gun permit application photo                               $10
   Police accident reports                                    $15
   Police complaint reports                                   $15
Road Opening/Occupancy Permits
   Application fee                                            $25
   Permit fees                                                 
      Excavation in pavement or shoulder                   $50*
      Excavation in R.O.W. outside of shoulder             $25*
      *plus $25 for each 100 LF (or portion thereof) of utility within the
roadway pavement or R.O.W.
Soliciting Permit (Per Person)                                    
   Application fee                                            $5
   Per day                                                    $5
   Per month                                                  $20
   Per week                                                   $10
   Per year                                                   $50
Subdivision/Land Development Application Fees
   Major subdivision                                          $500*
   Minor subdivision                                          $250
   Site plan/land development                                 $250*
*Plus escrow deposit for major subdivisions, commercial developments and for any
subdivisions/developments requiring the extension of utilities or stormwater
management reviews
      Initial escrow deposit                               $1,000
      Subsequent payments to maintain positive balance over$5000
 
   (C)   Construction Code service fee schedule. Fees shall be as per the
current fee schedule approved by the Board of Supervisors.
   (D)   Surcharge for false electronic, alarm service or notifier alarms.
      (1)   A service charge of $25 is hereby established for Police Department
and Fire Department responses to false electronic, alarm service or notifier
alarms, except as provided in division (D)(2) below.
      (2)   There shall be no service charge for Police Department or Fire
Department response to the first three false alarm responses in a calendar
year.
      (3)   There shall be no service charge when there has been no Police
Department or Fire Department response to the alarm.
      (4)   The service charge may be waived by the Police Chief or Fire Chief
in the case of development of alarm conditions not reasonably attributable to
the alarm service subscriber or building owner or his or her equipment. The
township will not serve as an intervenor in the case of disputes arising
between the alarm service provider and any other person regarding the delivery
of alarm service, the quality of the alarm system equipment or the maintenance
thereof.
      (5)   False alarms received during the first two weeks after a new alarm
installation will not be counted for the purposes of divisions (D)(1) or (D)(2)
above.
      (6)   The Township Supervisors may adjust the service charge from time to
time based on the their reasonable determination of cost and other legally
sufficient factors in the form of a resolution.
      (7)   (a)   Nothing in this division (D) is intended to authorize a
person to deliberately cause an alarm signal to be initiated without advance
permission of the 911 Center and notification of either the Police or Fire
Department.
         (b)   Deliberate false alarms will be prosecuted under the Criminal
Code.
   (E)   Tax Collector service fees.
      (1)   Return check fees.
         (a)   Checks payable to the township.
            1.   The township hereby imposes a fee of $30 per check returned by
a payor bank and due to said bank’s failure to honor and pay to the township
the amount of such check. The fee detailed herein shall be assessed against the
person, firm or corporation issuing such check and as a result of the payor
bank’s failure to pay the same.
            2.   The $25 fee detailed in division (A)(1)(a)1. above shall be
set, from time to time, by resolution in the event the township determines a
need to alter the fee as initially established.
            3.   The fee for dishonored checks payable hereunder will be for
any check to any township office or organization for any purpose, with the
exception of the Township Tax Collector.
            4.   The fee for dishonored checks payable hereunder shall be
deposited in the township’s General Fund.
         (b)   Checks payable to Township Tax Collector.
            1.   The township hereby imposes a fee of $25 per check returned by
a payor bank and due to said bank’s failure to honor and pay to the Township
Tax Collector the amount of such check. The fee detailed herein shall be
assessed against the person, firm or corporation issuing such check and as a
result of the payor bank’s failure to pay the same.
            2.   The $25 fee detailed in division (E)(1)(b)1. above shall be
set, from time to time, by resolution in the event the township determines a
need to alter the fee initially established.
            3.   The fee for dishonored checks payable hereunder shall be paid
to the Township Tax Collector directly.
      (2)   Service charge payable to Township Tax Collector for preparation of
15-day notice.
         (a)   The township hereby imposes a service fee of $5 to be assessed
by and payable directly to the Township Tax Collector for the Tax Collector’s
preparation of any 15-day written notice of taxpayer delinquency, such notice
required under the Local Tax Enabling Act at 53 P.S. § 6920.1.
         (b)   By further determination of this township, the fee detailed in
division (E)(2)(a) above shall be set, from time to time, by resolution, in the
event the township determines a need to alter the fee as initially established.
      (3)   Township Tax Collector to recoup actual certified mail/restricted
delivery mailing fees advanced for forwarding 15-day notices under the Local
Tax Enabling Act. Consistent with the Local Tax Enabling Act at 53 P.S. §
6920.1, the Township Tax Collector shall recoup actual certified mail/
restricted delivery fees advanced in forwarding any 15-day written notice of
taxpayer delinquency required under the Local Tax Enabling Act, and such
mailing fees may be added by the Tax Collector to the delinquent amount
otherwise due and recited in the taxpayer’s 15-day notice.
      (4)   Service charge for Tax Collector’s wage attachment.
         (a)   The township hereby imposes a service fee of $10 to be assessed
by and payable directly to the Township Tax Collector for the Tax Collector’s
preparing and presenting written notice of demand for attachment of a
delinquent taxables wages from his or her employer.
         (b)   The service fee mentioned in division (E)(4)(a) above shall be
set, from time to time, by resolution, in the event the township determines a
need to alter the fee as initially established.
      (5)   Service fee for Tax Collector’s written certification of realty tax
payment status for lands situated within the township.
         (a)   The township hereby imposes a service fee of $15 per written
certification to be assessed to each person, firm or corporation requesting a
written tax certification from the Township Tax Collector verifying the payment
status of real estate taxes levied upon the owners of township realty.
         (b)   The service fee mentioned in division (E)(5)(a) above shall be
payable directly to the Township Tax Collector.
         (c)   The service fee mentioned in division (E)(5)(a) above shall be
set, from time to time, by resolution, in the event the township determines a
need to alter the fee as initially established.
(Ord. 643, passed 1-7-2002; Ord. 645, passed 7-17-2002; Res. R01-07, passed 1-
2-2007; Res. R11-09, passed 8-19-2009)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   WASTEWATER
      
54.   DROUGHT
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Intergovernmental agreement regarding the provision of public sewage
service
   
50.02   Restoration of water service following termination for unpaid sewer
bills
Cambria County Sewage Enforcement Agency
   
50.15   Purpose
   
50.16   Grant of power
   
50.17   Definitions
   
50.18   Cambria County Sewage Enforcement Agency
   
50.19   Powers and duties of the Sewage Enforcement Agency
   
50.20   Term of participation, new members, amendments
   
50.21   Effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT REGARDING THE PROVISION OF PUBLIC SEWAGE
SERVICE.
   This intergovernmental cooperation agreement is approved, in consideration
of the various covenants, promises and conditions hereinafter set forth and for
other good and valuable consideration receipt of which is hereby acknowledged,
it is hereby authorized and agreed by and between the Township of Conemaugh,
Somerset County and the Township of Upper Yoder, Cambria County as follows.
   (A)   The Township of Conemaugh, Somerset County, is authorized to provide
public sewer service to those properties, to which it has heretofore provided
or agreed to provide public sewer service, by itself or through its designated
agency, located in Upper Yoder Township, Cambria County, hereinafter sometimes,
“service by Conemaugh”. Conemaugh Township may not provide service to any other
customers located within Upper Yoder Township without the formal written
consent, authorized at a public meeting, of the Upper Yoder Township Board of
Supervisors.
   (B)   The Township of Upper Yoder is authorized to provide public sewer
service, to which it has heretofore provided or agreed to provide public sewer
service, by itself or through its designated agency or authority, to those
properties as set forth by the Board of Supervisors. Upper Yoder Township may
not provide service to any other customers located within Conemaugh Township
without the formal written consent, authorized at a public meeting, of the
Conemaugh Township Board of Supervisors.
   (C)   In providing the extraterritorial service authorized in divisions (A)
and (B) above, each township hereby authorizes the other to avail itself of all
remedies, rights and privileges to establish rules, operate the public sewer
system and compel connection to the public sewer system as authorized by
Article XXV of the Second Class Township Code, and the mandatory tap
ordinances, Ord. 54 and 265, as the same may be amended from time to time, in
Upper Yoder Township and Ord. 614 (as codified in §§
52.045 through
52.048 of this code of ordinances), as the same may be amended from time to
time, in Conemaugh Township, together with all rights of a municipality to file
and enforce municipal liens to enforce the payment of charges and to pursue any
other right of enforcement or remedy afforded by law. In matters involving
initial hookup of extraterritorial customers, the municipality providing
service outside its boundaries shall enforce its municipal rules regarding
decommissioning of septic tanks. In matters involving enforcement and filing
municipal liens, the municipality providing service outside its boundaries
shall provide notice to the other municipality of the placement of liens.
   (D)   The Township of Conemaugh and the Township of Upper Yoder each agree
and promise to treat any public sewer service customer physically located
outside of each township according to the same rates, rules and regulations, as
the same may be amended from time to time, as apply to customers located inside
the township. Each township ratifies and confers upon the other the right to
prosecute violation of such ordinance’s rules and regulations imposed by the
sewer service provider on its customers.
   (E)   This section and the agreement adopted herewith shall constitute a
binding agreement and shall be sufficient warrant and authority for the
officers and officials as appointed by each township to perform and execute
their duties and activities upon the authorized properties in the other
township.
   (F)   The officers and officials of each township, acting with respect to
extraterritorial customers coming under the terms of this agreement shall be at
all times under the immediate supervision, direction and control of the
township providing public sewer service. Questions, comments or complaints
concerning the provision of services outside of each township pursuant to this
section and agreement shall be presented in writing to the Board of Supervisors
of the township providing the service. Any comments so received shall be
answered in writing within five days of the next regularly scheduled meeting of
the Township Supervisors.
   (G)   Without waiving the defense of sovereign or governmental immunity as
may be available in any particular case, each township shall indemnify and hold
harmless the other from any liability imposed solely through the acts of the
township providing public sewage service outside its geographic limits.
   (H)   The term of this agreement shall commence five days from the date of
adoption and shall continue until December 31, 2011. This agreement shall
automatically renew unless either party gives notice at least 120 days prior to
expiration of any term of its desire to revoke or modify this agreement.
   (I)   Each township agrees to assist and cooperate, at no cost to the other
township, in any grant application for funds or equipment which in the opinion
of the township may be used or useful in providing services under this
agreement. Any equipment or property acquired pursuant thereto shall be and
remain the sole property of township acquiring it.
   (J)   The agreement expressed in this section shall, upon adoption, be
binding and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their
respective authorities, agents, successors and assigns.
(Ord. 682, passed 3-16-2011)
§ 50.02 RESTORATION OF WATER SERVICE FOLLOWING TERMINATION FOR UNPAID SEWER
BILLS.
   (A)   Generally. Where water service has been terminated because of
delinquent sewer service charges as authorized by 53 P.S. §§ 3102.501 et seq.,
as amended, water service shall not thereafter be reinstated until such time as
all sewer charges, including lien fees, penalties and charges paid to the
public water provider for turnoff services are paid in full.
   (B)   Exception.
      (1)   Where the delinquent amount exceeds $1,000 and the property is not
currently occupied as a residence or business, the owner may have water service
reinstated following entry into a payment plan.
      (2)   The payment plan shall require:
         (a)   A minimum down payment of at least $400;
         (b)   Provide for full payment of all delinquent amounts within one
year; and
         (c)   Require the owner to pay all current sewer charges.
   (C)   Failure to make payment. Failure to make any payment when due shall
result in the immediate termination of the payment plan and the initiation of
water termination procedures.
   (D)   Lien. Entry into the payment plan shall not preclude the township from
entering a municipal lien to secure its interests.
(Res. R03-15, passed 6-17-2015)
CAMBRIA COUNTY SEWAGE ENFORCEMENT AGENCY
§ 50.15 PURPOSE.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township finds it desirable to enact this
subchapter to:
   (A)   Protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents and landlords
of the township; and
   (B)   Create a multi-municipal local agency for the administration of the
Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act, being 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., as amended,
and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 685, passed 2-22-2012)
§ 50.16 GRANT OF POWER.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to power granted in:
   (A)   The Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act, Act 537 of 1966 (35 P.S. §§
750.1 et seq.) as amended, or as it may be amended from time to time;
   (B)   The Pennsylvania Clean Streams Law, Act 394 of 1937 (35 P.S. §§ 690 et
seq.) as amended, or as it may be amended from time to time; and
   (C)   The Pennsylvania Local Agency Law (2 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 105 et seq.) as
amended, or as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 685, passed 2-22-2012)
§ 50.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act, Act 537 of 1966 (35 P.S. §§
750.1 et seq.) as amended, or as it may be amended from time to time.
   AGENCY. The Cambria County Sewage Enforcement Agency, the entity created by
this subchapter.
   BOARD. The governing body of the agency through which all policy making
powers granted to the agency are exercised.
   CHAPTER 71, 72 OR 73 . Regulations adopted pursuant to the Act and more
specifically identified as 25 Pa. Code, Environmental Resources.
   DEPARTMENT. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Board of Supervisors of the Township of Conemaugh,
Somerset County, Pennsylvania.
   MULTI-MUNICIPAL LOCAL AGENCY (MMLA). The Cambria County Sewage Enforcement
Agency, the entity created by the adoption of this subchapter; the Agency.
   TOWNSHIP. Conemaugh Township, Somerset County, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 685, passed 2-22-2012)
§ 50.18 CAMBRIA COUNTY SEWAGE ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.
   The governing body hereby:
   (A)   Creates, constitutes and establishes the Sewage Enforcement Agency for
the purposes described above;
   (B)   (1)   As soon as possible, but not later than 30 days after the
adoption of this subchapter, every member shall, by action of its governing
body, appoint a representative and, at its option, may also appoint an
alternate representative to the Board.
      (2)   Each representative and alternative shall be an individual who must
be:
         (a)   A member of the governing body of the member municipality that
he or she represents; or
         (b)   The Municipal Secretary.
   (C)   Conveys to the Sewage Enforcement Agency the enforcement and
administration of all three aspects of the Act and regulations;
   (D)   Directs the Board to, at all times, act in a manner consistent with
the Act and regulations and the additional provisions in this subchapter;
   (E)   Authorizes and directs the Sewage Enforcement Agency to act on behalf
of the governing body through the appointed officers/Board to issue, deny or
revoke permits, conduct inspections, abate nuisances and health hazards arising
from malfunctioning on-lot disposal systems, conduct hearings, prosecute
violators and apply for operating grants from the Department or any other
entity; and
   (F)   Directs the Board to establish, and, further, pledges to pay in a
timely manner, initial and annual membership fees adequate to provide the
Sewage Enforcement Agency with liquid fiscal resources to establish itself and
continue to operate while awaiting receipt of reimbursement grants from the
Department of Environmental Protection.
(Ord. 685, passed 2-22-2012)
§ 50.19 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE SEWAGE ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.
   In additional to the powers and duties enumerated above, the Sewage
Enforcement Agency shall:
   (A)   Prepare and adopt bylaws that:
      (1)   Define the method by which (future) Agency representatives will be
appointed;
      (2)   Set forth the method by which the Agency will conduct business;
      (3)   Establish a quorum for the conduct of business;
      (4)   Establish meeting times and date;
      (5)   Define the manner in which vacancies will be filled;
      (6)   Create any necessary subcommittees;
      (7)   Establish fees for the various permits and services performed by
the Agency or its staff; and
      (8)   Create a hearing board to conduct hearings regarding permit denials
and other SEO actions.
   (B)   Prepare and adopt an annual budget;
   (C)   Prepare an annual application to obtain a reimbursement grant from the
Department;
   (D)   Prepare and submit annual reports to participating municipalities;
   (E)   Hire, fire, promote and discipline personnel necessary to conduct the
business of the Agency and set their rate of compensation;
   (F)   Create a package of employee benefits, including:
      (1)   Sick and/or vacation leave and/or paid holidays; and
      (2)   Health and/or life and/or disability insurance.
   (G)   Create an employee’s manual containing job descriptions,
qualifications for employment and pay scales; and
   (H)   Secure by contract, or other arrangement, legal counsel and the
services of other professionals, as may be necessary or desirable to advance
the work of the agency.
(Ord. 685, passed 2-22-2012)
§ 50.20 TERM OF PARTICIPATION, NEW MEMBERS, AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The participation in the Agency by the governing body shall begin on
the effective date of this subchapter, and shall continue for a period of at
least two years. Such participation shall include the fulfillment of all
responsibilities including payment of assessments, costs, fees and expenses.
   (B)   After the expiration of the aforesaid two-year period, the governing
body may, upon 90 days written notice to the Board, withdraw from the Agency
through the repeal of this subchapter.
      (1)   During the intervals between receipt of written notice pursuant to
division (B) above and the actual date of withdrawal, the Agency shall not
accept, process or otherwise act upon new applications for on-lot sewage
disposal systems in the municipality which has served notice of intent to
withdraw.
      (2)   The Agency shall notify interested parties and applicants of the
impending change of administration and will, to the best of its ability, refer
interested parties to the succeeding SEO/MMLA.
      (3)   All applications in progress, when notice of intent to withdraw is
received, shall be advanced through issuance/denial in a timely manner and, in
all cases, before the withdrawal becomes effective.
      (4)   The repeal of this subchapter shall take place five days after the
adoption or enactment of any repealing ordinance; however, it shall be
effective no less than 90 days following notice described in division (B)(1)
above.
   (C)   After the effective date of this subchapter, any municipality may
choose to become a member by adopting this subchapter in full.
      (1)   All work on an application for an on-lot sewage disposal system
permit then in progress where site testing has not been completed or a design
has been submitted but a permit has not been issued, shall be turned over to
the Agency for completion by the Agency’s SEO. The new member will pay to the
Agency any monies received from the permittee and/or the commonwealth or any
entity relative to any such applications for on-lot sewage disposal systems.
The permittee shall be responsible for all fees and costs associated with the
completion of the application which the permittee has not already paid or which
have not been paid on the permittee’s behalf.
      (2)   In the event that a system is installed using a valid permit issued
by a prior SEO, and in the event that the prior SEO has been compensated for
the installation inspection portion of the application permitting process, the
issuing SEO shall be responsible for the installation inspection, provided he
or she is a currently certified SEO.
      (3)   In the event that a system is installed using a valid permit issued
by a prior SEO, and the issuing SEO is no longer a certified SEO by reason of
retirement from the activities of SEO, then the matter shall be turned over to
the Agency SEO. The member shall pay to the Agency any monies received from the
permittee and/or the commonwealth or any entity relative to such permit. The
permittee shall be responsible for all fees and costs associated with the
permit and/or completion of the system which the permittee has not already paid
or which have not been paid on the permittee’s behalf.
      (4)   In the event that a permit was issued by a prior SEO and the
issuing SEO is no longer a certified SEO, by reason of a certification
revocation action by the Department of Environmental Protection or the
voluntary surrender of his or her certification to avoid prosecution, then the
Agency shall, in its sole discretion, evaluate the outstanding permits and may
require testing and/or system redesign by the Agency employees, the costs of
which shall be borne by the member on behalf of the permittee. Nothing in this
division (C)(4) shall prohibit the member from recovering any paid but unearned
compensation or wages from the prior SEO. Nothing in this division (C)(4) shall
prohibit the member from recovering the costs of retesting or redesign when the
actions of the former SEO were contrary to the Act or regulations.
   (D)   In the event that it becomes necessary to change this subchapter in
whole or in part, no changes shall become effective and no new or altered
obligation or duty shall be placed upon the Agency, and no change in the terms
of this subchapter shall become effective until such time as every
participating municipality shall have adopted an identical amendatory ordinance
or duly adopted resolution.
(Ord. 685, passed 2-22-2012)
§ 50.21 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect five days from the date of adoption,
February 22, 2012.
(Ord. 685, passed 2-22-2012)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Southern Alleghenies Solid Waste Management Plan
Recycling of Leaves and Other Yard Waste
   
51.15   Purpose
   
51.16   Definitions
   
51.17   Recycling mandated
   
51.18   Burning and other disposal prohibited
   
51.19   Alternate collection dates
   
51.20   Enforcement
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 SOUTHERN ALLEGHENIES SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   The municipality does hereby adopt the Southern Alleghenies Solid Waste
Management Plan, dated February 1, 1974, as the officially adopted plan for the
municipality.
(Res. 389, passed 2-1-1974)
RECYCLING OF LEAVES AND OTHER YARD WASTE
§ 51.15 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish a program whereby fall
leaves are collected by the township for composting or other recycling so as to
avoid burdening landfills and to avoid the nuisance and annoyance to neighbors
and the risk to public safety from burning of leaves.
(Ord. 605, passed 6-19-1996)
§ 51.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LEAF or LEAVES. All leaves falling from outdoor trees onto a property, and
which are raked or collected in some manner by the property owner or his or her
tenant, agent or contractor.
   YARD WASTE. Grass cuttings, and small twigs and branches which are no more
than six inches long nor more than one-half inch in diameter.
(Ord. 605, passed 6-19-1996)
§ 51.17 RECYCLING MANDATED.
   (A)   All residents of the township shall at the beginning of the third week
of November (or at other times designated by the township pursuant to the
procedures established in §
51.19) place all leaves at the boundary of their property and the public right-
of-way for collection by the township. Yard waste may be included with leaves.
   (B)   Leaves shall be placed at the edge of the public right-of-way within a
clean and loose condition and shall be free of any other household garbage or
other trash or refuse. Leaves shall not be not be placed in bags.
(Ord. 605, passed 6-19-1996)
§ 51.18 BURNING AND OTHER DISPOSAL PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter which shall subject owner of
property, tenant or other person responsible for violation to burn leaves or
yard waste, or dispose of leaves or yard waste with household garbage.
(Ord. 605, passed 6-19-1996) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19 ALTERNATE COLLECTION DATES.
   The Township Roadmaster is hereby invested with the authority to declare
alternative and additional collection dates for leaves and suitable yard waste,
when climate or other conditions render it appropriate. To establish an
alternate or additional collection date, the Roadmaster shall cause an
advertisement of collection schedule to be placed in the Johnstown Tribune
Democrat Newspaper at least two weeks in advance of collection and cause the
collection schedule to be posted at public places throughout the township. The
selection of places of public posting shall at a minimum include the United
States post offices serving the township.
(Ord. 605, passed 6-19-1996)
§ 51.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   Failure to pay a civil penalty within 30 days of assessment shall subject
the responsible party to an enforcement action before the local district
magistrate, and upon judgment, the responsible party shall pay the assessment,
costs of the action and attorney fees of the township.
(Ord. 605, passed 6-19-1996)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 605, passed 6-19-1996)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
Excessive Flows
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Unlawful connections
   
52.003   Repair of private sewer facilities
   
52.004   Dye testing by municipality
   
52.005   Notices to property owners
   
52.006   Proof of compliance on sale or transfer
   
52.007   Application for certificate of compliance
   
52.008   Issuance of certificate of compliance
   
52.009   Temporary certificate of compliance
   
52.010   Municipal lien and tax verification letters
   
52.011   Expiration of certificate of compliance
   
52.012   Regulations
   
52.013   Conflict with general police powers
Connections Required
   
52.025   Connection required
   
52.026   Unlawful acts
   
52.027   Notice to connect; time extension
   
52.028   Connection to other sources
   
52.029   Connection conditions
   
52.030   Construction of connections
   
52.031   Neglect or refusal to comply
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.045   Definitions
   
52.046   Use of public sewers required
   
52.047   Building sewers and connections
   
52.048   Rules and regulations governing building sewers and connections to
sewers
Holding Tanks
   
52.060   Purposes
   
52.061   Definitions
   
52.062   Rights and privileges granted
   
52.063   Rules and regulations
   
52.064   Rules and regulations to be in conformity with applicable law
   
52.065   Rates and charges
   
52.066   Exclusiveness of rights and privileges
   
52.067   Duties of improved property owner
   
52.068   Written agreements required
   
52.069   Abatement of nuisance
Building and Sewage Permits
   
52.080   Title
   
52.081   Definitions
   
52.082   Permit required
Private Sewage Systems
   
52.095   Definitions
   
52.096   Requirements for individual sewage disposal systems
   
52.097   Permits
   
52.098   Inspections
Rates
   
52.110   Rates
 
   
52.999   Penalty
EXCESSIVE FLOWS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a certificate of compliance or temporary
certificate of compliance.
   CASH SECURITY. Cash, certified check or treasurer’s check.
   DYE TEST. Any commonly accepted method of testing whereby dye is introduced
into the storm, surface or subsurface water connection system and downspouts of
structures or improvements to real property to determine if surface stormwater
is entering into the sanitary sewer system.
   IMPROVED AND SEWERED REAL PROPERTY. Real property on which any building,
driveway or parking pad, other surface or subsurface structure or improvement
has been constructed, installed or erected, where the real property or any
improvement on the real property is connected to the municipal sewer system.
   ORDINANCE COMPLIANCE OFFICER. The municipality authorized representative
appointed by the governing body, from time to time, whose duty it shall be to
administer this subchapter unless such duty is expressly conferred by this
subchapter upon another municipality, official or entity. Unless the governing
body by resolution provides otherwise, the Municipality Secretary/Treasurer and
Zoning Officer shall be designated as Ordinance Compliance Officers under this
subchapter.
   PERSON. Any natural person, association, partnership, corporation,
syndicate, institution, agency, authority or other entity recognized by law as
the subject of rights and duties.
   SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM. The sanitary sewer lines and related facilities
maintained and operated by the municipality’s designated sewer service
provider.
   SELL or TRANSFER. The sale, transfer or assignment of any interest in real
property; provided, however, that a refinancing of real property, without a
conveyance, is not a sale or transfer under this subchapter.
   SURFACE STORMWATER. Surface water and ground water, including, but not
limited to, roof and driveway drainage, basement seepage and surface and
areaway drainage.
(Ord. 666, passed 9-17-2008)
§ 52.002 UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any rain leader, roof drain,
downspout, gutter, parking lot drain, driveway drain, interior or exterior
sump, French drain, spring or other collector or source of surface stormwater,
including, but not limited to, the fresh air vent of the improved and sewered
property’s sanitary sewer, to the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 666, passed 9-17-2008) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.003 REPAIR OF PRIVATE SEWER FACILITIES.
   Persons owning property within the municipality are required to maintain all
private sanitary sewer laterals and sanitary sewer service connections in good
repair.
(Ord. 666, passed 9-17-2008)
§ 52.004 DYE TESTING BY MUNICIPALITY.
   The Ordinance Compliance Officer, or other persons designated by the
governing body by resolution, is authorized to initiate dye testing or other
testing or inspection within the municipality for purposes of discovering or
locating the inflow of surface stormwater to the sanitary sewer system. The
Ordinance Compliance Officer is authorized to retain the services of a
qualified contractor to perform the dye testing or other testing or inspection.
Persons owning property within the municipality are required to grant access to
the Ordinance Compliance Officer and/or the dye testing contractor and to
permit dye testing or other testing or inspection. It is unlawful for any
person to refuse access to property for purposes of dye testing or other
testing or inspection.
(Ord. 666, passed 9-17-2008) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.005 NOTICES TO PROPERTY OWNERS.
   In the event the Ordinance Compliance Officer identifies any illegal
connections or leaking, deteriorating or poorly constructed private sanitary
sewer lateral and/or sanitary sewer service connections, the Ordinance
Compliance Officer shall give written notice of same to the property owner that
such illegal connections be eliminated and/or services connections be, at the
property owner’s expense, repaired, replaced or rehabilitated within 30 days of
the date of the notice. If the condition does not create a health hazard, the
Ordinance Compliance Officer, upon request of the property owner, may extend
the deadline to 60 days from the date of the notice.
(Ord. 666, passed 9-17-2008)
§ 52.006 PROOF OF COMPLIANCE ON SALE OR TRANSFER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or transfer improved and sewered
real property located within the municipality without having obtained and
delivered to the buyer or transferee, at or prior to closing or transfer, a
certificate of compliance or temporary certificate of compliance for the
property being sold or transferred.
(Ord. 666, passed 9-17-2008) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.007 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   At least 21 days prior to the date of closing or transfer of any
improved real property located within the municipality, the seller or
transferor or his, her or its agent shall submit to the Ordinance Compliance
Officer an application for certificate of compliance, completed as required by
division (B) below. The certificate of compliance form shall be available upon
request from the Municipality Secretary. The fee for filing the completed
application for certificate of compliance shall be established by the governing
body from time to time by resolution.
   (B)   Prior to the sale or transfer of any improved real property located
within the municipality, the seller or transferor shall have a dye test of the
property performed by a licensed plumber, or other qualified contractor
approved in advance by the Compliance Officer, to perform such tests or by such
other person designated or approved by the municipality. Upon completion of the
dye test, the person who performed the test shall complete the appropriate
section of the application for certificate of compliance, confirming that the
property has been dye tested and certifying the results of the test.
(Ord. 666, passed 9-17-2008)
§ 52.008 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   If the application for certificate of compliance, properly completed
and filed with the Ordinance Compliance Officer with the designated filing fee,
indicates that there are no connections of surface stormwater to the sanitary
sewer system, then the Ordinance Compliance Officer shall issue the certificate
of compliance within ten days of application therefor.
   (B)   If the dye test reveals the existence of one or more surface
stormwater connections to the sanitary sewer system, the Ordinance Compliance
Officer shall not issue the certificate of compliance until the connections
have been removed and a plumber licensed by the City of Johnstown, or other
qualified contractor approved in advance by the Compliance Officer, has
certified that there is no connection of surface stormwater to the sanitary
sewer system from the property to be sold or transferred.
(Ord. 666, passed 9-17-2008)
§ 52.009 TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   (1)   When a surface stormwater connection to the sanitary sewer
system is discovered and the necessary work to remove the connection would
require a length of time such as to create a hardship for the seller or
applicant, the seller or applicant may apply to the Ordinance Compliance
Officer for a temporary certificate of compliance.
      (2)   The seller or applicant must submit the following with the properly
completed application:
         (a)   A bona fide executed contract with a registered and licensed
plumber, or other qualified contractor approved in advance by the Compliance
Officer, requiring the plumber to complete the remedial work necessary to the
removal of the connections of surface stormwater to the sanitary sewer system
and granting the municipality the right and power to enforce the contract;
         (b)   Cash security in an amount equal to 110% of the contract
described in division (A)(2)(a) above;
         (c)   The agreement of the purchaser or transferee to be responsible
for all cost overruns related to the remedial work, together with a license
from the purchaser or transferee to the municipality, its agents, contractors
and employees, to enter upon the property to complete the remedial work in case
of default by the contractor or the applicant; and
         (d)   The filing fee established by the governing body of the from
time to time by resolution.
   (B)   (1)   When dye testing cannot be performed because of weather
conditions, the seller or applicant may apply to the Ordinance Compliance
Officer for a temporary certificate of compliance.
      (2)   The seller or applicant must submit the following with the properly
completed application:
         (a)   Cash security in the amount of a signed contract to complete the
compliance work;
         (b)   The written, signed agreement of the purchaser or transferee to
correct, at the purchaser’s or transferee’s sole expense, any surface
stormwater connections to the sanitary sewer system disclosed by the subsequent
dye test, together with a license from the purchaser or transferee to the
municipality, its agents, contractors, and employees, to enter upon the
property to conduct the dye testing should the applicant fail to do so. Nothing
in this division (B)(2)(b) shall prohibit any purchaser or transferee from
requiring the applicant to reimburse the purchaser or transferee for any costs
incurred in connection with such remedial work; provided, however, that primary
responsibility for the remedial work and all costs thereof shall run with the
land, and no such agreement shall affect the municipality’s enforcement powers
or excuse the current owner of the property from performance; and
         (c)   The filing fee established by the Municipality Board of
Supervisors from time to time by resolution.
   (C)   The Ordinance Compliance Officer may reject the application for
temporary certificate of compliance whenever, in his or her sole judgment, the
conditions defined by §
52.006 do not exist or the submissions required by §
52.006 have not been made.
   (D)   The temporary certificate of compliance shall be effective for 60
days, and the expiration date of the temporary certificate of compliance shall
be noted on the certificate. If, upon the expiration of the temporary
certificate of compliance, the seller or applicant has not applied for and
received a certificate of compliance, as provided for in §§
52.004 and
52.005, the cash security shall be forfeited, and the municipality may use the
funds to complete the remedial work for the dye testing.
   (E)   The application for temporary certificate of compliance form shall be
available upon request from the Municipal Secretary.
(Ord. 666, passed 9-17-2008)
§ 52.010 MUNICIPAL LIEN AND TAX VERIFICATION LETTERS.
   A request to the municipality for a municipal lien letter or tax
verification letter must be accompanied by a valid certificate of compliance or
temporary certificate of compliance and by the appropriate fee, which shall be
established by the Municipality Board of Supervisors from time to time by
resolution. The municipality shall issue the municipal lien letter or tax
verification letter within seven days of receipt of the appropriately
documented request and the applicable fee.
(Ord. 666, passed 9-17-2008)
§ 52.011 EXPIRATION OF CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   A certificate of compliance issued under this subchapter shall be valid for
a period of one year from the date of issuance.
(Ord. 666, passed 9-17-2008)
§ 52.012 REGULATIONS.
   The Ordinance Compliance Officer is hereby empowered to make reasonable
rules and regulations for the operation and enforcement of this subchapter,
including, but not limited to: establishing the form of applications,
acknowledgments and certifications; and limiting the time of year in which
temporary certificate of compliance is available for reasons of weather.
(Ord. 666, passed 9-17-2008)
§ 52.013 CONFLICT WITH GENERAL POLICE POWERS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall limit in any fashion whatsoever the
municipality’s right to enforce its ordinances or the laws of the commonwealth.
Nothing in this subchapter shall be a defense to any citation issued by any
municipal corporation or the commonwealth pursuant to any other law or
ordinance.
(Ord. 666, passed 9-17-2008)
CONNECTIONS REQUIRED
§ 52.025 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every owner of property (hereinafter “property owner”) including, but
not limited to, any individual, firm, corporation or other entity in the
township which property meets the connection conditions contained in division
(B) below shall, at the property owner’s cost, keep connected or connect any
house, building or other structure located on the property (hereinafter
collectively “structure”) to the public water supply and distribution system
(hereinafter “system”) operated by the township municipal authority
(hereinafter “Authority”).
   (B)   A property owner must connect or keep connected any structure that
uses or in the future will use water for human consumption and meets either of
the following connection conditions:
      (1)   The structure is located within 250 feet of any new waterline or
other portion of the system, when the new waterline or portion of the system is
constructed after the effective date of this subchapter (not including
construction of replacement waterlines); or
      (2)   The structure is located or constructed, after the effective date
of this subchapter, within 250 feet of any portion of the system.
(Ord. 657, passed 10-27-2004)
§ 52.026 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any property owner to which the provisions of §
52.025 apply to fail to provide the means of connection to the public water
system by way of a service line and a tap to the Authority’s distribution
system and/or to fail to comply with the provisions of this subchapter,
including the payment of the tap fee, connection fee and the monthly service
fee to the Authority.
(Ord. 657, passed 10-27-2004) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.027 NOTICE TO CONNECT; TIME EXTENSION.
   It shall be the duty of the township or the authorized representative of the
Authority to notify the property owner, lessee or occupier of each structure
covered hereunder, in writing, either by personal service, certified mail or
registered mail, to connect the same to said public water system within 60 days
after receipt of such notice, as herein provided. Any property owner, lessee or
occupier of a structure who cannot comply with the provisions of this
subchapter, as to connection within the 60-day period stipulated above due to
causes beyond the control of said person, shall apply to the township or
Authority within said 60-day period for a time extension of up to six months in
duration.
(Ord. 657, passed 10-27-2004)
§ 52.028 CONNECTION TO OTHER SOURCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any property owner and/or other person connected to
the public water system to connect to or permit the connection by any other
property owner and/or other person to any other source of water supply for
human consumption. Use of other sources of water supply may be used strictly
for outside use. In the event of such outside use, the system providing water
for human consumption and the outside water source shall be physically
separated so that an air gap exists between the two systems; a valve separating
the two water systems will not be accepted. Such separate system shall be
subject to inspection in accordance with the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 657, passed 10-27-2004) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.029 CONNECTION CONDITIONS.
   No property owner and/or other person not presently connected to the public
water system shall make or cause to be made any connection with the public
water system until said person, corporation or entity has fulfilled all of the
following conditions:
   (A)   Make application to the township or Authority upon a permanent form to
be formulated and supplied by the township or the Authority for permission to
connect to the aforementioned public water system as evidenced by a connection
permit. Among other things, the applicant must state the character and use of
each structure located on his or her property;
   (B)   Pay the required tap connection fee as provided under the rules and
regulations of the Authority;
   (C)   No work shall commence before the payment of the aforesaid tap
connection fee and issuance of the aforementioned connection permit;
   (D)   Give the designated inspector of the township (hereinafter
“inspector”) or the Authority at least 24 hours’ notice of the time when such
connection shall be made in order that said inspector can be present to inspect
and approve the work and connection. The inspector shall signify approval of
the connection by endorsing the inspector’s name in the presence of the
permittee; and
   (E)   At the time of inspection of the connection, the property owner shall
permit the inspector full and complete access to all water system facilities in
each building and in and about all parts of the property. No water connection
line shall be covered over, or in any way concealed, until after it has been
inspected and approved by said inspector.
(Ord. 657, passed 10-27-2004)
§ 52.030 CONSTRUCTION OF CONNECTIONS.
   The construction of all connections between the building and the public
water system, together with the use of the public water system of the Authority
by a property owner and/or other person, shall be done in accordance with the
specifications, plans and procedures established by the Authority in its rates,
rules and regulations, as the same may be from time to time published and
amended, copies of which will, upon adoption of the Authority, be maintained on
file with the township and/or Authority Secretary.
(Ord. 657, passed 10-27-2004)
§ 52.031 NEGLECT OR REFUSAL TO COMPLY.
   If any property owner and/or other person in the township shall neglect or
refuse to comply with the provisions of this subchapter or the written notice
as prescribed in §
52.027, the township or the Authority may perform the work or cause to be
furnished such material as may be necessary to comply with the provisions of
this subchapter at the cost and expense of such property owner or property
owners, together, with 10% additional expense on all charges and expenses
incidental thereto, which sum shall be collected from said property owner or
property owners for the use of the township or the Authority as debts are by
law collectible, or the township or the Authority may, by its proper officer,
file a municipal claim or lien therefor against said premises as provided by
law.
(Ord. 657, passed 10-27-2004)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. The Conemaugh Township Supervisors, a Second Class Township of
the commonwealth, or such designees, or delegees as it may appoint for the
purpose of operating the sewer system.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the sewage drainage system of any
structure to the lateral of a sewer.
   COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any property located in this municipality used or
intended for use, wholly or in part, for the manufacturing, processing,
cleaning, laundering or assembling of any product, commodity or article, or any
other property located in this municipality from which wastes, in addition to
or other than sanitary sewage, shall be discharged.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any and all wastes discharged from an industrial
establishment, other than sanitary sewage.
   LATERAL. The part of the sewer system extending from a sewer to the curb
line or, if there shall be no curb line, to a point designated by the
municipality, or, if no such lateral shall be provided, then LATERAL shall mean
that portion of, or place in, a sewer which is provided for connection of any
building sewer.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Township of Conemaugh, Somerset County, Pennsylvania, a
municipal subdivision of the commonwealth, acting by and through its governing
body, or, in appropriate cases, acting by and through its authorized
representatives.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any property.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, association, society, trust,
corporation or other group or entity.
   PROPERTY. Any property within this municipality upon which there is erected
a structure intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy or use by
human beings and from which structures sanitary sewage and/or industrial wastes
shall be or may be discharged.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Normal water carried household and toilet wastes from any
property.
   SEWER. Any pipe or conduit constituting a part of the sewer system used or
usable for sewage collection purposes.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities, as of any particular time, for collecting,
pumping, transporting, treating and disposing of sanitary sewage and/or
industrial wastes, situated in or adjacent to this municipality and owned by
the Authority.
   STREET. Includes any street, road, lane, court, cul-de-sac, alley, public
way or public square.
(Ord. 614, passed 12-18-1996)
§ 52.046 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of any single-family residential property whose principal
building is within 150 feet from the sewer system and the owner of any other
building whose projected principal building is within a distance of 150 feet
times the projected EDUs for the building (projected EDUs shall be determined
using DEP Chapter 73 Regulations) shall connect such property with and shall
use such sewer system, in such manner as this municipality may require, within
60 days after notice to such owner from this municipality to make such
connection, for the purpose of discharge of all sanitary sewage and industrial
wastes from such property; subject, however, to such limitations and
restrictions as shall be established herein or otherwise shall be established
by this municipality, from time to time.
   (B)   All sanitary sewage and industrial wastes from any improved property,
after connection of such improved property with a sewer required under division
(A) above, shall be conducted into a sewer, subject to such limitations and
restrictions as shall be established herein or as otherwise shall be
established by this municipality, from time to time.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall place, shall deposit or shall permit to be
placed or to be deposited upon public or private property within this
municipality any sanitary sewage or industrial wastes in violation of division
(A) above.
      (2)   No person shall discharge or shall permit to be discharged to any
natural outlet within this municipality any sanitary sewage or industrial
wastes in violation of division (A) above, except where suitable treatment has
been provided which is satisfactory to this municipality.
   (D)   No privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or similar receptacle
shall be used or shall be maintained at any time upon any property which has
been connected to a sewer or which shall be required under division (A) above
to be connected to a sewer.
   (E)   No privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or similar receptacle
at any time shall be connected with a sewer.
   (F)   The notice by this municipality to make a connection to a sewer,
referred to in division (A) above, shall consist of a reference to this
subchapter, including any amendments and/or supplements at the time in effect,
or a summary of each section thereof, and a written or printed document
requiring the connection in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter
and specifying that such connection shall be made within 60 days from the date
such notice is given. Such notice may be given at any time when a sewer is in
place which can receive and can convey sanitary sewage and/or industrial wastes
for treatment and disposal from the particular property. Such notice shall be
served upon the owner in accordance with law.
(Ord. 614, passed 12-18-1996) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.047 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall uncover, shall connect with, shall make any opening
into or shall use, shall alter or shall disturb, in any manner, any sewer or
any part of the sewer system without first obtaining a permit, in writing from
this municipality or its designee.
   (B)   Application for a permit required under division (A) above shall be
made by the owner of the property served or to be served or by the duly
authorized agent of such owner.
   (C)   No person shall make or shall cause to be made a connection of any
property with a sewer until such person shall have fulfilled each of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Such person shall have notified the Secretary of the municipality
of the desire and intention to connect such property to a sewer;
      (2)   Such person shall have applied for and shall have obtained a permit
as required by division (A) above;
      (3)   Such person shall have given the Secretary of the municipality at
least 24 hours’ notice of the time when such connection will be made so that
this municipality may supervise and inspect or may cause to be supervised and
inspected the work of connection and necessary testing; and
      (4)   If applicable, such person shall have furnished satisfactory
evidence to the Secretary of this municipality that any tapping (or connection)
fee, which may be charged and imposed by the Authority against the owner of
each property who connects such property to a sewer, has been paid.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D), each property shall
be connected separately and independently with a sewer through a building
sewer. Grouping of more than one property on one building sewer shall not be
permitted, except under special circumstances and for good sanitary reasons or
other good cause shown, but then only after special permission of this
municipality, in writing, shall have been secured and only subject to such
rules, regulations and conditions as may be prescribed by this municipality.
   (E)   All costs and expenses of construction of a building sewer and all
costs and expenses of connection of a building sewer to a sewer shall be borne
by the owner of the property to be connected; and such owner shall indemnify
and shall save harmless this municipality and its designees from all loss or
damage that may be occasioned, directly or indirectly, as a result of the
construction of a building sewer, the connection of a building sewer to a
sewer, or the abandonment of a privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or
similar receptacle as required under §
52.046(D).
   (F)   (1)   A building sewer shall be connected to a sewer at the place
designated by this municipality and where, if applicable, the lateral is
provided.
      (2)   The invert of a building sewer at the point of connection shall be
at the same or higher elevation than the invert of the sewer. A smooth, neat
joint shall be made and the connection of a building sewer to the lateral shall
be made secure and water-tight.
   (G)   If the owner of any property abutting on or adjoining any street in
which a sewer constituting part of the sewer system is located, after 60 days’
notice from this municipality requiring the connection of such property with a
sewer, in accordance with §
52.046(A), shall fail to connect such property, as required, this municipality
may make such connection and may collect from such owner the costs and expenses
thereof by a municipal claim, an action in assumpsit or such other legal
proceeding as may be permitted by law. Properties shall be responsible for
payment of minimum sewage bills following the expiration of 60 days from
notice, whether connected or not.
(Ord. 614, passed 12-18-1996) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.048 RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS TO
SEWERS.
   (A)   Where a property, at the time connection to a sewer is required, shall
be served by its own sewage disposal system or sewage disposal device, the
existing house sewer line shall be broken on the structure side of such sewage
disposal system or sewage disposal device and attachment shall be made, with
proper fittings, to continue such house sewer line as a building sewer.
   (B)   No building sewer shall be covered until it has been inspected and
approved by the municipality or its designee. If any part of a building sewer
is covered before so being inspected and approved, it shall be uncovered for
inspection, at the cost and expense of the owner of the property to be
connected to a sewer.
   (C)   Every building sewer of any property shall be maintained in a sanitary
and safe, operating condition by the owner of such property.
   (D)   Every excavation for a building sewer shall be guarded adequately with
barricades and lights as the owner deems sufficient to protect all persons from
damage and injury. Any street sidewalk and other public property disturbed in
the course of installation of a building sewer shall be restored, at the cost
and expense of the owner of the property being connected, in a manner
satisfactory to this municipality.
   (E)   If any person shall fail or shall refuse, upon receipt of a notice of
this municipality, in writing, to remedy any unsatisfactory condition,
constituting a violation of the provisions of this subchapter, with respect to
a building sewer, within 60 days of receipt of such notice, this municipality
may refuse to permit such person to discharge sanitary sewage and industrial
wastes into the sewer system until such unsatisfactory condition shall have
been remedied to the satisfaction of this municipality and the Authority.
   (F)   This municipality reserves the right to adopt, from time to time,
additional rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary and proper relating
to connections with a sewer and with the sewer system, which additional rules
and regulations, to the extent appropriate, shall be and shall be construed as
part of this subchapter.
(Ord. 614, passed 12-18-1996) Penalty, see §
52.999
HOLDING TANKS
§ 52.060 PURPOSES.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish procedures for the use and
maintenance of existing and new holding tanks designed to receive and retain
sewage whether from residential or commercial uses and it is hereby declared
that the enactment of this subchapter is necessary for the protection, benefit
and preservation of the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of this
municipality.
(Ord. 590, passed 8-9-1990)
§ 52.061 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOLDING TANK. A water-tight receptacle, whether permanent or temporary which
receives and retains sewage conveyed by a water-carrying system and is designed
and constructed to facilitate the ultimate disposal of the sewage at another
site.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property within the township upon which there is
erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy
or use by human beings or animals and from which structure sewage shall or may
be discharged
   MUNICIPALITY. Conemaugh Township, Somerset County, Pennsylvania.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, or any property located in the township.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, association, corporation or
other group or entity.
   SEWAGE. Any substance that contains any of the water products or excrement
or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals and any noxious
or deleterious substance being harmful or inimical to the public health, or to
animal or aquatic life or to the use of water for domestic water supply or for
recreation.
(Ord. 590, passed 8-9-1990)
§ 52.062 RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES GRANTED.
   The Supervisors are hereby authorized and empowered to undertake within the
township the control and methods of holding tank use, sewage disposal and
sewage collection and transportation thereof.
(Ord. 590, passed 8-9-1990)
§ 52.063 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Supervisors are hereby authorized and empowered to adopt such rules and
regulations concerning sewage which they may deem necessary from time to time
to effect the purposes herein.
(Ord. 590, passed 8-9-1990)
§ 52.064 RULES AND REGULATIONS TO BE IN CONFORMITY WITH APPLICABLE LAW.
   All such rules and regulations adopted by the supervisors shall be in
conformity with the provisions herein, all other ordinances of the township,
and all applicable laws, and applicable rules and regulations of administrative
agencies of the commonwealth.
(Ord. 590, passed 8-9-1990)
§ 52.065 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The Supervisors shall have the right and power to fix, alter, charge and
collect rates, assessments and other charges in the area served by its
facilities at reasonable and uniform rates as authorized by applicable law.
(Ord. 590, passed 8-9-1990)
§ 52.066 EXCLUSIVENESS OF RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   The collection and transportation of all sewage from any improved
property utilizing a holding tank shall be done solely by or under the
direction and control of the Supervisors, and the disposal thereof shall be
made only at such site or sites as may be approved by the Department of
Environmental Protection of the commonwealth.
   (B)   The Supervisors will receive, review and retain pumping receipts from
permitted holding tanks.
   (C)   The Supervisors will complete and retain annual inspection reports for
each permitted tank.
(Ord. 590, passed 8-9-1990)
§ 52.067 DUTIES OF IMPROVED PROPERTY OWNER.
   The owner of an improved property that utilizes a holding tank shall:
   (A)   Maintain the holding tank in conformance with this or any ordinance of
this township, the provisions of any applicable law, and the rules and
regulations of the Supervisors and any administrative agency of the
commonwealth;
   (B)   Permit only the Supervisors or their agents to inspect holding tanks
on an annual basis; and
   (C)   Permit only the Supervisors or their agents to collect, transport and
dispose of the contents therein.
(Ord. 590, passed 8-9-1990) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.068 WRITTEN AGREEMENTS REQUIRED.
   The owner of an improved property shall at the time of the issuance of a
holding tank permit enter into an agreement with the municipality which shall
include:
   (A)   A statement of maintenance of the tank, including pumping which shall
take place on a regular basis;
   (B)   Present a contract between the owner of the improved property and a
licensed sewage hauler for the pumping and transportation of the sewage
removed;
   (C)   A pledge that the contents of the tank shall be deposited in a
licensed disposal plant only;
   (D)   An understanding that all costs of maintenance of the tank, pumping of
the tank and the transportation of the sewage shall be the sole responsibility
of the owner of the improved property; and
   (E)   The land upon which the holding tank is situated shall not be
transferred without notice to the municipality.
(Ord. 590, passed 8-9-1990)
§ 52.069 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   In addition to any other remedies provided in this subchapter, any violation
of §
52.067 shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated by the municipality or
the Supervisors by either seeking mitigation of the nuisance or appropriate
equitable or legal relief from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 590, passed 8-9-1990)
BUILDING AND SEWAGE PERMITS
§ 52.080 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Conemaugh Township Sewerage Permit
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 428, passed 1-6-1978)
§ 52.081 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY SEWAGE SYSTEM. Any system, whether publicly or privately owned,
for the collection and disposal of sewage or industrial waste of a liquid
nature or both, including various devices for the treatment of such sewage or
industrial waste serving three or more individual lots.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE SYSTEM. A single system of piping, tanks or other
facilities collecting and disposing of sewage in whole or in part in the soil
of the property or into the waters of this commonwealth.
   PERSON. Any individual, co-partnership, association or private corporation.
   SEWAGE. Any substance that contains any of the waste products or excrement
or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals and any noxious
or deleterious substances being harmful or inimical to the public health, or to
animal or aquatic life or to the use of water for domestic water supply or for
recreation.
   SUPERVISORS. The Supervisors of Conemaugh Township or their duly appointed
and authorized agents, representatives or inspectors.
(Ord. 428, passed 1-6-1978)
§ 52.082 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall install, construct or request the proposals for
construction, or alter an individual sewage system or community sewage system,
or construct or request bid proposals for construction, or install or occupy
any building or structure for which an individual sewage system, or community
sewage system is to be installed without first obtaining a permit from the
Township Sewerage Enforcement Officer indicating that the site and plans and
specifications of such system are in compliance with the provisions of the
Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act of 1966 (P.L. 1935), being 35 P.S. §§ 750.1
et seq., as amended, in the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to Act.
   (B)   (1)   Applications for permits shall be in writing and submitted to
the Township Sewerage Enforcement Officer in accordance with the provisions of
Act 537, as amended.
      (2)   Applications shall be made in such form and shall include such data
as the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection may prescribe.
   (C)   A fee in the sum of $56 shall be paid at the time of making
application for said permit.
(Ord. 428, passed 1-6-1978) Penalty, see §
52.999
PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEMS
§ 52.095 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The legally designated health authority of the township, or
his or her authorized representative or other officer or agent who may, from
time to time, be duly authorized by the Supervisors of the township.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A sewage disposal system, other than a
public or community system, which receives either human excreta or liquid
waste, or both, from one or more premises. Included within the scope of this
definition are septic tank soil absorption systems, privies and chemical-type
toilets, and such other types as may be prescribed in regulations by the Health
Officer.
   PERMIT. A written permit issued by the Health Officer, permitting the
construction of an individual sewage disposal system under this subchapter.
   PERSON. Any institution, public or private corporation, individual,
partnership or other entity.
(Ord. 195, passed 12-12-1959)
§ 52.096 REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   (1)   The Health Officer of the township, in order to protect the
health and safety of the people of the township and of the general public, is
authorized and directed, after public hearing, to promulgate and amend, from
time to time, regulations establishing minimum standards governing the design,
construction, installation and operation of individual sewage disposal systems.
      (2)   Such regulations shall establish such minimum standards as, in the
judgment of the Health Officer, will ensure that the waste discharged to
various individual sewage disposal systems:
         (a)   Do not contaminate any drinking water supply;
         (b)   Are not accessible to insects, rodents or other possible
carriers of disease which may come into contact with food or drinking water;
         (c)   Do not pollute or contaminate the waters of any bathing beach,
shellfish breeding grounds or stream used for public or domestic water-supply
purposes;
         (d)   Are not a health hazard by being accessible to children;
         (e)   Do not give rise to a nuisance due to odor or unsightly
appearance; and
         (f)   Will not violate any other laws or regulations governing water
pollution or sewage disposal.
   (B)   The Health Officer is authorized to promulgate such additional
regulations as are necessary in his or her judgment to carry out the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 195, passed 12-12-1959) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.097 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter or extend
individual sewage disposal systems with the township unless he or she holds a
valid permit issued by the Health Officer in the name of such person for the
specific construction, alteration or extension proposed.
   (B)   All applications for permits shall be made to the Health Officer, who
shall issue a permit upon compliance with the applicant with provisions of this
subchapter and any regulations adopted hereunder.
   (C)   The Health Officer may refuse to grant a permit for the construction
of an individual sewage disposal system where public or community sewerage
systems are reasonably available.
   (D)   Application for permits shall be in writing, shall be signed by the
applicant and shall include the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Lot and block number of property on which construction, alteration
or extension is proposed;
      (3)   Complete plan of the proposed disposal facility, with
substantiating data, if necessary, attesting to its compliance with the minimum
standards of the Health Officer; and
      (4)   Such further information as may be required by the Health Officer
to substantiate that the proposed construction, alteration or extension
complies with regulations promulgated by the Health Officer.
   (E)   A complete plan for the purpose of obtaining a permit to be issues by
the Health Officer shall include:
      (1)   The number, location and size of all sewage disposal facilities to
be constructed, altered or extended;
      (2)   The location of water supplied, water supply piping, existing
sewage disposal facilities, buildings or dwellings, and adjacent lot lines; and
      (3)   Plans of the proposed sewage disposal facilities to be constructed,
altered or extended.
   (F)   Any person whose application for a permit under this subchapter has
been denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Health Officer within 30 days after receipt of the request.
(Ord. 195, passed 12-12-1959) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.098 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Health Officer is hereby authorized and directed to make such
inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this
subchapter and regulations promulgated hereunder.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of the property to give
the Health Officer free access to the property at reasonable times for the
purpose of making such inspections as are necessary to determine compliance
with the requirements of this subchapter and regulations promulgated hereunder.
(Ord. 195, passed 12-12-1959)
RATES
§ 52.110 RATES.
   (A)   Effective the January 1, 2009 billing cycle, which is for the December
2018 meter readings, rates for sanitary sewer services shall be:
      (1)   Minimum charge for 0 to 1,000 gallons per EDU: $37; and
      (2)   Charge for each 100 gallons thereafter: $0.80.
   (B)   (1)   A penalty of $25 shall be imposed on each and every delinquent
account at the time that it is physically posted for water termination.
      (2)   This penalty shall be in addition to all other penalties or costs
imposed by the Township Sewer Department or the public water provider in
connection with the delinquent account or the cost of turning water off or on.
   A $ 20 FEE HAS BEEN ADDED TO YOUR SEWER ACCOUNT TO COVER THE COSTS INVOLVED WITH
PREPARING AND MAILING THIS DELINQUENT NOTICE.
   IF YOU FAIL TO MAKE PAYMENT IN FULL, AFTER THE WATER SUPPLY IS SHUT OFF, IN
ADDITION TO PAYING THE FULL AMOUNT OF YOUR SEWER BILL, YOU WILL BE REQUIRED TO PAY:
      1   AN ADDITIONAL $125 FOR THE COSTS AND EXPENSES OF WATER SERVICE TERMINATION
AND RECONNECTION, AND FOR NOTICE AND POSTING COSTS, PLUS
      2.   A MINIMUM SEWER SERVICE CHARGE CALCULATED AT THE RATE OF $32 PER MONTH,
PLUS
      3.   AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO THE ESTIMATED LOST WATER REVENUES OF THE SUPPLIER,
PLUS
      4.   ALL PENALTIES AND INTEREST AS ALLOWED BY LAW.
CONEMAUGH TOWNSHIP SEWER DEPARTMENT BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
Pennsylvania law provides that:
* * * In no case shall the water supply be shut off to any premises until ten days
after written notice of an intention so to do has been mailed the person liable for
payment of the rentals and charges, and in addition thereto, there has been posted a
written notice at a main entrance to the premises. If during such ten-day period,
the person liable for the payment of the rentals and charges delivers to the water
utility authority or municipality supplying water to the premises a written
statement, under oath or affirmation, stating that he or she has a just defense to
the claim, or part of it, for such rentals or charges, then the water supply shall
not be shut off until claim has been judicially determined. The statement shall also
contain a declaration under oath or affirmation that it was not executed for purpose
of delay.
 
(Res. R01-04, passed 5-19-2004; Res. R04-07, passed 7-18-2007; Res. R05-07,
passed 10-24-2007; Res. R12-09, passed 10-21-2009)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with any of the
terms or provisions of §§
52.001 through
52.013, shall be subject to a penalty of not more than $600 for each violation.
Once a person is notified of a violation of §§
52.001 through
52.013, each day that such violation occurs or continues shall constitute a
separate violation. In addition to and not in lieu of the foregoing, the
municipality or the public sewage provider may seek equitable relief to compel
compliance with §§
52.001 through
52.013.
   (C)   In addition to any penalty prescribed or contained in any other
related ordinance, any property owner and/or other person failing to make the
proper connection within the time specified, after receipt of proper notice as
provided in §
52.027 or who is found in violation of any other provisions of §§
52.025 through
52.031 shall, upon conviction hereof before a district justice, pay a fine or
penalty of not less than $100 nor more than $600, and upon default of payment
of either thereof, shall be sentenced to undergo an imprisonment of not more
than 30 days in the county jail and shall also be subject to any other
equitable proceedings available to the township or Authority. Each day that
said violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who shall violate §§
52.045 through
52.048 shall be liable, upon summary conviction for a first offense and upon
summary conviction for each subsequent offense, to a fine or not less than
$100, nor more than $600, together with costs or prosecution in each case. Each
day that a violation shall continue shall be deemed and shall be taken to be a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
      (2)   Fines and costs imposed under provisions of §§
52.045 through
52.048 shall be enforceable and recoverable in the manner at the time provided
by applicable law.
   (E)   Any person who violates any provisions of §
52.067 shall, upon conviction hereof by summary proceedings, be sentenced to
pay a fine of not less than $100 and not more than $600 and in default of said
fine and costs, to undergo imprisonment in the county prison for period not in
excess of 30 days.
   (F)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of § §
52.082 shall be subject to the penalty provisions of the Pennsylvania Sewage
Facilities Act, being 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.
   (G)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
52.095 through
52.098, or any provision of any regulation adopted by the Health Officer
pursuant to authority granted by §§
52.095 through
52.098, shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor
more than $600, or by imprisonment for not less than five days nor more than 30
days and each day’s failure to comply shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 195, passed 12-12-1959; Ord. 428, passed 1-6-1978; Ord. 590, passed 8-9-
1990; Ord. 614, passed 12-18-1996; Ord. 657, passed 10-27-2004; Ord. 666,
passed 9-17-2008)
CHAPTER 53: WASTEWATER
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Adoption of generally applicable sewer rules by reference
   
53.03   Specific pollutant limitations
   
53.04   Authorization to adopt rules and issue permits
   
53.05   Inspections
   
53.06   Enforcement authority (pretreatment program)
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICABLE RULES. The most current version of “Rates, Rules and Regulations
for Johnstown Regional Sewage Regarding the Use of the Sewage Collection or
Treatment Systems” which have been formally adopted by the Board of the
Redevelopment Authority of the City of Johnstown, and notice of which adoption
has been provided to each municipality. The APPLICABLE RULES shall include all
exhibits to the rules.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The United States Environmental Protection Agency or
other governmental agency authorized to review and approve the JRS’s industrial
pretreatment or other source control program.
   APPROVED PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. A program for pretreatment of industrial
waste approved by the Environmental Protection Agency or the Department of
Environmental Protection in accordance with the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act, 62 Stat. 1155, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PROGRAM. The Enforcement Response Program as approved
by the U.S. EPA and provided to the municipality by the JRS.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Township of Conemaugh (municipality).
   JRS. Johnstown Regional Sewage, an enterprise operation of the Redevelopment
Authority of the City of Johnstown, and operating as and fulfilling the
functions of PWTA (public wastewater treatment authority) and POTW (publicly
owned treatment works) as referred to in applicable state and federal laws and
regulations.
   LOCAL LIMITS. Limitation on concentrations and absolute volumes of
contaminants introduced into the sewage collection system.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Township of Conemaugh, Somerset County, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 673, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 53.02 ADOPTION OF GENERALLY APPLICABLE SEWER RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The governing body of the township hereby adopts by reference, the
“Rates, Rules and Regulations for Johnstown Regional Sewage Regarding the Use
of the Sewage Collection or Treatment Systems” as currently adopted by the JRS.
   (B)   At such times that it becomes necessary, revised rules will be
formally adopted by the JRS and a copy of which shall be submitted to the
township.
   (C)   Every person, business or organization located within the geographic
boundaries of the township, and connected to the JRS collection and treatment
system, shall in all instances use the sewage collection and treatment system
in a manner which is in complete compliance with the “Rates, Rules and
Regulations for Johnstown Regional Sewage Regarding the Use of the Sewage
Collection or Treatment Systems”. Violation of any of the rules or requirements
set forth therein, either as currently applicable or as may be adopted in the
future, shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 673, passed 12-16-2009) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 SPECIFIC POLLUTANT LIMITATIONS.
   All wastewater entering the sanitary sewage system shall be pre-treated to
typical domestic levels unless otherwise stated in writing by the JRS by way of
significant industrial user permit or other permit. Typical domestic levels
shall be documented in a set of local limits for pollutants, capable of
effecting efficient operation of the sewage treatment plant, in the “Rates,
Rules, and Regulations”, Appendix A, in a format as attached to the ordinance
codified herein, which is adopted by reference as if set out in full. Typical
domestic levels and specific pollutant limitations may be changed periodically
due to changing NPDES requirements, changes in the overall characteristics of
waste throughout the system, required reevaluations of the local limits
analysis, or other reasons. At such times that it becomes necessary, modified
local limits will be established and formally adopted by the JRS. Such
revisions shall only be implemented after the modifications have been reviewed
and determined to be acceptable by the approval authority (U.S. EPA). Revised
pretreatment program local discharge limits will be issued as “Appendix A” to
the applicable rules, and issued to all municipalities.
(Ord. 673, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 53.04 AUTHORIZATION TO ADOPT RULES AND ISSUE PERMITS.
   (A)   Consistent with the rules adopted by the Authority and due process
rights to administrative hearings and adjudication before the governing body of
the JRS or their duly designated Hearing Officer, pursuant to provisions of the
Pennsylvania Local Government Public Agency Law, 2 Pa.C.S. §§ 551 et seq., the
township specifically authorizes the JRS to establish general and individual
controls on users of the system as required by the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act of 1977 as amended and the implementing regulations adopted by the
approval authority found at 40 C.F.R. part 403.
   (B)   The JRS is specifically authorized to:
      (1)   Deny or condition new or increased contributions of pollutants, or
changes in the nature of pollutants, to the POTW by industrial users where such
contributions do not meet applicable pretreatment standards and requirements or
where such contributions would cause the POTW to violate its NPDES permit;
      (2)   Require compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements by industrial users;
      (3)   Where necessary for the efficient operation of the system or as
required by the approved pretreatment program, to control through permit,
order, conditions or similar means, the contribution to the JRS by each user to
ensure the efficient operation of the sewage collection and treatment system
and compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements. In the
case of industrial users identified as significant under 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(v),
this control shall be achieved through individual permits or equivalent
individual control mechanisms issued to each such user except as exempted by
current federal regulations; and
      (4)   Assess and collect fees for permits and permit-related activities.
   (C)   (1)   The authorization to establish rules and issue and enforce
permits shall include, but not be limited to, the adoption of general and
individual control mechanisms, as those are defined in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f).
      (2)   Rules shall at all times contain the minimum necessary standards
set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 403.
      (3)   Any violation of order, rule or permit condition, issued hereunder,
general or individual, shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 673, passed 12-16-2009) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 INSPECTIONS.
   The JRS is hereby authorized to carry out all inspection, surveillance and
monitoring procedures necessary to determine, independent of information
supplied by industrial users, compliance or noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements by industrial users. Representatives of
the JRS shall be authorized to enter any premises of any industrial user, in
which a discharge source or treatment system is located or in which records are
required to be kept under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(o), to assure compliance with
pretreatment standards.
(Ord. 673, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 53.06 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY (PRETREATMENT PROGRAM).
   (A)   Delegation. The JRS is hereby designated as the responsible party and
agent of the township for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this
chapter. The JRS is hereby authorized to initiate actions in its own name or
acting in the name of the township for violation of this chapter, or to bring
civil actions in equity or law to ensure compliance or prevent violation of the
applicable rules. The JRS is designated as the responsible party for carrying
out any hearings which may be required under the Pennsylvania Local Government
Public Agency Law, being 2 Pa.C.S. §§ 551, 751.
   (B)   Enforcement response plan. The JRS is hereby authorized to impose
civil penalties for violations of its rules as set forth in the enforcement
response plan. At such times that it becomes necessary, modifications to the
enforcement response plan will be established and formally adopted by the JRS
after the modifications have been approved by the approval authority (U.S.
EPA). After formal adoption by the JRS, the new modifications become automatic
in this municipality. A revised enforcement response plan will be issued by the
JRS to all municipalities for inclusion in their ordinance as a replacement. No
formal adoption process by this governmental body is necessary for the
revisions to the enforcement response plan to become effective and part of this
chapter.
   (C)   Injunctions and termination of service. The JRS is also specifically
authorized to obtain remedies for noncompliance by any industrial user with any
pretreatment standard and requirement. The JRS is also authorized to terminate
service to violators or seek injunctive relief for noncompliance by industrial
users with pretreatment standards and requirements.
(Ord. 673, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 673, passed 12-16-2009)
CHAPTER 54: DROUGHT
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Nonessential uses of water
   
54.02   Mandatory water use restrictions
   
54.03   Water rationing
   
54.04   Exemptions
Local Water Rationing Plan
   
54.15   Authority
   
54.16   Definitions
   
54.17   Purpose
   
54.18   Scope
   
54.19   Objectives of the plan
   
54.20   Prohibited non-essential water uses
   
54.21   General requirement for water use reductions
   
54.22   Water use restrictions for residential users
   
54.23   Water use restrictions for nonresidential users
   
54.24   Water use restrictions for hospitals and health care facilities
   
54.25   Enforcement of water rationing plan
   
54.26   Amendment of the plan
Drought Contingency Plan
   
54.40   Drought contingency plan
Drought Emergency Nonessential Use Ban
   
54.55   Drought emergency nonessential use ban
 
   
54.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 NONESSENTIAL USES OF WATER.
   Those uses of water not essential to the protection of public health and
safety are deemed nonessential. Nonessential uses of water may be restricted by
both voluntary and mandatory measures as prescribed and outlined within the
water shortage response plan (§§
54.15 through
54.26,
54.40 and
54.55). A list of nonessential water uses is included in the plan.
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998)
§ 54.02 MANDATORY WATER USE RESTRICTIONS.
   If, during a water shortage period declared by resolution of the Township
Supervisors, upon the advice of a local water provider that a voluntary ban on
nonessential uses of water has not sufficiently reduced the rate of depletion
of water supply sources, and those sources have reached a level at which the
response plan prescribed more severe demand reduction measures, a mandatory
restriction of nonessential water uses shall be imposed.
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998)
§ 54.03 WATER RATIONING.
   If a water shortage emergency is declared within a specific water service
area of Conemaugh Township and both voluntary and mandatory restrictions of
nonessential water uses have failed to sufficiently reduce the rate of
depletion of all available water supply sources, water rationing may be
implemented. The Conemaugh Township Water Rationing Plan is included in the
water shortage response plan and adopted herein as a part of this chapter.
Changes made in the plan from time to time shall be automatically incorporated
herein upon adoption by the local water provider and approval by the
Pennsylvania Emergency Management Council, or other agency having jurisdiction
over such plans.
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998)
§ 54.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   Any water service customers may apply to the township for an exemption to
the terms of this chapter which may be granted by the township upon adequate
evidence of inequitable hardship imposed through adherence to the provisions of
the plan and evidence that the exemption will not lead to greater problems for
the remaining customers of a water service provider.
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998)
LOCAL WATER RATIONING PLAN
§ 54.15 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Pennsylvania Emergency Management Council is authorized to
promulgate, adopt and enforce a water rationing plan by virtue of Emergency
Management Services Code, 35 Pa.C.S. §§ 7101 et seq. as implemented by the
drought emergency proclamations.
   (B)   The township municipal authority has responsibility under its articles
of incorporation to provide potable water to residents of Conemaugh Township
and Benson Borough and surrounding areas.
   (C)   The authority is authorized pursuant to the township drought emergency
regulations to implement and enforce mandatory water conservation measures,
upon declaration of a local water shortage or drought emergency by the Township
Supervisors.
   (D)   Therefore, the township municipal authority hereby adopts the
following.
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998)
§ 54.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. The Conemaugh Township Municipal Authority.
   EMERGENCY SERVICE AREA. The service area of the Conemaugh Township Municipal
Authority.
   NONRESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Commercial, industrial, institutional, public and
all other users not defined as a residential user, with the exception of
hospitals, nursing and health care facilities.
   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Any customer who receives water services individually
for a single- dwelling unit whether it be in a single-family home or a grouping
of dwelling units. The term RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER does not include educational
or other institutions, hotels, motels, apartments or housing units with a
single service or meter serving multiple-dwelling units or similar commercial
establishments.
   SERVICE AREA. The territory and the customers serviced by the Conemaugh
Township Municipal Authority.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION. The temporary suspension of water supply, or reduction
of pressures below that required for adequate supply to any customer, portion
of a water supply system or an entire system.
      (1)   EXCESS USE. The usage of water by a water customer in excess of the
water allotment provided under the local water rationing plan for that
customer, over any applicable period.
      (2)   WATER CUSTOMER. Any person who is connected to and receives water
service from the Conemaugh Township Municipal Authority.
   SPECIAL EMERGENCY AREA. The area or areas within which the Governor or
Township Supervisors have declared a state of drought and water shortage
emergency.
   WATER ALLOTMENT. The maximum quantity of water allowed for each customer
over any applicable period as established pursuant to §§
54.22 through
54.24 of this plan.
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998)
§ 54.17 PURPOSE.
   This local water rationing plan is intended to establish measures for
essential conservation of water resources, and to provide for equitable
distribution of limited water supplies, in order to balance demand and limited
available supplies and to assure that sufficient water is available to preserve
public health and safety within the service area of the township municipal
authority.
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998)
§ 54.18 SCOPE.
   This local water rationing plan shall apply to all water uses within the
service area of the township municipal authority, encompassing all or part of
the township.
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998)
§ 54.19 OBJECTIVE OF THE PLAN.
   (A)   It is imperative that water customers within the emergency service
area achieve an immediate and further reduction in the water use in order to
extend existing water supplies and, at the same time, assure that sufficient
water is available to preserve the public health and sanitation, and provide
fire protection service.
   (B)   The objective of this local water rationing plan is to effect an
immediate 25% reduction in water usage.
   (C)   The immediate 25% reduction in water usage is another step along a
continuum of responses to the present water supply crisis. Should drought
conditions continue, further reductions in usage may be required. It must be
emphasized that the 25% usage reduction in the emergency area is a valid and
attainable figure reflective of the conditions which currently exist.
   (D)   The plan provides for equitable reductions in water usage, and for
equal sacrifice on the part of each water customer. The success of this plan
depends on the cooperation of all water customers in the emergency service
area.
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998)
§ 54.20 PROHIBITED NONESSENTIAL WATER USES.
   The following water uses are declared nonessential and are prohibited within
the emergency service area:
   (A)   The watering of lawns;
   (B)   The watering of outdoor gardens, landscaped areas, trees, shrubs and
other outdoor plants, except between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. by
means of a bucket or pail, at the minimum rate necessary;
   (C)   The washing of automobiles and trucks except when required for safety
and operational purposes;
   (D)   The washing of streets, driveways and sidewalks;
   (E)   The serving of water in restaurants, clubs or eating places unless
specifically requested by the individual;
   (F)   Ornamental water use, including, but not limited to, fountains,
artificial waterfalls and reflecting pools;
   (G)   The use of water for flushing sewers or hydrants by municipalities or
any public or private individual or entity except as deemed necessary and
approved in the interest of public health or safety by the municipal health
officials;
   (H)   The use of fire hydrants by fire companies for testing fire apparatus
and for Fire Department drills except as deemed necessary in the interest of
public safety and specifically approved by the township municipal authority;
   (I)   The use of fire hydrants by municipal road departments, contractors
and all others, except as necessary for firefighting or protection purposes;
and
   (J)   The use of water to fill and top off swimming pools.
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.21 GENERAL REQUIREMENT FOR WATER USE REDUCTIONS.
   Each and every water customer, regardless of whether residential,
commercial, industrial, municipal institutional or other type of user, shall
achieve the water use reductions set forth in this local water rationing plan.
In order to achieve the overall objectives of the plan, the water use
restrictions and limitations set forth in §§
54.22 through
54.24 shall apply.
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998)
§ 54.22 WATER USE RESTRICTIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL USERS.
   (A)   Metered residential water customers and allotments.
      (1)   The number of permanent residents in each dwelling unit (household)
will determine the amount of water that each household will be allowed.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit (household) shall be allotted 40 gallons per day
for each resident of the household. Households with only one permanent resident
will have a daily allotment of 55 gallons.
      (3)   Residential water customers are required to provide authority
personnel with reasonable access to read meters as necessary to implement this
rationing plan. Where access is not readily available, the Authority shall make
all reasonable efforts to contact customers in order to arrange for access to
read meters. In the event a water customer does not allow authority personnel
entry to read the meter, after the authority has made reasonable efforts to
arrange for such access, the dwelling unit (household) allotment will be
reduced to 55 gallons per day.
   (B)   Exemptions and variances.
      (1)   Where the residential water allotment provided under this section
would create extraordinary hardship, as in the case of special health-related
requirements, the water customer may apply to the authority for an exemption or
variance from these requirements. If the authority finds that the allotment
provided in this section would impose extraordinary hardship, the authority may
establish a revised allotment for the particular customer.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by a decision relating to such an exemption or
variance rendered by the authority may file an appeal with the county court of
common pleas in accordance with the provisions and procedures of the Local
Agency Law, 2 Pa.C.S. §§ 551 through 555 and 751 through 754.
   (C)   Suggested conservation measures. The authority will provide
residential water customers with suggested means for reducing water consumption
in order to achieve the established allotment. These suggestions may include:
      (1)   Locate and repair all leaks in faucets, toilets and water-using
appliances;
      (2)   Adjust all water-using appliances to use the minimum amount of
water in order to achieve the appliance’s purpose;
      (3)   Use automatic washing machines and dishwashers only with full
loads. Preferably, wash dishes by hand;
      (4)   Take shorter showers and shallower baths;
      (5)   Turn off shower while soaping; turn off faucet while brushing teeth
and the like;
      (6)   Install flow restrictors in showerheads and faucets;
      (7)   Reduce the number of toilet flushes per day. Each flush uses about
five gallons. Reduce water used per flush by installing toilet tank
displacement inserts;
      (8)   Use sink and tub stoppers to avoid wasting water;
      (9)   Keep bottle of chilled drinking water in refrigerator; and
      (10)   Read the meter to determine the household’s daily water use.
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998)
§ 54.23 WATER USE RESTRICTIONS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL USERS.
   (A)   Nonresidential customers include commercial, industrial,
institutional, public and all other users, with the exception of hospitals and
health care facilities.
   (B)   Nonresidential water customers shall reduce their water usage by a
minimum of 25% of use levels for the same quarter of the preceding year.
   (C)   It is the primary responsibility of each nonresidential water customer
to meet its mandated water use, reduction goal in whatever manner possible.
   (D)   The authority will establish a water allotment for each nonresidential
water customer, based upon a required 25% reduction of water usage from the
rate of water used by the customer in the same quarter of the preceding year or
the last recorded use level if no meter readings record the rate of the
customer’s use in the same quarter of the preceding year.
   (E)   Each nonresidential water user shall provide access to authority
personnel for purposes of meter reading and monitoring of compliance with this
plan. The authority shall make all reasonable efforts to contact customers to
arrange for access.
   (F)   If the mandated 25% reduction in water usage cannot be obtained
without imposing extraordinary hardship threatening health and safety, the
nonresidential customer may apply to the township municipal authority for a
variance. For these purposes, EXTRAORDINARY HARDSHIP means a permanent damage
to property or economic loss which is substantially more severe than the
sacrifices borne by other water users subject to this water rationing plan. If
the authority finds that the 25% reduction would cause extraordinary hardship
or threaten health or safety, the authority may grant a variance and establish
a revised water use reduction requirement for the particular customer.
   (G)   Any person aggrieved by a decision relating to such a variance
rendered by the authority may appeal the decision to the Commonwealth Drought
Coordinator who shall render a final decision.
   (H)   The township municipal authority will supply each nonresidential
customer with suggested means to reduce usage levels. These suggestions may
include:
      (1)   Identify and repair all leaky fixtures and water-using equipment.
Special attention is to be given to equipment connected directly to the water
line, such as processing machines, steam-using machines, washing machines,
water-cooled air conditioners and furnaces;
      (2)   Assure that the valves and solenoids, which control water flows,
are shut off completely when the water-using cycle is not engaged;
      (3)   Adjust water-using equipment to use the minimum amount of water
required to achieve its stated purpose;
      (4)   Shorten rinse cycles for laundry machines as much as possible;
lower water levels should be implemented wherever possible;
      (5)   Temperature settings of hot water for showers should be set down at
least ten degrees to discourage lengthy shower taking;
      (6)   Where plumbing fixtures can accommodate them, flow restricting or
other water-saving devices should be installed;
      (7)   Review usage patterns to see where other savings can be made;
      (8)   For processing and cooling and other uses where possible, either
reuse water or use from sources that would not adversely affect public water
supplies;
      (9)   Advise employees, students, patients, customers and other users,
not to flush toilets after every use. Install toilet tank displacement inserts;
place flow restrictors in showerheads and faucets; close down automatic flushes
overnight;
      (10)   Adjust flushometers and automatic flushing valves to use as little
water as possible or to cycle at greater intervals;
      (11)   Encourage water-consciousness by placing water-saving posters and
literature where employees, students, patients and customers and the like, will
have access to them; and
      (12)   Customers should read water meters on a frequent basis to
determine consumption patterns.
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998)
§ 54.24 WATER USE RESTRICTIONS FOR HOSPITALS AND HEALTH CARE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Hospitals and health care facilities shall comply with all
restrictions imposed on residential and nonresidential water customers as may
be applicable to each individual institution, to the extent compliance will not
endanger the health of the patients or residents of the institution.
   (B)   Each hospital and health care facility shall survey its water usage
patterns and requirements and implement such additional conservation measures
as may be possible without endangering the health of patients or residents to
achieve a 25% reduction in the institution’s water usage.
   (C)   The authority will provide each hospital and health care facility with
suggested means to reduce usage levels. These suggestions may include:
      (1)   Reduce laundry usage or services by changing bed linen and the
like, only where necessary to preserve the health of patients or residents;
      (2)   Use disposable food service items; and
      (3)   Eliminate, postpone or reduce, as may be appropriate, elective
surgical procedures during the period of the emergency.
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998)
§ 54.25 ENFORCEMENT OF WATER RATIONING PLAN.
   (A)   The township municipal authority will have lead responsibility for
monitoring of compliance with this water rationing plan.
   (B)   The following provisions shall govern the implementation of temporary
service interruptions.
      (1)   In order to effectuate compliance with this plan, the township
municipal authority is hereby authorized and required to plan and implement
temporary service interruptions to all or part of its water supply system, as
the authority may deem appropriate, when any and/or all of the following
conditions are determined by the authority to exist, as to its water supply
system:
         (a)   A 25% reduction in systemwide water usage has not been achieved;
         (b)   The 25% reduction in system wide water usage has been achieved,
but has failed to have a significant impact in extending limited water
supplies; and/or
         (c)   Temporary service interruptions are necessary in order to
further extend limited and/or dwindling water supplies.
      (2)   (a)   In the event that the authority determines that temporary
service interruptions are necessary, the authority shall notify its customers
through the public media (newspapers, radio, telephone and television) at least
one day prior to the temporary service interruptions, that a planned, temporary
service interruption is to be imposed.
         (b)   In addition, the authority shall notify the Commonwealth Drought
Coordinator, the local coordinator of emergency management, local public health
authorities, the State Emergency Management Agency and the regional office of
the Department of Environmental Protection.
         (c)   Such notice shall:
            1.   State the day or days when the planned, temporary service
interruptions will occur;
            2.   State the time(s) when such planned, temporary service
interruptions will commence, and the time(s) such interruptions will cease;
            3.   State whether the planned, temporary service interruptions are
to be imposed on the entire system, or a part thereof, and, if only part(s) of
the system will experience planned, temporary service interruptions, identify
the geographical boundaries within which the planned, temporary service
interruptions will occur; and
            4.   Advise all customers within the areas affected by planned,
temporary service interruptions how to treat any water received from the
system, for human consumption, during the period(s) of planned, temporary
service interruptions and for such additional time as may be necessary until
full pressure is restored to the system.
      (3)   If the authority imposes planned, temporary service interruptions
as authorized and required by this plan, it must provide for the continued
delivery of water to health care facilities within the area(s) affected by such
interruptions, by means of an adequate, alternative delivery measures that may
be necessary.
      (4)   If the authority implements planned, temporary service
interruptions, it must make provision, by any means possible, for the continued
delivery of such water, as may be necessary, for the proper operation of sewage
collection, treatment and disposal systems and facilities.
   (C)   Any residential or nonresidential water customer who exceeds the
allotments established pursuant to this water rationing plan will be subject to
the following excess use charge.
      (1)   The township municipal authority is directed to collect an excess
use charge based on the amount by which a customer’s use exceeds the water
allotments established pursuant to the local water rationing plan, computed in
accordance with the following schedule:
 
Excess Usage Per Month                 Charge for Excess
First 2,000 gallons or portion thereof $7 per 1,000 gallons or portion thereof
Each 1,000 gallons or portion thereof  $15 per 1,000 gallons or portion thereof
 
      (2)   (a)   Any monies collected by the authority through excess use
charges shall not be accounted for as income to the authority but shall be
placed by the authority in a reserve account.
         (b)   Funds collected shall be disposed of in accordance with the
directions of the Commonwealth Drought Coordinator.
   (D)   In addition to the excess use charge, noncompliance with the water
rationing plan will result in the following.
      (1)   For the first excess use, a warning of possible discontinuation
shall be issued to the customer by the authority.
      (2)   (a)   For the second or subsequent excess use, the authority may
interrupt or shut-off service to the customer for a period not to exceed 48
hours, or, if the customer provides access, the authority may install a flow
restrictor in the customer’s service line for the duration of the emergency.
         (b)   The cost incurred by the authority to interrupt or shut-off and
reinstate service, or to install and remove a flow restrictor, shall be
assessed to the water customer by the authority.
   (E)   The township municipal authority is authorized to alter meter reading
schedules to assure adequate monitoring of compliance with this plan.
   (F)   Any customer or other person aggrieved by a decision or action by the
authority imposing an excess use charge or other remedy for noncompliance with
the requirements of this plan may proceed in accordance with the following
provisions.
      (1)   (a)   The authority shall adopt procedures which provide an
opportunity for the customer or aggrieved party to rebut the finding of a
violation, or evidence of circumstances beyond the customer’s control which
resulted in the violation.
         (b)   The authority shall keep a record of evidence presented
regarding disputed violations, and shall provide the customer or aggrieved
party with a written notice of the authority’s final decision and action in
such cases.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the final decision or action of the
authority may file an appeal with the county court of common pleas, in
accordance with the provisions and procedures of the Local Agency Law, 2
Pa.C.S. §§ 551 through 555 and 751 through 754.
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998)
§ 54.26 AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN.
   The township municipal authority may, at any time, submit to the State
Emergency Management Agency proposed additions to or amendments of this plan.
Such amendments shall be expeditiously considered by the Emergency Management
Council, and shall take effect upon adoption by the Council.
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998)
DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN
§ 54.40 DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN.
Demand Measures Supply Measures
Demand Measures                                                                 Supply
                                                                                Measures
Stage I
                                                                                Systemwide
                                                                                leakage
Voluntary restrictions an nonessential water use                                and loss
                                                                                reduction
                                                                                survey
Stage II
Notify State Water Plan Division (717) 787-5008                                 Increase
Implement mandatory restrictions on nonessential water use (see attachment)     purchased
                                                                                water from
                                                                                Highland
If Stage III appears imminent, submit water rationing plan to the State         Sewer and
Emergency Management Agency (see local water rationing plan (§§ 54.15 through Water
54.26) and cover letter attached to the ordinance codified and adopted by       Authority
reference as if set out in full herein)                                         to supply
                                                                                the Tire
                                                                                Hill area

Stage III
                                                                                Utilize
                                                                                emergency
                                                                                sources
                                                                                and
                                                                                equipment
                                                                                (list
Implement water rationing plan after approval by the state emergency management emergency
agency                                                                          sources
                                                                                and
                                                                                equipment
                                                                                necessary
                                                                                to utilize
                                                                                each
                                                                                source)
 
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998)
DROUGHT EMERGENCY NONESSENTIAL USE BAN
§ 54.55 DROUGHT EMERGENCY NONESSENTIAL USE BAN.
Prohibited Exceptions
Prohibited   Exceptions
Filling and  1. Public or residential swimming pools with filtration and recycling
topping off  capabilities serving 25 or more dwelling units
swimming     2. Health care facilities for patient care/rehabilitation
pools        3. Other pools if water supplier approved
             Agricultural irrigation
             Commercial nurseries
Irrigation   If applied by hand-held container or hose with automatic shut-off between
of gardens,  5:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
landscaped   Maintenance of newly planted gardens, trees, shrubs or other outdoor
areas, trees plants—hand-held equipment only between 5:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
and shrubs   Arboretums and public gardens of national, state or regional significance
             Revegetation following earthmoving as required by law or regulation or
             approved plan
Lawn         Sewage or stormwater treatment systems utilizing spray irrigation
watering,    Newly seeded and sodded grass areas between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 9:
including    00 a.m. by means of a hand-held hose, nozzle, bucket or pail
athletic
fields and   Newly seeded or sodded nonresidential grass areas exceeding 10,000 square
industrial/  feet may be watered conservatively between hours of 5:00 p.m. and 9:00
commercial   a.m. or by professional landscapers during any hours
complexes
Operation of
water
fountains,
artificial   None
waterfalls
and
reflecting
pools
Serving
water in
eating
places
unless       None
specifically
requested by
the
individual
Washing      Water may be used for pre-washing in preparation of asphalt street or
paved        driveway recoating and sealing
surfaces     Clay tennis courts as minimally necessary by hand-held hose
such as      Grass tennis courts as minimally necessary
streets,
roads,
sidewalks,
driveways,
garages,     Sanitation of eating/drinking premises
parking
areas,
tennis
courts and
patios
             Car washing may be done from a bucket or using commercial car washes
Washing      Cleaning of commercial or public vehicles to allow for safe operation
vehicles     Cleaning dealers’ sales inventory, with certain restrictions on time and
             methods
             Professional mobile wash businesses
             Tees and greens may be watered between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 9:00
Watering     a.m.
golf courses Syringing heat sensitive grasses
             Necessary overseeding or resodding during August through October
 
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 620, passed 10-26-1998)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
      
71.   WEIGHT LIMITS
      
72.   ELECTRICAL SPEED TIME AND MONITORING DEVICES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
70.01   Definitions and interpretation
   
70.02   Manner of adopting permanent traffic and parking regulations
   
70.03   Temporary and emergency regulations
   
70.04   Experimental regulations
   
70.05   Traffic on streets closed or restricted for construction, maintenance
or special events
Traffic Regulations
   
70.20   Maximum speed limits established on certain township roads
   
70.21   Stop intersections established
Restrictions on Size, Weight and Type of Vehicle and Load
   
70.35   Vehicle weight limitations established on certain roads and bridges
Stopping, Standing and Parking
   
70.50   Parking prohibited
Snow Removal
   
70.65   Snow removal; private property
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Words and phrases, when used in this chapter, except for sections or
articles to which different or additional definitions apply, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in the Vehicle Code (the Act of June 17, 1976, P.L.
162 No. 81), as amended, except that, in this chapter, the word STREET may be
used interchangeably with the word HIGHWAY, and shall have the same meaning as
the word highway as defined in the Vehicle Code.
   (B)   The term LEGAL HOLIDAYS as used in this chapter shall mean and
include: New Year’s Day; Memorial Day; Independence Day; Labor Day;
Thanksgiving Day; and Christmas Day.
   (C)   In this chapter, the singular shall include the plural, the plural
shall include the singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine.
(Ord. 661, passed 6-21-2006)
§ 70.02 MANNER OF ADOPTING PERMANENT TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS.
   All traffic and parking regulations of a permanent nature shall be enacted
as ordinances or as parts of ordinances or as amendments to ordinances of the
township, except where the law specifically authorizes less formal action.
(Ord. 661, passed 6-21-2006)
§ 70.03 TEMPORARY AND EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the Board of Supervisors, or, in the absence or
unavailability of the Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson, or, in the absence or
unavailability of the Vice Chairperson, the Secretary, shall have the following
powers to regulate traffic and parking temporarily and in time of emergency:
      (1)   In the case of fire, flood, storm or other emergency, to establish
temporary traffic and/or parking regulations; and
      (2)   In the case of emergency public works or public events of limited
scope or duration, to restrict or prohibit traffic and/or parking in limited
areas for periods of not more than 72 hours.
   (B)   These temporary and emergency regulations shall be enforced in the
same manner as permanent regulations.
   (C)   If such temporary or emergency regulations are imposed by the
Supervisors, in the order listed in division (A) above, shall be informed as
soon as practicable. The Board of Supervisors may modify or rescind a temporary
or emergency regulation imposed by any single Supervisor.
(Ord. 661, passed 6-21-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Supervisors may, from time to time, designate places upon and
along the streets in the township where, for a period of not more than 90 days,
specific traffic and/or parking regulations, prohibitions and restrictions
shall be in force and effect, and shall designate those locations by proper
signs and markings. Those regulations, prohibitions and restrictions shall be
effective just as if they had been specified in this chapter. No person shall
drive or park a vehicle in violation of any such regulation, prohibition or
restriction, and no person shall move, remove, destroy or deface any sign or
marking erected, posted or made by authority of this section; provided, the
purpose of this section is to allow for test and experimental determination of
the feasibility and desirability of permanent changes in the ordinances of the
township relative to traffic and parking.
(Ord. 661, passed 6-21-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TRAFFIC ON STREETS CLOSED OR RESTRICTED FOR CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE
OR SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors or the Roadmaster, as its designee, shall
have authority to close any street or specific part of a street to vehicular
traffic and to place barriers or station police officers at each end of the
closed portion, while construction or maintenance work is under way or a
special event is being conducted on the closed portion. It shall be unlawful
for any person to drive a vehicle upon any such closed portion.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors or the Roadmaster, as its designee, shall
have authority to establish a restricted traffic area upon any street where
construction or maintenance work is under way and to station flaggers at each
end of the restricted portion. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a
vehicle upon any such restricted traffic area at any time when the flagger is
displaying a sign directing that vehicle to stop, or is signaling that vehicle,
by a flag or other device, not to proceed.
(Ord. 661, passed 6-21-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 70.20 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS ESTABLISHED ON CERTAIN TOWNSHIP ROADS.
   Maximum speed limits as have previously been enacted by the township by
prior ordinances are hereby set forth as follows:
 
Township Road                                              Miles Per Hour (mph)
Bethel Street (T-758) - Route 601 to dead end              25
Country Club Road (T-588) - 3,000 feet west of State Route 25
985
Hyasota Hill Road (T-638) - 1,500 feet west of State Route 25
601
Park Road (T-767) - 0.3 mile west of Legislative Route     25
55141
 
(Ord. 661, passed 6-21-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 STOP INTERSECTIONS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Intersections as posted are established as stop intersections, and
official stop signs shall be erected (or are ratified if previously erected) in
such a position as to face traffic approaching the intersecting or through
street on the stop street in the direction or directions indicated for that
intersection.
   (B)   Every driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection on the stop
street, in the direction indicated in each case, shall stop the vehicle as
required by 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 3323(b) of the Vehicle Code, and shall not proceed
into or across the intersecting or through street until he or she has followed
all applicable requirements of that section of the law.
(Ord. 661, passed 6-21-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
RESTRICTIONS ON SIZE, WEIGHT AND TYPE OF VEHICLE AND LOAD
§ 70.35 VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITATIONS ESTABLISHED ON CERTAIN ROADS AND BRIDGES.
   On the following roads and bridges, by authority granted by 75 Pa.C.S.A. §
4902(a) of the Vehicle Code, it shall be unlawful for any person or persons to
drive any vehicle or combination having a gross weight in excess of the maximum
described below for that bridge or road or part of road, as the case may be:
Township Road Maximum Gross Weight (Tons)
Township Road                     Maximum Gross Weight (Tons)
Country Club Road (T-588)         12
Govier Lane (T-793)               12
Pleasant View Road (T-720)        12
Quemahoning Dam Road (T-743)      10
Township Bridges                  Maximum Gross Weight (Pounds)
Hillside Drive (on T-433)         8,000
Dalton Run Road Bridge (on T-635) 32,000
Govier No. 3 Bridge (on T-793)    32,000
 
(Ord. 661, passed 6-21-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
§ 70.50 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Parking shall be prohibited at all times on or within the cartway or
paved area of all roads, streets or drives within the township.
   (B)   Parking shall be prohibited at all times along either side of Route
403 from the Cambria County line north to Catherine Street (T-419).
(Ord. 661, passed 6-21-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
SNOW REMOVAL
§ 70.65 SNOW REMOVAL; PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No one shall place snow on any township road by any method whatsoever from
any property. All snow removal on property adjacent to all township roads shall
be done in a manner so as not to place or relocate snow on to any township
road.
(Ord. 661, passed 6-21-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 661, passed 6-21-2006)
CHAPTER 71: WEIGHT LIMITS
Section
   
71.01   Short title
   
71.02   Enactment
   
71.03   Purpose
   
71.04   Definitions
   
71.05   Findings of the Board of Supervisors
   
71.06   Vehicle weight limits established
   
71.07   Permits and security
   
71.08   Erection of signs
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may commonly be referred to as the township “Motor Vehicle
Weight Limitation Ordinance”.
(Ord. 691, passed 1-16-2013)
§ 71.02 ENACTMENT.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority conferred by the Vehicle
Code, Act of 1976, June 17, P.L. 1962, No. 81 (75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq.), as
amended and is intended to include and be subject to all provisions of § 4902
of the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902, as amended, and all State Department
of Transportation regulations promulgated or to be promulgated under the
Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 691, passed 1-16-2013)
§ 71.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote and protect the general health,
safety and welfare of the citizens within the township herein, and the Board of
Supervisors have determined that the bridges and roads herein designated may be
damaged or destroyed unless use by vehicles is prohibited or the permissible
size or weight of vehicles is reduced.
(Ord. 691, passed 1-16-2013)
§ 71.04 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Any Fire Department vehicle, police vehicle,
ambulance, blood delivery vehicle, armed forces emergency vehicle, one private
vehicle of a Fire or Police Chief, or ambulance corps commander or assistance
commander, or other vehicle designated by the state police under 75 Pa.C.S.A. §
6106 of the Vehicle Code (relating to designation of emergency vehicles by the
state police).
      FARM VEHICLE. A motorized vehicle which is used exclusively for:
         (a)   Farm operations;
         (b)   Hauling farm related produce or livestock or hauling seed,
fertilizer, lime; or
         (c)   Other requirements of the farming operation.
      LOCAL TRAFFIC. Emergency vehicles, farm vehicles and school buses,
vehicles and combinations or governmental entities and utilities where their
contractors are engaged in construction or maintenance on a posted highway or
in a location which can be reached only via a posted highway, and vehicles and
combinations going to or coming from a residence or farm located on a posted
highway which can be reached only via a posted highway.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle or combination as defined and/or governed by
the Vehicle Code.
      SCHOOL BUS. A motor vehicle designed for the carrying of more than ten
passengers, exclusive of the driver, and used for the transportation of school
children.
   (B)   Words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meaning
ascribed to them in the Vehicle Code of the state, as now enacted and in force,
or as hereafter amended, enacted or reenacted except where the context of the
chapter clearly evidences a different meaning. The singular shall include the
plural and the masculine shall include the feminine and neuter.
(Ord. 691, passed 1-16-2013)
§ 71.05 FINDINGS OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
   The Board of Supervisors have determined and hereby determine based upon
engineering studies prepared by the Township Engineer that the following roads,
under the jurisdiction of the township, may be damaged or destroyed, or may
create a safety problem, unless the permissible weight of motor vehicles is
restricted and reduced to the weight limits listed:
 
Route Number Street Name         Between Weight Limit (Ton)
T-733        Keafer Hill Road           10
T-786        Weber Road                 10
T-588        Country Club Road          12
T-720        Pleasant View Drive        12
T-793        Govier Lane                12
 
(Ord. 691, passed 1-16-2013) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Vehicle weight limitations established on certain roads and bridges, see §
70.35
§ 71.06 VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the findings under §
71.05, and by authority of 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902 of the Vehicle Code, as amended,
and the regulations promulgated thereunder, no motor vehicle or combination
shall be operated upon any of the roads listed in §
71.05 with gross weight in excess of the weight limits for said road in §
71.05.
   (B)   Vehicles making local deliveries or pick-up (i.e., within the
township) exceeding the weight limits may do so, provided it is not of a
continuous repetitive daily nature. Local traffic as defined in §
71.04 shall be exempted from the restrictions imposed under §
71.05; however, if the Board of Supervisors determines that any local traffic
is likely to damage the road, the Board of Supervisors will so notify the
registrants of the motor vehicle or combination and will also notify the state
police. After two business days following delivery of the notice, or after five
days following mailing the notice, such local traffic vehicles shall not exceed
the weight limits except in accordance with §
71.07(B)(2)(e).
(Ord. 691, passed 1-16-2013) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 PERMITS AND SECURITY.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors of the township may issue permits for the
movement of motor vehicles or combinations with weights in excess of the
restrictions imposed under §
71.05 and may require such undertaking or security as it deems necessary to
cover the costs of anticipated or probable repairs and restoration necessitated
by the permitted movement of vehicles. All actions taken under the authority of
this section shall be taken in accordance with the rules and regulations
adopted by the State Department of Transportation, as found in 67 Pa. Code, as
amended.
   (B)   (1)   No person or entity shall be permitted to operate a vehicle or
combination with a weight, gross weight and/or total weight, loaded, partially
loaded and/or unloaded, in excess of the weight limits set by §
71.05 without first obtaining a permit from the township. The township imposes
a $25 permit fee, per road, which shall be paid by the operator prior to the
issuance of any permit. The township imposes a $50 per mile, per road
inspection fee which shall be paid by the operator prior to the issuance of the
permit.
      (2)   No permit shall issue from the township without satisfying the
following conditions.
         (a)   The operator must first establish that weight in excess of the
limits set by §
71.05 shall not damage and/or destroy the township road/route/bridge or portion
thereof, or create a hazardous traffic condition or create an unsafe condition.
         (b)   In the event the operator establishes that weight in excess of
the limits set by §
71.05 shall not damage and/or destroy the township road/route/bridge or portion
thereof, or create a hazardous traffic condition or create an unsafe condition,
the operator shall post a bond/security in a form acceptable to the township in
an amount in accordance with PennDOT regulations for the benefit of the
township.
         (c)   The bond set forth in division (B)(2)(b) above shall be payable
for the benefit of the township and shall be paid over to the township in an
amount which shall fully and completely compensate the township for repair and/
or replacement of the roadway and bridge, including engineering costs,
inspection costs, material and labor.
         (d)   In the event the Township Engineer determines that the proposed
operation of the vehicle or combination may damage or destroy the township
road/route/bridge or a portion thereof, and/or create a hazardous traffic
condition and/or other unsafe condition, the township reserves the right to not
issue a permit to exceed the weight restriction.
         (e)   School buses and emergency vehicles are exempted from the
restrictions imposed herein in accordance with the authority of 75 Pa.C.S.A. §
4902.
(Ord. 691, passed 1-16-2013)
§ 71.08 ERECTION OF SIGNS.
   (A)   The township shall erect or cause to be erected and maintained
restriction signs designating the restrictions at the end of the portion of
road or bridge restricted as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   In the case of a restriction on a road or bridge which has not begun
or ended at an intersection with an unrestricted highway, the township shall
also place an advance informational sign at the intersection nearest each end
of the restricted portion of the road, which would allow drivers to avoid the
restricted portion of the road.
(Ord. 691, passed 1-16-2013)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person operating a vehicle or combination upon a highway or bridge
in the township in violation of a prohibition or restriction imposed under this
chapter or 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902 is guilty of a summary offense and shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $75, except that any person convicted
of operating a vehicle with a gross weight in excess of a posted weight shall,
upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $150 plus $150 for each 500
pounds, or part thereof, in excess of 3,000 pounds over the maximum allowable
weight.
   (B)   Any person operating a vehicle or combination in violation of a
prohibition, or restriction imposed under 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902(b) and a
correlating portion of this chapter, is guilty of a summary offense and shall,
upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $100.
   (C)   The fine, penalty or late charge set forth above shall be in
accordance with the maximum legally permissible dollar amount permitted by
statutes of the commonwealth and the case law of the commonwealth. It is
specifically provided that each separate violation of this chapter by a vehicle
or combination shall be deemed a separate violation punishable by a separate
fine, penalty, cost or late charge.
(Ord. 691, passed 1-16-2013)
CHAPTER 72: ELECTRICAL SPEED TIME AND MONITORING DEVICES
Section
   
72.01   Rate of speed to be timed or monitored
   
72.02   Type of device
   
72.03   Agreement
   
72.04   Signs
§ 72.01 RATE OF SPEED TO BE TIMED OR MONITORED.
   The rate of speed of any vehicle may be timed or monitored, on any street or
highway within the limits of the township, by properly trained and certified
full-time or part-time police officers of the township, using the excessive
speed preventer (E.S.P.) or such other electrical speed timing devices or other
speed monitoring device now, or as may hereafter be, authorized by the State
Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 454, passed 7-2-1981)
§ 72.02 TYPE OF DEVICE.
   All such speed timing or monitoring devices shall be of a type approved by
the State Department of Transportation and shall be calibrated and tested as
required by the regulations of the State Department of Transportation and
statutes of the commonwealth.
(Ord. 454, passed 7-2-1981)
§ 72.03 AGREEMENT.
   The Board of Supervisors is hereby authorized to enter into an agreement
with the state police to permit the enforcement of speed restrictions by
properly trained and certified full-time or part-time police officers of the
township, through the use of mechanical or electrical speed timing or
monitoring devices on all limited access or divided highways and/or state
designated highways within the boundaries of the township.
(Ord. 454, passed 7-2-1981)
§ 72.04 SIGNS.
   The Board of Supervisors shall cause to be erected official traffic-control
devices or signs to give notice of the use of mechanical or electrical speed
timing or monitoring devices on the streets and highways or parts thereof
affected, in the township as may be authorized and provided by law.
(Ord. 454, passed 7-2-1981)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION/OPEN BURNING
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Prohibiting or Controlling Dogs on or Within Township Areas
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Animals prohibited; field and park
   
90.04   Controlled dogs only; Quemahoning
   
90.05   Public safety
   
90.06   Enforcement
Standards of Conduct
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Police dogs
   
90.22   Responsibilities of owners of dogs, cats and other animals
   
90.23   Dogs and animals running at large
   
90.24   Animals making loud noises
 
   
90.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Exhibits
PROHIBITING OR CONTROLLING DOGS ON OR WITHIN TOWNSHIP AREAS
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote and protect general
public safety on or within public facilities by controlling animals on or
within such public facilities as follows:
      (1)   Prohibit dogs and domesticated animals on or within the Hollsopple
Baseball Field and Greenhouse Park; and
      (2)   Prescribe control of dogs on or within the Quemahoning Family
Recreation Park.
   (B)   All of such parks and public recreational areas are located on or
within Conemaugh Township, Somerset County, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 662, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 674, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. The male and female sex of any domesticated animal of any and all
kinds, excepting seeing eye dogs.
   DOG. The male and female sex of the species, excepting seeing eye dogs.
   FIELD. The Hollsopple Baseball Field.
   OWNER. Any having a right or property in a dog or animal, and any person who
keeps or harbors a dog or animal or has it in his or her care, or acts as its
custodian, any and person who permits a dog or animal to remain on or about any
premises occupied by him or her.
   PARK. Greenhouse Park.
   QUEMAHONING. The Quemahoning Family Recreation Park.
(Ord. 662, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 674, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 90.03 ANIMALS PROHIBITED; FIELD AND PARK.
   All animals are prohibited at any time on or within the area of the field
and park, which areas are more specifically identified on Exhibit A-1 and
Exhibit A-2, located in
Appendix A of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for an owner to bring an
animal to the field and park regardless of whether the animal is on or off a
leash of any kind.
(Ord. 662, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 674, passed 12-16-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 CONTROLLED DOGS ONLY; QUEMAHONING.
   (A)   Dogs which are licensed and controlled in accordance with the
provisions hereof are allowed on or within that area of the Quemahoning as
shown on Exhibit A-3, located in Appendix A of this chapter. No owner may have
more than two dogs at any one time and all such dogs shall be on a leash not
longer than six feet in length, except that mechanically retractable leashes
may be of any length. The owner is responsible for cleaning up and properly
disposing of droppings which must be removed entirely from the area of the
Quemahoning.
   (B)   No dogs or animals shall be permitted on or within that portion of the
Quemahoning shown as “Dogs and Animals Prohibited” as shown and described on
Exhibit A-3, located in
Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. 662, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 674, passed 12-16-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 PUBLIC SAFETY.
   The intent of this subchapter is to protect the public who visit and use the
field, park and Quemahoning, including, but not limited to, small children and
others using such public facilities for recreation.
(Ord. 662, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 674, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 90.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   All rules and regulations adopted by the Supervisors shall be in conformity
with the provisions hereof and all otherwise applicable laws, rules and
regulations of the commonwealth. This subchapter shall be enforced by the
township police.
(Ord. 662, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 674, passed 12-16-2009)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any animal or fowl kept by a person for a domestic purpose including
livestock, pets and companion animals.
   POLICE DOG. An animal owned by the Township Police Department, or other
police agency having jurisdiction in the vicinity of township, which has
received training for police work.
(Ord. 617, passed 3-18-1998)
§ 90.21 POLICE DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally, willfully or maliciously torment,
tease, kick, beat, strike, injure, disable or kill any police dog owned and or
used by the Township Police Department or by an enforcement agency having
jurisdiction within township or by any police department assisting the Township
Police Department.
   (B)   No person shall intentionally, willfully or maliciously interfere with
any police dog used by the Township Police Department or of a police department
assisting the Township Police Department.
   (C)   No person shall attempt to cause an act prohibited by divisions (A)
and (B) above.
(Ord. 617, passed 3-18-1998) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS OF DOGS, CATS AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   (A)   All animals shall be kept under restraint. No dog or cat, whether
licensed or unlicensed, shall be upon any street or public way or in any public
park, or in any other public place in the township, whether day or night,
without being held in leash and under the control of the owner or attendant of
such dog or cat.
   (B)   No person being the owner or having control of a dog or a cat shall
allow such dog or cat to urinate or defecate on any property other than that of
such person.
   (C)   Any owner or person having control of a dog or cat which defecates or
urinates on property other than his or her own shall immediately remove the
same and return the property to its condition before the defecation or
urination.
(Ord. 617, passed 3-18-1998) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 DOGS AND ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No dog or other animal shall be upon any street or other public way or
in any public park or other public place in the township, whether during the
day or at night, without being held in leash or otherwise under the control of
the owner or attendant of such animal. Any animal so found may be seized by the
designated animal control officer, an agent of the County Humane Society or
member of the Township Police Department.
   (B)   Animals running at large which have been seized shall in the case of
dogs and cats be turned over to the Humane Society animal shelter and disposed
of according to law. In the case of other animals, the Police Chief is
authorized to make arrangements for the care and custody of animals until they
can be returned to their proper owner or destroyed. Any animal seized and held
pursuant to this section shall not be destroyed for a period of ten days during
which time the owner may redeem the animal upon payment of regular poundage or
care fees.
(Ord. 617, passed 3-18-1998) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 ANIMALS MAKING LOUD NOISES.
   (A)   Generally. Owners of animals must keep such animals under control so
that they do not cause loud or unreasonable noises which are disturbing to
people in their homes and in the normal use of their property. A dog barking
for 15 minutes shall be deemed to be unreasonable noise for the purposes of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Written complaint. No township police official, animal enforcement
officer or other responsible Codes Enforcement Official shall issue a citation
under this section unless the township is in receipt of a written complaint
signed by a property owner or occupant prior to the incident forming the basis
for the citation. Written complaints shall be deemed confidential records of
the township, unless the matter is considered at hearing before a court or
magistrate.
   (C)   Written warning. No township police official, animal enforcement
officer or other responsible Codes Enforcement Official shall issue a citation
under this section unless a written warning has first been mailed by first
class mail to the owner of the property on which the animal is kept.
(Ord. 617, passed 3-18-1998) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 617, passed 3-18-1998; Ord. 662, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 674, passed 12-
16-2009)
APPENDIX A: EXHIBITS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04723d3ef227e9e25d62a0441ba9e268b9efb593/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1067.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04723d3ef227e9e25d62a0441ba9e268b9efb593/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1069.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/04723d3ef227e9e25d62a0441ba9e268b9efb593/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1071.png]
 
(Ord. 662, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 674, passed 12-16-2009)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION/OPEN BURNING
Section
Open Burning
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Prohibition of burning
   
91.03   Permissible fires
   
91.04   Restrictions on permitted burning and fires
   
91.05   Township not responsible
 
   
91.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking or consumption of food.
   PERSON. Includes any natural person, association, partnership, corporation
or other organization.
   RUBBISH. All solid waste, including, but not limited to, vehicles, bedding,
furniture, cans and other containers, and paper but excluding, however, brush,
trees, tree limbs, grass, weeds, leaves and crops.
(Ord. 440, passed 6-29-1979)
§ 91.02 PROHIBITION OF BURNING.
   It shall be unlawful to build or kindle fires outdoors to burn garbage or
rubbish, on either public or private property within the limits of the
township, unless otherwise permitted under this subchapter.
(Ord. 440, passed 6-29-1979) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 PERMISSIBLE FIRES.
   Outdoor burning will be permitted within the township within the following
limited circumstances.
   (A)   Fireplaces, barbeque pits and charcoal burners shall be permitted if
the same are used for social cooking or recreational purposes and are not used
to burn substances prohibited under §
91.02 and are not used to circumvent the intent and prohibition of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Schools, or bona fide organizations thereof within the township, may
make a bonfire for use in conjunction with an organized pep rally or similar
function, provided that all other applicable conditions of this subchapter are
met, and provided the same is not used to burn substances prohibited under §
91.02 and the same is not used to circumvent the intention and prohibition of
this subchapter.
   (C)   This subchapter shall apply to fires created by a duly organized fire
company of the township for the purpose of training or testing equipment.
(Ord. 440, passed 6-29-1979)
§ 91.04 RESTRICTIONS ON PERMITTED BURNING AND FIRES.
   (A)   No burning or fire shall be permitted in the township unless such
burning or fire is permitted by the laws of the state and the federal
government; and any person conducting a permissible fire or burning shall fully
comply with any such laws and regulations.
   (B)   No permissible burning or fire within the township shall be in excess
of six feet in diameter or the flames higher than six feet.
(Ord. 440, passed 6-29-1979) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 TOWNSHIP NOT RESPONSIBLE.
   Nothing in this subchapter is intended to, or shall place any liability or
responsibility upon the township for damage to persons or property as a result
of burning or fires, and all such responsibility and liability shall remain
with the person kindling or conducting the fire or burning.
(Ord. 440, passed 6-29-1979) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 440, passed 6-29-1979; Ord. 607, passed 8-21-1996)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Nuisances
   
92.03   Prohibited activities
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is physically operable and left
unattended:
      (1)   On a highway or other public property for more than 48 hours; or
      (2)   On private property for more than 48 hours without that property
owner’s permission.
   ASSOCIATION. Any partnership, limited partnership or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise owned or conducted by two or more persons.
   CORPORATION. Any entity formed under the laws of any state, including
corporations, limited liability companies or similar entities.
   GARBAGE. All animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking or consumption of foods.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any openly stored motor vehicle, which is:
         (a)   Partially dismantled or wrecked, and which cannot legally of
safely be operated in accordance with the motor vehicle laws of the
commonwealth; and/or
         (b)   Is without current registration, places or inspection.
      (2)   Such junked motor vehicle shall not include a motor vehicle in a
fully enclosed building or upon the location of a property at which a legal
vehicle repair or maintenance facility is located.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or entity.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes, except human wastes, including garbage, ashes and
rubbish.
   RUBBISH. All glass, metal, paper, plant growth, bedding, appliances, tires,
wood or other solid wastes.
   SUPERVISORS. The duly elected and acting Supervisors of Conemaugh Township.
   TOWNSHIP. The political subdivision and body politic designated as Conemaugh
Township.
(Ord. 654, passed 7-21-2004)
§ 92.02 NUISANCES.
   No person, corporation or association owning, leasing, occupying or having
charge of any real estate within the township shall maintain or keep any
nuisance on such real estate, including, but not limited to, the open storage
of abandoned or junked automobiles on private and public property, the storage
of refuse upon private and public property (excluding DEP approved landfill
operations), and the carrying on of any offensive manufacture or business.
(Ord. 654, passed 7-21-2004) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No person, corporation or association owning, leasing, occupying or having
charge of any real estate within the township shall keep or maintain junk or
abandoned motor vehicles, garbage, refuse or trash in excess of ten days after
written notice/posting issued by the Township Supervisors who may for purposes
of this chapter act by or through the Township Police Department giving notice
to the owner or occupant of the premises.
(Ord. 654, passed 7-21-2004) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   In the event of violation of the provisions of this chapter, a summary
citation may be issued by the Township Police Department and upon conviction,
any person shall be sentenced to a fine of not less than $600, together with
costs of prosecution and remedy, and in default of payment of such fine and
costs of prosecution and remedy, to undergo imprisonment of not more than ten
days; provided further that upon each days continuation of violation shall
constitute a separate violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 654, passed 7-21-2004)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS
Section
Permits
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Application and fee
   
93.03   Opening in public right-of-way; rule
   
93.04   Requirements for openings and repairs
   
93.05   Existing permits
   
93.06   Occupation of public right-of-way; rule
   
93.07   Existing obstructions
   
93.08   Generally applicable conditions
   
93.09   Indemnity and insurance
   
93.10   Conditional nature of permit
   
93.11   Appeal to supervisors
   
93.12   Road opening permit application
Opening, Construction and Dedication
   
93.25   Plan required
   
93.26   Plan contents
   
93.27   Filing of plan
   
93.28   Alteration of plan
   
93.29   Approval of plan
   
93.30   Recording of plan
   
93.31   Improvements
   
93.32   Sewers, sewer laterals and sewer connections
   
93.33   Applications
   
93.34   Acceptance
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision regulations, see
Chapter 153
   Zoning, see
Chapter 154
PERMITS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FLEXIBLE BASE PAVEMENT. Bituminous surfaced or tar and chip surfaced
roadways which do not have an underbase of at least six inches of concrete.
      OCCUPATION. The erection or maintenance of any structure in, on or under
the public right- of-way.
      OPENING. Any cut in the surface of the road or right-of-way, excavation
in the right-of-way or boring under a roadway.
      ROAD or RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any road shown on the most recent liquid fuels map
of roads for the township as prepared by the State Department of
Transportation, including both cartway and the legal limits of the right-of-
way.
   (B)   Definitions not contained herein shall be as defined by the State
Department of Transportation in Publication 408.
   (C)   References to publication are references to manuals and standard
specifications of the State Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 598, passed 5-10-1994; Ord. 619, passed 8-19-1998)
§ 93.02 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   (1)   All applicants for street opening or highway occupation permits
shall make application for the same on a form prescribed by the township and
shall pay a fee of $50 for each permit. Each separate opening shall require a
separate application and fee. For an opening longer than 50 feet, the applicant
shall pay an additional fee of $1 per foot in length of opening.
      (2)   The applicant shall pay to the township the cost of any reasonable
inspection and/or engineering costs related to a highway occupancy permit.
   (B)   Upon submission of a completed application and payment of proper fee,
the Roadmaster may issue a permit, provided that he or she is satisfied that
the permit will not cause or result in a risk to the traveling public. If the
applicant has in the past failed to repair an opening, the Roadmaster may
require a surety bond for in an amount equal to the total cost of repair.
   (C)   Permits shall remain valid for a period of 90 days.
   (D)   An opening must be closed and repaired within ten days of the opening.
(Ord. 598, passed 5-10-1994; Ord. 619, passed 8-19-1998) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 OPENING IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY; RULE.
   No person, corporation or other entity shall cause any opening to be made in
a township road or right-of-way or any excavation or boring under a township
road or right-of-way without first obtaining a street opening permit prescribed
herein, and without complying in all respects with the rules and regulations
pertaining thereto as set forth in this subchapter hereinafter.
(Ord. 598, passed 5-10-1994; Ord. 619, passed 8-19-1998) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR OPENINGS AND REPAIRS.
   (A)   The township hereby incorporates by reference the foregoing rules
concerning purpose, location, creation, temporary maintenance and repair of
openings in a road as set forth by the State Department of Transportation in
the 67 Pa. Code Chapter 459, §§ 459.2, 459.7, 459.8, 459.9 and 459.12, and
further that references therein to the Department shall be read to refer to the
township, references to the district or district engineer shall be to the
Roadmaster and references to state roads or facilities shall be to township
roads.
   (B)   Remedies for violation or for removal or replacement of improper work
shall be as set forth therein.
(Ord. 598, passed 5-10-1994; Ord. 619, passed 8-19-1998)
§ 93.05 EXISTING PERMITS.
   Permits heretofore issued for street opening shall remain valid and no
reapplication or additional fee shall be required. Such previously issued
permits shall have a duration of 90 days from the date of enactment of this
subchapter. All such previously issued permits shall be subject to the
standards for safety signs and repair as set forth in §§
93.03 and
93.04. Openings which are not completed within 90 days of the enactment of this
subchapter shall at that time become void and of no effect. At that time, the
applicant shall submit an application and pay a fee as prescribed in §
93.02.
(Ord. 598, passed 5-10-1994; Ord. 619, passed 8-19-1998)
§ 93.06 OCCUPATION OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY; RULE.
   No person or entity shall erect or maintain any structure or obstruction
within the public right-of-way, including, but not limited to, drainage pipes
or culverts, meter or valve pits, buildings, poles and signs without a permit
issued by the township. Each separate obstruction or structure shall require a
separate permit. Mail boxes erected pursuant to township specifications shall
not require a permit.
(Ord. 598, passed 5-10-1994; Ord. 619, passed 8-19-1998) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 EXISTING OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Subject to the provisions of §
93.10, a highway occupancy existing on the date of this subchapter may remain,
provided it is maintained in a proper and safe manner and does not create a
risk of danger or harm to the public. Where the Roadmaster determines that a
risk to the public exists or otherwise as set forth §
93.10, he or she may order the owner of a facility occupying a portion of the
public right-of-way to remove the same or to apply for a permit under this
subchapter.
(Ord. 598, passed 5-10-1994; Ord. 619, passed 8-19-1998)
§ 93.08 GENERALLY APPLICABLE CONDITIONS.
   Sections
93.09,
93.10 and
93.11 relate to both street openings and highway occupancy.
(Ord. 598, passed 5-10-1994; Ord. 619, passed 8-19-1998)
§ 93.09 INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   As a condition of the issuance of any street opening permit, the
permittee shall agree and sign an indemnity clause on the application for
permit, which shall provide for the township to be indemnified and held
harmless from any injury or property damage to any person, corporation or
entity arising or occurring, in whole or in part from the applicant’s
activities in opening the street or road.
   (B)   An applicant for a street opening permit shall provide a certificate
of insurance showing at least $100,000 of coverage if applicant is a person or
$500,000 if applicant is a corporation (municipal, private or not for profit)
for public liability insurance and which names thereon, the township as an
additional insured.
   (C)   The applicant shall deliver to the township a certificate of insurance
naming the township as additional insured prior to commencement of work.
(Ord. 598, passed 5-10-1994; Ord. 619, passed 8-19-1998)
§ 93.10 CONDITIONAL NATURE OF PERMIT.
   If, in the future, the highway is altered or additional facilities are
located in the highway by the township for public convenience or necessity, the
permittee shall, at its sole and entire cost and expense, change or relocate
all or a part of the structures or facilities or pipelines authorized by the
permit(s) which in the sole discretion of the Township Supervisors interfere
with the highway alteration or other public facility or which is inconsistent
with the purpose of the changes initiated by the township.
(Ord. 598, passed 5-10-1994; Ord. 619, passed 8-19-1998)
§ 93.11 APPEAL TO SUPERVISORS.
   The Roadmaster shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter. The
Roadmaster shall have the power to make all determinations for the township as
provided for herein. Any person aggrieved of a determination of the Roadmaster
may within 30 days file a written request for reconsideration with the Township
Supervisors.
(Ord. 598, passed 5-10-1994; Ord. 619, passed 8-19-1998)
§ 93.12 ROAD OPENING PERMIT APPLICATION.
ROAD OPENING PERMIT
CONEMAUGH TOWNSHIP, SOMERSET COUNTY
Applicant Name: _________________________________________________________________
Applicant Address: _______________________________________________________________
Phone: ____________________________      Facsimile: ___________________________
Location of Work:
Beginning Point: _________________________________________________________________
Ending Point: ___________________________________________________________________
Number of Openings: _____________________________________________________________
Combined length of cuts: __________________________________________________________
Description of Work:
Describe project: ________________________________________________________________
List all materials to be installed (pipe, poles, valve boxes, etc.):
___________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
Time Schedule for Work:
Date of Start: ______________________      Completion Date: ____________________
The foregoing information is correct and complete to the best of my knowledge,
information and belief, I understand that unsworn falsifications to public
authorities constitutes a criminal act and is punished as a misdemeanor under the
provisions of § 4108 of the Pennsylvania Crimes Code, being 18 Pa.C.S. § 4108.
      BY: _____________________________________________ (signature)
      type or print name here: _____________________________________
      Title: ______________________      Firm: ____________________
 
Issuance Information (To be completed by Roadmaster)
Permit Issued: _________________         Permit Expires: ________________ (4 months)
Permit Fee: $ ____________   $20 plus $5 per each 100 ft., or part thereof over 50
ft. plus $25 for each open hole
Inspection Fees: $______________
Total Fee: $___________________
Has Applicant submitted a Safety Plan? ____________________________________________
Approved on ___________________ by ______________________________________(signature)
                     Conemaugh Township Roadmaster
 
Conemaugh Township must be notified at least 24 hours in advance of beginning work
and within 24 hours of completing work. Applicant must use PennDOT approved safety
procedures for all work. Failure to comply shall be grounds for revocation of this
permit.
 
(Ord. 598, passed 5-10-1994; Ord. 619, passed 8-19-1998)
OPENING, CONSTRUCTION AND DEDICATION
§ 93.25 PLAN REQUIRED.
   No person, partnership, association or corporation shall construct, open or
dedicate any road, street, lane or alley, or any drainage facilities in
connection therewith, for public use or travel in the township without first
submitting plans therefor to the Township Supervisors for their approval, and
no road, street, lane or alley, or drainage facilities in connection therewith,
shall be opened, laid or constructed except in strict accordance with plans
approved by the Township Supervisors.
(Res. 192, passed 11-6-1959) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.26 PLAN CONTENTS.
   Such plans shall show the profiles of such roads, streets, lanes or alleys,
the course, structure and capacity of any drainage facilities, the method of
drainage of the adjacent or contiguous territory and drainage profile of the
streets and plan showing drainage of the whole property. All roads and streets
shall be of a width of not less than 33 feet, the cartway shall be not less
than 18 feet, and all roads and streets connecting with existing streets so as
to form a continuation or extension thereof, shall be not less in width than
such existing roads and streets. All roads and streets where possible shall
connect with existing roads and streets, or proposed roads and streets, so as
to form as near as possible through roads and streets, a harmonious and
systematic development of the township. The names of the roads and streets
shall not conflict with the names of existing roads and streets, and all roads
and streets shall be designated by the names of existing roads and streets with
which they connect as extensions thereof.
(Res. 192, passed 11-6-1959) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.27 FILING OF PLAN.
   All such plans shall be filed with the Township Secretary at least ten days
prior to regular meeting of the Township Supervisors at which it is desired to
seek approval thereof. Before acting upon any such plans, the Township
Supervisors may, in their discretion, arrange for a public hearing, after
giving such notice as they may deem desirable in each case.
(Res. 192, passed 11-6-1959)
§ 93.28 ALTERATION OF PLAN.
   The Township Supervisors reserve the right to alter such plans, and to
specify any changes or modifications of any kind which they may deem necessary
with respect thereto, and to make their approval of such plans subject to any
such alterations, changes or modifications.
(Res. 192, passed 11-6-1959)
§ 93.29 APPROVAL OF PLAN.
   Any and all plans when so approved shall be signed by the Supervisors, and
shall be filed in the office of the Secretary of the township, where the same
shall be available to public inspection.
(Res. 192, passed 11-6-1959)
§ 93.30 RECORDING OF PLAN.
   The action of the Township Supervisors in approving any such plans, and such
plans, shall be recorded by the person applying for such approval in the office
of the Recorder of Deeds for the county.
(Res. 192, passed 11-6-1959)
§ 93.31 IMPROVEMENTS.
   All roads and streets shown on the said plan shall be improved in accordance
with the plans and specifications prescribed by the Township Supervisors.
(Res. 192, passed 11-6-1959)
§ 93.32 SEWERS, SEWER LATERALS AND SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   All sewers, sewer laterals and sewer connections shall be laid on all
improved streets before paving where connection with the township sewers is
practicable, and shall be required by the Township Supervisors, and all gas and
water mains and all service connections shall be laid before the paving of the
streets where water and gas is available, and all other mains, pipes and
conduits and the like shall be installed before paving of the cartway where it
is proposed to install any such service mains in the streets.
(Res. 192, passed 11-6-1959)
§ 93.33 APPLICATIONS.
   All applications for the approval of such plans shall be in writing on a
blank form to be furnished for that purpose by the Township Supervisors, and
signed by the owners of the property, which must be filed with the Secretary of
the township, setting forth in detail the character of the improvements to be
made on the property shown on the said plan, in accordance with the provisions
of this subchapter, and in such application the applicant shall agree to open,
lay out and improve the roads, streets, lanes and alleys, and to construct all
of the improvements, including sewers where practicable and drainage facilities
upon the property, shown on the plan, within the time or times therein
specified, and agree to enter into a contract in writing prepared by the
Township Solicitor, to install, erect and construct the said improvements.
(Res. 192, passed 11-6-1959)
§ 93.34 ACCEPTANCE.
   No action by the Township Supervisors shall be construed to require the
township to accept dedication of any road, street lane or alley.
(Res. 192, passed 11-6-1959)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 598, passed 5-10-1994; Ord. 619, passed 8-19-1998)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS WITH PROJECTILES LEAVING THE PROPERTY
      
111.   SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS AND PEDDLERS
      
112.   JUNK YARDS
CHAPTER 110: COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS WITH
PROJECTILES LEAVING THE PROPERTY
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License
   
110.03   Denial of license
   
110.04   Safety measure
   
110.05   Prohibited activities
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL   ENTERPRISE. Any site at which a fee is charged, or donation
accepted for participating in an activity involving the use of a projectile.
   PROJECTILE. Any device or object that is propelled through the air by action
of any person(s) at a commercial enterprise.
(Ord. 638, passed 8-15-2001)
§ 110.02 LICENSE.
   (A)   All commercial enterprises involving the use of projectiles shall
obtain a license from the township prior to conducting operations. After the
effective date of this chapter, no commercial enterprise involving the use of
projectiles shall operate without a license. Existing enterprises shall submit
an application within two calendar days of the effective date of this chapter.
The license shall be obtained from the Codes Enforcement Officer, on an annual
basis and no later than the anniversary date of the issuance of the first
license.
   (B)   Application for license shall include:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone numbers of all persons owning an
interest in the land on which the activity is being conducted;
      (2)   Proof of insurance, covering damage to persons off the property in
amount of at least $200,000, and acknowledgment from the insurance provider
that injuries from projectiles to third parties are covered by the insurance;
      (3)   Copies of all required permits, including driveway and highway
access permits;
      (4)   A drawing showing the layout of the property and safety measures
sufficient to prevent reasonable, anticipatable instances of projectiles
leaving the property and posing a risk to neighbors or the general public; and
      (5)   A fee of $200, or such other amount as may be set by resolution by
the Supervisors at their annual re-organization meeting based upon the costs of
administering this chapter.
   (C)   Prior to issuance of a license, the Code Enforcement Officer will meet
with the applicant on site to review the safety measures. Where a permit
request is denied on the basis of inadequate provisions for safety, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall provide a written explanation of the deficiency
together with the measures required to correct the deficiency.
(Ord. 638, passed 8-15-2001; Res. R02-02, passed 5-22-2002) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   A denial of license may be appealed to the Township Zoning Hearing Board
under procedures set forth and payment of the fee prescribed in the township
zoning ordinance. The Zoning Hearing Board shall have the power to order the
license issued, sustain the Code Enforcement Officer’s denial of the permit, or
to order the issuance of the permit with conditions.
(Ord. 638, passed 8-15-2001)
§ 110.04 SAFETY MEASURE.
   (A)   Safety measures required for issuance of a permit include, but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Directing projectiles away from areas frequented by the public or
residential areas;
      (2)   Providing safety devices to catch or stop projectiles adequate to
the type of projectile involved; and
      (3)   Such other safety measures as the particular circumstances of the
commercial enterprise, would indicate as reasonable and necessary to protect
the public.
   (B)   Approval of the application shall not be deemed to constitute an
approval of the safety measures as sufficient to completely protect the public.
Licensees are encouraged to constantly review and improve safety features so as
to increase the level of protection. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
constitute an acceptance of liability for damages caused by commercial
enterprises involving the use of projectiles.
(Ord. 638, passed 8-15-2001)
§ 110.05 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No owner of land upon which a commercial enterprise using projectiles is
located, or operator of a commercial enterprise using projectiles, shall permit
use of the enterprise by patrons in a manner which permits or allows a
projectile to leave the property.
(Ord. 638, passed 8-15-2001) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 638, passed 8-15-2001)
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS AND PEDDLERS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Exceptions
   
111.03   License required
   
111.04   Application
   
111.05   Special licenses
   
111.06   Issuance
   
111.07   Police investigation
   
111.08   License fee
   
111.09   License duration and renewal
   
111.10   License stipulations
   
111.11   Times
   
111.12   Depositing refuse; parking
   
111.13   Fixed location prohibited
   
111.14   Record
   
111.15   Suspension or revocation
   
111.16   Noise
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LICENSE. The authorization by the township police conferring the right to
solicit, canvass or peddle in the township under the provisions of the chapter,
and the document carrying the written or printed authorization.
      LOCALLY BASED CHARITABLE OR BENEVOLENT ORGANIZATION. An organization that
dispenses its charity or benevolence within the county or maintains an office
or place of business therein.
      PEDDLER. Any person who shall engage in peddling as defined below.
      PEDDLING. The selling or offering for sale of any goods, wares, services
or merchandise for immediate delivery which the person selling or offering for
sale carries with him or her in traveling, or has in his or her possession or
control upon any of the streets or sidewalks or from house to house or by
visitation to private residences without prior invitation from the owner or
occupant or by entering in or upon private property within the said township.
      PERSON. Any natural person, association, partnership, firm, organization
or corporation.
      SOLICITING or CANVASSING. The seeking or taking without prior invitation
from the owner or occupant or by entering in or upon any of the streets or
sidewalks or from house to house or by visitation to private residences without
prior invitation from the owner or occupant or by entering in or upon private
property within the township; and shall further mean the acts of seeking or
taking without prior invitation from the owner or occupant of contracts or
orders for home or other building repairs, improvements or alterations; and
also the seeking or taking without prior invitation from the owner or occupant
of orders or contracts for any mechanical, electrical, plumbing, heating or
other device or equipment for house, home or building or other building
improvements or repairs, upon or from the places aforesaid within the said
township.
      SOLICITOR or CANVASSER. Any person who shall engage in soliciting or
canvassing as hereinabove defined.
      SPECIAL LICENSE. Any license granted to an organization and its agents in
which a blanket authorization covers the issuance of multiple documents
carrying the written or printed authorization, and the documents carrying the
written or printed authorization.
   (B)   In this chapter, the singular shall include the plural and the
masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-16-1976)
§ 111.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   The words “soliciting”, “canvassing” and “peddling” shall not apply:
   (A)   To farmers seeking or taking orders for the sale of their own
products;
   (B)   To the seeking or taking of orders by any manufacturer or producer for
the sale of bread and bakery products, meat and meat products, fruit and
vegetable products or milk and milk products;
   (C)   To the seeking or taking of orders by insurance agents or brokers, or
other persons licensed under the laws of the commonwealth and acting within the
scope of their licensed activity;
   (D)   To any person taking orders for merchandise from dealers or merchants,
for resale to an ultimate consumer;
   (E)   To any person dealing solely with commercial or business
establishments, educational institutions or governmental agencies and whose
dealings are concerned only with goods or services normally required in the
conduct of those businesses, institutions or agencies;
   (F)   To any persons selling goods, wares or merchandise donated by the
owners thereof, the proceeds whereof are to be applied to any charitable or
philanthropic purpose; and
   (G)   To any person who is a member of a religious or church-affiliated
organization and who is seeking contributions only from among members of the
same organization or as a part of his or her doctrinal religious practice.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-16-1976)
§ 111.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in soliciting or peddling or canvassing in the
township without first having obtained a license as herein provided.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-16-1976) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person desiring to engage in soliciting, canvassing or peddling
in the township shall first make application to the township police for a
license. If such person shall also be required to obtain a license from any
country office, he or she shall, in making such application, exhibit a valid
county license.
   (B)   The said application shall be a blank form provided by the township
police and shall contain at least the following information verified by oath or
affirmation:
      (1)   Full name of the applicant and local address, if any;
      (2)   Name of employer or a statement that such applicant is self-
employed;
      (3)   Permanent address;
      (4)   The nature of goods, wares, services or merchandise offered for
sale;
      (5)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has ever been
convicted of any crime, and if the answer is in the affirmative, the nature of
the offense or offenses and the punishment or punishments imposed;
      (6)   The type of vehicle to be used, if any; and
      (7)   Upon request the applicant shall also submit to fingerprinting and
furnish a photograph.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-16-1976) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 SPECIAL LICENSES.
   (A)   Where a person makes application for himself or herself and one or
more helpers on behalf of a locally based charitable or benevolent
organization, the township police may issue a controlled number of special
licenses for unnamed persons in response for the one application.
   (B)   Where a person makes application for himself or herself and one or
more helpers for other than a locally-based charitable or benevolent
organization, all applicable personal information specified §
111.04(B) shall be given for each helper and verified or affirmed by oath or
affirmation by him or her and an individual license shall be required for each
helper. No license under this chapter shall be transferable from one person to
another.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-16-1976)
§ 111.06 ISSUANCE.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until a period of 24 hours has
elapsed from the time the application has been filed with the township police
in order to give the said police sufficient time to make proper investigation
before issuing the license.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-16-1976)
§ 111.07 POLICE INVESTIGATION.
   The township police, during the 24 hours following the application shall
investigate the applicant to determine whether it is against the interest of
the township to issue a license. A decision shall be reached within 72 hours of
the time of application.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-16-1976)
§ 111.08 LICENSE FEE.
   No license shall be issued under the chapter until the fee prescribed shall
be paid to the Township Treasurer and it shall be for the use of the township.
A separate application shall be filed and a separate permit fee shall be filed
and a separate permit fee shall be paid by each person who shall actually
conduct the soliciting or canvassing or peddling and shall apply where an
employer desires to secure licenses for his or her employees, agents or
servants.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-16-1976)
§ 111.09 LICENSE DURATION AND RENEWAL.
   The license granted pursuant to this chapter shall be valid for a period of
time applied for. If prior to the expiration of any license, the person holding
the same shall desire to continue or renew soliciting, canvassing or peddling,
he or she shall be required to file a new application for a permit and pay a
new license fee within 30 days preceding expiration. The fee for renewal of any
license shall be the sum of $2 per year; provided, that all special licenses
shall be valid for 60 days after the date of such special licenses and are not
renewable.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-16-1976)
§ 111.10 LICENSE STIPULATIONS.
   (A)   Every license when issued shall state, inter alia, the products to be
sold or services to be rendered by the licensee. Every solicitor, canvasser or
peddler shall at all times, when engaged in soliciting, canvassing or peddling
in the township carry such license upon his or her person and shall exhibit it
upon request to all police officers, township officials and citizens. No
solicitor, canvasser or peddler shall engage in selling any product or service
not mentioned on such license.
   (B)   Where special licenses are issued, the special license carried by each
solicitor, canvasser or peddler shall not be required to carry the name of the
solicitor or canvasser or peddler or the name of the organization sponsoring
the peddler, canvasser or solicitor, but shall state on the face thereof that
it is issued for charitable or benevolent purposes only and shall carry a
serial number which shall be recorded by the township police.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-16-1976)
§ 111.11 TIMES.
   No person licensed as a solicitor, canvasser or peddler under this chapter,
except by special license, shall engage in soliciting, canvassing or peddling
on any day of the week before 9:00 a.m. or after 6:30 p.m. During the time of
the year when Eastern Standard Time is effective, the aforesaid hours shall be
Eastern Standard Time and during the time of the year when Daylight Saving Time
is effective, the aforesaid hours shall be Daylight Saving Time. No person
licensed as a solicitor, canvasser or peddler under this chapter, except by
special license, shall engage in soliciting canvassing or peddling on Sunday,
or any other legal holiday.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-16-1976) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.12 DEPOSITING REFUSE; PARKING.
   No person licensed as a solicitor, canvasser or peddler under this chapter
shall place or deposit any refuse on any such streets, highways or alleys; nor
shall any such person maintain or keep a street or curbstone market by parking
any vehicle upon any street or alley in the township for longer than necessary
in order to sell therefrom to persons residing in the immediate vicinity.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-16-1976) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.13 FIXED LOCATION PROHIBITED.
   No person licensed as a solicitor, canvasser or peddler shall occupy any
fixed location upon any of the streets, highways, alleys or sidewalks of the
township for the purpose of soliciting, canvassing or peddling with or without
any stand or counter.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-16-1976) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.14 RECORD.
   The township police shall keep a record of all licenses issued under this
chapter and shall supervise the activities of all holders of such licenses.
Notice of any irregularity in the use of the license shall be appended to the
application for license for consideration when a renewal is requested.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-16-1976)
§ 111.15 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   Any license issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked at any
time by the township police upon proof being furnished to them that the
applicant or licensee was convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude after
the issuance of such license or that the licensee was convicted of disorderly
conduct under any law of the commonwealth or any ordinance of any of the
townships in the state.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-16-1976)
§ 111.16 NOISE.
   No person licensed as a solicitor, canvasser or peddler under this chapter
shall hawk or cry his or her wares or services upon any of the streets or
sidewalks of the township; nor shall he or she announce his or her presence by
the use of any loudspeaker, bell, whistle or other device for announcing his or
her presence by which the public is annoyed.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-16-1976) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof in a summary proceedings, be sentenced to pay a fine of
not more than $600, and costs of prosecution for each and every offense, or in
default of the payment of such fine and costs, to undergo imprisonment in the
county jail for a period of one day for each dollar of fine and costs not paid,
said term not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-16-1976)
CHAPTER 112: JUNK YARDS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Issuance
   
112.04   Place of business restrictions
   
112.05   License transferability
   
112.06   Maintenance of premises
   
112.07   Legislative intent
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      JUNK. Any discarded material or article such as is not ordinarily
disposed of as rubbish or refuse, and shall include, but not be limited to,
scrap metal and scrapped motor vehicles, and shall not include any garbage or
other organic waste, or any paper, rubbish, rags or other flammable articles or
material.
      JUNK DEALER. Any person, as defined below, who shall engage in the
business of selling, buying and dealing in junk, and any person who permits to
accumulate upon his or her premises four or more exposed, unlicensed motor
vehicles from which parts or accessories are sold.
      PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, firm or corporation.
   (B)   In this chapter, the singular shall include the plural and the
masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
(Ord. 261, passed 8-7-1964)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in business as a junk dealer in the township without
first having obtained a license therefor from the Supervisors of the township,
for which license the fee shall be $100 for each and every calendar year, such
fee to be for the use of the township. Such license shall be renewed annually
on or before January 1 of each year; provided, in any case where a junk
dealer’s business shall be established in the township on or after July 1 in
any year, the license fee payable for such junk dealer for the remainder of the
year shall be one-half the yearly rate.
(Ord. 261, passed 8-7-1964)
§ 112.03 ISSUANCE.
   The license provided for in §
112.02 shall be issued by the Supervisors after application shall have been
made therefor by the person desiring to be licensed. Such license shall state
the name of the person to whom such license is issued and the premises from
which such business is to be conducted. Such license shall be posted
conspicuously upon the premises located thereunder.
(Ord. 261, passed 8-7-1964)
§ 112.04 PLACE OF BUSINESS RESTRICTIONS.
   No person licensed under this chapter shall, by virtue of one license, keep
more than one place of business within the township, nor shall any such person
engage in business as a junk dealer in any place other than the place
designated upon his or her license.
(Ord. 261, passed 8-7-1964)
§ 112.05 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable from one
person to another except when the ownership of the premises shall change.
   (B)   In any such case, the new owner shall apply for a transfer of such
license to him or her and shall pay a transfer fee of $10.
(Ord. 261, passed 8-7-1964)
§ 112.06 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   Every junk dealer licenses under this chapter shall constantly maintain the
licensed premises in a manner prescribed by this section as follows.
   (A)   Such premises shall, at all times, be maintained so as not to
constitute a nuisance or a menace to the health of the community or of
residents or a place for the breeding of rodents and vermin.
   (B)   No garbage or other organic waste, and no paper, rubbish, rags or
other flammable articles or materials shall be stored in such premises.
   (C)   Whenever any motor vehicle shall be received in such premises as junk,
all gasoline and oil shall be drained and removed therefrom.
   (D)   The manner of storage and arrangement of junk, and the drainage
facilities of the premises shall be such as to prevent the accumulation of
stagnant water upon the premises, and to facilitate access for firefighting
purposes.
   (E)   All junk yards shall be fenced in by fences of a type approved by the
Township Supervisors or a height not less than ten feet and be so constructed
and erected as to hide and conceal the junk and operation of the yard from the
view of the public, said fence shall be of such a type as to hide and conceal
the junk and operations when constructed, and shall be maintained in such a
manner as approved by the Supervisors in accordance with the intent of this
chapter.
   (F)   All junk yards and fences shall be erected and established at a
distance of not less than 100 feet from any township or state highway, and
shall be not less than five feet from the boundary lines of the parcel of real
estate upon which such yards are located, and shall be operated in such manner
so as not to create any hazards or dangers to the abutting owners or to the
traveling public using the township roads or state highways.
   (G)   All dismantling of motor vehicles or scrap metal shall be done in such
a manner so as to eliminate or minimize as much as possible all dust, noxious
fumes or noises which might in any manner disturb the peace and quiet of
neighboring citizens and residents, and any burning shall be done as nearly as
possible in the center of the premises.
   (H)   No junk shall be piled or stocked so as to defeat the purpose of
requirement of the fence.
(Ord. 261, passed 8-7-1964) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that this chapter shall
apply to and regulate existing junk yards as well as those established after
the effective date of this chapter, and the Supervisors are hereby granted and
invested with discretionary power as to the time within which those existing
junk yards shall comply with this chapter and to permit slight deviations
therefrom where peculiar physical conditions and circumstances shall warrant
the same; said Supervisors shall adopt necessary regulations and instructions
in accordance with the intent of this chapter.
(Ord. 261, passed 8-7-1964)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $600, and
costs of prosecution, and in default thereof, to undergo imprisonment in the
county jail for a period not in excess of 30 days; provided each day's
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 261, passed 8-7-1964)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   DRUG, ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
CHAPTER 130: DRUG, ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO OFFENSES
Section
Drug, Alcohol and Tobacco
   
130.01   Short title
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Public buildings, grounds and places of public assembly
   
130.04   Violations by persons having control
   
130.05   Placarding required
   
130.06   Violation by others
   
130.07   Placing lighted objects too close to combustible matter
Public Drinking
   
130.20   Short title
   
130.21   Definitions
   
130.22   Prohibition
   
130.23   Exemption
 
   
130.99   Penalty
DRUG, ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO
§ 130.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may commonly be referred to as the township “Drug, Alcohol
and Tobacco Ordinance”.
(Ord. 602, passed 9-14-1995)
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meanings given therein. When not consistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PUBLIC BUILDING, GROUNDS AND PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLAGE. As enumerated and
specified in §
130.03.
   SMOKING. Includes the possession of a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe or
other lighted smoking equipment.
   SUPERVISORS. The elected members of the Board of Supervisors acting on
behalf of said township.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Conemaugh, located in Somerset County,
Pennsylvania.
   USE OF DRUGS, ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO. Includes use and/or possession of
controlled substances, alcohol and tobacco.
(Ord. 602, passed 9-14-1995)
§ 130.03 PUBLIC BUILDINGS, GROUNDS AND PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   Public buildings, grounds and places of public assembly are:
   (A)   The township Municipal Building;
   (B)   Public schools located in the township, including the structure and
any real property owned by the township school district; and
   (C)   Public conveyances operating within the township including, but not
limited to, school buses.
(Ord. 602, passed 9-14-1995)
§ 130.04 VIOLATIONS BY PERSONS HAVING CONTROL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, or his or her agent, having control or
being responsible for, or having authority as to any public building, grounds
or place of public assemblage, to knowingly permit a violation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 602, passed 9-14-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 PLACARDING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person, or his or her agent, having control of public buildings,
grounds and places of public assemblage as hereinbefore specified, shall
conspicuously display upon the premises a sign reading:
      “THE USE AND/OR POSSESSION OF DRUGS, ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO ON THE PREMISES
IS PROHIBITED BY LAW”.
   (B)   Such sign shall be at least 144 square inches in area.
(Ord. 602, passed 9-14-1995)
§ 130.06 VIOLATION BY OTHERS.
   No person shall use and/or possess drugs, alcohol or tobacco in any public
building, grounds or place of public assemblage (as defined in §§
130.02 and
130.03), or shall any person remove any placard required to be erected by or
under the authority of this subchapter.
(Ord. 602, passed 9-14-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 PLACING LIGHTED OBJECTS TOO CLOSE TO COMBUSTIBLE MATTER.
   No person shall throw or place hot or burning substances, or objects such as
cigars, cigarettes or the contents of a burning pipe, upon or in close
proximity to any public or private premises, object or structure, or in any
public street or place.
(Ord. 602, passed 9-14-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
PUBLIC DRINKING
§ 130.20 SHORT TITLE.
   The short title of this subchapter shall be “Conemaugh Township Public
Drinking Ordinance”.
(Ord. 562, passed 12-2-1982)
§ 130.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LIQUOR. Includes any alcoholic, spirituous, vinous, fermented or other
alcoholic beverage, or combination of liquors and mixed liquor, a part of which
is spirituous, vinous, fermented or otherwise alcoholic.
   MALT OR BREWED BEVERAGES. Any beer, lager beer, ale, porter or similar
fermented malt beverage containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume, by
whatever name such beverage may be called.
   PERSON. Includes a natural person, association, firm, corporation or
political subdivision.
   POTABLE DISTILLED SPIRITS. Includes any distillate from grains, wine,
fruits, vegetables or molasses, capable of being used for alcoholic beverage
purposes.
   STREET. Includes any street, road, land, court, cul-de-sac, alley, public
way or public square, either for or intended for public use, and shall include
the cartway, sidewalk, gutter and/or the right-of- way area, whether or not
such street, or any part thereof, is owned in fee by others than the township.
   WHISKEY. Includes any alcoholic distillate from a fermented mash of grain,
capable of being used for alcoholic beverage purposes.
(Ord. 562, passed 12-2-1982)
§ 130.22 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   From and after the passage of this subchapter, it shall be unlawful
for any person to consume any liquor, malt or brewed beverage, potable
distilled spirit or whiskey while said person is on the streets of the
township.
   (B)   From and after the passage of this subchapter, it shall be unlawful
for any person to have in his or her possession, in any uncapped container, any
liquor, malt or brewed beverage, potable distilled spirit or whiskey while said
person is on the streets of the township.
(Ord. 562, passed 12-2-1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 EXEMPTION.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §§
130.21 and
130.22, this subchapter shall not apply to the possession of uncapped
containers of or consumption of any liquor, malt or brewed beverage, potable
distilled spirits or whiskey by any person on the streets of the township if
said person is attending a social function being held on the streets of the
township by an organization to which a temporary license to disburse and serve
liquor, malt or brewed beverages, potable distilled spirits or whiskey has been
issued by the State Liquor Control Board.
(Ord. 562, passed 12-2-1982)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
130.01 through
130.07 hereby adopted, or fails to comply therewith, shall be guilty of a
summary offense, and upon conviction thereof before an appropriate district
magistrate, shall be sentenced to pay the costs, plus a fine of up to $100 for
the first offense; up to $150 for a second offense; and at least $150 but no
more than $600 for a third or subsequent offense. Upon the failure to pay costs
and fines as determined herein, a person shall be subject to incarceration for
a period of no less than 60 days.
   (C)   Any person violating the terms of §§
130.20 through
130.23 shall be charged with a summary offense, and, upon conviction by a
district magistrate having jurisdiction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine not
in excess of $600, plus costs and, in lieu of payment of said fine, shall be
sentenced to confinement in the county jail for a period not to exceed 90 days.
(Ord. 562, passed 12-2-1982; Ord. 602, passed 9-14-1995)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Police dogs
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 POLICE DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to intentionally,
willfully or maliciously torment, tease, kick, beat, strike, injure, disable or
kill any dog owned and/or used by the Police Department of the township.
Further, it shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, willfully or
maliciously interfere with any such dog used by said Police Department or any
member thereof in the performance of any of the functions or duties of said
Department or of such member thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to intentionally,
willfully or maliciously attempt to perform or commit the acts prohibited in
division (A) above.
(Ord. 434, passed 12-15-1978) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 434, passed 12-15-1978)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
152.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
PA UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE SUPERCEDES
ALL OTHER BUILDING CODE ORDINANCES
Conemaugh Township follows the PA Uniform Construction Code without
modification
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Removal or replacement of shingles or other roofing material
International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.15   Standards adopted by reference
   
150.16   Amendments to standards; violations and penalties
Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code
   
150.30   Adopted
Building Permits
   
150.45   Title
   
150.46   Definitions
   
150.47   Permit required for construction or erection of any building
   
150.48   Permits required for construction or erection of realty improvement or
individual sewage system
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 REMOVAL OR REPLACEMENT OF SHINGLES OR OTHER ROOFING MATERIAL.
   (A)   A permit shall be required under authority of the Solid Waste
Management Act, being 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 through 6018.1003 for all activities
involving the removal or replacement of shingles or other roofing material.
   (B)   Fees for a roof material disposal permit shall be set, from time to
time, by resolution of the Township Supervisors adopted at duly advertised
public meetings.
   (C)   The roofing material disposal permit shall initially require a fee of
$50, which shall be refunded upon submission of proof of disposal. If roofing
material is not disposed of, this fee shall be retained and used to defray the
cost of sending a permit officer to the site to verify that no roofing material
was removed.
   (D)   No building permit or building permit fee shall be required, in
addition to the disposal permit and fees described above, for roof material
replacements on single-family residential dwellings. Building permits shall be
required for any roof modifications other than where only roofing material is
replaced
   (E)   ROOFING MATERIAL as used in this section is the surface or subsurface
of any roof.
(Res. R13-09, passed 10-21-2009) Penalty, see §
150.99
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.15 STANDARDS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the municipal
offices of the township, being marked and designated as the International
Property Maintenance Code, 2012 Edition, as published by the International Code
Council be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the
township for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided; and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of
said International Property Maintenance Code are hereby referred to, adopted
and made a part thereof, as if fully set forth herein, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.16.
(Ord. 697, passed 8-17-2016)
§ 150.16 AMENDMENTS TO STANDARDS; VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   The following sections are hereby revised as follows.
   (A)   Replacing the title of Section 101.1 to read as follows:
      101.1. Title. These regulations shall be known as the Property
Maintenance Code of Township of Conemaugh, hereinafter referred to as “this
code”.
   (B)   Replacing the title of Section 103 to read as follows:
      SECTION 103 ADMINISTRATION OF THE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
   (C)   Replace Section 103.1 with a new Section 103.1 to read as follows:
      103.1 General. The Township Zoning and Code Officer acting under
supervision of the Township Supervisors shall have the sole responsibility for,
and benefit of, the execution of the provisions of the Property Maintenance
Code.
   (D)   Replace Section 103.2 with a new Section 103.2 to read as follows:
      103.2 Appointment. The Township Zoning/Code Officer or such other person
designated by the Township Supervisors from time to time shall act as, and be
treated as, the code official(s) as described in this ordinance.
   (E)   Replace Section 103.5 with a new Section 103.5:
      103.5. Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the
Township in carrying out its responsibility under this code shall be as
indicated in a resolution adopted from time to time by a majority of the
Conemaugh Township Board of Supervisors acting at duly advertised, public
meetings.
   (F)   Insert a new section 302.3.1 as follows:
      302.3.1. Snow and ice removal. Snow and ice shall be removed from all
sidewalks, driveways and parking lots within 24 hours after the accumulation of
any snow or ice on these surfaces.
      Snow and ice shall be removed from the full paved width of any public
sidewalk.
      Collected snow from snow removal processes shall not be placed on areas
of the lot where the collected snow will impede access to fire hydrants,
dumpsters or other garbage collection facilities, or reduce visibility of signs
or visibility at driveways or intersections.
      Collected snow and ice shall not be placed on the street or in any public
right-of-way.
      Exception: Snow and ice on private sidewalks and driveways servicing
detached single-family dwellings shall be exempt from the provisions of this
section.
   (G)   Replace the first paragraph of Section 302.4 with the following first
paragraph:
      302.4. Weeds. All premises and exterior property, within 200 feet of a
neighboring structure shall be maintained free from weeds or plant growth in
excess of eight inches high. All noxious weeds shall be prohibited. Weeds shall
be defined as all grasses, annual plants and vegetation, other than trees or
shrubs; provided, however, this term shall not include cultivated flowers and
gardens.
   (H)   Replace the first paragraph of Section 302.8 with the following first
paragraph:
      302.8. Motor vehicles. Except as provided for in other regulations, no
more than one motor vehicle that is inoperable or without current valid
registration or current valid inspection shall be parked, kept or stored on any
premises, outside of an enclosed garage or otherwise completely hidden from
view of neighbors or the public and no motor vehicle shall be at any time in a
state of major disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being stripped or
dismantled. Painting of vehicles is prohibited unless conducted inside an
enclosed structure.
   (I)   Replace the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 303.2
with the following first sentence:
      303.2. Enclosure. Private swimming pools, hot tubs and spas containing
water more than 24 inches (610 mm) in depth shall be completely surrounded by a
fence or barrier at least 48 inches (1,219 mm) in height above the finished
ground level measured on the side of the barrier away from the pool, hot tubs
or spas.
   (J)   Replace Section 304.3 with the following Section 304.3:
      Section 304.3. Premises identification. Each building or structure shall
display its approved address number in compliance with the following
requirements.
         (a)   Address numbers shall be Arabic reflective numerals not less
than three inches in height and not less than 1/2 inch in stroke width. These
reflective numbers shall contrast with their background.
         (b)   Address numbers shall be placed on or within three feet of the
main door of the structure that faces the street and clearly visible from the
street.
         (c)   Where the main door of the building cannot be seen from the
street or where the building is setback more than 100 feet from the street
right-of-way, in addition to the address numbers placed in proximity to the
door as required by part (b) of this section, address numbers in compliance
with part (a) of this section shall also be placed at the driveway entrance.
These numbers shall be located within 10 feet of the driveway entrance to the
building and within 10 feet of the edge of the street right-of-way. These
numbers shall be located on a pole and be not less than three feet above or
more than seven feet above ground level. These numbers shall be placed so to be
clearly visible by traffic traveling in either direction on the street.
         (d)   In the event that a private driveway serves more buildings, the
address numbers of all buildings served by the driveway shall be displayed as
required in part (c) of this section.
   (K)   Replace Section 304.6 with the following Section 304.6:
      304.6 Exterior walls. All exterior walls shall be free from holes,
breaks, growing vegetation and loose or rotting materials.
   (L)   Remove the first five words of Section 304.14 so it reads as follows:
      304.14. Insect screens. Every door, window and other outside opening
required for ventilation of habitable rooms, food preparation areas, food
service areas or any areas where products to be included or utilized in food
for human consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or stored, shall be
supplied with approved tightly fitting screens of not less than 16 mesh per
inch (16 mesh per 25 mm) and every swinging door shall have a self-closing
device in good working condition.
   (M)   Add to Section 307, Rubbish and Garbage, a new Section 307.4,
Collection of rubbish and garbage.
      307.4. Collection of rubbish and garbage. The following requirements
shall apply to the collection of garbage and rubbish.
         (a)   No container for the collection of, or garbage, refuse or debris
contemplated for collection as herein set forth, shall be placed at the curb or
cartway prior to 6:00 p.m. on the day prior to the day regularly scheduled for
collection.
         (b)   All containers used for the collection of garbage or refuse and
all garbage, refuse and debris not collected on the day of regularly scheduled
for collection shall be removed from the curb or cartway no later than 9:00
p.m. the day of collection.
         (c)   Rubbish and garbage containers for commercial and industrial
properties shall be clearly marked with the name and phone number of the
business responsible for the container.
(Ord. 697, passed 8-17-2016)
PENNSYLVANIA UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE
§ 150.30 ADOPTED.
   (A)   This municipality hereby elects to administer and enforce the
provisions of the Pennsylvania Construction Code Act, Act 45 of 1999, 35 P.S.
§§ 7210.101 through 7210.1103, as amended from time to time, and its
regulations.
   (B)   The Uniform Construction Code, contained in 34 Pa. Code Chapters 401
through 405, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated
herein by reference as the municipal Building Code of this municipality.
   (C)   Administration and enforcement of the Code within this municipality
shall be undertaken in any of the following ways as determined by the governing
body of this municipality, from time to time, by resolution:
      (1)   By the designation of an employee of the municipality to serve as
the Municipal Code Official to act on behalf of the municipality;
      (2)   By the retention of one or more Construction Code Officials or
third-party agencies to act on behalf of the municipality;
      (3)   By agreement with one or more other municipalities for the joint
administration and enforcement of this Act through an inter-municipal
agreement;
      (4)   By entering into a contract with another municipality for the
administration and enforcement of this Act on behalf of this municipality; and
      (5)   By entering into an agreement with the State Department of Labor
and Industry for plan review, inspections and enforcement of structures other
than one-family or two-family dwelling units and utility and miscellaneous use
structures.
   (D)   A Board of Appeals shall be established by resolution of the governing
body of this municipality in conformity with the requirements of the relevant
provisions of the Code, as amended from time to time, and for the purposes set
forth therein. If at any time enforcement and administration is undertaken
jointly with one or more other municipalities, said Board of Appeals shall be
established by joint action of the participating municipalities.
   (E)   The impact of this section upon other ordinances shall be as follows.
      (1)   All Building Code ordinances or portions of ordinances which were
adopted by this municipality on or before July 1, 1999, and which equal or
exceed the requirements of the Code shall continue in full force and effect
until such time as such provisions fail to equal or exceed the minimum
requirements of the Code, as amended from time to time.
      (2)   All Building Code ordinances or portions of ordinances which are in
effect as of the effective date of this section and whose requirements are less
than the minimum requirements of the Code are hereby amended to conform to the
comparable provisions of the Code.
      (3)   All relevant ordinances, regulations and policies of this
municipality not governed by the Code shall remain in full force and effect.
   (F)   Fees assessable by the municipality for the administration and
enforcement undertaken pursuant to this section and the Code shall be
established by the governing body by resolution from time to time.
   (G)   This section shall be effective five days after the passage of this
section.
(Ord. 652, passed 6-16-2004)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.45 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Conemaugh Township Building and
Sewage Permit Ordinance”.
(Ord. 327, passed 3-1-1968)
§ 150.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. As applied to a building is any change or rearrangement in the
structural parts or any enlargement, whether by extending on any side or by
increasing in height or moving from one location or position to another,
requiring the expenditure of $1,000 or more.
   BUILDING. Any structure affording shelter to persons, animals or chattels,
the construction, or erection thereof, requiring the expenditure of $1,000 or
more.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE SYSTEM. A single system of piping, tanks or other
facilities serving only a single lot which is less than one acre in size or
serving two lots which are less than one and one-half acres in total area and
disposing of sewage in whole or in part in the soil of the property or into the
waters of this commonwealth.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, co-partnership, association or private
corporation.
   REALTY IMPROVEMENT. Any proposed new residence or other building, the useful
occupancy of which will require the installation or erection of a sewage
disposal system or other than one which is to be served by a community water
supply and a community sewage system.
   SEWAGE. Any substance that contains any of the waste products or excrement
or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals and any noxious
or deleterious substances being harmful or inimical to the public health, or to
animal or aquatic life or to the use of water for domestic water supply or for
recreation.
   SUPERVISORS. The Supervisors of Conemaugh Township or their duly appointed
and authorized agents, representatives or inspectors.
(Ord. 327, passed 3-1-1968)
§ 150.47 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION OR ERECTION OF ANY BUILDING.
   From and after the passage of this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to construct or erect any building within the township without first
obtaining a building permit from the Supervisors.
   (A)   Any person contemplating the construction or erection of a building
within the township shall make application to the Supervisors for a permit;
said application shall contain a statement of the type and size of the proposed
structure and the intended use thereof; the size of the building lot and a plot
plan if available; and a statement whether the useful occupancy will require
the installation or erection of a sewage disposal system.
   (B)   If a sewage disposal system in connection with the proposed
construction or erection is not necessary or required, the building permit
shall be issued as of course upon payment of the required permit fee of $2.
(Ord. 327, passed 3-1-1968) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.48 PERMITS REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION OR ERECTION OF REALTY IMPROVEMENT OR
INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   From and after the passage of this section, it shall be unlawful for any
person to construct or erect any realty improvement or individual sewage system
within the township without first obtaining a permit indicating that the site
and plans and specifications of the sewage disposal system are in compliance
with the provisions of the State Sewage Facilities Act, being 35 P.S. §§ 750.1
et seq. and the standards adopted pursuant to said Act, being 35 P.S. §§ 750.1
et seq. and the requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   Any person contemplating the construction or erection of any realty
improvement or individual sewage disposal system as defined by this subchapter
shall make application for a sewage disposal system permit to the Supervisors
or their designated inspector. The application shall be accompanied by an
inspection fee of $50; provided, however, that any change in the inspection fee
in the future may be made by resolution duly enacted, to have the same force
and effect as an ordinance.
   (B)   The inspection of the sewage disposal system shall be carried out in
accordance with the State Sewage Facilities Act, being 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.
and shall meet the standards and specifications adopted pursuant to said act as
promulgated by the Department of Health of the commonwealth.
(Ord. 327, passed 3-1-1968; Ord. 424, passed 6-3-1977) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of the International Property Maintenance
Code, 2012 Edition, as modified by §§
150.15 and
150.16, shall be punishable upon conviction thereof by a fine not exceeding
$600. Each day that a violation continues may be prosecuted as a separate and
distinct offense under §§
150.15 and
150.16.
   (C)   (1)   The maximum penalty of $1,000 per day per violation may be
rendered for violation of §§
150.45 through
150.48.
      (2)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
150.45 through
150.48 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to the following:
 
Type of Violation                   After Magistrate Conviction Guilt Admitted
Construction not in compliance with $500 per day                $150 per day
permit
Construction of new accessory       $1,000 per day              $150 per day
structure without permit
Construction of new primary         $1,000 per day              $150 per day
structure without permit
Covered improvements to existing    $500 per day                $150 per day
structure without permit
Other violation of §§
150.45 through                      $500 per day                $150 per day
150.48
 
      (3)   The Township Code Enforcement Officer shall assess penalties for
the violation of §§
150.45 through
150.48 according to the penalty(ies) in the column listed as “After Magistrate
Conviction” in the table in division (C)(2) above. Notice of assessment of
civil penalty shall be delivered to the person responsible in writing. Certain
violations of ordinance are deemed to justify a penalty less than the maximum
penalty established under division (C)(1) above. A person receiving a notice of
civil assessment, who admits the violation may request adjustment by the Code
Enforcement Officer within 15 days of receipt of the assessment, in which case
upon written acknowledgment of responsibility and waiver of hearing before the
Magistrate on the issue of responsibility, the Codes Enforcement Office may
reduce the assessment to the amount shown in the column listed as “Guilt
Admitted”.
      (4)   If a person is aggrieved by the amount of assessment, as opposed to
whether a violation has occurred, the person may appeal a determination of the
permit officer to the Township Supervisors, who shall in such instance sit as a
Board of Adjustment under the local public agency law. Request for such appeal
must be filed within 30 days of the original assessment and must be accompanied
by a fee of $150 to cover the costs of the hearing. At the hearing, the
Supervisors shall have the power to eliminate or modify the assessment,
modification may reduce or increase the assessment within the limits permitted.
      (5)   No penalty established in this division (C) shall be enforceable
until the fact of the violation is established in an action before a Magistrate
or admitted to by the person in writing on a standard waiver form provided by
the township.
      (6)   If division (C)(3) or (C)(4) should be found invalid, then it is
the township’s intention to impose a flat non-discretionary penalty of $1,000
per day.
(Ord. 327, passed 3-1-1968; Ord. 607, passed 8-21-1996; Ord. 697, passed 8-17-
2016)
CHAPTER 151: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
Statutory Authorization
   
151.001   Statutory authorization
General Provisions
   
151.015   Intent
   
151.016   Applicability
   
151.017   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.018   Severability
   
151.019   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.030   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.031   Permits required
   
151.032   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.033   Application procedures and requirements
   
151.034   Review of application by others
   
151.035   Changes
   
151.036   Placards
   
151.037   Start of construction
   
151.038   Enforcement; notices
   
151.039   Appeals
Identification of Floodplain Areas
   
151.050   Identification
   
151.051   Description and special requirements of identified floodplain areas
   
151.052   Changes in identification of area
   
151.053   Boundary disputes
   
151.054   Jurisdictional boundary changes
Technical Provisions
   
151.065   General
   
151.066   Elevation and floodplain requirements
   
151.067   Design and construction standards
   
151.068   Development which may endanger human life
   
151.069   Special requirements for subdivisions
   
151.070   Special requirements for manufactured homes
   
151.071   Special requirements for recreational vehicles
Activities Requiring Special Permits
   
151.085   General
   
151.086   Application requirements for special permits
   
151.087   Application review procedures
   
151.088   Special technical requirements
Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas
   
151.100   Existing structures
   
151.101   Improvements
Variances
   
151.115   General
   
151.116   Variance procedures and conditions
Definitions
   
151.130   General
   
151.131   Specific definitions
 
   
151.999   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION
§ 151.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the commonwealth has, by the passage of the Pennsylvania
Floodplain Management Act of 1978, being 32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq., delegated
the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt floodplain management
regulations to promote public health, safety and the general welfare of its
citizenry. Therefore, the Board of Supervisors of the township does hereby
order as follows.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.015 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote the general health, welfare and safety of the community;
   (B)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future;
   (C)   Minimize danger to public health by protecting water supply and
natural drainage;
   (D)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units and its residents, by preventing excessive development in areas subject
to flooding; and
   (E)   Comply with federal and state floodplain management requirements.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.016 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or
corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any construction or
development anywhere within the township unless a permit has been obtained from
the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   A permit shall not be required for minor repairs to existing buildings
or structures.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.017 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter supersedes any other conflicting provisions which may be
in effect in identified floodplain areas. However, any other ordinance
provisions shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that those
provisions are more restrictive.
   (B)   If there is any conflict between any of the provisions of this
chapter, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.018 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter shall be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such a decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of the chapter, which shall remain in
full force and effect, and for this purpose the provisions of this chapter are
hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.019 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this
chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
accepted engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood heights
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside
any identified floodplain areas, or that land uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   (B)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the township or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.030 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Building Permit Officer is hereby appointed to administer and
enforce this chapter and is referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator may:
      (1)   Fulfill the duties and responsibilities set forth in these
regulations;
      (2)   Delegate duties and responsibilities set forth in these regulations
to qualified technical personnel, plan examiners, inspectors and other
employees; or
      (3)   Enter into a written agreement or written contract with another
agency or private sector entity to administer specific provisions of these
regulations.
   (C)   Administration of any part of these regulations by another entity
shall not relieve the community of its responsibilities pursuant to the
participation requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program as set forth
in the Code of Federal Regulations at 44 C.F.R. § 59.22.
   (D)   In the absence of a designated Floodplain Administrator, the
Floodplain Administrator duties are to be fulfilled by the Chairperson of the
Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.031 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be required before any construction or development is
undertaken within any area of the township.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.032 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit only after it has
been determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance
with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of any permit, the Floodplain Administrator
shall review the application for the permit to determine if all other necessary
government permits required by state and federal laws have been obtained, such
as those required by the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 1966-537, as
amended); the Pennsylvania Dam Safety and Encroachments Act (Act 1978-325, as
amended); the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Act (Act 1937-394, as amended); and
the U.S. Clean Water Act, § 404, 33 U.S.C. § 1344. No permit shall be issued
until this determination has been made.
   (C)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or other
authorized official shall inspect the premises to determine that the work is
progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable municipal laws and ordinances. He or she
shall make as many inspections during and upon completion of the work as are
necessary.
   (D)   In the discharge of his or her duties, the Floodplain Administrator
shall have the authority to enter any building, structure, premises or
development in the identified floodplain area, upon presentation of proper
credentials, at any reasonable hour to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does
not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances,
or that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant,
the Floodplain Administrator shall revoke the permit and report such fact to
the Board of Supervisors, for whatever action it considers necessary.
   (F)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain all records associated
with the requirements of this chapter including, but not limited to, finished
construction elevation data, permitting, inspection and enforcement.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator is the official responsible for
submitting a biennial report to the FEMA concerning community participation in
the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (H)   The responsibility, authority and means to implement the commitments
of the Floodplain Administrator can be delegated from the person identified.
However, the ultimate responsibility lies with the person identified in this
chapter as the Floodplain Administrator.
   (I)   The Floodplain Administrator shall consider the requirements of the 34
Pa. Code and the 2009 IBC and the 2009 IRC or latest revisions thereof.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.033 APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Application for such a permit shall be made, in writing, to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms supplied by the township.
      (2)   Such application shall contain the following:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction
is to occur;
         (c)   Name and address of contractor;
         (d)   Site location including address;
         (e)   Listing of other permits required;
         (f)   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost, including
a breakout of flood-related cost and the market value of the building before
the flood damage occurred where appropriate; and
         (g)   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
   (B)   If any proposed construction or development is located entirely or
partially within any identified floodplain area, applicants for permits shall
provide all the necessary information in sufficient detail and clarity to
enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and conform with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes
and ordinances;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards;
      (4)   Structures will be anchored to prevent floatation, collapse or
lateral movement;
      (5)   Building materials are flood-resistant;
      (6)   Appropriate practices that minimize flood damage have been used;
and
      (7)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities have been designed and located to
prevent water entry or accumulation.
   (C)   Applicants shall file the following minimum information plus any other
pertinent information as may be required by the Floodplain Administrator to
make the above determination:
      (1)   A completed permit application form;
      (2)   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of
one inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
         (a)   North arrow, scale and date;
         (b)   Topographic contour lines, if available;
         (c)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures
and other improvements, including the location of any existing or proposed
subdivision and development;
         (d)   The location of all existing streets, drives and other access
ways; and
         (e)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
identified floodplain areas, and, if available, information pertaining to the
floodway, and the flow of water including direction and velocities.
      (3)   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
         (a)   The proposed lowest floor elevation of any proposed building
based upon North American Vertical Datum of 1988;
         (b)   The elevation of the base flood; and
         (c)   Supplemental information as may be necessary under 34 Pa. Code,
the 2009 IBC or the 2009 IRC.
      (4)   The following data and documentation:
         (a)   If available, information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with a base
flood;
         (b)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing
measures and corresponding elevations;
         (c)   Documentation, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, to show that the cumulative effect of any proposed development
within an AE Area/District with floodway (see §
151.051(B)) when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the base flood elevation at any point;
         (d)   Documentation, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, to show that the cumulative effect of any proposed development
within an AE Area/District without floodway (see §
151.051(B)) when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the base flood elevation more than one foot at any point
within the community; and
         (e)   A document, certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect, which states that the proposed construction or development has been
adequately designed to withstand the pressures, velocities, impact and uplift
forces associated with the base flood. Such statement shall include a
description of the type and extent of floodproofing measures which have been
incorporated into the design of the structure and/or the development;
         (f)   Detailed information needed to determine compliance with §§
151.067(F) and
151.068, including:
            1.   The amount, location and purpose of any materials or
substances referred to in §§
151.067(F) and
151.068, which are intended to be used, produced, stored or otherwise
maintained on site; and
            2.   A description of the safeguards incorporated into the design
of the proposed structure to prevent leaks or spills of the dangerous materials
or substances listed in §
151.068 during a base flood.
         (g)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s Planning Module for Land Development; and
         (h)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection, to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control.
   (D)   Applications for permits shall be accompanied by a fee, payable to the
municipality based upon the estimated cost of the proposed construction as
determined by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.034 REVIEW OF APPLICATION BY OTHERS.
   A copy of all plans and applications for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval may
be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to any other appropriate agencies
and/or individuals (e.g., Planning Commission, Municipal Engineer and the like)
for review and comment.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.035 CHANGES.
   After the issuance of a permit by the Floodplain Administrator, no changes
of any kind shall be made to the application, permit or any of the plans,
specifications or other documents submitted with the application without the
written consent or approval of the Floodplain Administrator. Requests for any
such change shall be in writing, and shall be submitted by the applicant to
Floodplain Administrator for consideration.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.036 PLACARDS.
   In addition to the permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a
placard which shall be displayed on the premises during the time construction
is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the permit, the date of
its issuance and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.037 START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Work on the proposed construction or development shall begin within
180 days after the date of issuance and shall be completed within 12 months
after the date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall expire unless a
time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain Administrator. The
actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   (B)   Time extensions shall be granted only if a written request is
submitted by the applicant, which sets forth sufficient and reasonable cause
for the Floodplain Administrator to approve such a request.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.038 ENFORCEMENT; NOTICES.
   (A)   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized municipal
representative determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that
there has been a violation of any provisions of this chapter, or of any
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, the Floodplain Administrator shall give
notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time not to exceed a period of 30 days for the
performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or his or her agent as the case
may require; provided, however, that such notice or order shall be deemed to
have been properly served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been
served with such notice by any other method authorized or required by the laws
of this state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial actions which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.039 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any action or decision of the Floodplain
Administrator concerning the administration of the provisions of this chapter
may appeal to the Board of Supervisors. Such appeal must be filed, in writing,
within 30 days after the decision, determination or action of the Floodplain
Administrator.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such appeal the Board of Supervisors shall set a time
and place, within not less than ten or not more than 30 days, for the purpose
of considering the appeal. Notice of the time and place at which the appeal
will be considered shall be given to all parties.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Board of Supervisors may
seek relief therefrom by appeal to court, as provided by the laws of this state
including the State Floodplain Management Act, being 32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
IDENTIFICATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 151.050 IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   The identified floodplain area shall be: any areas Conemaugh Township
classified as special flood hazard areas (SFHAs) in the flood insurance study
(FIS) and the accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) dated September
19, 2012 and issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or the
most recent revision thereof, including all digital data developed as part of
the flood insurance study.
   (B)   The above referenced FIS and FIRMs, and any subsequent revisions and
amendments are hereby adopted by the Township Supervisors and declared to be a
part of this chapter.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.051 DESCRIPTION AND SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS OF IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   The identified floodplain area shall consist of the following specific
areas.
   (A)   The Floodway Area/District identified as floodway in the FIS which
represents the channel of a watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must
be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation by more than one foot at any point. This
term shall also include floodway areas which have been identified in other
available studies or sources of information for those special flood hazard
areas where no floodway has been identified in the FIS.
      (1)   Within any floodway area, no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development shall not be
permitted unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   No new construction or development shall be allowed, unless a
permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection Regional
Office.
   (B)   The AE Area/District without floodway shall be those areas identified
as an AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which
base flood elevations have been provided in the FIS but no floodway has been
delineated.
      (1)   No permit shall be granted for any construction, development, use,
or activity within any AE Area/District without floodway unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development would not,
together with all other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE
more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   No new construction or development shall be located within the area
measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless a
permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection Regional
Office.
   (C)   The A Area/District shall be those areas identified as an A Zone on
the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no 1% annual chance
flood elevations have been provided. For these areas, elevation and floodway
information from other federal, state or other acceptable sources shall be used
when available. Where other acceptable information is not available, the base
flood elevation shall be determined by using the elevation of a point on the
boundary of the identified floodplain area which is nearest the construction
site.
   (D)   The Shallow Flooding Area/District shall be those areas identified as
Zones AO and AH on the FIRM and in the FIS. These areas are subject to
inundation by 1% annual chance shallow flooding where average depths are
between one and three feet. In Zones AO and AH, drainage paths shall be
established to guide floodwaters around and away from structures on slopes.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.052 CHANGES IN IDENTIFICATION OF AREA.
   The identified floodplain area may be revised or modified by the Board of
Supervisors where studies or information provided by a qualified agency or
person documents the need for such revision. However, prior to any such change
to the special flood hazard area, approval must be obtained from FEMA.
Additionally, as soon as practicable, but not later than six months after the
date such information becomes available, a community shall notify FEMA of the
changes to the special flood hazard area by submitting technical or scientific
data.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.053 BOUNDARY DISPUTES.
   (A)   Should a dispute concerning any identified floodplain boundary arise,
an initial determination shall be made by the Township Planning Commission and
any party aggrieved by this decision or determination may appeal to the Board
of Supervisors.
   (B)   The burden of proof shall be on the appellant.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.054 JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARY CHANGES.
   Prior to development occurring in areas where annexation or other corporate
boundary changes are proposed or have occurred, the community shall review
flood hazard data affecting the lands subject to boundary changes. The
community shall adopt and enforce floodplain regulations in areas subject to
annexation or corporate boundary changes which meet or exceed those in 44
C.F.R. § 60.3.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
TECHNICAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.065 GENERAL.
   (A)   Alteration or relocation of watercourse.
      (1)   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected
by such action have been notified by the municipality, and until all required
permits or approvals have first been obtained from the Department of
Environmental Protection Regional Office.
      (2)   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse unless it can be shown that the activity will not
reduce or impede the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse in any way.
      (3)   In addition, FEMA and the State Department of Community and
Economic Development, shall be notified prior to any alteration or relocation
of any watercourse.
   (B)   Technical or scientific data.
      (1)   Technical or scientific data shall be submitted by the applicant to
FEMA for a letter of map revision (LOMR) as soon as practicable but within six
months of any new construction, development, or other activity resulting in
changes in the BFE.
      (2)   The situations when a LOMR or a conditional letter of map revision
(CLOMR) are required are:
         (a)   Any development that causes a rise in the base flood elevations
within the floodway;
         (b)   Any development occurring in Zones A1-30 and Zone AE without a
designated floodway, which will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base
flood elevation; or
         (c)   Alteration or relocation of a stream (including, but not limited
to, installing culverts and bridges).
   (C)   New construction, development, uses or activities. Any new
construction, development, uses or activities allowed within any identified
floodplain area shall be undertaken in strict compliance with the provisions
contained in this chapter and any other applicable codes, ordinances and
regulations.
   (D)   New construction or development within any identified floodplain area.
Within any identified floodplain area (see §
151.051), no new construction or development shall be located within the area
measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless a
permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection Regional
Office.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.066 ELEVATION AND FLOODPLAIN REQUIREMENTS.
   If a variance is obtained for new construction or substantial improvements
in the identified floodplain area in accordance with the criteria in §§
151.115 and
151.116, then the following provisions apply.
   (A)   Residential structures.
      (1)   In AE, A1 -30 and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated up to, or
above, the regulatory flood elevation.
      (2)   In A Zones, where there are no base flood elevations specified on
the FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood
elevation determined in accordance with §
151.051(C).
      (3)   In AO Zones, any new construction or substantial improvement shall
have the lowest floor (including basement) at or above the highest adjacent
grade at least as high as the depth number specified on the FIRM.
      (4)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405, as amended, shall be utilized.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   In AE, A1-30 and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement of a nonresidential structure shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood elevation,
or be designed and constructed so that the space enclosed below the regulatory
flood elevation:
         (a)   Is floodproofed so that the structure is water-tight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water; and
         (b)   Has structural components with the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   In A Zones, where there no base flood elevations are specified on
the FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated or completely floodproofed up to, or above,
the regulatory flood elevation determined in accordance with §
151.051(C).
      (3)   In AO Zones, any new construction or substantial improvement shall
have their lowest floor elevated or completely floodproofed above the highest
adjacent grade to at least as high as the depth number specified on the FIRM.
      (4)   Any nonresidential structure, or part thereof, made water-tight
below the regulatory flood elevation shall be floodproofed in accordance with
the WI or W2 space classification standards contained in the publication
entitled Flood-Proofing Regulations published by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers (June 1972, as amended March 1992) or with some other equivalent
standard. All plans and specifications for such floodproofing shall be
accompanied by a statement certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect which states that the proposed design and methods of construction are
in conformance with the above referenced standards.
      (5)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405, as amended, shall be utilized.
   (C)   Space below the lowest floor.
      (1)   Fully enclosed space below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
which will be used solely for the parking of a vehicle, building access or
incidental storage in an area other than a basement, shall be designed and
constructed to allow for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters for the
purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on exterior walls. The term FULLY
ENCLOSED SPACE also includes crawl spaces.
      (2)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Historic structures. See §
151.131 (definition of substantial improvement) for requirements for the
substantial improvement of any historic structures.
   (E)   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to a principal building
need not be elevated or floodproofed to remain dry, but shall comply, at a
minimum, with the following requirements.
      (1)   The structure shall not be designed or used for human habitation,
but shall be limited to the parking of vehicles, or to the storage of tools,
material and equipment related to the principal use or activity.
      (2)   Floor area shall not exceed 200 square feet.
      (3)   The structure will have a low damage potential.
      (4)   The structure will be located on the site so as to cause the least
obstruction to the flow of floodwaters.
      (5)   Power lines, wiring and outlets will be elevated to the regulatory
flood elevation.
      (6)   Permanently affixed utility equipment and appliances such as
furnaces, heaters, washers, dryers and the like are prohibited.
      (7)   Sanitary facilities are prohibited.
      (8)   (a)   The structure shall be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation or movement and shall be designed to automatically provide for the
entry and exit of floodwater for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces
on the walls.
         (b)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by
a registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers and the like or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.067 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The following minimum standards shall apply for all construction and
development proposed within any identified floodplain area.
   (A)   Fill. If fill is used, it shall:
      (1)   Extend laterally at least 15 feet beyond the building line from all
points;
      (2)   Consist of soil or small rock materials only; sanitary landfills
shall not be permitted;
      (3)   Be compacted to provide the necessary permeability and resistance
to erosion, scouring or settling;
      (4)   Be no steeper than one vertical to two horizontal feet unless
substantiated data justifying steeper slopes are submitted to, and approved by
the Floodplain Administrator; and
      (5)   Be used to the extent to which it does not adversely affect
adjacent properties.
   (B)   Drainage facilities. Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to
convey the flow of stormwater runoff in a safe and efficient manner. The system
shall ensure proper drainage along streets, and provide positive drainage away
from buildings. The system shall also be designed to prevent the discharge of
excess runoff onto adjacent properties.
   (C)   Water and sanitary sewer facilities and systems.
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer facilities
and systems shall be located, designed and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damages and the infiltration of floodwaters.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer facilities and systems shall be designed to prevent
the discharge of untreated sewage into floodwaters.
      (3)   No part of any on-site sewage system shall be located within any
identified floodplain area except in strict compliance with all state and local
regulations for such systems. If any such system is permitted, it shall be
located so as to avoid impairment to it, or contamination from it, during a
flood.
      (4)   The design and construction provisions of the UCC and FEMA #348,
Protecting Building Utilities From Flood Damages and the International Private
Sewage Disposal Code shall be utilized.
   (D)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical and
telephone systems shall be located, elevated (where possible) and constructed
to minimize the chance of impairment during a flood.
   (E)   Streets. The finished elevation of all new streets shall be no more
than one foot below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (F)   Storage. All materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or in
times of flooding, could be injurious to human, animal or plant life, and not
listed in §
151.068, shall be stored at or above the regulatory flood elevation or
floodproofed to the maximum extent possible.
   (G)   Placement of buildings and structures. All buildings and structures
shall be designed, located and constructed so as to offer the minimum
obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to have a minimum effect
upon the flow and height of floodwater.
   (H)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, storage tanks and other similar objects
or components located below the regulatory flood elevation shall be securely
anchored or affixed to prevent flotation.
   (I)   Floors, walls and ceilings.
      (1)   Wood flooring used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be installed to accommodate a lateral expansion of the flooring, perpendicular
to the flooring grain without causing structural damage to the building.
      (2)   Plywood used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be of
a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
      (3)   Walls and ceilings at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be designed and constructed of materials that are “water-resistant” and will
withstand inundation.
      (4)   Windows, doors and other components at or below the regulatory
flood elevation shall be made of metal or other “water-resistant” material.
   (J)   Paints and adhesives.
      (1)   Paints and other finishes used at or below the regulatory flood
elevation shall be of “marine” or “water-resistant” quality.
      (2)   Adhesives used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
of a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
      (3)   All wooden components (doors, trim, cabinets and the like) used at
or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be finished with a “marine” or
“water-resistant” paint or other finishing material.
   (K)   Electrical components.
      (1)   Electrical distribution panels shall be at least three feet above
the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Separate electrical circuits shall serve lower levels and shall be
dropped from above.
   (L)   Equipment. Water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and ventilating
units, and other electrical, mechanical or utility equipment or apparatus shall
not be located below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (M)   Fuel supply systems. All gas and oil supply systems shall be designed
to prevent the infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharges from
the system into floodwaters. Additional provisions shall be made for the
drainage of these systems in the event that floodwater infiltration occurs.
   (N)   Uniform Construction Code coordination. The standards and
specifications contained 34 Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405, as amended and
not limited to the following provisions shall apply to the above and other
sections and divisions of this chapter, to the extent that they are more
restrictive and supplement the requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   International Building Code (IBC) 2009 or the latest edition
thereof: §§ 801, 1202, 1403, 1603, 1605, 1612, 3402 and Appendix G; and
      (2)   International Residential Building Code (IRC) 2009 or the latest
edition thereof: §§ R104, R105, R109, R323, Appendix AE101, Appendix E and
Appendix J.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.068 DEVELOPMENT WHICH MAY ENDANGER HUMAN LIFE.
   (A)   (1)   In accordance with the State Floodplain Management Act, being 32
P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq., and the regulations adopted by the Department of
Community and Economic Development as required by the Act, any new or
substantially improved structure which:
         (a)   Will be used for the production or storage of any of the
following dangerous materials or substances;
         (b)   Will be used for any activity requiring the maintenance of a
supply of more than 550 gallons, or other comparable volume, of any of the
following dangerous materials or substances on the premises; or
         (c)   Will involve the production, storage or use of any amount of
radioactive substances shall be subject to the provisions of this section, in
addition to all other applicable provisions.
      (2)   The following list of materials and substances are considered
dangerous to human life:
         (a)   Acetone;
         (b)   Ammonia;
         (c)   Benzene;
         (d)   Calcium carbide;
         (e)   Carbon disulfide;
         (f)   Celluloid;
         (g)   Chlorine;
         (h)   Hydrochloric acid;
         (i)   Hydrocyanic acid;
         (j)   Magnesium;
         (k)   Nitric acid and oxides of nitrogen;
         (l)   Petroleum products (gasoline, fuel oil and the like);
         (m)   Phosphorus;
         (n)   Potassium;
         (o)   Sodium;
         (p)   Sulphur and sulphur products;
         (q)   Pesticides (including insecticides, fungicides and
rodenticides); and
         (r)   Radioactive substances, insofar as such substances are not
otherwise regulated.
   (B)   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, any new or
substantially improved residential structure of the kind described in division
(A) above, shall be elevated to remain completely dry up to at least one and
one-half feet above base flood elevation.
   (C)   (1)   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, any new
or substantially improved nonresidential structure of the kind described in
division (A) above, shall be:
         (a)   Elevated or designed and constructed to remain completely dry up
to at least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation; and
         (b)   Designed to prevent pollution from the structure or activity
during the course of a base flood.
      (2)   Any such structure, or part thereof, that will be built below the
regulatory flood elevation shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the standards for completely dry floodproofing contained in the publication
Flood-Proofing Regulations (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, June 1972 as amended
March 1992), or with some other equivalent water-tight standard.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.069 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   All subdivision proposals and development proposals containing at least 50
lots or at least five acres, whichever is the lesser, in identified floodplain
areas where base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by
hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analyses that determine base flood
elevations and floodway information. The analyses shall be prepared by a
licensed professional engineer in a format required by FEMA for a conditional
letter of map revision or letter of map revision. Submittal requirements and
processing fees shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.070 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Within any identified floodplain area manufactured homes shall be
prohibited. If a variance is obtained in accordance with the criteria in §§
151.115 and
151.116, then the following divisions (B) through (D) apply:
   (B)   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, all
manufactured homes, and any improvements thereto, shall be:
      (1)   Placed on a permanent foundation;
      (2)   Elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation; and
      (3)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
   (C)   Installation of manufactured homes shall be done in accordance with
the manufacturers’ installation instructions as provided by the manufacturer.
Where the applicant cannot provide the above information, the requirements of
Appendix E of the 2009 International Residential Building Code or the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Permanent Foundations for
Manufactured Housing, 1984 Edition, draft or latest revision thereto and 34 Pa.
Code Chapters 401 through 405 shall apply.
   (D)   Consideration shall be given to the installation requirements of the
2009 IBC, and the 2009 IRC or the most recent revisions thereto and 34 Pa.
Code, as amended where appropriate and/or applicable to units where the
manufacturers’ standards for anchoring cannot be provided or were not
established for the proposed unit(s) installation.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.071 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   If a variance is obtained in accordance with the criteria in §§
151.115 and
151.116, then the following provisions apply.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles in Zones A, A1-30, AH and AE must either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; and
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements for manufactured homes in §
151.070 and be place on a permanent foundation.
   (C)   No more than one recreational vehicle shall be permitted per
household.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
ACTIVITIES REQUIRING SPECIAL PERMITS
§ 151.085 GENERAL.
   In accordance with the administrative regulations promulgated by the
Department of Community and Economic Development to implement the State
Floodplain Management Act, being 32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq., the following
activities shall be prohibited within any identified floodplain area unless a
special permit has been issued by the township.
   (A)   The commencement of any of the following activities, or the
construction, enlargement or expansion of any structure used, or intended to be
used, for any of the following activities:
      (1)   Hospitals;
      (2)   Nursing homes;
      (3)   Jails or prisons; and
      (4)   Kennels.
   (B)   The commencement of, or any construction of, a new manufactured home
park or manufactured home subdivision, or substantial improvement to an
existing manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.086 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL PERMITS.
   Applicants for special permits shall provide five copies of the following
items:
   (A)   A written request including a completed permit application form;
   (B)   A small scale map showing the vicinity in which the proposed site is
located;
   (C)   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of one
inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
      (1)   North arrow, scale and date;
      (2)   Topography based upon the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of
1988, showing existing and proposed contours at intervals of two feet;
      (3)   All property and lot lines including dimensions, and the size of
the site expressed in acres or square feet;
      (4)   The location of all existing streets, drives, other access ways and
parking areas, with information concerning widths, pavement types and
construction, and elevations;
      (5)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
buildings, structures and other public or private facilities, including
railroad tracks and facilities, and any other natural and human-made features
affecting, or affected by, the proposed activity or development;
      (6)   The location of the floodplain boundary line, information and spot
elevations concerning the base flood elevation, and information concerning the
flow of water including direction and velocities;
      (7)   The location of all proposed buildings, structures, utilities and
any other improvements; and
      (8)   Any other information which the municipality considers necessary
for adequate review of the application.
   (D)   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
clearly and legibly drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
      (1)   Sufficiently detailed architectural or engineering drawings,
including floor plans, sections and exterior building elevations, as
appropriate;
      (2)   For any proposed building, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and, as required, the elevation of any other floor;
      (3)   Complete information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with the base
flood;
      (4)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing
measures;
      (5)   Cross section drawings for all proposed streets, drives, other
accessways and parking areas, showing all rights-of-way and pavement widths;
      (6)   Profile drawings for all proposed streets, drives and vehicular
accessways including existing and proposed grades; and
      (7)   Plans and profiles of all proposed sanitary and storm sewer
systems, water supply systems and any other utilities and facilities.
   (E)   The following data and documentation:
      (1)   Certification from the applicant that the site upon which the
activity or development is proposed is an existing separate and single parcel,
owned by the applicant or the client he or she represents;
      (2)   Certification from a registered professional engineer, architect or
landscape architect that the proposed construction has been adequately designed
to protect against damage from the base flood;
      (3)   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, landscape architect or other qualified person which contains a
complete and accurate description of the nature and extent of pollution that
might possibly occur from the development during the course of a base flood,
including a statement concerning the effects such pollution may have on human
life;
      (4)   A statement certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
description of the effects the proposed development will have on base flood
elevation and flows;
      (5)   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
description of the kinds and amounts of any loose buoyant materials or debris
that may possibly exist or be located on the site below the base flood
elevation and the effects such materials and debris may have on base flood
elevation and flows;
      (6)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s Planning Module for Land Development;
      (7)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control;
      (8)   Any other applicable permits such as, but not limited to, a permit
for any activity regulated by the Department of Environmental Protection under
§ 302 of Act 1978-166; and
      (9)   An evacuation plan which fully explains the manner in which the
site will be safely evacuated before or during the course of a base flood.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.087 APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   Upon receipt of an application for a special permit by the township the
following procedures shall apply in addition to those of §§
151.030 through
151.039.
   (A)   Within three working days following receipt of the application, a
complete copy of the application and all accompanying documentation shall be
forwarded to the County Planning Commission by registered or certified mail for
its review and recommendations. Copies of the application shall also be
forwarded to the Township Planning Commission and Township Engineer for review
and comment.
   (B)   If an application is received that is incomplete, the township shall
notify the applicant in writing, stating in what respect the application is
deficient.
   (C)   If the township decides to disapprove an application, it shall notify
the applicant, in writing, of the reasons for the disapproval.
   (D)   If the township approves an application, it shall file written
notification, together with the application and all pertinent information, with
the Department of Community and Economic Development, by registered or
certified mail, within five working days after the date of approval.
   (E)   Before issuing the special permit, the township shall allow the
Department of Community and Economic Development 30 days, after receipt of the
notification by the Department, to review the application and decision made by
the township.
   (F)   If the township does not receive any communication from the Department
of Community and Economic Development during the 30-day review period, it may
issue a special permit to the applicant.
   (G)   If the Department of Community and Economic Development, should
decide, to disapprove an application, it shall notify the township and the
applicant, in writing, of the reasons for the disapproval, and the township
shall not issue the special permit.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.088 SPECIAL TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §§
151.065 through
151.071, the following minimum requirements shall also apply to any proposed
development requiring a special permit. If there is any conflict between any of
the following requirements and those in §§
151.065 through
151.071 or in any other code, ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
   (B)   No application for a special permit shall be approved unless it can be
determined that the structure or activity will be located, constructed and
maintained in a manner which will:
      (1)   Fully protect the health and safety of the general public and any
occupants of the structure. At a minimum, all new structures shall be designed,
located and constructed so that:
         (a)   The structure will survive inundation by waters of the base
flood without any lateral movement or damage to either the structure itself, or
to any of its equipment or contents below the BFE;
         (b)   The lowest floor (including basement) will be elevated to at
least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation; and
         (c)   The occupants of the structure can remain inside for an
indefinite period of time and be safely evacuated at any time during the base
flood.
      (2)   Prevent any significant possibility of pollution, increased flood
levels or flows, or debris endangering life and property.
   (C)   (1)   All hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only
by professional engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall
certify that the technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted
technical concepts.
      (2)   Studies, analyses, computations and the like shall be submitted in
sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the township and the
Department of Community and Economic Development.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
EXISTING STRUCTURES IN IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 151.100 EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of this chapter do not require any changes or improvements to
be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an improvement is made
to any existing structure, the provisions of §
151.101 shall apply.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.101 IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following provisions shall apply whenever any improvement is made to an
existing structure located within any identified floodplain area.
   (A)   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within any Floodway Area/District that would cause any increase in BFE.
   (B)   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within AE Area/District without floodway that would, together with all other
existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE more than one foot at
any point.
   (C)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure to an extent or amount of 50% or more of its
market value, shall constitute a substantial improvement and shall be
undertaken only in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The above activity shall also address the requirements of the 34 Pa.
Code, as amended and the 2009 IBC and the 2009 IRC.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
VARIANCES
§ 151.115 GENERAL.
   If compliance with any of the requirements of this chapter would result in
an exceptional hardship to a prospective builder, developer or landowner, the
Township Supervisors may, upon request, grant relief from the strict
application of the requirements.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.116 VARIANCE PROCEDURES AND CONDITIONS.
   Requests for variances shall be considered by the Township Supervisors in
accordance with the procedures contained in §
151.039 and the following.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use or
activity within any Floodway Area/District that would cause any increase in the
BFE.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use or
activity within any AE Area/District without floodway that would, together with
all other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE more than one
foot at any point.
   (C)   Except for a possible modification of the regulatory flood elevation
requirement involved, no variance shall be granted for any of the other
requirements pertaining specifically to development regulated by special permit
or prohibited activities (§§
151.085 through
151.088) or to a development which may endanger human life (§
151.068).
   (D)   If granted, a variance shall involve only the least modification
necessary to provide relief.
   (E)   In granting any variance, the township shall attach whatever
reasonable conditions and safeguards it considers necessary in order to protect
the public health, safety and welfare, and to achieve the objectives of this
chapter.
   (F)   Whenever a variance is granted, the township shall notify the
applicant in writing that:
      (1)   The granting of the variance may result in increased premium rates
for flood insurance; and
      (2)   Such variances may increase the risks to life and property.
   (G)   In reviewing any request for a variance, the township shall consider,
at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   There is good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship
to the applicant; and
      (3)   The granting of the variance will:
         (a)   Neither result in an unacceptable or prohibited increase in
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary public
expense; nor
         (b)   Create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimize the public, or
conflict with any other applicable state or local ordinances and regulations.
   (H)   A complete record of all variance requests and related actions shall
be maintained by the township. In addition, a report of all variances granted
during the year shall be included in the annual report to the FEMA.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any of the above, however, all structures shall be
designed and constructed so as to have the capability of resisting the 1%
annual chance flood.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
DEFINITIONS
§ 151.130 GENERAL.
   Unless specifically defined below, words and phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give this chapter its most reasonable
application.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.131 SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year. (Also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD or 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD.)
   BASE FLOOD DISCHARGE. The volume of water resulting from a base flood as it
passes a given location within a given time, usually expressed in cubic feet
per second (cfs).
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30 that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from a flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor below ground level on
all sides.
   BUILDING. A combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all manufactured homes and trailers to be
used for human habitation.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion or alteration of buildings or other structures; the placement
of manufactured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling, grading
and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of equipment or
materials; and the subdivision of land.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD. A temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency that includes flood profiles, the flood insurance
rate map, the flood boundary and floodway map and the water surface elevation
of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN AREA. A relatively flat or low land area which is subject to
partial or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river or
watercourse; and/or any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation that have been certified either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest fully enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished, flood resistant partially enclosed area, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access and incidental storage, in an area
other than a basement area is not considered the LOWEST FLOOR of a building,
provided that such space is not designed and built so that the structure is in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis, and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term includes
park trailers, travel trailers, recreational and other similar vehicles which
are placed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MINOR REPAIR. The replacement of existing work with equivalent materials for
the purpose of its routine maintenance and upkeep, but not including the
cutting away of any wall, partition or portion thereof, the removal or cutting
of any structural beam or bearing support, or the removal or change of any
required means of egress, or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting
the exitway requirements; nor shall minor repairs include addition to,
alteration of, replacement or relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer,
drainage, drain leader, gas, oil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric
wiring, mechanical or other work affecting public health or general safety.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after September 19, 2012 and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures. Any construction started after June 4, 1990 and before September
19, 2012, is subject to the ordinance in effect at the time the permit was
issued, provided the start of construction was within 180 days of permit
issuance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility or any other legal entity whatsoever, which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred after December 31, 1974 or on or after the community’s
initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM) dated June 4, 1990, whichever is later,
and, as such, would be required to be compliant with the regulations of the
National Flood Insurance Program.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred on or before December 31, 1974 or before the community’s
initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM) dated June 4, 1990, whichever is later,
and, as such, would not be required to be compliant with the regulations of the
National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Not more than 400 square feet, measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Not designed for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) or estimated
flood height as determined using simplified methods plus a freeboard safety
factor of one and one-half feet.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damages occurred.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). An area in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on the FIRM as
Zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99 or AH.
   SPECIAL PERMIT. A special approval which is required for hospitals, nursing
homes, jails and new manufactured home parks and subdivisions and substantial
improvements to such existing parks, when such development is located in all,
or a designated portion of a floodplain.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the permit was issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days after the date of the permit
and shall be completed within 12 months after the date of issuance of the
permit unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain
Administrator. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land by
any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs, or
devisees, transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided,
however, that the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into
parcels of more than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of
access or any residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage from any cause sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% or more of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure, of which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before the “start of construction” of the improvement. This term
includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage” (or “repetitive
loss” when a repetitive loss provision is used) regardless of the actual repair
work performed. The term does not, however, include any project for improvement
of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by the local
Code Enforcement Official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe
living conditions.
      (2)   Historic structures undergoing repair or rehabilitation that would
constitute a SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT as defined in this chapter, must comply
with all ordinance requirements that do not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure. Documentation that a specific ordinance
requirement will cause removal of the structure from the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic places must be obtained from
the Secretary of the Interior or the State Historic Preservation Officer. Any
exemption from chapter requirements will be the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
   UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE (UCC). The statewide Building Code adopted by the
Pennsylvania General Assembly in 1999 applicable to new construction in all
municipalities whether administered by the municipality, a third party or the
Department of Labor and Industry. Applicable to residential and commercial
buildings, the Code adopted the International Residential Code (IRC) and the
International Building Code (IBC), by reference, as the construction standard
applicable with the state floodplain construction. For coordination purposes,
references to the above are made specifically to various sections of the IRC
and the IBC.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in VIOLATION until
such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 688, passed 8-22-2012)
CHAPTER 152: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
152.01   Conemaugh Township Stormwater Management Ordinance adopted by
reference
§ 152.01 CONEMAUGH TOWNSHIP STORMWATER MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY
REFERENCE.
   The Conemaugh Township Stormwater Management Ordinance, as amended, is
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances
as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 706, passed 12-21-2022)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions and Authority
   
153.001   Authority
   
153.002   Title of regulations
   
153.003   Application of regulations
   
153.004   Purpose
Definitions
   
153.015   Inclusions
   
153.016   Definitions
Procedure
   
153.030   Establishment of procedures
   
153.031   Advisory meeting; sketch plan
   
153.032   Submission of plans
   
153.033   General procedures for preliminary and final plans for major
subdivisions
   
153.034   Procedures for preliminary plans for major subdivisions
   
153.035   Procedures for final plans for major subdivisions
   
153.036   Requirements for all minor subdivisions
   
153.037   Additional requirements for minor subdivisions (classified as “(1)”)
   
153.038   Additional requirements for minor subdivisions (classified as “(2)”)
   
153.039   Additional requirements for minor subdivisions (classified as “(3)”)
   
153.040   Additional requirements for minor subdivisions
   
153.041   Time limit on recording all subdivisions
   
153.042   Approval, maintenance and security
Plan Requirements
   
153.055   Application
   
153.056   Information to be shown on all plans
   
153.057   Additional requirements to be shown on preliminary and final plans
   
153.058   Information to be shown on preliminary plan only
   
153.059   Information to be shown on final plan only
Design Standards
   
153.070   Application
   
153.071   General standards applicable to all types of development
   
153.072   Residential subdivision design standards
   
153.073   Mobile home parks
   
153.074   Commercial and industrial subdivision
   
153.075   Pavement design
Required Improvements
   
153.090   General
   
153.091   Monuments and markers
   
153.092   Street improvements
   
153.093   Street signs
   
153.094   Water supply
   
153.095   Sewage system
   
153.096   Drainage
   
153.097   Other utilities
   
153.098   Recommended improvements
Administration
   
153.110   Revision and amendment
   
153.111   Hardship and variance
   
153.112   Reconsideration and appeal
   
153.113   Commission records; record to be kept
   
153.114   Validity
   
153.115   Effective date
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND AUTHORITY
§ 153.001 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Generally. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
“Conemaugh Township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance”.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The township has jurisdiction and control of the
subdivision and development of land within the township limits, as specified in
the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. Ch. 30, of July
31, 1968, as amended.
   (C)   Adoption of regulations. The Board of Supervisors of the township, by
authority of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. Ch.
30, and upon recommendation of the Township Planning Commission, hereby adopts
the following regulations governing the subdivision and land development of all
land located within the township limits.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.002 TITLE OF REGULATIONS.
   These regulations shall be known and may be cited as the “Conemaugh Township
Subdivision Regulations”.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.003 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Application to developers. Any person, firm or corporation intending
to subdivide land, shall, as specified in these regulations, prepare a plan of
such proposed land subdivision. Such plan shall be prepared and submitted to
the Township Planning Commission for review and approval.
   (B)   Recorded plans. The provisions and requirements of these regulations
shall apply to and control all land subdivisions in the township whose plans
have not been approved and recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds in
and for the county before the effective date of this chapter; provided,
however, that any change other than a correction of erroneous mathematical data
and the addition of omitted mathematical data in a recorded plan shall
constitute a resubdivision which shall make said plan subject to these
regulations.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.004 PURPOSE.
    These regulations are adopted for the following reasons and purposes:
   (A)   To promote the health, safety and general welfare of all present and
future citizens, residents and visitors of the township;
   (B)   To enable the Planning Commission to carry out its assigned function
of coordinating the growth process of the township;
   (C)   To provide minimum uniform regulations and construction standards
governing subdivision
and development of land in the township;
   (D)   To provide minimum uniform procedures, regulations and standards that
will ensure the prompt equitable processing and approving of subdivision plans;
and
   (E)   To provide for the orderly growth and proper use of land of the
township, to promote and protect its economic development.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
DEFINITIONS
§ 153.015 INCLUSIONS.
   In the application of these regulations, the rules and definitions contained
in this chapter shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
   (A)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural and the plural
shall include the singular; words used in the present tense shall include the
future tense.
   (B)   The words “shall” and “will” are mandatory.
   (C)   The word “may” is permissive.
   (D)   The word “lot” shall include the words “piece” and “parcel”.
   (E)   The phrase “used for” shall include the phrases “arranged for”,
“designed for”, “intended for”, “maintained for” and “occupied for”.
   (F)   The word “person” shall include “corporation”, “unincorporated
association”, “syndicate” and “partnership” as well as an individual.
   (G)   The word “building” shall include “structure” and shall be construed
as if followed by the phrase, “or part thereof”.
   (H)   The word “street” shall include “avenue”, “boulevard”, “court”,
“expressway”, “highway” and “road”.
   (I)   The word “watercourse” shall include “channel”, “creek”, “ditch”, “dry
run”, “mill race”, “river”, “spring”, “spring run” and “stream”.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.016 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY or SERVICE DRIVE. A minor right-of-way providing second vehicular
access to the side or rear of abutting property.
   BLOCK, EXTERIOR. An area bounded by exterior property lines and by streets.
   BLOCK, INTERIOR. An area bounded by streets.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The governing body of the Township of Conemaugh.
   BUILDING. Any structure intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of
any person, animal or property of any kind.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A building subordinate to the main building on a lot
and used for purpose other than residential.
   BUILDING LINE(S). Lines parallel to and inside of the property lines within
which buildings may be constructed.
   BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL. A building which is designed, used or intended to be
used for human occupancy.
   CARTWAY. The portion of a street right-of-way, paved or unpaved, intended
for vehicular traffic.
   CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE. An area of unobstructed vision at street intersections
defined by lines of sight between points at a given distance from the point of
intersection of the street right-of-way lines, measured along the right-of-way
lines.
   COMMISSION. The Conemaugh Township Planning Commission.
   COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The complete plan plus any amendments, or any of its
constituent municipalities, providing for the continuing orderly development of
the municipality and being recognized by the governing bodies of the township
as the OFFICIAL PLAN.
   CUL-DE-SAC (DEAD-END). A minor street intersecting another street at one end
and terminating in a vehicular turnaround.
   DEDICATION. The deliberate appropriation of land by its owner for any
general and public, or limited public use, reserving to himself or herself no
other rights than such as are compatible with the full exercise and enjoyment
of the public uses to which the property has been devoted.
   DEVELOPER. Any landowner, agent of such landowner or tenant with the
permission of such landowner, who makes or causes to be made a subdivision of
land or a land development.
   DEVELOPMENT. The subdivision of land or the installation or proposed
installation of streets, or the construction or proposed construction of
commercial or industrial facilities or buildings.
   DEVELOPMENT, SELF-CONTAINED. A residential subdivision including adequate
areas for commercial, recreational and other necessary public uses intended to
be used exclusively by and maintained by owners of lots in the subdivision.
   DRIVEWAY. A minor vehicular right-of-way providing access to five or fewer
properties of separate ownership, not dedicated to public use, the maintenance
being provided by the property owners served.
   DWELLING. See BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building and appurtenant structures designated
for or used exclusively for occupancy by one family, related by blood or
adoption, and non-paying guests.
   EASEMENT. A right-of-way granted for limited use of private land for a
public or quasi-public purpose.
   FLOODING, OCCASIONAL. Innundation of land occurring with a frequency
normally in excess of five years.
   FLOODING, PERIODIC. Innundation of land occurring with a frequency normally
five years or less.
   FLOODPLAINS. Those areas adjacent to streams or river, subject to frequent
flooding (yearly or every two or three years).
   HIGHWAY. See STREET.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Those physical changes to the land necessary to produce
useable and desirable lots including, but not limited to, grading, paving,
street lighting, curbs, gutters, storm sewers, drains, sidewalks, crosswalks,
monuments, water supply and sewage disposal facilities.
   LANDOWNER. The legal or beneficial owner or owners of land including the
holder of an option or contract to purchase (whether or not such option or
contract is subject to any condition), a lessee if he or she is authorized
under the lease to exercise the rights of the landowner, or other person having
a proprietary interest in land.
   LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT, QUALIFIED. A landscape architect holding current
registration status in the commonwealth.
   LOT. A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by a plat or
otherwise as permitted by law and to be used, developed or built upon as a
unit.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, rear and side
lot lines.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which is an existing or proposed
right-of-way. In the case of corner lots, the line having the least dimension
along a right-of-way shall be designated as the FRONT LOT LINE.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is most distant from and most
nearly parallel to the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or a rear lot
line.
   LOT OWNERS ASSOCIATION or HOME OWNERS ASSOCIATION. An organization either
incorporated or not, of owners of lots of a specific subdivision, formed for
the purpose of:
      (1)   Operation, improvement and maintenance of streets, playgrounds,
lakes, athletic fields, swimming pools, community halls and other public areas
in which the developer may have conveyed an interest, in common to others, to
individual lot owners or to the LOT OWNERS ASSOCIATION; and
      (2)   For the general civic betterment of the community as a whole.
   LOT WIDTH. The average horizontal distance between the side lot lines,
measured parallel to the front lot line.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable, single-family dwelling intended for permanent
occupancy, contained in one unit, or in two or more units designed to be joined
into one integral unit capable of again being separated for repeated towing,
which arrives at a site complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, and constructed so that it may be
used without a permanent foundation.
   MOBILE HOME COURT. Any lot, parcel or tract of land upon which two or more
mobile homes are located or parked for occupancy, whether charges are made or
not, for the use and occupancy.
   PLAN. A map or plan indicating the subdivision of land.
   PLAN, FINAL. A complete and exact plan, prepared for official recording as
required by statute and by these regulations, to define property rights and
proposed streets and/or other improvements.
   PLAN, PRELIMINARY. A tentative plan, in lesser detail than a final plan,
showing proposed streets and lot layout and such other information as required
within these regulations, as a basis for consideration prior to preparation of
a final plan.
   PLAN, SKETCH. An informal plan indicating important existing features of a
tract and its surroundings and the general layout of the proposed subdivision.
   PLANNER, QUALIFIED. A planner having two of the following four
qualifications:
      (1)   A degree in community and/or regional planning, or a graduate
degree in a related field with major course work in planning;
      (2)   At least five years of professional level experience working as a
staff member or consultant to an official municipal, regional or county
planning agency, or a state or federal agency whose major function is community
or regional planning or a combination thereof;
      (3)   Responsible professional level participation in the preparation of
completed comprehensive plans for at least three communities; and/or
      (4)   Membership or associate membership in the American Institute of
Planners.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. See COMMISSION.
   PUBLIC. The general citizenry and the specific residents of a particular
subdivision.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person registered and licensed to
practice civil engineering within the commonwealth. Whenever an engineer is
cited in these regulations, it refers to REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER.
   REGISTERED SURVEYOR. A person registered and licensed to practice land
surveying within the commonwealth. Whenever a surveyor is cited in these
regulations, it refers to a REGISTERED SURVEYOR.
   RESERVE STRIP. A relatively narrow strip of land running parallel with a
street, between the right-of-way line of the street and an exterior property
line.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land reserved for the public or the abutting owners for use as
a street, alley, interior walk or for other public purposes.
   SHOULDER. The improved portion of a street immediately adjoining the
travelway for access to abutting properties.
   SIGHT DISTANCE. The maximum extent of unobstructed vision (in a horizontal
and/or vertical plane) along a street from a vehicle located at any given point
on the street.
   STREET. A strip of land, including the entire right-of-way, intended for use
as a means of vehicular and pedestrian movement.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. Those which intercept minor streets, provide access to
abutting properties and serving or anticipated to serve between 750 and 4,000
vehicles daily.
   STREET, MAJOR. Those serving or anticipated to serve in excess of 4,000
vehicles daily, a large proportion thereof generally being through traffic.
   STREET, MINOR. Those used primarily to provide access to abutting property
and serving or anticipated to serve up to 750 vehicles daily.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A street used to provide access to a single property, the
use thereof being limited, exclusively to the dependent property and the cost
of construction and maintenance being borne exclusively by the dependent
property owner served by the street.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A street dedicated to general public use, or abutting
property owners use, or dedicated exclusively to the use of all owners of lots
within a specified subdivision.
   SUBDIVIDER. See DEVELOPER.
   SUBDIVISION. For the purpose of these regulations, shall be defined as
follows.
      (1)   The division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land by any
means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided, however, that
the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into parcels of more
than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of access or any
residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
      (2)   Any development of a parcel of land (including shopping centers,
industrial parks and multiple dwelling projects) which involves the
installation of streets even though the streets may not be dedicated to general
public use and the parcel may not be divided immediately for purposes of
conveyance, lease, transfer or sale.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. Any subdivision not classified as a minor subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. Parcels of land subdivided under any one of the
following conditions shall be classified as MINOR SUBDIVISIONS:
      (1)   Parcels of land divided into lots three or more acres in area
provided use of the land is limited to a single-family dwelling and further
subdivision of the lot is prohibited unless the approval of the Commission be
first obtained and further provided that the subdivision complies with the
requirements as set forth in §§
153.036 and
153.038;
      (2)   Parcels of land divided into lots three-quarters of an acre or more
in area for conveyance to an immediate relative of the owner (i.e., son,
daughter, father or mother) for his, her or their personal use, provided use of
the land is limited to a single-family dwelling and further subdivision of the
land is prohibited unless approval of the Commission be first obtained and
provided that the subdivision complies with the requirements as set forth in §§
153.036 and
153.038;
      (3)   Parcels of land divided into lots of any size for agricultural,
lumbering, hunting or fishing purposes, provided any sanitary facilities
installed shall be subject to the approval of the Commission and further
provided that the subdivision complies with the requirements as set forth in §§
153.036 and
153.039;
      (4)   Parcels of land divided into lots five or more acres in area,
provided that the subdivision complies with the requirements as set forth in §§
153.036 and
153.040; and
      (5)   Any division of a parcel of land not involving more than five lots
or the construction of any new street, providing all requirements for major
subdivisions are complied with, except the submission shall be on an informal
basis as set forth above.
   SUBMISSION, FORMAL. Submission of plans and/or data for consideration by the
Commission, the fee or consideration being as set forth in the regulations.
   SUBMISSION, INFORMAL. A submission of plans and/or data for consideration by
the Commission at no fee or expense to the developer.
   TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION. See COMMISSION.
   TRAILER. A travel trailer constructed to be towed on its own chassis, for
temporary occupancy as a vacation trailer, or for occasional transport of
personal effects.
   YARD, FRONT. The required area from any building or structure to the front
lot line.
   YARD, REAR. The required area from any building or structure to the rear lot
line.
   YARD, SIDE. The required area from any building or structure to any side lot
line.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974; Ord. 592, passed 12-13-1990)
PROCEDURE
§ 153.030 ESTABLISHMENT OF PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Procedures to be followed. The procedures established in this
subchapter shall apply to all subdivisions.
   (B)   Developer responsible. The developer shall be responsible for
observing all procedures, regulations and requirements of the township
subdivision regulations as set forth herein.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.031 ADVISORY MEETING; SKETCH PLAN.
   The developer may prepare a sketch plan for informal discussion with the
Commission prior to submitting the official preliminary plan for review. The
information to be shown on the sketch plan shall include enough detail to show
the general layout proposed. The sketch plan will be reviewed with the
developer either verbally or in writing and comments and recommendations shall
be submitted to the developer not later than the second regular meeting
following submission.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.032 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   (A)   Plans to be filed with the Commission. Preliminary and final plans for
all proposed subdivisions of land lying within the township shall be filed with
the Commission for review and approval.
   (B)   Developer’s responsibilities. The developer shall be responsible for
filing the required plans and information with the Commission, and the
Commission shall be responsible for forwarding copies of such to interested
authorities, i.e., State Department of Environmental Protection, State
Department of Transportation, U.S.G.S. and the County Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   (C)   Plan considered at regular meetings. Plans will be reviewed at
regularly scheduled meetings of the Commission, provided, that such plans must
be submitted at least ten working days prior to the meeting at which review is
desired.
   (D)   Commission may take final action. The initial plan filed with the
Commission shall be considered to be the preliminary plan. However, the
Commission may proceed to final action at the first consideration of a plan,
providing that the plan and supporting data comply in all respects with the
requirements for final plans.
   (E)   Commission action. Provided plans and data are submitted as set forth
in division (B) above, the Commission shall take formal action on the
application not later than the second regular meeting, as set forth in the
bylaws, following the submission for subdivisions involving less than 50 lots;
and shall take formal action on the application not later than the third
regular meeting as set forth in the bylaws, following the submission for
subdivisions involving 50 lots or more.
   (F)   Procedures for major and minor subdivisions.
      (1)   Major subdivisions. The developer shall comply with all
regulations, procedures and requirements of the regulations and make submission
on a formal basis.
      (2)   Minor subdivisions. The developer shall prepare plans substantially
in compliance with the requirements for final plans and make submission on an
informal basis, for the Commission review and approval.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.033 GENERAL PROCEDURES FOR PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLANS FOR MAJOR
SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Number of copies. The developer shall submit six copies of the plans
and supporting data, under §§
153.030(A) and
153.032(A).
   (B)   Notification of meeting. At least seven days prior to the meeting at
which a plan is to be reviewed, the Commission shall notify, in writing, the
developer, stating the time, place and date of the meeting.
   (C)   Data. Plans and supporting data shall comply in all respects with the
requirements of the subdivision regulations.
   (D)   Notification of action. Within five days after the meeting at which
final action is taken, the Commission shall notify, in writing, the developer,
of the action taken on the plan, together with the reasons for not approving
the proposed subdivision if the action is negative.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.034 PROCEDURES FOR PRELIMINARY PLANS FOR MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Changes and modifications. The Commission may require changes and
modifications of the preliminary plan, precedent to approval of the final plan.
   (B)   Approval of preliminary plans. Approval or recommended approval of the
preliminary plan, subject to conditions, revisions and modifications as
stipulated or recommended by the Commission shall constitute conditional
Commission approval of the subdivision as to the character and intensity of the
development, and the general layout and approximate dimensions of streets, lots
and other proposed features, but shall not authorize the sale of lots.
   (C)   Fee to be paid.
      (1)   To defray a portion of the expense of subdivision review, a fee as
follows shall be payable to the order of the Township Planning Commission at
the filing of the preliminary plan.
      (2)   A fee shall be established by the Commission, subject to
unadvertised change; however, a minimum fee of $25 is hereby established.
Table I
Outline Summary of Subdivision Submission and Review Procedures
Step Number Step Procedure
Table I
Outline Summary of Subdivision Submission and Review Procedures
Step   Step Procedure
Number
STEP   Subdivider confers with the Township Planning Commission for the purpose of an
#1     informal and confidential discussion concerning his or her proposed subdivision;
       at this time, the subdivider should submit his or her “sketch plan”
STEP   Subdivider officially submits the “preliminary plan” with all supporting data to
#2     the Township Planning Commission
STEP   Planning Commission distributes prints of the subdivision to applicable
#3     individuals and agencies
STEP   Planning Commission reviews the “preliminary plan” in light of the comments and
#4     recommendations of affected agencies and utility companies
STEP   Planning Commission communicates its decision to the subdivider, agencies and
#5     utility companies either that the plan has been approved; approved with
       conditions, revisions or modifications; or disapproved
STEP   Subdivider refines plan if necessary for Planning Commission approval
#6
STEP   Subdivider prepares and submits “final plan” (within one year of preliminary
#7     approval) for Planning Commission review; subdivider may submit only a portion of
       the entire proposed plan as shown on the approved “preliminary plan”
STEP   Planning Commission reviews the “final plan” in light of the comments and
#8     recommendations of affected agencies and utility companies
       Subdivider shall record an original of the “final plan” in the office of the
STEP   County Recorder of Deeds and prior to construction file with the Township
#9     Planning Commission a Recorder’s certificate that the approved plan has been
       recorded with the Deed Book and pages indicated
The above table only summarizes the subdivision submission and review procedures
outlined in §§
153.030 through
153.042, and in no way alters the detailed requirements of §§
153.030 through
153.042
 
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.035 PROCEDURES FOR FINAL PLANS FOR MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Final plan to be submitted. Within one year after Commission action on
the preliminary plan, a final plan of the area included in the preliminary
plan, (which may be submitted in sections, each covering a portion of the
proposed subdivision as shown on the preliminary plan) together with supporting
data shall be submitted to the Commission for review and approval. Final plans
or sections thereof submitted after the period of one year from the date of
approval of the preliminary plans shall be considered to be new preliminary
plans.
   (B)   Final plan shall conform with preliminary plan. The final plan shall
conform in all important respects with the preliminary plan as modified by the
Commission in its approval of the preliminary plan. Otherwise, the plan
submitted shall be considered as a revised preliminary plan.
   (C)   Reason for disapproval to be stated. Whenever a plan is not approved
or is recommended not to be approved, the Commission shall explicitly state in
writing its reasons for such action or recommendation to the developer within
five days.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.036 REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   All minor subdivisions shall conform with §§
153.055,
153.056,
153.057(A) and (B) in their entireties as set forth hereafter and to §
153.041 as set forth hereafter.
   (B)   All minor subdivisions shall have a restrictive covenant requiring any
well to be constructed on the subdivision to be located a minimum of 100 feet
from any existing or proposed subsurface disposal system and any subsurface
disposal system to be constructed on the subdivision shall be located a minimum
of 100 feet from any existing or proposed well and a minimum of 50 feet from
any watercourse.
   (C)   All minor subdivisions shall have a restrictive covenant requiring any
buildings to be constructed in the subdivision to be located a minimum of 30
feet from any existing or proposed street right-of-way line and a minimum of 15
feet from any side lot line and 30 feet from any rear lot line unless the
approval of the change or variance is first obtained from the Commission.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.037 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR SUBDIVISIONS (CLASSIFIED AS “(1)”).
   (A)   The minimum dimensions of the lot either average width or average
depth is 150 feet.
   (B)   The right-of-way width shall comply with minimum widths required for
the anticipated traffic flow and the number of lots as set forth under §
153.071(F).
   (C)   The following restrictive covenants must be printed on the final map.
Use of the land is restricted to a single-family dwelling and further
subdivision of the land is prohibited unless approval of the Commission is
first obtained.
   (D)   Requests for variances shall be refused when the effect of such
variance would be to increase the density of improvement upon the development.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
Editor’s note:
   These requirements are classified as division (1) in the definition for
MINOR SUBDIVISION in §
153.016.
§ 153.038 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR SUBDIVISIONS (CLASSIFIED AS “(2)”).
   (A)   The minimum dimension of the lot of average width is 100 feet and
average depth is 150 feet.
   (B)   The right-of-way width shall comply with the minimum widths required
for the anticipated traffic flow and the number of lots as set forth under §
153.071(F).
   (C)   The following restrictive covenants must be printed on the final map.
Use of the land is restricted to a single-family dwelling and further
subdivision of the land is prohibited unless approval of the Commission is
first obtained.
   (D)   Requests for variances shall be refused when the effect of such
variance would be to increase the density of improvement upon the development.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
Editor’s note:
   These requirements are classified as division (2) in the definition for
MINOR SUBDIVISION in §
153.016.
§ 153.039 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR SUBDIVISIONS (CLASSIFIED AS “(3)”).
   (A)   The right-of-way widths shall comply with minimum widths required for
the anticipated traffic flow and the number of lots as set forth under §
153.071(F).
   (B)   The following restrictive covenants must be printed on the final map.
Use of the land is restricted to agricultural, lumbering, hunting or fishing
purposes and any sanitary facilities proposed to be installed on the parcel of
land shall be approved by the Commission and the Department of Environmental
Protection prior to installation.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
Editor’s note:
   These requirements are classified as division (3) in the definition for
MINOR SUBDIVISION in §
153.016.
§ 153.040 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The minimum dimensions of the lot either average width or average
depth is 150 feet.
   (B)   The right-of-way width shall comply with minimum widths required for
the anticipated traffic flow and the number of lots as set forth under §
153.071(F).
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.041 TIME LIMIT ON RECORDING ALL SUBDIVISIONS.
   Within 60 days after final action by the Commission, the final plan or
section thereof, as approved, shall be filed for recording with the County
Recorder of Deeds, and shall be a clear and legible reproducible print or
tracing on linen or Mylar. If the plan is not recorded within such period, the
action of the Commission shall become null and void, unless an extension of
time is granted by the Commission upon written request. No construction shall
be undertaken until the developer files a Recorder’s certificate with the
Commission.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.042 APPROVAL, MAINTENANCE AND SECURITY.
   (A)   The work of constructing streets, roads and all other improvements
including the construction methods and materials, incident thereto, shall be
subject to the approval of the Township Engineer. Final acceptance of the
completed streets or roads shall rest with the Township Supervisors. The
subdivider shall enter into a contract with the township which provides that in
consideration of the acceptance of the roads or streets for inclusion in the
township highway system, storm and sanitary lines and other improvements, the
subdivider agrees to construct these improvements in the subdivision within two
years of approval to the standards prescribed herein at his or her own expense
with no cost to the township.
   (B)   (1)   No plat shall be finally approved unless the streets shown on
such plat have been improved to a mud-free or otherwise permanently passable
condition, or improved as may be required by this chapter, and any walkways,
curbs, gutters, street lights, fire hydrants, shade trees, water mains,
sanitary sewers, storm sewers and other improvements as may be required by this
chapter have been installed in accordance with said chapter. In lieu of the
completion of any improvements required as a condition for the final approval
of a plat, including improvements or fees required pursuant to division (B)(9)
below, the developer shall deposit with the Board financial security in an
amount sufficient to cover the costs of such improvements or common amenities
including, but not limited to, roads, stormwater detention and/or retention
basins and other related drainage facilities, recreational facilities, open
space improvements, or buffer or screen plantings which may be required.
      (2)   When requested by the developer, in order to facilitate financing,
the Planning Commission shall furnish the developer with a signed copy of a
resolution indicating approval of the final plat contingent upon the developer
obtaining a satisfactory financial security. The final plat or record plan
shall not be signed nor recorded until the financial improvements agreement is
executed. The resolution or letter of contingent approval shall expire and be
deemed to be revoked if the financial security agreement is not executed within
90 days unless a written extension is granted by the governing body; such
extension shall not be unreasonably withheld and shall be placed in writing at
the request of the developer.
      (3)   Federal or commonwealth chartered lending institution irrevocable
letters of credit and restrictive or escrow accounts in such lending
institutions, in addition to a contract performance bond, shall be deemed
acceptable financial security for the purposes of this section.
      (4)   Such financial security shall be posted with a bonding company or
federal or commonwealth chartered lending institution chosen by the party
posting the financial security; provided said bonding company or lending
institution is authorized to conduct such business within the commonwealth.
      (5)   Such bond or other security shall provide for, and secure to the
public, the completion of any improvements which may be required on or before
the date fixed in the formal action of approval or accompanying agreement for
completion of the improvements.
      (6)   The amount of financial security to be posted for the completion of
the required improvements shall be equal to 110% of the cost of completion
estimated as of 90 days following the date scheduled for completion by the
developer. Annually, the Commission may adjust the amount of the financial
security by comparing the actual cost of the improvements which have been
completed and the estimated cost for the completion of the remaining
improvements as of the expiration of the ninetieth day after either the
original date scheduled for completion or a rescheduled date of completion.
Subsequent to said adjustment, the Commission may require the developer to post
additional security in order to assure that the financial security equals said
110%. Any additional security shall be posted by the developer in accordance
with this division (B)(6).
      (7)   The amount of financial security required shall be based upon an
estimate of the cost of completion of the required improvements, submitted by
an applicant or developer and prepared by a professional engineer licensed as
such in this commonwealth and certified by such engineer to be a fair and
reasonable estimate of such cost. The Commission, upon the recommendation of
the Municipal Engineer, may refuse to accept such estimate for good cause
shown. If the applicant or developer and the Commission are unable to agree
upon an estimate, then the estimate shall be recalculated and recertified by
another professional engineer licensed as such in this commonwealth and chosen
mutually by the Board and the applicant or developer. The estimate certified by
the third engineer shall be presumed fair and reasonable and shall be the final
estimate. In the event that a third engineer is so chosen, fees for the
services of said engineer shall be paid equally by the Commission and the
applicant or developer.
      (8)   If the party posting the financial security requires more than one
year from the date of posting of the financial security to complete the
required improvements, the amount of financial security may, if the Commission
believes it is necessary to protect the public, be increased by an additional
10% for each one-year period beyond the first anniversary date from posting of
financial security or to an amount not exceeding 110% of the cost of completing
the required, improvements as reestablished on or about the expiration of the
preceding one-year period by using the above bidding procedure.
      (9)   In the case where development is projected over a period of years,
the Commission may authorize submission of final plans by section or stages of
development subject to such requirements or guarantees as to improvements in
future sections or stages of development as it finds essential for the
protection of any finally approved section of the development.
      (10)   As the work of installing the required improvements proceeds, the
party posting the financial security may request the Board to release or
authorize the release, from time to time, such portions of the financial
security necessary for payment to the contractor or contractors performing the
work. Any such requests shall be in writing addressed to the Board, and the
Board shall have 45 days from the receipt of such request within which to allow
the Municipal Engineer to certify, in writing, to the Board that such portion
of the work upon the improvements has been completed in accordance with the
approved plat. Upon such certification, the Board shall authorize the release
by the bonding company or lending institution of an amount as estimated by the
Municipal Engineer fairly representing the value of the improvements completed
or, if the Board fails to act within said 45-day period, the Board shall be
deemed to have approved the release of funds as requested. The Board may, prior
to final release at the time of completion and certification by its Engineer,
require retention of 10% of the estimated cost of the aforesaid improvements.
      (11)   Where the Board accepts dedication of all or some of the required
improvements following completion, the Board may require the posting of
financial security to secure structural integrity of said improvements as well
as the functioning of said improvements in accordance with the design and
specifications as depicted on the final plat for a term not to exceed 18 months
from the date of acceptance of dedication. Said financial security shall be of
the same type as otherwise required in this section with regard to installation
or such improvements, and the amount of the financial security shall not exceed
15% of the actual cost of installation of said improvements.
      (12)   If water mains or sanitary sewer lines, or both, along with
apparatus or facilities related thereto, are to be installed under the
jurisdiction and pursuant to the rules and regulations of a public utility or
municipal authority separate and distinct from the township, financial security
to assure proper completion and maintenance thereof shall be posted in
accordance with the regulations of the controlling public utility or municipal
authority and shall not be included within the financial security as otherwise
required by this section.
      (13)   Unless otherwise provided, the Township Planning Commission is
hereby designated to be the body to determine the financial security
requirements as set forth in this section.
      (14)   Subject to division (B)(9) above, all construction items shall be
completed within one year after the plat is placed on record, except where
bituminous paving construction is required. When bimminous construction is
required, it shall be completed within two years after the plat is placed on
record. Extension of time may be granted upon good cause shown by the
Commission.
   (C)   (1)   When the developer has completed all of the necessary and
appropriate improvements, the developer shall notify the Board, in writing, by
certified or registered mail, of the completion of the aforesaid improvements
and shall send a copy thereof to the Municipal Engineer. The Board shall,
within ten days after receipt of such notice, direct and authorize the
Municipal Engineer to inspect all of the aforesaid improvements. The Municipal
Engineer shall, thereupon, file a report, in writing, with the Board, and shall
promptly mail a copy of the same to the developer by certified or registered
mail. The report shall be made and mailed within 30 days after receipt by the
Municipal Engineer of the aforesaid authorization from the Board; said report
shall be detailed and shall indicate approval or rejection of said
improvements, either in whole or in part, and if said improvements, or any
portion thereof, shall not be approved or shall be rejected by the Municipal
Engineer, said report shall contain a statement of reasons for such nonapproval
or rejection.
      (2)   The Board shall notify the developer, within 15 days of receipt of
the Engineer’s report, in writing, by certified or registered mail, of the
action of the Board with relation thereto.
      (3)   If the Board or the Municipal Engineer fails to comply with the
time limitation provisions contained herein, all improvements will be deemed to
have been approved and the developer shall be released from all liability,
pursuant to its performance guaranty bond or other security agreement.
      (4)   If any portion of the said improvements shall not be approved or
shall be rejected by the Board, the developer shall proceed to complete the
same and, upon completion, the same procedure of notification, as outlined
herein, shall be followed.
      (5)   Nothing herein, however, shall be construed in limitation of the
developer’s right to contest or question by legal proceedings or otherwise, any
determination of the Board or the Municipal Engineer.
      (6)   Where herein reference is made to the Municipal Engineer, he or she
shall be as a consultant thereto.
      (7)   The developer shall reimburse the Board for the reasonable and
necessary expenses incurred for the inspection of the improvements. The Board
shall periodically establish by resolution a schedule of the reimbursements
based upon the ordinary and customary fees charged by the Municipal Engineer
for said work.
         (a)   In the event the applicant disputes the amount of any such
expense in connection with the inspection of improvements, the applicant shall,
within ten working days of the date of billing, notify the Board that such
expenses are disputed as unreasonable or unnecessary, in which case the Board
shall not delay or disapprove a subdivision or land development application or
any approval or permit related to development due to the applicant’s request
over disputed engineer expenses.
         (b)   If, within 20 days from the date of billing, the Board and the
applicant cannot agree on the amount of expenses which are reasonable and
necessary, then the applicant and Board shall jointly, by mutual agreement,
appoint another professional engineer licensed as such in the commonwealth to
review the said expenses and make a determination as to the amount thereof
which is reasonable and necessary.
         (c)   The professional engineer so appointed shall hear such evidence
and review such documentation as the professional engineer in his or her sole
opinion deems necessary and render a decision within 50 days of the billing
date. The applicant shall be required to pay the entire amount determined in
the decision immediately.
         (d)   In the event that the Board and applicant cannot agree upon the
professional engineer to be appointed within 20 days of the billing date, then,
upon application of either party, the President Judge of the Court of Common
Pleas of the county shall appoint such engineer, who, in that case, shall be
neither the Municipal Engineer nor any professional engineer who has been
retained by, or performed services for, the Board or the applicant within the
preceding five years.
         (e)   The fee of the appointed professional engineer for determining
the reasonable and necessary expenses shall be paid by the applicant if the
amount of payment required in the decision is equal to or greater than the
original bill. If the amount of payment required in the decision is less than
the original bill by $1,000 or more, the Board shall pay the fee of the
professional engineer, but otherwise the Board and the applicant shall each pay
one-half of the fee of the appointed professional engineer.
   (D)   The owner or subdivider shall be required to maintain all culverts,
ditches and back-slopes on all streets for a period of one year after their
completion. All exposed surfaces on which a turf or sod has not been developed
shall be reseeded or sodded. An estimate of cost shall be prepared by a
registered professional engineer, setting forth all items of work to be
performed and the estimated cost; said estimate shall be subject to the
approval of the Township Engineer. The owner or subdivider shall deposit with
the Board a certified check or performance bond issued by a surety company in
an amount not less than the cost of maintaining said culverts, ditches and
back-slopes for a period of one year.
   (E)   In the event that any improvements which may be required have not been
installed as provided in this chapter or in accord with the approved final
plat, the Board may enforce any corporate bond, or other security by
appropriate legal and equitable remedies. If proceeds of such bond, or other
security are insufficient to pay the cost of installing or making repairs or
corrections to all the improvements covered by said security, the Board may, at
its option, install part of such improvements in all or part of the subdivision
or land development and may institute appropriate legal or equitable action to
recover the monies necessary to complete the remainder of the improvements. All
of the proceeds, whether resulting from the security or from any legal or
equitable action brought against the developer, or both, shall be used solely
for the installation of the improvements covered by such security, and not for
any other municipal purpose.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974; Ord. 592, passed 12-13-1990)
PLAN REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.055 APPLICATION.
   All sketch, preliminary and final plans submitted for review and approval
shall meet the requirements outlined in the following sections.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.056 INFORMATION TO BE SHOWN ON ALL PLANS.
   All preliminary and final plans shall contain the following data, and sketch
plans may contain the following data, legibly drawn to scale:
   (A)   Name of record owner;
   (B)   Name of subdivider or developer if different than owner;
   (C)   Proposed name of subdivision;
   (D)   Tract boundaries, if appropriate, showing bearings and distances;
   (E)   Municipal boundary lines, if appropriate;
   (F)   Proposed and existing street and lot layout, of public record, on and
immediately adjoining the tract, including name (if any) and right-of-way
width;
   (G)   North arrow, indicating whether the meridian is magnetic or true;
   (H)   Graphic scale;
   (I)   Date;
   (J)   Name of registered engineer, surveyor, qualified planner or qualified
landscape architect responsible for the plan; provided, however, that all final
plans must bear the seal of a registered engineer or surveyor;
   (K)   The names of owners or subdivisions of all adjoining properties;
   (L)   All existing watercourses, streams, ponds, lakes and the like;
   (M)   A detailed, dimensioned cross-section showing right-of-way width,
cartway width and any other applicable improvements as may be required;
   (N)   An approved sedimentation and erosion control plan in accordance with
the latest laws of the commonwealth pertaining to same;
   (O)   Plans and profiles of all sanitary and storm sewers;
   (P)   Plans submitted for review shall be clear, legible white prints; and
   (Q)   The final plan for recording shall be a legible clear reproducible
print or tracing on linen or Mylar or on other material of equal durability.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.057 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS TO BE SHOWN ON PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLANS.
   (A)   Sheet sizes.
      (1)   Plans shall be prepared on one of the following standard sheet
sizes:
         (a)   Eighteen inches by 24 inches;
         (b)   Twenty-four inches by 36 inches; or
         (c)   Thirty-six inches by 48 inches.
      (2)   If necessary, the subdivision shall be shown on two or more sheets
or sections.
      (3)   The border width shall be two inches along the upper or left hand
side of all plans, and a border of at least one inch along the remaining; three
sides.
   (B)   Scales. Plans should be drawn in conformity with the following
schedule, provided all courses, metes, bounds and other information can be
legibly and accurately presented on the plan.
      (1)   Where one-half or more of the total number of lots or parcels shown
on the plan have an area of two acres or less, the scale shall be not less than
one inch equals 100 feet.
      (2)   Where one-half or more of the total number of lots or parcels shown
on the plan have an area of ten acres or less the scale shall be not less than
one inch equals 200 feet.
      (3)   Where one-half or more of the total number of lots or parcels shown
on the plan have an area of 50 acres or less, the scale shall be not less than
one inch equals 400 feet.
      (4)   The Commission reserves the right to request that large scale
drawings be prepared for areas of unusual topographic or other environmental
conditions.
   (C)   Preliminary and final plans. Preliminary and final plans shall be
accompanied by the following information:
      (1)   The latest current appropriate U.S.G.S. quadrangle map with the
tract, in which the proposed subdivision is located, reasonably accurately
outlined in ink thereon; and
      (2)   Copies of the proposed deed restrictions, protective and
restrictive covenants.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.058 INFORMATION TO BE SHOWN ON PRELIMINARY PLAN ONLY.
   The following information shall be shown on or accompanying the preliminary
plans:
   (A)   Swampy areas and areas subjected to annual flooding;
   (B)   Known rock outcropping;
   (C)   All known existing above and below ground utilities in and adjacent to
tract;
   (D)   Location and percolation time and soil type in test holes;
   (E)   Map of all contiguous holdings of owner (not necessarily to the same
scale), indicating area or scope of proposed subdivision;
   (F)   Sketch plan of proposed road system for the area not included in the
preliminary plan;
   (G)   Exact dimensions of streets, lots and proposed community areas;
   (H)   Proposed street names;
   (I)   Contours at vertical intervals not greater than five feet (these
contours may be superimposed on the plan from the latest current U.S.G.S.
quadrangle); and
   (J)   Address of record owner.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.059 INFORMATION TO BE SHOWN ON FINAL PLAN ONLY.
   (A)   The final plan shall conform with the preliminary plan as modified by
the Planning Commission at the time of its approval of the preliminary plan.
   (B)   It shall not be necessary to resubmit supportive data submitted with
the preliminary plan, provided there has been no change.
   (C)   Information to be shown on the final plan:
      (1)   The boundary lines of the area being subdivided. These boundaries
shall be determined by accurate field survey, closed with an error not to
exceed one in 5,000 and balanced;
      (2)   Street lines, lot lines, rights-of-way, easements, community or
public areas;
      (3)   Sufficient bearings, lengths of lines, radii, arch lengths, street
widths, right-of-way and easement widths of all lots, streets, rights-of-way,
easements and community or public areas, to accurately and completely reproduce
each and every course on the ground;
      (4)   All dimensions shall be shown in feet and hundredths of a foot;
      (5)   All bearings shall be shown to at least the nearest ten seconds of
arc;
      (6)   Block and/or lot numbers;
      (7)   Location and type of permanent monuments;
      (8)   Profiles of all roads, storm and sanitary sewer lines; and
      (9)   Street right-of-way cross-section, fully detailed and dimensioned.
   (D)   The final plans shall be accompanied by the following information:
      (1)   Written communication indicating that utilities serving the area of
proposed subdivision have been consulted with respect to location, width and
size of utility easements or rights-of-way; and
      (2)   A sanitary and water feasibility report prepared by an engineer,
which shall include maps indicating the proposed areas of locations of all
wells, septic tanks and subsurface disposal areas for the proposed subdivision.
A written statement from the Department of Environmental Protection giving its
approval of the proposed supplies and methods based on a soil suitability test
for on-site sewage disposal shall be provided if this method of disposal is to
be used.
   (E)   The following restrictive covenants must be printed on the final map
for all major subdivisions:
      (1)   All subdivisions shall have restrictive covenants relative to
front, rear and side yards and setbacks;
      (2)   Corner lots of all subdivisions shall have restrictive covenants
providing for sight distance and easement arcs as set forth in §
153.071(H)(3);
      (3)   All subdivisions shall include a covenant conferring upon the
County and/or Planning Commission the right to enforce the restrictive or
protective covenant relative to sanitary facilities in the event the developer
and/or lot owners association are unable to enforce specific covenants; and
      (4)   All subdivisions shall include a protective covenant requiring
compliance with the sanitary and water feasibility report prepared or with the
recommendations of public health authorities.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.070 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The design standards and requirements in this subchapter will be
applied by the Township Planning Commission in evaluating plans for all
proposed subdivisions.
   (B)   These standards and required improvements are recommended as minimum
provisions.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.071 GENERAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL TYPES OF DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Land requirements. Land which is swampy or subject to periodic
flooding or land which shows extensive rock outcropping and areas of “stone”
fields shall not be subdivided until adequate provisions are made for sewage
disposal and/or other health and safety precautions are taken. Land which is
subject to occasional flooding shall not be utilized for permanent residential
lots; however, under certain circumstances these areas may be utilized for
recreational residential lots, provided the area and lots subject to occasional
flooding shall be clearly defined and indicated on all final maps and plans. In
determining the suitability of land for subdivision, the Planning Commission
and the developer shall refer to U.S.G.S. quadrangle maps, aerial photographs,
soil maps, studies and reports prepared by competent federal, state, local
agencies and/or private persons.
   (B)   Community facilities and master plan requirements. The layout of the
proposed subdivision shall conform in general with the master plan of the
township if such master plan has been prepared and approved.
   (C)   On-lot sewage and water supply.
      (1)   The developer shall either have at least one percolation test
conducted on each acre of the area to be subdivided or acquire a soil survey
map of the area, prepared by the soil conservation service or by a qualified
soil scientist. The location and results of the percolation tests or the
location and outline of the various soil types shall be noted on a plan of the
area intended to be subdivided; together with the location of all watercourses,
lakes or proposed lakes, swampy areas of known rock outcropping and “stone”
fields, contours at a vertical interval not greater than five feet and proposed
lot layout.
      (2)   The information so obtained and other pertinent information shall
be correlated to develop the minimum permissible lot size. The developer shall
prepare a plan of recommended areas of locations of individual wells, septic
tanks and subsurface disposal areas in conformity with the recommended
construction standards of public health authorities for the geological
conditions encountered, for the entire area to be subdivided, and provide by
covenant that individual owners shall make installations in general conforming
with the plan and to the recommended construction standards of the public
health authorities.
   (D)   Easements.
      (1)   Width and alignment of easements for utilities shall be resolved by
mutual agreement of the developer and the utility companies; in the event the
parties are unable to agree as to such width or alignment it shall be as
directed by the State Public Utility Commission.
      (2)   Land may be subdivided to the waters edge of any watercourse or
lake; however, the developer must reserve an easement from the normal flow line
to the annual high water flow line, to prohibit building of permanent
structures and sewage disposal facilities within the maximum annual flow lines,
to preserve natural drainage and to provide accessibility to appropriate
authorities for the maintenance and improvement of natural watercourses.
   (E)   Street alignment and block arrangement. Streets shall be layed out
with consideration to the following:
      (1)   The topography and geological conditions of the area being
subdivided;
      (2)   The geometric requirements of the minimum lot size;
      (3)   Adequate provision for the safe convenient flow of traffic;
      (4)   Maintenance of natural drainage of the area; and
      (5)   The arrangements of lots shall be such that the natural drainage is
away from building sites.
   (F)   Design standards for streets.
      (1)   Street, cartway and right-of-way widths for all proposed streets
shall conform to the following minimum standards:
 
Farm lanes and alleys                  20 feet; 20 feet R.O.W.
Intercommunity or collector streets    20 to 24 feet; 60 feet to 80 feet R.O.W.
Local street and road or minor streets 20 to 24 feet; 50 feet R.O.W.
                                       As required by the anticipated flow of
Major street                           traffic, but not less than 50 feet; 50
                                       feet to 300 feet R.O.W.
 
      (2)   (a)   All proposed streets shall conform to the following geometric
standards when constructed:
 
                                      Minimum
              Maximum   Absolute      Centerline Minimum Sight Minimum Cul-De-
              Sustained Maximum Grade Radius for Distance      Sac Radius
              Grade     Not to Exceed Horizontal
                                      Curves
Collector     10%       14% for 250   300 feet   300 feet      -
streets                 feet
Major streets 6%        8% for 250    500 feet   500 feet      -
                        feet
Minor streets 14%       15% for 400   100 feet   150 feet      50 feet
and driveways           feet
 
         (b)   Whenever tangents of streets are deflected in excess of seven
and one-half degrees within 500 feet, the tangents shall be connected with a
horizontal curve.
   (G)   Street system layout.
      (1)   Proposed streets shall normally project previously approved streets
on adjoining properties without abrupt change in alignment.
      (2)   Proposed streets shall conform to the master plan of the township
if such has been prepared.
      (3)   Right-of-way of proposed streets shall be extended to exterior
property lines to ultimately provide access to adjoining lands; provided
however that the Commission may not normally require more than one such right-
of-way to each adjoining tract.
      (4)   The alignment of proposed streets shall be such as to produce the
recommended grades without excessive cut or fill and to provide useable lots.
      (5)   Half or partial streets will not be permitted unless the legal
binding agreement of the adjoining property owner, to provide the additional
width required, shall be first secured.
      (6)   Dead-end streets or cul-de-sacs must be provided with an adequate
turning circle at the terminus with a minimum radius of 50 feet, and not
normally longer than 1,200 feet more nor serving more than 25 lots.
      (7)   Reserve strips controlling access to streets will be prohibited.
      (8)   New streets which are extensions of existing streets will bear the
name of the existing street. A letter of acceptance of the proposed names of
the proposed streets by the appropriate municipal authorities shall be
submitted with the final plan.
      (9)   Blocks shall be no longer than 1,200 feet and no shorter than 600
feet.
      (10)   A minor street or collector street shall be constructed parallel
to all major traffic arteries to limit access.
   (H)   Street intersections.
      (1)   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles.
Intersections making an angle of less than 60 degrees will not be permitted.
The Commission may require an increased easement or right-of-way on corner lots
at intersections forming acute angles.
      (2)   Multiple street intersections involving more than two streets will
not be permitted.
      (3)   The developer either shall establish an easement and/or right-of-
way on corner lots within a triangle, the legs of which measure 30 feet along
the right-of-way line of each street, from the point of intersection of the
right-of-way lines, to provide for the maintenance of adequate unobstructed
sight distances and to provide for the construction of easement arcs of the
streets; or shall establish a tangential easement arc having a minimum radius
of 40 feet on the corner lots as the property lines.
      (4)   Streets intersecting opposite sides of another street shall be
directly opposite one another or there shall be not less than 300 feet between
the points of intersection of the centerlines.
      (5)   The grade of streets at intersections shall not exceed 4% for a
distance of 50 feet along the centerlines from the point of intersection.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974; Ord. 592, passed 12-13-1990)
§ 153.072 RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. All residential subdivisions, except mobile home courts
shall conform with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Residential lot sizes. Lot dimensions, front, rear, and side yard
setback lines shall not be less than set forth in the following table, unless
applicable zoning regulations of the municipality in which the subdivision is
located impose more restrictive requirements. The minimum lot size may be
required to be greater under provision of §
153.071(C).
Table II
Lot Standards for Residential Subdivisions
              Lots Served with  Lots Served with   Lots Not Served
*Lot Area and Centralized Water Either Centralized with Either       Access of
Dimensions    Supply and Sewage Water Supply or    Centralized Water Buildings
              Disposal          Sewage Disposal    Supply or Sewage
                                                   Disposal
Table II
Lot Standards for Residential Subdivisions
                    Lots Served with Lots Served with Lots Not Served
*Lot Area and       Centralized      Either           with Either     Access of
Dimensions          Water Supply and Centralized      Centralized     Buildings
                    Sewage Disposal  Water Supply or  Water Supply or
                                     Sewage Disposal  Sewage Disposal
Min. area 2         7,500 sq. ft.    12,000 sq. ft.   20,000 sq. ft.  -
Min. aver. depth    100 ft.          125 ft.          150 ft.         -
Min. aver. width    70 ft.           80 ft.           90 ft.          -
Min. front yard 4   25 ft.           25 ft.           30 ft.          -
Min. side yard 4    7.5. ft.         10 ft.           10 ft.          10 ft.
Min. width 3        60 ft.           70 ft.           80 ft.          -
Yard combined
   Min. both side17.5 ft.         25 ft.           25 ft.          50 ft.
   Min. rear yard25 ft.           50 ft.           50 ft.          10 ft.
*   These areas and dimensions may vary appreciably if the developer desires a
planned unit development as regulated under the zoning ordinance
2.   The minimum area of 10% of the total number of lots may be reduced to not
less than 85% of the basic minimum area, provided the minimum dimensions are
maintained and provided the provisions of § 153.071(C) are met; the areas
established herein are minimum only and may be required to be increased as a
result of the sanitary feasibility study
3.   At the building line
4.   Measured relative to the foundation and projections such as bay windows or
porches
 
   (C)   Design of residential lots and blocks.
      (1)   All lots shall generally front upon minor or collector street.
      (2)   Side lines of lots shall be perpendicular to the street lines at
their point of intersection.
      (3)   Remnants of land shall either be incorporated with lots or
established for community use.
      (4)   Interior blocks shall be sufficient depth to accommodate two tiers
of lots. Double frontage lots will not be permitted except by variance at
interstate or expressway.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974; Ord. 592, passed 12-13-1990)
§ 153.073 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Application and compliance. All mobile home courts shall conform with
all provisions of these regulations and/or the provisions of the State
Department of Environmental Protection regulations for trailer parks, whichever
is greater or more restrictive. The developer shall submit satisfactory
evidence of the approval of the State Department of Environmental Protection
before approval will be made by the Commission.
   (B)   Mobile home lot sizes. Each lot shall have a minimum width of 50 feet
and a minimum depth of 50 feet and contain a minimum of 5,000 square feet and
shall not exceed a density of eight units per acre.
   (C)   Buffer strip and screening.
      (1)   No line of any mobile home lot shall be closer than ten feet to any
exterior property line of the mobile home court.
      (2)   Adequate screening and/or fencing shall be required adjoining
exterior property lines adjacent to developed residential areas and public
streets and may be required adjacent to other exterior property lines.
   (D)   Access, interior street, off-street parking.
      (1)   Access to mobile home lots shall be from interior streets or roads
and not from public streets or roads.
      (2)   Interior streets of mobile home courts shall conform to the
requirements for minor streets.
      (2)   Each mobile home lot shall be provided with parking space for two
vehicles. Each parking space shall contain a minimum of 200 square feet,
improved with a surface of select material (i.e., shale, crushed stone, gravel
and the like) not less than four inches thick.
   (E)   Mobile home spacing. Mobile homes shall be placed so that there is a
minimum of ten feet between units when oriented end to end and a minimum of 25
feet when oriented side to side. No mobile home shall be located closer than 15
feet from any permanent building of the mobile home court.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974; Ord. 592, passed 12-13-1990)
§ 153.074 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Generally. All commercial and industrial subdivisions shall conform
with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Lot size. Approval of lot or parcel size will be determined by the
following factors.
      (1)   The total area shall be sufficient to provide space for off-street
parking, docking and loading facilities and landscaping, but in no case less
than would be required for a residential lot. In no case shall the building
area exceed one-fifth of the lot area.
      (2)   Commercial subdivisions should be planned to include groups of
establishments with integrated parking facilities and common entrances and
exits. Shallow, ribbon commercial subdivisions will be discouraged.
   (C)   Street systems.
      (1)   Road systems in and out of commercial or industrial subdivisions to
major highways, shall not create hazardous intersections or unduly inhibit the
flow of traffic along the major highway. As far as possible, commercial or
industrial traffic shall not be combined with traffic into or from residential
areas.
      (2)   The design of access roads, interior drives, parking areas and
pedestrian walks shall provide for safe and free movement of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic.
      (3)   The design shall adhere to the standards of the Somerset County
Interchange Zoning Ordinance.
      (4)   The Commission reserves the right to approve or disapprove points
of access to public roads in the interest of public safety.
   (D)   Building line restrictions. Setback, side yard and rear yard lines
shall conform to existing applicable regulations of the appropriate
municipality. If no such regulations are in force, restrictions shall be
imposed as follows:
 
Rear yard             50 feet minimum
Setback or front yard 10 feet minimum
Side yard             15 feet minimum
 
   (E)   Utilities. It is recommended that commercial or industrial
subdivisions shall be located close to public utilities, major highways or
other adequate means of transportation.
   (F)   Water supply and waste disposal. It is recommended that commercial or
industrial subdivisions be located in areas served by public water and sewage
facilities. In the absence of public facilities, the developer shall submit
plans for the supply of water and disposal of wastes in conformance with the
requirements of and approved by the State Department of Environmental
Protection.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.075 PAVEMENT DESIGN.
   (A)   All proposed roads, streets and alleys within the township shall be
constructed in accordance with PennDot Form 403 and these regulations.
   (B)   The Township Supervisors shall be the sole judge as to the pavement
design appropriate for specific projects. Factors influencing these decisions
shall be generally, but not limited to, the following: road grade; soil type;
anticipated traffic (volume); and anticipated traffic (loading).
   (C)   The following are suggested pavement designs:
                                 8 inches crushed limestone, shale base course
Industrial or commercial areas   2 inches ID-2 binder
                                 1 inch ID-2 wearing course
                                 6 inches crushed limestone, shale base course
Major thoroughfare (residential) 1.5 inches ID-2 binder
                                 1 inch ID-2 wearing course
                                 6 inches crushed limestone, shale base course
Minor street (residential)       1.5 inches ID-2 binder     or 2.5 inches FB-1
                                 1 inch ID-2 wearing course
Truck or bus loading or parking  10 inches crushed limestone, shale base course
areas                            2 inches ID-2 binder
                                 1 inch ID-2 wearing course
 
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.090 GENERAL.
   Minimum improvements and construction standards required of all subdivisions
shall be as set forth in this subchapter. Alternate improvements may be
permitted where, in the opinion of the Commission, the alternate is equal or
superior in performance to the required improvements. Where standards are not
set forth herein, they shall be in accordance with prevailing standards of the
industry or trade.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.091 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   (A)   Generally. Monuments and markers shall be placed so the marker points
or the center shall coincide exactly with the intersection of the lines being
marked.
   (B)   Monuments.
      (1)   Monuments shall be readily visible and be set at the following
points:
         (a)   All points of intersection of exterior boundary lines of the
tract, where durable monuments do not exist; and
         (b)   At least two of the points of intersection of the street right-
of-way lines at street intersections; or at such other locations as the
Commission or Township Engineer may approve.
      (2)   Monuments shall be of the following type or approved equal:
         (a)   Reinforced concrete measuring four feet by four feet by 48
inches;
         (b)   Cut stone, preferably granite, measuring four feet by four feet
by 48 inches;
         (c)   Two inch by 48 inch galvanized iron pipe filled with concrete;
         (d)   Railroad rail 48 inches in length; and
         (e)   Brass pin, three-fourths inch in diameter, grouted four inches
into rock.
      (3)   The bottom of the monument shall extend below the frost line or to
solid rock.
      (4)   Existing monuments may, and under certain circumstances may be
required to, be replaced with monuments of the approved type, provided:
         (a)   The existing monument is indicated on the plan as well as the
monument replacing it; and
         (b)   No tree, stump or corner of fence row will be permitted as a new
monument.
   (C)   Markers. Markers shall be set at the intersection of the side front
and rear lines of all lots of the subdivision, and shall be of the following
types or approve equal:
      (1)   Steel or iron pipe or pins three-quarters of an inch in diameter
and 18 inches in length; and
      (2)   Drill holes at least one-half inch in diameter and one-half inch
deep, in rock or concrete where it is impossible or impractical to set pipes or
pins.
   (D)   Must be set. All markers of the lot and monuments of the specific
block must be set before the sale of the lot is consummated.
   (E)   Accuracy. Monuments shall be set to the same order of accuracy as set
forth in §
153.059(C)(1).
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.092 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. All streets shall be graded to the full width of the right-
of-way, surfaced and improved to grades and dimensions shown on the plans,
profiles, and cross-sections submitted by the subdivider and approved by the
Township Supervisors. In subdivisions where sidewalks are not required, the
sidewalk areas shall be graded in the same manner as if sidewalks were to be
constructed.
      (1)   Streets shall be graded, surfaced and improved to the dimensions
required by the cross-sections. Pavement base and wearing surface shall be
constructed according to the specifications of the Pennsylvania Department of
Transportation and/or the specifications as set forth by the Township
Supervisors.
      (2)   Prior to placing street surface, adequate subsurface drainage for
the streets and all utilities under the streets shall be provided by the
subdivider upon the completion of the street improvements. Respective plans and
profiles as built shall be filed with the Township Planning Commission.
      (3)   The developer shall be required to construct streets and receive
the approval of the Commission before the sale of any lot abutting said streets
is consummated. The Commission representative shall make the necessary
inspection and prepare the report thereon within ten working days after the
request for such inspection.
      (4)   Cartway and shoulder widths:
 
                  Cartway                  Shoulders
Collector streets 24 feet                  4 feet each side
Cul-de-sacs       Radius of turning circle -
                  cartway - 50 feet
Driveways         12 feet                  -
                  As required by the anticipated flow of traffic as
Major streets     approved by the Commission after consultation with the
                  Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
Minor streets     20 feet                  3 feet each side
 
   (B)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be provided when considered necessary by the
Planning Commission for the protection of the public or whenever it is
determined that the potential volume of pedestrian traffic or safety conditions
creates the need for them. Sidewalks shall be provided where streets of a
proposed subdivision are extensions of existing streets having a sidewalk on
one or both sides.
      (2)   When sidewalks are required, they shall meet the following
standards.
         (a)   Sidewalks shall be located within the street right-of-way, one
foot from the right-of- way line, and shall be a minimum of four feet wide,
except along collector and arterial streets, and in the vicinity of shopping
centers, schools, recreation areas and other community facilities, where they
shall be a minimum of five feet wide.
         (b)   A grass planting strip of not less than three feet shall be
provided between the curb and sidewalk. Where rolled curb and gutter is used, a
grass planting strip shall be provided.
         (c)   Sidewalks shall be constructed of portland cement mortar and be
at least four inches thick, underlain by four inches of compacted cinder,
gravel or crushed stone.
         (d)   Where unusual or peculiar conditions prevail with respect to
prospective traffic and/or safety of pedestrians, the Township Planning
Commission may require different standards of improvements than those set forth
in the previous divisions. Crosswalks may be required when deemed necessary by
the Commission.
         (e)   In all respects in which standards for required improvements are
not set forth herein or specified by the Commission hereunder, the applicable
standard requirements of the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation shall
govern, and all work shall be performed in a manner prescribed in the standard
specifications for road construction of said Department for the type of
construction under consideration.
         (f)   Maximum slope of banks measured perpendicular to the centerline
of the street should be three to one for fills, and two to one for cuts,
assuming the nature of the subject soil is of adequate stability.
   (C)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall meet the following
standards.
      (1)   Each proposed dwelling unit in a subdivision shall be provided with
off-street parking space. Such off-street parking space may be provided as an
individual garage, carport or driveway, preferably located behind the building
line, or in a parking compound adjacent to or near the dwelling units it
serves. Driveway and parking compounds shall provide two usable and paved
parking spaces of at least 200 square feet each with a minimum of 400 square
feet total for each dwelling unit.
      (2)   Commercial developments within the scope of these regulations shall
provide not less than three square feet of paved parking area, exclusive of
access lanes, for every one square foot of interior floor area, exclusive of
storage areas. In addition, paved truck loading areas shall be provided such
that all truck loading, unloading and maneuvering can be accommodated within
the property lines.
      (3)   Industrial developments within the scope of these regulations shall
provide a minimum of paved off-street parking in the ratio of one parking space
for every two employees anticipated during the main work shift. In addition,
paved truck loading areas shall be provided such that all truck loading,
unloading and maneuvering can be accommodated within the property lines.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.093 STREET SIGNS.
   Street signs shall be erected at the intersection of all streets, placed to
be readily visible from all directions. The lettering shall be clearly legible
from a distance of 50 feet.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.094 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   (1)   Where public water supply is available, the developer shall
construct a distribution system in conformance with the requirements of the
State Public Utility Commission, and of the State Department of Environmental
Protection and local health authorities.
      (2)   The developer shall present evidence to the Commission proof that
the subdivision or development will be supplied by a certified public utility
or by a municipal corporation, authority or utility. A copy of a certificate of
public convenience from the State Public Utility Commission or an application
for such certificate or a commitment or agreement to serve the area in
question, whichever is appropriate, shall be acceptable evidence.
   (B)   (1)   Where the developer elects to construct a centralized water
supply, such system shall be constructed in conformance with the requirements
of and with the approval of the State Department of Environmental Protection
and local health and water authorities.
      (2)   The developer shall present evidence to the Commission proof that
the subdivision or development will be supplied by a certified public utility
or bona fide cooperative association of lot owners or other entity. A copy of a
certificate of public convenience from the State Public Utility Commission or
an application for such certificate or a commitment or agreement to serve the
area in question, whichever is appropriate, shall be acceptable evidence.
   (C)   Where the developer elects to permit on-site water supply, adequate
restrictive covenants shall be placed in the deed, running with the land, to
require minimum standards of construction in conformance with the
recommendations of public health authorities.
   (D)   Where water lines are installed within right-of-way lines of streets,
the lines shall be located between the cartway and the right-of-way line,
normally on the opposite side of the street from any sewer lines that may be
installed. If presented to the Commission and if properly engineered, all
utilities may be located within a common ditch.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974; Ord. 592, passed 12-13-1990)
§ 153.095 SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Where a public sewage system is accessible, the developer shall
construct a sewage system in conformance with the requirements of the State
Public Utility Commission and of the State Department of Environmental
Protection and local health authorities.
   (B)   Where the developer elects to construct a centralized sewage disposal
system, such system shall be constructed in conformance with the requirements
of and with the approval of the State Department of Environmental Protection
and local health authorities.
   (C)   (1)   Where the Township Supervisors elect to permit on-site sewage
disposal, adequate restrictive covenants shall be placed in the deed, running
with the land, to require minimum standards of construction in, conformance
with recommendations of public health authorities.
      (2)   The Commission reserves the right to review on-site disposal
permits from the Department of Environmental Protection prior to subdivision
approval.
   (D)   (1)   In light of the impending sewage disposal system installation,
all subdivision plans submitted from this day forth shall include provisions
for dry sewer lines.
      (2)   Design of such a system shall first be submitted at the preliminary
stage and shall show lines serving all lots in plan view as well as profiles of
all mains and laterals.
      (3)   The plans shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer
and shall bear seal of same.
      (4)   The requirement of dry sewer installation may be waived by the
Township Supervisors if it is felt that the area is too remotely located to be
economically feasible.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.096 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   (1)   Sufficient culverts shall be installed to provide for the
uninhibited flow of all stormwater, along natural watercourses and at such
other locations as necessary to prevent the ponding of water, or the discharge
of water over roads.
      (2)   The end area of drainage pipe and waterways shall be computed by
use of Talbot’s Formula for drainage areas not in excess of 320 acres.
      (3)   The co-efficient in the formula shall be as follows:
Table III
Drainage Coefficients Drainage - Runoff - 4
Talbot’s Formula - (Approximate Approach)
A = Required Section of Waterway in Square Feet
         ^ = Drainage Area in Acres            C = Talbot’s Coefficient
Drainage Area Values of “A”
              Mountainous Hilly Land        Rolling Land      Flat Land
Acres Square  C = 1.00    C = 0.80 C = 0.60 C = 0.50 C = 0.40 C = 0.30 C = 0.20
      Miles
Table III
Drainage Coefficients Drainage - Runoff - 4
Talbot’s Formula - (Approximate Approach)
A = Required Section of Waterway in Square Feet
         ^ = Drainage Area in Acres            C = Talbot’s Coefficient
Drainage Area  Values of “A”
               Mountainous Hilly Land      Rolling Land      Flat Land
Acres   Square C = 1.00    C =    C = 0.60 C = 0.50 C = 0.40 C = 0.30 C = 0.20
        Miles              0.80
1       0.0016 1.0         0.8    0.6      0.5      0.4      0.3      0.2
2       0.0031 1.7         1.4    1.0      .8       .7       .5       .3
4       0.0062 2.8         2.2    1.7      1.4      1.1      .8       .6
6       0.0094 3.8         3.0    2.3      1.9      1.5      1.1      .8
8       0.0125 4.8         3.8    2.9      2.4      1.9      1.4      1.0
10      0.016  5.6         4.5    3.4      2.8      2.2      1.7      1.2
15      0.023  7.6         6.1    4.6      3.8      3.0      2.3      1.5
20      0.031  9.5         7.6    5.7      4.7      3.8      2.8      1.9
30      0.047  12.8        10.2   7.7      6.4      5.1      3.8      2.6
40      0.062  15.9        12.7   9.5      8        6.4      4.8      3.2
60      0.094  22          17.6   13       11       8.3      6.6      4.4
80      0.125  27          21.6   16       13       10.8     8.1      5.4
100     0.156  32          25.6   19       16       12.8     9.6      6.4
150     0.234  43          34.4   26       21       17.2     12.9     8.6
200     0.312  53          42.4   32       27       21.2     15.9     10.6
250     0.39   63          50     38       31       25       19       13
300     0.47   72          58     43       36       29       22       14
400     0.62   89          71     53       45       36       27       18
500     0.75   106         85     64       53       42       32       21
600     0.94   121         97     73       61       48       36       24
800     1.25   150         120    90       75       60       45       30
1,000   1.56   178         142    107      89       71       53       36
1,500   2.34   241         193    145      121      96       72       48
2,000   3.12   299         239    179      149      120      90       60
2,500   3.91   354         283    212      177      142      106      71
3,000   4.7    405         324    243      203      162      122      81
4,000   6.2    503         402    302      252      202      151      101
5,000   7.8    595         476    357      297      238      179      119
6,000   9.4    682         546    409      341      273      205      136
8,000   12.5   846         677    508      423      338      254      169
10,000  15.6   1,000       800    600      500      400      300      200
25,000  39.1   1,938       1,590  1,193    994      795      596      398
50,000  78     3,344       2,675  2,000    1,672    1,338    1,003    669
100,000 156    5,623       4,498  3,374    2,812    2,249    1,687    1,125
200,000 312    9,457       7,566  5,674    4,728    3,783    2,837    1,891
400,000 625    15,905      12,724 9,543    7,952    6,362    4,772    3,181
 
   (B)   For drainage areas in excess of 320 acres the drainage structure shall
be designed in accordance with design standards of the Department of
Environmental Protection, and the Commission may request a copy of the permit
issued by the Department as proof of compliance.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.097 OTHER UTILITIES.
   Easements and rights-of-way shall be provided for the installation of power,
telephone, television cables and other utilities; the alignment and width of
said right-of-way shall be mutually agreed upon by the developer and the
utility company; in the event the parties are unable to agree as to such
alignment or width, it shall be as directed by the State Public Utility
Commission.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.098 RECOMMENDED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. Although not required, the following improvements are
recommended as valuable to safety, convenience and attractiveness of a
subdivision. They, therefore, are a great asset not only to the local community
and the township as a whole, but also to the potential buyer and future
residents of the area.
   (B)   Street lights. In accordance with the conditions to be agreed upon by
the subdivider, the local municipality and the appropriate public utility,
street lights are recommended to be installed in all subdivisions. The
subdivider shall be responsible for making the necessary arrangements with the
applicable agencies, and whether or not street lights are initially installed,
the subdivider shall be responsible for providing utility easements for future
street lighting installations.
   (C)   Shade trees. All possible efforts should be made by the subdivider to
preserve existing shade trees. When provided, shade trees of deciduous hardwood
type with a minimum caliper of one and one-half inches shall be planted between
the shoulder and right-of-way, or between the shoulder and sidewalk provided
the planting strip is a minimum of six feet wide.
   (D)   Fire hydrants.
      (1)   Fire hydrants should be provided as an integral part of any water
supply system and shall be in accordance with the specifications set forth by
the National Fire Protection Association.
      (2)   The fire hydrants shall be placed at intervals of not more than
1,000 feet and shall contain a minimum of two, two and one-half-inch pumper
outlets.
   (E)   Wiring.
      (1)   All wiring shall be installed underground.
      (2)   The subdivider shall be allowed to place lines above ground only
if:
         (a)   The subdivision contains five lots or less; or
         (b)   The subdivider presents a bona fide variance from the
Pennsylvania Public Utilities Commission.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.110 REVISION AND AMENDMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors may amend regulations. The Commission may, at
its discretion, recommend revision, modification or amendments of these
regulations by appropriate action taken at any scheduled meeting. All proposed
amendments shall conform to the procedures and requirements of the State
Municipal Planning Code, being 53 P.S. Ch. 30 and any amendments thereto.
   (B)   Consideration. The Commission will give earnest consideration to
changes or modifications suggested by any developer when such changes or
modifications shall be in the best interest of the general public.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974; Ord. 592, passed 12-13-1990)
§ 153.111 HARDSHIP AND VARIANCE.
   (A)   Standards may be varied. If any applicant has shown that any mandatory
provisions of these regulations are unreasonable and cause undue hardships as
they may apply to his or her proposed subdivision, the Commission may grant a
variance to such applicant from such mandatory provisions so that substantial
justice may be done, and the public interest secured; provided, that such
variance may be granted upon the concurrence of a majority of the Commission
present at a meeting, by roll call vote, and that such variance will not have
the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations.
   (B)   Commission may impose conditions. In granting variance and
modifications, the Commission may impose such conditions as will in its
judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements
so modified.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.112 RECONSIDERATION AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Request for reconsideration. Any developer aggrieved by a finding,
decision or recommendation of the Commission may request within 30 days and
receive opportunity at the subsequent meeting to appear before the Commission
present additional relevant information, and request reconsideration of the
original findings decision or recommendation.
   (B)   Appeal. Appeal from the findings and decisions of the Commission shall
be as provided by law.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.113 COMMISSION RECORDS; RECORD TO BE KEPT.
   The Commission shall keep a record of its findings, decisions and
recommendations relative to all subdivision plans filed with it for review and/
or approval.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.114 VALIDITY.
   Should any section, division or provision of these regulations be declared
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the regulations as a whole, or of any other part thereof.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.115 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect on April 5, 1974, at 12:01 p.m.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 295, passed 3-14-1974; Ord. 592, passed 12-13-1990; Ord. 607, passed 8-
21-1996)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Scope and intent; purpose
   
154.003   General terms are defined
   
154.004   Definitions
Establishment of Districts
   
154.015   Establishment of zoning districts
General Provisions
   
154.030   Conformance and permits
   
154.031   Compliance with regulations
   
154.032   Yards
   
154.033   Substandard dwellings
   
154.034   Uses requiring site plan approval
   
154.035   Public utility uses
   
154.036   Temporary structures
   
154.037   Property survey required
   
154.038   Safety limitations on fences and shrubbery
   
154.039   Drains, driveways, other means of egress
Use Regulations
   
154.050   C - Conservation District
   
154.051   RR - Rural Residential District
   
154.052   R1 - Residential Single-Family District
   
154.053   R2 - Residential Multiple-Family District
   
154.054   R3 - Residential Multiple-Family/Manufactured Home District
   
154.055   CN - Neighborhood-Commercial District
   
154.056   CT - Travelers-Commercial District
   
154.057   IL - Light Industrial District
   
154.058   HI - Heavy Industrial District
Nonconforming Uses
   
154.070   General
   
154.071   Registration of nonconforming uses and structures
   
154.072   Permitted nonconforming uses
Supplementary Regulations
   
154.085   Floodplain areas
   
154.086   Home occupation-home business
   
154.087   Gas and oil extraction
   
154.088   Small scale wind generators
   
154.089   Commercial power generating windmills
   
154.090   Temporary meteorologic towers
   
154.091   Outdoor furnaces
   
154.092   Changes to nonconforming uses
   
154.093   Adult entertainment establishments
   
154.094   Telecommunications towers
   
154.095   Recreational cabins
   
154.096   Regulating the construction, operation, and decommissioning of solar
electric facilities
Planned Residential Development
   
154.110   General
   
154.111   Planned residential development regulations
   
154.112   Development standards for PRDs
   
154.113   Commercial uses in PRDs
   
154.114   Aesthetic considerations in PRDs
   
154.115   PRD procedures for application
Manufactured Home Park
   
154.130   Criteria for special exception review
Signs
   
154.145   General sign requirements
   
154.146   Residential districts
   
154.147   Nonresidential district signs
   
154.148   Temporary signs
   
154.149   Billboards
Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
   
154.160   Definitions
   
154.161   The following off-street parking spaces shall be provided
   
154.162   The foregoing requirements are subject to the following general rules
and exceptions
   
154.163   The following off-street loading space shall be provided
   
154.164   Alteration of requirements
Zoning Hearing Board; Powers, Duties and Establishment Are Prescribed
   
154.175   Zoning Hearing Board is created
   
154.176   Board meetings
   
154.177   Appeals to the Board
   
154.178   Powers of the Board
   
154.179   Public hearing and permits issued by the Board
Conditional Uses
   
154.190   Conditions for approval
   
154.191   Procedures for conditional uses
   
154.192   Application and permit fees for conditional uses
   
154.193   Procedures for approval
   
154.194   Continued compliance
Enforcement
   
154.205   Zoning Officer powers and duties
   
154.206   Building permit required
   
154.207   Certificate of occupancy
   
154.208   Minor dimensional setback variance
Amendments of the Chapter
   
154.220   General
   
154.221   Procedure
Violation and Validity
   
154.235   Violations
   
154.236   Validation
 
   
154.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations, see
Chapter 150
   Floodplain management, see
Chapter 151
   Subdivision regulations, see
Chapter 153
GENERAL
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the “Conemaugh Township
Zoning Ordinance”.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.002 SCOPE AND INTENT; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Scope and intent. Specifically, this chapter is enacted to divide the
township into districts, and within said districts regulate and restrict the
structures, the size of yards, courts and other open spaces, the density of
population and the location and use of buildings, structures and land for
trade, industry, residence and other purposes; establishing a Zoning Hearing
Board and prescribing its powers and duties; providing penalties for the
violation of the chapter and repealing all ordinances in conflict herewith.
This chapter shall also take precedence over county ordinances or other
regulations in conflict herewith.
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   The zoning regulations and districts as herein established have
been made in accordance with a comprehensive plan and study of the township for
the purpose of promoting health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
community. They have been designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to
secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers, to provide adequate light and
air; to prevent overcrowding of the land; to avoid undue concentration of the
population; to facilitate the adequate provisions of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements.
      (2)   The regulations have been made with reasonable consideration of the
character of the district and its peculiar suitability for the particular uses
and with a view of conserving the value of existing structures and encouraging
the most appropriate use of the land throughout the community. These
regulations do not in any way alter the present uses of the land but are
specifically directed towards future developments and alterations for the
purpose outlined in division (B)(1) above.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.003 GENERAL TERMS ARE DEFINED.
   In the application of this chapter, the rules and definitions contained in
this section shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
   (A)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural
shall include the singular; words used in the present tense shall include the
future tense.
   (B)   The words “shall” and “will” are mandatory.
   (C)   The word “may” is permissive.
   (D)   The word “lot” shall include the words “piece” and “parcel”.
   (E)   The phrase “used for” shall include the phrase “arranged for”,
“designed for”, “intended for”, “maintained for” and “occupied for”.
   (F)   The word “person” shall include “corporation”, “unincorporated
association”, “syndicate” and “partnership”, as well as an individual.
   (G)   The word “building” shall include “structure” and shall be construed
as if followed by the phrase “or part thereof”.
   (H)   The word “street” shall include “avenue”, “boulevard”, “court”,
“expressway”, “highway” and “road”.
   (I)   The word “watercourse” shall include “channel”, “creek”, “ditch”, “dry
run”, “mill race”, “river”, “spring”, “spring run” and “stream”.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building detached from the subordinate to the main
building on the same lot and used for purposes customarily incidental to the
main building.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of building and located on the same lot with such principal use of
building.
   ADULT BUSINESS. Either:
      (1)   An ADULT BOOK STORE, defined as an establishment having as a
substantial or significant portion of its stock-in-trade books, magazines and
other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, as defined herein, or an establishment with a
segment or section devoted to the sale or display of such material; or
      (2)   An ADULT THEATER, being defined as a club, bar or entertainment
facility:
         (a)   Presenting film, tape or other audio or visual reproduction or
any other material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined herein, for observation by patrons; or
         (b)   Featuring topless dancers, go-go dancers, exotic dancers,
strippers, male or female impersonators or similar entertainers.
   ALTERATIONS. As applied to a building or structure, any change or
rearrangement in the total floor area, or an enlargement, whether by extending
on a side or by increasing in height, or moving from one location or position
to another.
   ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL. Any change in or addition to the supporting or
structural members of a building, such as bearing walls, partitions, columns or
girders; or any changes which will convert an existing building into a
different structure, or adapt it to a different use, or any change which, in
the case of a nonconforming use, would prolong the life of such use.
   ANIMAL UNIT. One large animal such as a horse or cow or large pig over 500
pounds, or, two medium size animals, such as a sheep or goat or small pig, or
three small animals or fowl such as a rabbit, mink, dog, cat or chicken.
   AUTO BODY SHOP. Any structure or any building or part thereof that is used
for the repair or painting of bodies and fenders of motor vehicles.
   BOARD. The Zoning Hearing Board established in §§
154.175 through
154.179.
   BUILD. To erect, convert, enlarge, reconstruct or structurally alter a
building or structure.
   BUILDING. A building is any structure intended for the shelter, housing or
enclosure of any person, animal or property of any kind.
   BUILDING LINE(S). Lines parallel to and inside of the property lines within
which buildings may be constructed.
   BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL. A building which is designed, used or intended to be
used for human occupancy. All RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS shall have permanent
foundations.
   DISTRICT. A part of the township wherein regulations of this chapter are
uniform.
   DRIVE-IN. An establishment where food or beverage is sold for consumption on
the premises but not necessarily within a building.
   DWELLING. See BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building that contains more than two living
units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building and appurtenant structures designated
for or used exclusively for occupancy by one family, related by blood, marriage
or adoption, and non-paying guests.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building that contains only two living units.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a living unit as an individual
housekeeping organization as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding
house, lodging house or hotel.
   FARM.
      (1)   Cultivation of crops and/or raising of livestock with a limitation
of one animal unit per acre, other than domesticated pets, or operated under
the Nutrient Management Act; and
      (2)   Having a minimum lot area of not less than three contiguous acre,
leased or owned.
   FARMETTE. An accessory use to a residential use with not more than six
chickens or fowl, so as not to create a public nuisance, an unsanitary
condition or any inhumane condition.
   FILLING STATION or SERVICE STATION. Any buildings, structures or premises,
enclosure or other place used for the dispensing, sale or offering for sale of
automobile or truck fuel and oil at retail. When such dispensing, sale or
offering for sale of automobile fuel and oils is incidental to the conduct of a
motor vehicle repair shop, the premises shall be classified as a MOTOR VEHICLE
REPAIR SHOP.
   GARAGE APARTMENT. A living unit for not more than one family erected above a
garage, said garage being accessory to the main building.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building housing vehicles owned and used by
occupants of the main building. Where vehicles are housed or where the vehicles
are used by persons other than occupants, the building is a STORAGE GARAGE. A
PRIVATE GARAGE does not need to be walled, A roofed but unwalled structure or
CARPORT is subject to the same regulations.
   HABITABLE LIVING AREA. The floor area of a building or structure which is
furnished to the extent that it is customarily occupied by residents or users
of the buildings or structure, exclusive of garages, unconditioned spaces and
unfinished basements.
   HOME OCCUPATION.
      (1)   HOME BUSINESS.
         (a)   An accessory use of a service character within a dwelling by
residents which is clearly secondary to the use of the dwelling for living
purposes and does not change the character thereof or have any exterior
evidence of such secondary use other than a small sign. The secondary use shall
not be carried on in an adjacent separate, attached or integral structure not
designed for living space such as a garage or other out building, shall not
constitute more than 25% of the habitable living area and shall not employ more
than two persons other than resident family members.
         (b)   A HOME BUSINESS shall be permitted by special exception
according to the criteria stated in §
154.086. Instructions in violin, piano or other musical instruments limited to
a single person at a time shall be deemed a HOME BUSINESS. The business of
dressmaker, seamstress or other persons who offer skilled services to clients,
tax preparer, consultant and similar professions shall be deemed a HOME
BUSINESS.
         (c)   The following are not permitted as HOME BUSINESSES:
            1.   Tourist homes;
            2.   Convalescent homes;
            3.   Mortuary establishments;
            4.   Stores;
            5.   Trades; and
            6.   Manufacturing of products, machinery or auto body workshops.
      (2)   HOME OFFICE.
         (a)   An accessory use of a service character within a dwelling by the
residents of the structure, which is clearly secondary to the use of the
dwelling for living purposes and does not change the character thereof or have
any evidence of such secondary use. The use shall not involve regular
visitations by customers, clients, salespersons or suppliers.
         (b)   A limited business or commercial activity which meets all of the
following criteria is considered a HOME OFFICE and is permitted by approval by
the Zoning Officer in any dwelling unit:
            1.   No exterior evidence (e.g., noise, light, heat, dust, odor,
signs, electromagnetic interference and the like) of the home office shall be
permitted that is uncharacteristic of a residential setting;
            2.   No retail sales or display of goods, exclusive of telephone,
internet or other electronic network solicitation, is permitted;
            3.   No exterior parking of commercial vehicles over 8,000 GVR
shall be permitted;
            4.   Only residents of the dwelling may be engaged in the HOME
OFFICE activity;
            5.   The HOME OFFICE activity may be conducted only within the
dwelling unit and may not occupy more than 10% of the habitable floor area; and
            6.   The use shall not require the delivery of materials and goods
by trucks larger than standard panel trucks.
   HOSPITAL. A place for the diagnosis, treatment or other care of humans and
having facilities for inpatient care including such establishments as a
sanitarium, sanatorium and preventorium.
   HOTEL. A building used as the temporary abiding place for individuals who
are, for compensation, lodged, with or without meals and in which provision may
be made for cooking in any individual room or suite. A HOTEL may include
restaurants, newsstands and other accessory services primarily for serving its
occupants and only incidentally the public.
   HOTEL-APARTMENT. A multiple-family dwelling under resident supervision.
   INSTITUTION. A non-profit establishment for public use.
   JUNKYARD. A lot, land or structure, or part thereof, used primarily for the
collecting, storage or sale of waste-paper, rags, scrap metal or discarded
material, or for the collecting, dismantling, storage or salvaging of machinery
or vehicles not in running condition, and for the sale of parts thereof.
   LIVESTOCK. Non-domesticated pets, including, but not limited to: cows;
horses; goats; pigs; alpaca; llama; fowl; deer; mink; and other similar
animals.
   LIVING UNIT. Rooms which must include a kitchen.
   LODGING HOUSE. A dwelling consisting of not more than one living unit
occupied by persons not related by blood, marriage or adoption. This term
includes ROOMING HOUSE, BOARDING HOUSE and NURSING HOME.
   LOT. A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by a plat or
otherwise as permitted by law and to be used, developed or built upon as a
unit.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (FORMERLY MOBILE HOME). A detached single-family dwelling
unit with all of the following characteristics:
      (1)   Designed for long-term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath, and kitchen facilities,
with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside
systems; and
      (2)   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels or
on a flatbed or other trailers or detachable wheels; arriving at the site where
it is to be occupied in not more than three major sections, complete including
major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on foundation supports,
connection to utilities and the like.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A site housing two or more manufactured homes.
   MEDIATION. A voluntary negotiating process in which parties in a dispute
mutually select a neutral mediator to assist them in jointly exploring and
settling their differences, culminating in a written agreement which the
parties themselves create and consider acceptable.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings, whether detached or in connected
units, used as individual sleeping or dwelling units, designed with separate
entrances and designed for year-round occupancy, primarily for transient
automobile travelers and providing for accessory off-street parking facilities.
The term MOTEL includes buildings designated as tourist courts, tourist cabins,
motor lodges and similar terms.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING. A building or structure which does not conform to
all the height, area, courts and yard regulations of the district in which it
is located.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign which does not conform to the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use which does not conform to the regulations of a
district in which it is located.
   OFFICE BUILDING. A building designed for or used as the office(s) of
professional, commercial, industrial, religious, public or semi-public persons
or organizations.
   OUTDOOR FURNACE. Any equipment, device, apparatus or structure or any part
thereof which is installed, (excluding pre-existing flues for in-home heating
systems) affixed or situated outdoors for the purpose of combustion of any type
of fuel to produce heat or energy used as a component of a heating system
providing heat for an interior space or water source.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. Construction of a structure on a permanent excavated
footer or concrete block, stone or similar material; with the space, if any,
between the base of the structure and the footer, completely enclosed with
solid material, such as concrete block, stone, cement or wood; and connection
to water, sewer, electric and other utilities, which cannot there after be
moved without damage to the foundation or structure.
   PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. An area of land, controlled by a landowner,
to be developed as a single entity for a number of dwelling units, or
combination of residential and nonresidential uses, the development plan for
which does not correspond in lot size, bulk, type of dwelling, or use, density
or intensity, lot coverage, or in open space to the regulations established in
any one district created, from time to time, under the provisions of this
chapter.
   PREMISES. Land together with any buildings or structure occupying it.
   PUBLIC NOTICE. Notice published once each week for two successive weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation in the township. Such notice shall state the
time and place of the hearing and the particular nature of the matter to be
considered at the hearing. The first publication shall not be more than 30 days
and the second publication shall not be less than seven days from the date of
the hearing.
   SEPARATE TRACT. A lot or parcel of land or a group or contiguous parcels or
lots of land under one ownership and of record on and following the effective
date of this chapter.
   SIGN. A principal or accessory structure or device that is arranged,
intended, designed or used as an advertisement, announcement or direction; and
includes a sign, sign screen, billboard, poster panel and advertising, business
and identification devices of any kind.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign, banner or other advertising device constructed of
cloth, canvas, fabric or other light temporary material, with or without a
structural frame, intended for a limited period of display; including
decorative displays for holidays or public demonstrations.
   SITE PLAN. A drawing prepared to scale which indicates all lot lines,
adjacent streets, easements, rights-of-way, the size and location of all
buildings, including setbacks, parking areas, driveways and other prominent
features. The engineering site plan shall be prepared by a registered
architect, professional engineer or registered surveyor and filed with and
approved by the Township Planning Commission in accordance with §
154.034 prior to the start of construction.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic region, buttock and female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola; or human male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breast; or
      (4)   Audible representation, description or narration of any of the
above.
   STREET. Property dedicated to public use for and accepted for vehicular and
dedicated to public use for secondary access to lots.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in or addition to the supporting or
structural members of a building, such as bearing walls, partitions, columns or
girders; or any changes which will convert an existing building into a
different structure, or adapt it to a different use, or any change which, in
the case of a nonconforming use, would prolong the life of such use.
   STRUCTURE. Anything built that requires a permanent foundation and location.
   THEATER. A building or part of a building devoted to the showing of moving
pictures or theatrical productions on a commercial basis.
   TOURIST HOME. A dwelling in which overnight accommodations are used by
transient guests for compensation.
   TOWNSHIP. Conemaugh Township, Somerset County, Pennsylvania.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A trailer constructed to be towed on its own chassis, for
temporary occupancy as a vacation trailer, or for occasional transport personal
affects.
   USE. The specific purpose for which land or a building is designed,
arranged, intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained. The
term “permitted use” or its equivalent shall not be deemed to include any
nonconforming use.
   WINDOW. An opening to the outside, other than a door, which provides all or
part of the required natural light, natural ventilation or both, to an interior
space.
   YARD AREA/SETBACK. The distance required from the front property boundary
for structures in respective zoning districts. In the event that a deed
indicates that a property line extends into or across a public road right-of-
way, the required YARD AREA/SETBACK shall be measured from the nearest edge of
the public road right-of-way.
   ZONING APPROVAL. A statement issued by and signed by the Zoning Officer
authorizing the use or construction of a structure and indicating on its face
that the proposed use or structure complies with this chapter or with a
decision and order of the Zoning Hearing Board or a court of competent
jurisdiction rendered in connection with an application relative to use of the
premises involved. No approval shall be issued for any use or construction
unless the applicant shall submit written proof that the designated authorities
have granted approval of required sanitary sewage and water facilities.
   ZONING MAP. Conemaugh Township Zoning Map.
   ZONING OFFICER. The agent appointed by the legislative body of the township
who is herein charged with the administration and enforcement of this zoning
chapter, or his or her duly authorized representative.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. Conemaugh Township zoning ordinance as herein established.
   ZONING PERMIT. A permit stating that the purpose for which a building or
land is to be used is in conformity with the uses permitted and all other
requirements of this chapter for the zone in which it is located or to be
located.
(Ord. 555, passed 8-28-1981; Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS
§ 154.015 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Zoning districts. The township is hereby classified and divided into
nine districts designated as follows:
C  Conservation District
RR Rural Residential District
R1 Residential Single-Family District
R2 Residential Multiple-Family District
R3 Residential Manufactured Home District
CN Commercial-Neighborhood District
CT Commercial-Travelers District
LI Light Industrial District
HI Heavy Industrial District
 
   (B)   Interpretation of district boundaries.
      (1)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following
centerlines of streets, highways, street lines, highway right-of-way lines,
railroads or railroad rights-of-way, or streams, such centerlines shall be
construed to be such boundaries.
      (2)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
      (3)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow or are parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways or the rights-
of-way of the same, such district boundaries shall be construed to be parallel
thereto and at such distance from the centerlines as indicated on the zoning
map.
      (4)   Where the boundary of a district follows a stream or other body of
water abutting another municipality, the boundary shall be deemed to be the
limits of jurisdiction of the township, unless otherwise indicated.
      (5)   Where the boundary of a district traverses a lot, parcel or tract
of record, the zoning district designation shall be determined by the location
of the primary use structure or building first established on the lot, parcel,
or tract of record. In the event of future subdivision of the lot, parcel or
tract of record, the zoning district in which the majority of that specific lot
area is located shall establish the zoning district designated for that lot,
parcel or tract.
   (C)   Zoning map. The map herein referred to, which is identified by the
title, “Conemaugh Township Zoning Map”, and which is hereby declared to be a
part of this chapter, shall be known as the “zoning map”.
   (D)   Federal, state, county or municipally owned property. Wherever
federal, state or county owned property is included in one or more zoning
districts, it shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter only insofar
as is permitted by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America
and of the commonwealth. In the case of municipally owned property, the use
provisions of this chapter shall not apply.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.030 CONFORMANCE AND PERMITS.
   No building or land shall, after the effective date of this chapter, except
for existing nonconforming uses, be used or occupied and no building or part
thereof shall be erected, moved or altered unless in conformity with the
regulations herein specified for the district and licenses required by all laws
and ordinances.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.031 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   No building shall hereafter be erected or altered to exceed the height, to
accommodate or house a greater number of families, to occupy a greater
percentage of lot area or to have narrower or smaller rear yard, side yard or
front yard than is herein specified for the district in which the building is
located except as authorized by the Zoning Hearing Board pursuant to §§
154.175 through
154.179.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.032 YARDS.
   No part of a yard or other open space about any building required for the
purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be included as
part of a yard or open space similarly required for another building.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.033 SUBSTANDARD DWELLINGS.
   (A)   No structure shall be occupied as a dwelling unless said structure is
permanently attached to the ground by a permanent foundation, crawl space or
permanently attached to an on-grade slab, except for manufactured homes located
in a manufactured home park.
   (B)   No structure shall be used or occupied that is not in conformity with
the township adoption of the State Uniform Building Code, as amended, or such
other Building Codes as are now, or may hereafter be, in effect.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.034 USES REQUIRING SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   Requirement; exceptions.
      (1)   Zoning approval issued for any purpose specified in an R3, CN, CT,
LI or HI District shall require site plan approval by the Township Planning
Commission and Township Supervisors except for any of the following:
         (a)   A change from a more restrictive permitted use to a less
restrictive permitted use. For purposes of this division (A)(1), a less
restrictive permitted use is sought when the proposed use of the site plan
would require less restrictive area and height limitations, parking
requirements, storm sewer drainage requirements and/or floodplain requirements
than those limitations and requirements applying to the site use existing at
the time of the zoning approval;
         (b)   Signs; and
         (c)   Plans for one single-family or one two-family residence.
      (2)   The Zoning Officer shall have discretion to waive the requirement
of site plan approval for an addition to an existing structure or the
construction of an accessory building where the addition or the accessory
building does not exceed 500 square feet. In exercising said discretion, the
Zoning Officer shall evaluate the effect of the addition or accessory building
considering all relevant factors set forth in divisions (B)(2)(a) through (B)
(2)(l) below.
   (B)   Specific requirements.
      (1)   Three copies of the site plan shall be submitted to the Commission
at least 14 days prior to the regularly scheduled or special meeting at which
it is to be reviewed. The 14-day requirement may be waived by the Planning
Commission if a majority of the members present at the meeting agree that they
have had sufficient time to review the site plan. All site plans must be
approved by a majority of members present. Upon receiving approval from the
Township Planning Commission, the site plan shall then be reviewed by the
Township Board of Supervisors for approval. In addition to conforming to any
specific requirements set forth in this chapter, the Planning Commission may
recommend changes in the site plans which are deemed necessary to promote
orderly development of the area.
      (2)   In addition to specific requirements of the district regulations,
the site plan, as defined in §
154.004, shall provide for and contain the following:
         (a)   Location of the lot or lots with respect to adjacent streets and
property owners;
         (b)   Critical dimensions of setback, yard area, paving, driveways,
parking areas, landscape areas and other prominent features;
         (c)   Traffic circulation within the site;
         (d)   Location of vehicular access to the site;
         (e)   The height and bulk of structures;
         (f)   Location and size of signs, walls and fences to be constructed
on the site;
         (g)   Provisions for storm drainage, including the drainage flow,
catch-basin size and location of any storm sewers and discharge points from the
site;
         (h)   Connections to all public utilities that are serving the site;
         (i)   Location, size and content of all underground storage tanks;
         (j)   Such additional information as may be required by
Chapter 151, Floodplain Management, of this code of ordinances, as amended;
         (k)   Such additional information as may be necessary to show
compliance with stormwater management regulations, as enacted or amended; and
         (l)   Parking calculations.
   (C)   Consideration of plan. In considering any plan hereunder, the Planning
Commission and/or Board of Supervisors shall endeavor to ensure safety and
convenience of traffic movement. In this connection, the Planning Commission
shall refer to any traffic plan or study adopted by the township. Likewise, the
Planning Commission and/or Board of Supervisors shall seek to assure harmonious
and beneficial relationship of buildings and uses on the site as well as to
contiguous properties and overall development in a manner not detrimental to
the public at large. The Planning Commission shall report its findings and
recommendations, in writing, to the Zoning Officer within 48 hours following
the review meeting. The approval, for the purpose of obtaining zoning approval
and a building permit, shall be valid for a period of 180 days, unless extended
by the Township Board of Supervisors for reasonable cause shown.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010; Ord. 686, passed 4-18-2012)
§ 154.035 PUBLIC UTILITY USES.
   Public utility uses for the transportation, distribution and control of
water, gas, electricity, oil, steam, telegraph and telephone communications,
cable television and their supporting members other than buildings and
railroads shall not be required to be located on a zoning lot nor be held to
reduce yard dimensions for other buildings on a lot.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.036 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES.
   Temporary structures may be constructed in side and rear yard areas for a
period not to exceed 60 days. If the structure is not removed after the 60-day
period expires, the structure shall be in compliance with the yard areas and
setbacks for the district in which the property is located and shall be subject
to Building Code and permit requirements.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.037 PROPERTY SURVEY REQUIRED.
   Prior to all new construction, except for accessory use structures less than
1,000 square feet, the owner and/or developer must have each lot or lots
properly surveyed by a certified land surveyor and the location of the proposed
building or buildings (drawn to scale) indicated on said survey. The corners of
any proposed building or structure shall be physically staked on the lot by the
surveyor. The location of the proposed building or structure may be utilized
during the building permit review process to determine if any additional
considerations are necessary prior to issuance of the building permit.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.038 SAFETY LIMITATIONS ON FENCES AND SHRUBBERY.
   No fence shall be constructed or maintained nor shall any shrubbery be
planted or maintained within the township in a manner or at a location which
creates a traffic hazard by impairing visibility from or of a public highway.
Any fencing or shrubbery located at the intersection of two public streets
shall have a maximum height of 30 inches, measured at the intersection of the
pavement or cartway of the two streets. Said fencing or shrubbery shall
maintain that maximum 30 inch height for a distance of 30 feet from the
intersection along each street.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.039 DRAINS, DRIVEWAYS, OTHER MEANS OF EGRESS.
   (A)   Permit required. No person, firm or corporation shall grade,
construct, reconstruct, install or erect a drain, culvert, foot walk, drive or
driveway, or other means of ingress or egress, or affecting discharge or
passage of drain water or runoff water, onto or along a township road unless
and until the township has granted a permit for such grading, construction,
installation, erection or reconstruction.
   (B)   Application requirements. Application for such permit shall be made by
the owner or occupier, or by his or her contractor or agent, in writing, on
forms provided by the township and in accordance with such rules and
regulations as may be established by the township. There shall be appended to
each application a drawing or plan depicting the outlines of the property
affected with existing improvements thereon, existing drains, culverts, foot
walks, drives and driveways, with the proposed drain, culvert, foot walk, drive
or driveway proposed to be added, altered or reconstructed, and the
relationship of the foregoing to the township roadway, particularly with the
relationship to the effect on the drainage of said road.
   (C)   Fees. The costs of filing such application and permit to be issued
thereon, and the cost of any inspection deemed necessary by the Supervisors,
shall be determined according to a schedule of fees which will be adopted by
the Township Supervisors by resolution. All such fees shall be paid to the
township treasury.
   (D)   Alteration of plans. The Supervisors may alter plans filed with any
application, and specify any changes or modifications of any kind which they
may deem necessary and make their approval of the granting of any permits
subject to any such alterations, changes or modifications.
   (E)   Compliance with permit requirements. All grading, construction,
installation and erection shall be in strict compliance with the plans and
specifications on the basis of which the permit is granted.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 154.050 C - CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the C -
Conservation District:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling;
      (2)   Farm;
      (3)   Church or similar place of worship;
      (4)   Convent, monastery, rectory or parish house to be occupied by not
more than ten persons;
      (5)   Public recreation (township, county, state or federal) area,
including municipal park;
      (6)   Government building and/or government use for a township office,
fire station, police station, maintenance shed and/or equipment storage area,
provided that a substantial purpose of the building or use is to deliver the
citizens of the township fire protection, police protection or local government
services; and
      (7)   Drilling/extraction of natural gas, methane gas or oil (not
including permanent compressor stations/facilities).
   (B)   Uses permitted by special exception.
      (1)   Hospitals, religious and philanthropic institutions;
      (2)   Privately owned outdoor recreation activities and/or supporting
facilities;
      (3)   Permanent compressor stations/facility buildings associated with
the extraction of natural gas, methane gas or oil; and
      (4)   Telecommunications tower.
   (C)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Detached private garage;
      (2)   Garage, shed or building for domestic storage (sheds or similar
small structures less than 144 square feet shall be exempt from permitting, but
shall meet the required setbacks for this district);
      (3)   Fence or ornamental wall, not over six feet in height;
      (4)   Swimming pool;
      (5)   Private greenhouse (noncommercial);
      (6)   Vegetable and flower gardens, noncommercial (no permit required);
      (7)   Raising and keeping of domestic animals as pets, but not on a
commercial basis or on a scale objectionable to neighboring property owners,
and provided specifically that all horses, pigs, cattle, poultry, sheep, goats
and similar farm animals not be permitted, unless the property is operated as a
farm or farmette (no permit required);
      (8)   Farmette, as defined under §
154.004;
      (9)   Home occupation-home office;
      (10)   Small scale wind generators, as per §
154.088; and
      (11)   Outdoor furnace, as per §
154.091.
   (D)   Accessory uses permitted by special exception.
      (1)   Home occupation-home business; and
      (2)   Temporary meteorologic towers, as per §
154.090.
   (E)   Conditional uses. Commercial power generating windmills, as per §
154.089.
   (F)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area. There shall be a minimum lot area of not less
than ten acre. Each lot shall have a minimum width of not less than 300 feet.
      (2)   Yard areas. There shall be a minimum yard area/setback for all
structures of not less than 100 feet from the front, side and rear lot lines.
Fences or ornamental walls shall be not less than ten feet from the front lot
line when located along public streets.
   (G)   Height. The maximum height, to the highest point of the roof, of
buildings hereafter erected or altered shall be as follows:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling: 35 feet;
      (2)   Farm - primary building: 45 feet;
      (3)   Church - primary building: 45 feet;
      (4)   Accessory building: 25 feet; and
      (5)   Recreation facility or other similar use building: 45 feet.
   (H)   Dwelling standards. Every one-story dwelling hereafter erected shall
contain a minimum 1,400 square feet of habitable living area. Every two-story
dwelling hereafter erected shall contain a minimum of 1,800 square feet of
habitable living area.
   (I)   Building area. All buildings, including accessory uses, shall cover
not more than 20% of the area of the lot.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010; Ord. 686, passed 4-18-2012)
§ 154.051 RR - RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the RR -
Rural Residential District:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling;
      (2)   Farm;
      (3)   Public parks and recreation areas;
      (4)   Church or similar place of worship;
      (5)   Convent, monastery, rectory or parish house to be occupied by not
more than ten persons;
      (6)   Government building/government use;
      (7)   Drilling/extraction of natural gas, methane gas or oil (not
including permanent compressor stations/facilities); and
      (8)   Surface mining of coal and clay provided that the entire disturbed
area is reclaimed, reshaped and re-vegetated in accordance with applicable
federal, state and local laws and ordinances and regulations governing surface
mining.
   (B)   Uses permitted by special exception.
      (1)   Hospitals, religious and philanthropic institutions;
      (2)   Permanent compressor stations/facility buildings associated with
the extraction of natural gas, methane gas or oil; and
      (3)   Telecommunications towers.
   (C)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Detached private garage;
      (2)   Garage, shed or building for domestic storage (sheds or similar
small structures less than 144 square feet shall be exempt from permitting, but
shall meet the required setbacks for this district);
      (3)   Fence or ornamental wall, not over six feet in height;
      (4)   Swimming pool;
      (5)   Private greenhouse (noncommercial);
      (6)   Raising and keeping of domestic animals as pets, but not on a
commercial basis or on a scale objectionable to neighboring property owners,
and provided specifically that all horses, pigs, cattle, poultry, sheep, goats
and similar farm animals not be permitted, unless the property is operated as a
farm or farmette (no permit required);
      (7)   Farmette as defined under §
154.004;
      (8)   Home occupation-home office;
      (9)   Small scale wind generators, as per §
154.088; and
      (10)   Outdoor furnace, as per §
154.091.
   (D)   Accessory uses permitted by special exception.
      (1)   Home occupation-home business; and
      (2)   Temporary meteorologic towers, as per §
154.090.
   (E)   Conditional uses. Commercial power generating windmills, as per §
154.089.
   (F)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area. There shall be a minimum lot area of not less
than one acre. Each lot shall have a minimum width of not less than 120 feet.
      (2)   Yard areas. No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged
unless the following yard areas are provided and maintained:
         (a)   Front yard. Not less than 30 feet; fences or ornamental walls
shall be not less than ten feet when located along a public street;
         (b)   Side yard. Not less than 20 feet on each side; side yards on
corner lots shall be not less than 30 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard. Not less than 50 feet.
      (3)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings appurtenant to a
residential structure shall maintain a minimum yard area of not less than ten
feet to the side and rear lot lines.
   (G)   Height. The maximum height, to the highest point of the roof, of
buildings hereafter erected or altered shall be as follows:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling: 35 feet;
      (2)   Farm - primary building: 45 feet;
      (3)   Church - primary building: 45 feet;
      (4)   Accessory building: 25 feet; and
      (5)   Recreation facility or other similar use building: 45 feet.
   (H)   Dwelling standards. Every one-story dwelling hereafter erected shall
contain a minimum 1,400 square feet of habitable living area. Every two-story
dwelling hereafter erected shall contain a minimum of 1,800 square feet of
habitable living area.
   (I)   Building area. All buildings, including accessory uses, shall cover
not more than 35% of the area of the lot.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010; Ord. 686, passed 4-18-2012)
§ 154.052 R1 - RESIDENTIAL SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the R1 -
Residential Single-Family District:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling;
      (2)   Farm;
      (3)   Public parks and recreation areas;
      (4)   Church or similar place of worship;
      (5)   Convent, monastery, rectory or parish house to be occupied by not
more than ten persons;
      (6)   Public or private schools;
      (7)   Community buildings, library or similar type use;
      (8)   Government building/government use; and
      (9)   Drilling/extraction of natural gas, methane gas or oil (not
including permanent compressor stations/facilities.
   (B)   Uses permitted by special exception.
      (1)   Hospitals, religious and philanthropic institutions;
      (2)   Planned residential development; and
      (3)   Permanent compressor stations/facility buildings associated with
the extraction of natural gas, methane gas or oil.
   (C)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Detached private garage;
      (2)   Garage, shed or building for domestic storage (sheds or similar
small structures less than 144 square feet shall be exempt from permitting, but
shall meet the required setbacks for this district);
      (3)   Fence or ornamental wall, not over six feet in height;
      (4)   Swimming pool;
      (5)   Private greenhouse (noncommercial);
      (6)   Raising and keeping of domestic animals as pets, but not on a
commercial basis or on a scale objectionable to neighboring property owners,
and provided specifically that all horses, pigs, cattle, poultry, sheep, goats
and similar farm animals not be permitted, unless the property is operated as a
farm or farmette (no permit required);
      (7)   Farmette - as defined under §
154.004;
      (8)   Home occupation-home office; and
      (9)   Small scale wind generators, as per §
154.088.
   (D)   Accessory uses permitted by special exception.
      (1)   Home occupation-home business; and
      (2)   Temporary meteorologic towers, as per §
154.090.
   (E)   Conditional uses. Commercial power generating windmills, as per §
154.089.
   (F)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area. There shall be a minimum lot area of not less
than 20,000 square feet. Each lot shall have a minimum width of not less than
80 feet.
      (2)   Yard areas. No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged
unless the following yard areas are provided and maintained:
         (a)   Front yard. Not less than 30 feet; fences or ornamental walls
shall be not less than ten feet when located along a public street;
         (b)   Side yard. Not less than 20 feet on each side; side yards on
corner lots shall be not less than 30 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard. Not less than 25 feet.
      (3)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings appurtenant to a
residential structure shall maintain a minimum yard area of not less than ten
feet to the side and rear lot lines.
   (G)   Height. The maximum height, to the highest point of the roof, of
buildings hereafter erected or altered shall be as follows:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling: 35 feet;
      (2)   Farm - primary building: 45 feet;
      (3)   Church - primary building: 45 feet;
      (4)   Accessory building: 25 feet; and
      (5)   Recreation facility or other similar use building: 45 feet.
   (H)   Dwelling standards. Every one-story dwelling hereafter erected shall
contain a minimum 1,400 square feet of habitable living area. Every two-story
dwelling hereafter erected shall contain a minimum of 1,800 square feet of
habitable living area.
   (I)   Building area. All buildings, including accessory uses, shall cover
not more than 40% of the area of the lot.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010; Ord. 686, passed 4-18-2012)
§ 154.053 R2 - RESIDENTIAL MULTIPLE-FAMILY DISTRICT.
    (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the R2 -
Residential Multiple-Family District:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling;
      (2)   Two-family dwelling;
      (3)   Farm;
      (4)   Public parks and recreation areas;
      (5)   Church or similar place of worship;
      (6)   Convent, monastery, rectory or parish house to be occupied by not
more than ten persons;
      (7)   Public or private schools;
      (8)   Community buildings, library or similar type use;
      (9)   Government building/government use; and
      (10)   Drilling/extraction of natural gas, methane gas or oil (not
including permanent compressor stations/facilities.
   (B)   Uses permitted by special exception.
      (1)   Hospitals, religious and philanthropic institutions;
      (2)   Multiple-family structures;
      (3)   Planned residential development; and
      (4)   Permanent compressor stations/facility buildings associated with
the extraction of natural gas, methane gas or oil.
   (C)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Detached private garage;
      (2)   Garage, shed or building for domestic storage (sheds or similar
small structures less than 144 square feet shall be exempt from permitting, but
shall meet the required setbacks for this district);
      (3)   Fence or ornamental wall, not over six feet in height;
      (4)   Swimming pool;
      (5)   Private greenhouse (noncommercial);
      (6)   Raising and keeping of domestic animals as pets, but not on a
commercial basis or on a scale objectionable to neighboring property owners,
and provided specifically that all horses, pigs, cattle, poultry, sheep, goats
and similar farm animals not be permitted, unless the property is operated as a
farm or farmette (no permit required);
      (7)   Farmette as defined under §
154.004;
      (8)   Home occupation-home office; and
      (9)   Small scale wind generators, as per §
154.088.
   (D)   Accessory uses permitted by special exception.
      (1)   Home occupation-home business; and
      (2)   Temporary meteorologic towers, as per §
154.090.
   (E)   Conditional uses. Commercial power generating windmills, as per §
154.089.
   (F)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area. There shall be a minimum lot area of not less
than 13,000 square feet. Each lot shall have a minimum width of not less than
65 feet.
      (2)   Yard areas. No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged
unless the following yard areas are provided and maintained:
         (a)   Front yard. Not less than 25 feet; fences or ornamental walls
shall be not less than ten feet when located along a public street;
         (b)   Side yard. Not less than 15 feet on each side; side yards on
corner lots shall be not less than 20 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard. Not less than 25 feet.
      (3)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings appurtenant to a
residential structure shall maintain a minimum yard area of not less than ten
feet to the side and rear lot lines.
   (G)   Height. The maximum height, to the highest point of the roof, of
buildings hereafter erected or altered shall be as follows:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling: 35 feet;
      (2)   Farm - primary building: 45 feet;
      (3)   Church - primary building: 45 feet;
      (4)   Accessory building: 25 feet; and
      (5)   Recreation facility or other similar use building: 45 feet.
   (H)   Dwelling standards.
      (1)   Every one-story single-family dwelling hereafter erected shall
contain a minimum 900 square feet of habitable living area. Every two-story
dwelling hereafter erected shall contain a minimum of 1,200 square feet of
habitable living area. Each dwelling unit of a two-family dwelling structure
shall have a minimum of 900 square feet of habitable living area.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit of a multiple-family structure shall have a
minimum of 750 square feet of habitable living area.
   (I)   Building area. All buildings, including accessory uses, shall cover
not more than 50% of the area of the lot.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.054 R3 - RESIDENTIAL MULTIPLE-FAMILY/MANUFACTURED HOME DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the R3 -
Residential Multiple-Family/Manufactured Home District:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling;
      (2)   Two-family dwelling;
      (3)   Farm;
      (4)   Public parks and recreation areas;
      (5)   Church or similar place of worship;
      (6)   Convent, monastery, rectory or parish house to be occupied by not
more than ten persons;
      (7)   Public or private schools;
      (8)   Community buildings, library or similar type use;
      (9)   Government building/government use; and
      (10)   Drilling/extraction of natural gas, methane gas or oil (not
including permanent compressor stations/facilities).
   (B)   Uses permitted by special exception.
      (1)   Hospitals, religious and philanthropic institutions;
      (2)   Multiple-family structures;
      (3)   Planned residential development;
      (4)   Manufactured home park; and
      (5)   Permanent compressor stations/facility buildings associated with
the extraction of natural gas, methane gas or oil.
   (C)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Detached private garage;
      (2)   Garage, shed or building for domestic storage (sheds or similar
small structures less than 144 square feet shall be exempt from permitting, but
shall meet the required setbacks for this district);
      (3)   Fence or ornamental wall, not over six feet in height;
      (4)   Swimming pool;
      (5)   Private greenhouse (noncommercial);
      (6)   Raising and keeping of domestic animals as pets, but not on a
commercial basis or on a scale objectionable to neighboring property owners,
and provided specifically that all horses, pigs, cattle, poultry, sheep, goats
and similar farm animals not be permitted, unless the property is operated as a
farm or farmette (no permit required);
      (7)   Farmette as defined under §
154.004;
      (8)   Home occupation-home office; and
      (9)   Small scale wind generators, as per §
154.088.
   (D)   Accessory uses permitted by special exception. Home occupation-home
business.
   (E)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area. There shall be a minimum lot area of not less
than 5,000 square feet. Each lot shall have a minimum width of not less than 50
feet.
      (2)   Yard areas. No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged
unless the following yard areas are provided and maintained:
         (a)   Front yard. Not less than 25 feet; fences or ornamental walls
shall be not less than ten feet when located along a public street;
         (b)   Side yard. Not less than ten feet on each side; side yards on
corner lots shall be not less than 20 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard. Not less than 25 feet.
      (3)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings appurtenant to a
residential structure shall maintain a minimum yard area of not less than ten
feet to the side and rear lot lines.
   (F)   Height. The maximum height, to the highest point of the roof, of
buildings hereafter erected or altered shall be as follows:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling: 35 feet;
      (2)   Farm - primary building: 45 feet;
      (3)   Church - primary building: 45 feet;
      (4)   Accessory building: 25 feet; and
      (5)   Recreation facility or other similar use building: 45 feet.
   (G)   Dwelling standards.
      (1)   Every one-story single-family dwelling hereafter erected shall
contain a minimum 900 square feet of habitable living area. Every two-story
dwelling hereafter erected shall contain a minimum of 1,200 square feet of
habitable living area. Each dwelling unit of a two-family dwelling structure
shall have a minimum of 900 square feet of habitable living area.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit of a multiple-family structure shall have a
minimum of 750 square feet of habitable living area.
   (H)   Building area. All buildings, including accessory uses, shall cover
not more than 50% of the area of the lot.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.055 CN - NEIGHBORHOOD-COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the CN -
Neighborhood-Commercial District:
      (1)   Office buildings, provided that no goods, wares or merchandise
shall be prepared on the premises;
      (2)   Personal service shops such as beauty shops and barber shops;
      (3)   Studios of artists and photographers;
      (4)   Retail stores;
      (5)   Parking lots, provided that the parking area shall be paved and
used for passenger vehicle parking only and in no case for sale of vehicles;
      (6)   Commercial schools;
      (7)   Commercial greenhouses and nurseries;
      (8)   Shops for repair and servicing of bicycles, electrical radio and
television appliances, keys, typewriters and similar articles where no
individual establishment provides more than 2,500 square feet of floor space;
      (9)   Sale of goods and products at retail but excluding new and used car
sales;
      (10)   Theaters but not drive-in theaters;
      (11)   Commercial recreation facilities;
      (12)   Banks;
      (13)   Mortuary parlors;
      (14)   Dressmaking, millinery, tailoring, shoe repair and similar trades,
and bakeries, laundries and dry cleaning, provided that no individual
establishment provides more than 2,500 square feet of floor space;
      (15)   Animal hospitals;
      (16)   Restaurants;
      (17)   Laundromats;
      (18)   Service stations and auto body shops;
      (19)   A single-family dwelling which is part of a building used for
purposes permitted in a Neighborhood Commercial District, and which dwelling is
occupied by the owners of the commercial enterprises being conducted in such
building;
      (20)   Drilling/extraction of natural gas, methane gas or oil (not
including permanent compressor stations/facilities); and
      (21)   Single-family dwelling.
   (B)   Uses permitted by special exception. Permanent compressor stations/
facility buildings associated with the extraction of natural gas, methane gas
or oil.
   (C)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Detached private garage;
      (2)   Garage, shed or building for domestic storage (sheds or similar
small structures less than 144 square feet shall be exempt from permitting, but
shall meet the required setbacks for this district);
      (3)   Fence or ornamental wall, not over six feet in height;
      (4)   Swimming pool;
      (5)   Private greenhouse (noncommercial);
      (6)   Raising and keeping of domestic animals as pets, but not on a
commercial basis or on a scale objectionable to neighboring property owners,
and provided specifically that all horses, pigs, cattle, poultry, sheep, goats
and similar farm animals not be permitted, unless the property is operated as a
farm or farmette (no permit required);
      (7)   Farmette as defined under §
154.004;
      (8)   Home occupation-home office; and
      (9)   Small scale wind generators, as per §
154.088.
   (D)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area. There shall be a minimum lot area of not less
than 5,000 square feet. Each lot shall have a minimum width of not less than 80
feet.
      (2)   Yard areas. No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged
unless the following yard areas are provided and maintained:
         (a)   Front yard. Not less than 25 feet; fences or ornamental walls
shall be not less than ten feet when located along a public street;
         (b)   Side yard. Not less than ten feet on each side; side yards on
corner lots shall be not less than 20 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard. Not less than 20 feet.
   (E)   Height. The maximum height, to the highest point of the roof, of
buildings hereafter erected or altered shall be as follows:
      (1)   Primary buildings. Not greater than 60 feet; and
      (2)   Accessory buildings. Not greater than 35 feet.
   (F)   Dwelling standards. Every one-story single-family dwelling hereafter
erected shall contain a minimum 900 square feet of habitable living area. Every
two-story dwelling hereafter erected shall contain a minimum of 1,200 square
feet of habitable living area.
   (G)   Building area. All buildings, including accessory uses, shall cover
not more than 75% of the area of the lot.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.056 CT - TRAVELERS-COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the CT -
Travelers-Commercial District:
      (1)   Any use permitted and regulated in the CN District, except detached
single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Drive-in restaurants and theaters;
      (3)   New and used car sales;
      (4)   Machinery equipment sales and service;
      (5)   Bus terminals;
      (6)   Apartment hotels, hotels and motels;
      (7)   Laundromats;
      (8)   A single-family dwelling which is part of a building used for
purposes permitted in a Traveler’s Commercial District, and which dwelling is
occupied by the owners of the commercial enterprises being conducted is such
building;
      (9)   Drilling/extraction of natural gas, methane gas or oil (not
including permanent compressor stations/facilities); and
      (10)   Small scale wind generators, as per §
154.088.
   (B)   Uses permitted by special exception. 
      (1)   Permanent compressor stations/facility buildings associated with
the extraction of natural gas, methane gas or oil; and
      (2)   Solar energy systems, as further regulated under §
154.096.
   (C)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area. There shall be a minimum lot area of not less
than 10,000 square feet. Each lot shall have a minimum width of not less than
100 feet.
      (2)   Yard areas. No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged
unless the following yard areas are provided and maintained:
         (a)   Front yard. Not less than 50 feet; fences or ornamental walls
shall be not less than ten feet when located along a public street;
         (b)   Side yard. Not less than 25 feet on each side; side yards on
corner lots shall be not less than 50 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard. Not less than 25 feet.
   (D)   Height. The maximum height, to the highest point of the roof, of
buildings hereafter erected or altered shall be as follows:
      (1)   Primary buildings. Not greater than 60 feet; and
      (2)   Accessory buildings. Not greater than 35 feet.
   (E)   Dwelling standards. Every one-story single-family dwelling hereafter
erected shall contain a minimum 900 square feet of habitable living area. Every
two-story dwelling hereafter erected shall contain a minimum of 1,200 square
feet of habitable living area.
   (F)   Building area. All buildings, including accessory uses, shall cover
not more than 75% of the area of the lot.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010; Ord. 707, passed 2-15-2023)
§ 154.057 IL - LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the IL -
Light Industrial District:
      (1)   Light industrial uses, provided that such occupied for
manufacturing purposes shall not be operated in such a manner as to create
excessive noise or vibration; excessive smoke, dust, dirt or other form of air
pollution; electrical or other similar type disturbance; excessive glare; and
shall not be operated in such a manner as to create any dangerous, injurious,
noxious condition or fire, explosive or other similar hazard or other nuisance,
condition or element adversely affecting the surrounding area. Any light
industrial operation shall be conducted within a building, or shall be enclosed
by a solid fence or screen planting not less than six feet in height along
boundary line bordering a conservation, rural residential, single-family
residential, multi-family residential or R3 District. Junk yards, auto salvage
and scrap yards are prohibited;
      (2)   Any use permitted and regulated in the CN or CT Districts, except
apartment hotels, hotels, motels, and detached single-family dwellings;
      (3)   Assembly plants;
      (4)   Bookbinderies;
      (5)   Bottled gas sales and/or service;
      (6)   Canneries, fruit and vegetable;
      (7)   Cellophane products manufacturing;
      (8)   Ceramic products manufacturing;
      (9)   Cold storage or refrigerating plants;
      (10)   Confectionery manufacturing;
      (11)   Dairy products manufacturing;
      (12)   Electrical products manufacturing and assembly;
      (13)   Fiber products manufacturing;
      (14)   Roof products and manufacturing;
      (15)   Foundry, casting lightweight nonferrous metals;
      (16)   Furniture manufacturing;
      (17)   Garment manufacturing;
      (18)   Glass products manufacturing;
      (19)   Ironworks, ornamental (no foundry, drop hammer and no punch
presses over 20 tons’ capacity);
      (20)   Leather products manufacturing (previously prepared leather);
      (21)   Millwork;
      (22)   Paint mixing and treatment;
      (23)   Paper products manufacturing (previously prepared materials);
      (24)   Pharmaceutical manufacturing;
      (25)   Plastic products manufacturing (previously prepared materials);
      (26)   Sheet metal products manufacturing;
      (27)   Sign manufacture;
      (28)   Television and radio broadcasting transmitters;
      (29)   Textile products manufacturing;
      (30)   Tool manufacturing (no drop-hammer or punch press of over 20
tons);
      (31)   Toy manufacturing;
      (32)   Warehouse or storage buildings;
      (33)   Well drilling services;
      (34)   Wood products manufacturing (assembling and finishing);
      (35)   Drilling/extraction of natural gas, methane gas or oil (not
including permanent compressor stations/facilities); and
      (36)   Small scale wind generators, as per §
154.088.
   (B)   Uses permitted by special exception.
      (1)   Permanent compressor stations/facility buildings associated with
the extraction of natural gas, methane gas or oil;
      (2)   Telecommunications towers, as further regulated by §
154.094; and
      (3)   Solar energy systems, as further regulated under §
154.096.
   (C)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area. There shall be a minimum lot area of not less
than 43,560 square feet. Each lot shall have a minimum width of not less than
100 feet.
      (2)   Yard areas. No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged
unless the following yard areas are provided and maintained:
         (a)   Front yard. Not less than 50 feet; fences or ornamental walls
shall be not less than ten feet when located along a public street;
         (b)   Side yard. Not less than 25 feet on each side; side yards on
corner lots shall be not less than 50 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard. Not less than 30 feet.
   (D)   Height. The maximum height, to the highest point of the roof, of
buildings hereafter erected or altered shall be as follows:
      (1)   Primary buildings. Not greater than 60 feet; and
      (2)   Accessory buildings. Not greater than 35 feet.
   (E)   Building area. All buildings, including accessory uses, shall cover
not more than 75% of the area of the lot.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010; Ord. 686, passed 4-18-2012; Ord. 707, passed 2-
15-2023)
§ 154.058 HI - HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the HI -
Heavy Industrial District:
      (1)   Any land use is permitted in this zoning district, except that no
building, manufactured home, modular home, may be erected for residential use;
      (2)   Junk yard, auto salvage and scrap yards shall be surrounded by
either a fence or screen planting at least six feet in height, so that such use
can not be seen from a public street, or from any conservation, rural
residential, single-family residential, multi-family residential, R3
neighborhood commercial or travelers commercial district; provided, however,
that if more restrictive standards are required by any other ordinance or
regulation of the township, such junk yard, auto salvage and scrap yard
operation shall comply with such more restrictive standards;
      (3)   Small scale wind generators, as per §
154.088;
      (4)   Concrete mixing or batching plants;
      (5)   Petroleum products, bulk storage;
      (6)   Railroad freight terminals;
      (7)   Tire retreading, recapping or rebuilding; and
      (8)   Recycling plant.
   (B)   Uses permitted by special exception.
      (1)   Telecommunications towers, as further regulated by §
154.094; and
      (2)   Solar energy systems, as further regulated under §
154.096.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Commercial power generating windmills, as per §
154.089; and
      (2)   Adult entertainment establishments, as per §
154.093.
   (D)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area. There shall be a minimum lot area of not less
than 5,000 square feet. Each lot shall have a minimum width of not less than 80
feet.
      (2)   Yard areas. No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged
unless the following yard areas are provided and maintained:
         (a)   Front yard. Not less than 25 feet; fences or ornamental walls
shall be not less than ten feet when located along a public street;
         (b)   Side yard. Not less than 25 feet on each side; side yards on
corner lots shall be not less than 25 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard. Not less than 30 feet.
   (E)   Height. The maximum height, to the highest point of the roof, of
buildings hereafter erected or altered shall be as follows:
      (1)   Primary buildings. Not greater than 60 feet; and
      (2)   Accessory buildings. Not greater than 35 feet.
   (F)   Building area. All buildings, including accessory uses, shall cover
not more than 75% of the area of the lot.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010; Ord. 686, passed 4-18-2012; Ord. 707, passed 2-
15-2023)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 154.070 GENERAL.
   (A)   The lawful use of land existing at the time of the adoption of this
chapter, or of any amendment thereto, although such use does not conform to the
provisions hereof, may be continued except as provided in §
154.072, but if such nonconforming use is discontinued, any future use of said
land shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The lawful use of a building or structure, existing at the time of the
adoption of this chapter, or of any amendment thereto, although such use does
not conform to the provisions hereof, may be continued and such use may be
extended throughout the building, provided no structural alterations are made,
other than those ordered by an authorized public officer to assure the safety
of the building; and provided further, that such extension does not displace
any residence use in a residential district established by this chapter.
   (C)   A nonconforming use of a building may be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same or of a more restrictive classification, by
special exception as per §
154.092, provided, no structural alterations are made, other than those ordered
by an authorized public officer to assure the safety of the building, and
provided further, that such extension does not displace any residential use in
a residential district established by this chapter.
   (D)   Whenever a nonconforming use of a building has been changed to a more
restricted use or to a conforming use, such use shall not thereafter be changed
to a less restricted use.
   (E)   Whenever a nonconforming use of a building, or portion thereof, has
been abandoned for a period of at least one year, such nonconforming use shall
not be thereafter reestablished, and the future use shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Passage of this chapter is no way legalizes any illegal uses existing
at the time of its adoption.
   (G)   Whenever one nonconforming use is proposed to be changes to another
nonconforming use, or if an existing nonconforming use is proposed to be
expanded, and said access to the property in question is via a private easement
or roadway that traverses another property, said applicant for the change or
expansion of the nonconforming use shall obtain written approval from the
property owner(s) of the property(s) over which said private easement or
roadway crosses.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.071 REGISTRATION OF NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   (1)   All owners or operators of nonconforming uses and structures are
required to obtain a certificate of nonconformance, showing identification of
the property, type of use, kind or degree of nonconformance, length of time
nonconformance has been in operation and anticipated date of conversion (if
any).
      (2)   Such certificate will be issued on request to the Zoning Officer.
   (B)   The Zoning Officer shall keep in the township offices an up-to-date
register of nonconforming uses and structures.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.072 PERMITTED NONCONFORMING USES.
   Those persons who have received permits to carry on deep mining and strip
mining of bituminous coal and who are actively conducting such mining
operations in the township on the date of adoption of this chapter, and who are
in compliance with the bituminous coal mining laws of the state, shall be
permitted to create waste piles on land owned by them, on which mining
operations are being conducted on the date of adoption of this chapter,
provided such waste piles shall be placed and maintained in compliance with all
laws and regulations of the commonwealth and the federal government and their
regulatory agencies, now in force or hereinafter enacted or promulgated.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 154.085 FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   This section is incorporated into this chapter to comply with the National
Flood Insurance Program. All construction in any identified floodplain shall be
in accordance with any other ordinance or regulation of the township. Any
construction standards, setbacks, minimum elevations or other regulations set
forth in said regulations shall be met. Any drawings, plans or other required
information for the purposes of obtaining a building permit or zoning approval
under this chapter shall meet or contain information necessary to determine
compliance with any floodplain management regulations in effect. The extent or
completeness of any drawings, plans or other required information shall be
determined by the Zoning Officer.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.086 HOME OCCUPATION-HOME BUSINESS.
   (A)   Generally. An accessory use of a service character within a dwelling
by residents which is clearly secondary to the use of the dwelling for living
purposes and does not change the character thereof or have any exterior
evidence of such secondary use other than a small sign.
   (B)   Criteria for special exception review. The Zoning Hearing Board shall
take into consideration the following issues when reviewing any home
occupation-home business petition for a special exception:
      (1)   Adequate provisions for off-street parking for clients, along with
adequate access to the driveway or parking area at the property;
      (2)   The proposed use will be conducted indoors;
      (3)   The proposed use will not require the storage of materials or
equipment in exterior areas of the property;
      (4)   The proposed use shall not employ more than two persons other than
resident family members; and
      (5)   The proposed use will not constitute more than 25% of the habitable
living space of the dwelling unit.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.087 GAS AND OIL EXTRACTION.
   (A)   General. Oil and gas drilling and extraction shall be permitted in all
areas of the township, and require only submission and approval of a site plan
to the Township Planning Commission and Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   Criteria for special exception review.
      (1)   The Zoning Hearing Board shall take into consideration the
following issues when reviewing any petition for a special exception for
permanent compressor station buildings or facilities associated with the
extraction, collection or distribution of natural gas, methane gas or oil.
      (2)   Oil or natural gas compressors may be approved and authorized as a
special exception in an area of the township as a special exception, which
shall only be granted following a showing to the Zoning Hearing Board of the
following;
         (a)   Setback at least 1,000 feet from an occupied structure unless a
waiver has been obtained from the owner of the structure;
         (b)   Provisions for noise attenuation using best available practices,
including mufflers and sound attenuating building materials for a structure
around a compressor. Sound shall be no greater than 30 db at the nearest
occupied structure for which a waiver has not been obtained;
         (c)   Compliance with lot coverage, property line setback and height
restrictions as provided for in the underlying zoning district;
         (d)   Landscape planting, painting or other features of construction
to limit visual impact of the compressor building, when located in an RR, R1 or
R2 District;
         (e)   Driveway access approved by the governmental agency responsible
for maintenance and operation of the public roadway;
         (f)   Sufficient on-site parking to avoid vehicles being parked upon
public roadways;
         (g)   A maintenance plan including schedule for maintenance and
standards to assure safe and noise free operation in the future, which plan
shall be made a condition of ongoing use and operation of the compressor
station; and
         (h)   All buildings, facilities, equipment and land areas shall be
properly maintained, so as to not create a public nuisance or unsightly
condition.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.088 SMALL SCALE WIND GENERATORS.
   (A)   Small scale windmills for the purpose of serving residential or
commercial buildings on site shall be permitted as an accessory use in all
zoning districts.
   (B)   The following criteria shall be met prior to issuance of a permit for
any small scale windmill.
      (1)   The structure employed shall be subject to site plan approval by
the Township Planning Commission. The site plan shall be drawn to an
appropriate scale and shall provide construction details and show the location
of all existing public roads, existing structures, utility lines and all
structures, facilities and power lines to be constructed on the site, as well
as identifying adjoining property owners, and the location of any structures on
adjoining properties within 100 feet of the common property lines.
      (2)   Facilities, including, but not limited to, towers, shall be safe
and neat construction to be approved by the Planning Commission and subject to
any requirements of the Uniform Construction Code and manufacturer’s
recommendations.
      (3)   Towers shall be located at least 100 feet from all property lines.
Other facilities must follow generally applicable setbacks within the
particular zoning district.
      (4)   Towers shall be no more than 35 feet in height from the elevation
of the ground at the base of the tower, before the placement of fill, to the
top of the blade.
      (5)   No more than two towers shall be located upon a property or serve a
single commercial or residential structure.
      (6)   The property owner shall construct and maintain the windmill and
tower in a safe a neat manner so as not to present a danger to neighbors or to
present an unsightly appearance. The property owner receiving site plan
approval shall provide a verified report of a qualified engineer as to the
structural integrity of the tower and windmill assembly, or shall construct
said windmill in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.089 COMMERCIAL POWER GENERATING WINDMILLS.
   (A)   Generally. Nothing in this section is intended to apply to small
windmills constructed on a person’s property for the purpose of providing power
for use on the property or those providing meteorological data and which
otherwise meet the requirements of §
154.088.
   (B)   Commercial power production from windmills. Commercial power
production from windmills will be permitted in the C, RR, R1 and R2 Zoning
Districts as a conditional use provided that the Board of Supervisors
determines that:
      (1)   No facility shall be closer than a “tower setback distance”, of
five times the distance to the top of the hub of the tower, to an existing
residential structure, or the proposer has received a waiver or consent from
the owner of any such residential structure;
      (2)   (a)   The developer has submitted a site plan containing all
information required under §
154.034.
         (b)   The site plan shall show each facility proposed as part of the
development and shall include:
            1.   A future no build area around the base of each tower equal in
radius to the total height of the tower plus 50 feet;
            2.   The traffic route to be utilized in bringing construction
materials to (and from) the site (may be a separate sheet with a different
scale);
            3.   Names and addresses of all property owners and location of all
structures within the “tower setback distance” plus 2,500 feet of any of the
facilities. The applicant must provide written notice of application to all
property owners and tenants occupying property with structures located within
the “tower setback distance” of any of the proposed facilities. Proof of
service of such notice by certified mail or notarized affidavit of hand
delivery must be provided with the application;
            4.   Major construction details of all facilities including size,
and materials and power output specifications for each wind turbine; and
            5.   Location and construction details including E&S controls,
stormwater management, drainage for of all private roads to be constructed on
site for the construction, maintenance and operation of the facilities.
      (3)   The developer submits a transportation plan outlining access to the
site during construction which avoids to the greatest extent possible schools,
playgrounds and residential areas of the township.
      (4)   The developer provides a calculation of the costs of removal and
salvage value of each facility and provides a bond, cash or irrevocable letter
of credit to cover any deficiency. As a condition of approval the calculation
must be revised and resubmitted to the township every two years.
      (5)   The developer shall provide a list of conditions to be followed
during construction to ensure that erosion and sedimentation standards shall be
met during construction and operation of the facilities.
      (6)   The developer shall provide evidence that lighting, except as
required by FAA rules and regulations, shall not interfere with other adjoining
properties or uses. The developer shall demonstrate that extraneous lighting
has been minimized to the greatest extent possible.
      (7)   The developer provides evidence that any sound created by operation
of the wind turbine at the nearest occupied residential structure is no more
than 45 db.
   (C)   Setbacks. The wind turbine generators shall comply with the following
setbacks.
      (1)   Structures.
         (a)   Civil structures. Each wind turbine generator shall be set back
from the nearest existing (at the time of the building permit issuance)
residence, school, hospital, church or public library, a distance of no less
than 2,000 feet.
         (b)   Participating residences. For existing (at the time of the
building permit issuance or notice from the Building Code Enforcement Officer
that no building permit is required) participating primary occupied residences
the setback distance from a wind turbine generator shall be at least 600 feet
unless the property owner provides written permission allowing for a lesser
distance. In no event shall the setback distance be less than one and one-tenth
times the total height of the wind turbine generator (measured at the highest
point of the blade tip).
         (c)   Non-participating residences. For existing (at the time of the
building permit issuance or notice from the Building Code Enforcement Officer
that no building permit is required) non-participating primary occupied
residences the setback distance from a wind turbine generator shall be at least
2,500 feet unless the property owner provides written permission allowing for a
lesser distance. In the event the property owner provides written permission,
the setback distance shall not be less than one and one-tenth times the total
height of the wind turbine generator (measured at the highest point of the
blade tip).
         (d)   Definition of participating and non-participating. For the
purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
            NON-PARTICIPATING. All property owners or property (including a
residence) which are not participating property owners or property.
            PARTICIPATING. A property owner or property (including a residence)
that is subject to an agreement or lease with developer/permitee.
         (e)   Distance. No wind turbine generator shall be located within a
distance of 2,500 feet from any non-participating occupied residence or
occupied commercial structure existing at the time of the erection of the wind
turbine generators, unless the owner of such existing residential or commercial
structure shall have executed a written waiver or non-disturbance easement,
covenant or consent, any of the aforementioned which has been recorded in the
office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county. Such easement or covenant shall
run with the land and, at a minimum, provide that the said property owner
waives and releases any and all claims, damages and/or losses resulting from
higher noise levels, visual impacts or flickering reflections and/or shadows
which may arise as a result of the location of a wind turbine generator within
the established setback distance of an existing residential or commercial
structure on the property of the owner executing same. Such easement, covenant
or consent shall meet such requirements as to form and content consistent with
this agreement as may be required by the township.
      (2)   Property lines. In addition to setbacks from structures set forth
above, each wind turbine generator shall be set back from the nearest property
line a distance of no less than one and one-tenth times its total height. This
distance may be waived among both participating and non-participating property
owners with written permission by adjacent property owners.
      (3)   Public roads. In addition to setbacks from structures set forth
above, each wind turbine generator shall be set back from the nearest public
road a distance of no less than one and one-tenth times its total height,
determined at the nearest boundary of the right-of-way for such public road.
Unless conclusive evidence exists to the contrary, the public road right-of-way
is presumed to be 66 feet.
      (4)   Communication and electric lines. Each wind turbine generator shall
be set back from the nearest above-ground public electric power line or public
telephone line a distance of no less than one and one-tenth times its total
height, determined from the existing power line or telephone line, unless
otherwise agreed to or waived by the easement holder.
   (D)   Noise. The developer/permitee shall comply with the following noise
standards.
      (1)   The developer/permitee shall maintain a noise level attributable to
the wind turbine generators of not more than 45dbA within a reasonable margin
of error as measured at existing non-participating residences.
      (2)   The parties acknowledge that the project’s construction will be the
source of intermittent noise. The developer/permitee shall require all
contractors to incorporate reasonable noise reduction measures in order to
mitigate the amount of noise generated during the construction phase.
   (E)   Safety. The developer/permitee shall comply with the following safety
standards.
      (1)   All wiring between the wind turbine generators and the substation
shall be underground to the extent practicable.
      (2)   The outside of the wind turbine generator towers shall not be
climbable.
      (3)   All access doors to the towers and electrical equipment shall be
locked.
      (4)   Appropriate warning signage shall be placed on each tower, all
electrical equipment and all entrances.
      (5)   The developer/permitee shall abide by all applicable local, state
and federal fire code and emergency services guidelines.
      (6)   All wind turbine generators shall be equipped with portable fire
extinguishers, unless the local Fire Department or Municipal Engineer provides
written documentation establishing that the same is not necessary.
   (F)   Maintenance, repair and replacement. The developer/permitee shall
repair, maintain and replace the wind turbine generators and associated
equipment during the term of this agreement in a manner consistent with good
utility practice as needed to keep the project in good repair and operating
condition. The developer/permitee shall cause its operations and maintenance
provider (“O&M personnel”) to comply with the following schedule.
      (1)   At least once every 36 months, the individual wind turbine
generators shall be inspected by O&M Personnel, or its agent, who is regularly
involved in the maintenance, inspection and/or erection of wind turbine
generators, towers and antennas. At a minimum, this inspection shall be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of this agreement and in accordance
with the wind turbine generator inspection check list provided by the parties
respective engineers, as applicable. This is considered a major inspection.
      (2)   At least once every 12 months a visual inspection from ground shall
be conducted by O&M personnel. This inspection shall include, but not be
limited to, visual inspection of wind turbine generator foundations,
structures, guys and connections for evidence of settlement or lateral
movement; soil erosion; condition of paint or galvanizing; rust or corrosion,
loose or missing bolts, loose or corroded lightning protection connectors; wind
turbine generator tower plumbness; significant variation in guy sags (i.e. guy
tensions), and other material areas or matters relating to the structural
integrity of the wind turbine generator. This is considered a minor inspection.
      (3)   In addition to the regularly scheduled major and minor inspections
set forth in division (F)(1) and (F)(2) above, a minor inspection, at a minimum
will be conducted if a wind turbine generator or its appurtenances are noted at
any time to be visibly damaged. Additionally, a major inspection should be
conducted if the visible damage to a wind turbine generator is significant or
when, after conducting a minor inspection, significant questions remain about
the structural integrity of a wind turbine generator.
      (4)   The developer/permitee shall provide an annual letter to the
township certifying compliance with the inspection requirements of this
section.
   (G)   Wind turbine generator removal.
      (1)   Each wind turbine generator and all related improvements shall be
removed within 12 months of the date when the use of the particular wind
turbine generator has been discontinued or abandoned by developer/permitee, or
upon expiration of this agreement, whichever is earlier. At the time of its
removal, a wind turbine generator will be decommissioned and removed except for
any concrete structure four feet below grade. Upon removal, the land used for
the removed wind turbine generator and associated equipment will be restored to
its original condition. Roads, at the property owner’s request, may be left
intact.
      (2)   The developer/permitee shall assure funding of these removal
obligations by providing a security instrument to the township in a form,
amount and containing such terms and provisions mutually agreed to by the
township and the developer/permitee. The security shall be maintained in effect
upon the commencement of construction and for the entire life of the project
and adjusted annually for inflation in an amount equal to the preceding year’s
annual increase in the Consumer Price Index.
      (3)   (a)   The developer/permitee shall also furnish satisfactory
evidence to the township that the developer/permitee has included in a lease
agreement or other agreement with property owner a provision for the
decommissioning and removal of the wind turbine generators and restoration of
the site at the time when a wind turbine generator no longer has a useful life,
has been discontinued, abandoned, and/or upon expiration of this agreement,
whichever occurs first.
         (b)   The developer/permitee shall demonstrate sufficient security by
meeting the following requirement:
            1.   The developer/permitee shall immediately following the first
year of operation and every fifth year thereafter, at its own expense, retain
an independent engineer acceptable to the township to estimate the cost of
decommissioning and removal of the wind turbine generators and restoration of
the site. The developer/permitee shall submit such report to the township upon
receipt. The developer/permitee shall maintain the security in an amount using
the greater of either 50% of the cost of decommissioning the wind turbine
generators without regard to salvage value of the wind turbine generators, or
the actual cost of decommissioning the wind turbine generators taking into
account the salvage value of the wind turbine generators; and
            2.   The parties agree that the township shall have the right to
enter the property to remove the wind turbine generators in the event that the
same is not removed in 12 months with the township keeping any salvage value
obtained from such removal.
      (4)   The estimated cost of decommissioning will be updated every fifth
year, to take into account inflation or other factors deemed relevant by the
independent engineer, and approved by the Township Engineer, including, but not
limited to, any increase or decrease of the market value of the structure and
its related components being decommissioned and the cost of labor to perform
the decommissioning. Any costs of decommissioning, removal and restoration in
excess of the decommissioning shall be promptly paid by the developer/permitee
to the contractor retained for the removal and restoration.
   (H)   Building Codes; safety standards. To ensure the integrity of the wind
turbine generators, the developer/permitee shall maintain the wind turbine
generators in compliance with good utility practice for wind turbine
generators. If, upon inspection by the township and/or any other regulatory
entity with lawful jurisdiction over the wind farm, the township or such entity
provides written notice that any of the wind turbine generators fail to comply
with good utility practice or constitutes a danger to persons or property, then
the developer/permitee shall immediately commence corrective action for any
failure and/or danger, and shall complete corrective action to bring the
noncompliant wind turbine generator(s) into compliance with such standards
within 60 days of receipt of notice. If the developer/permitee is unable to
bring the noncompliant wind turbine generator(s) into compliance with such
standards within 60 days of receipt of notice, the developer/permitee shall
request an extension from the township, which shall not be unreasonably
withheld and which may include reasonable conditions in order for developer/
permitee to receive and maintain such extension. Failure to bring such
noncompliant wind turbine generator(s) into compliance shall constitute grounds
for the township to request removal of said wind turbine generator(s) at the
developer/permitee’s expense. The township is authorized to file an action for
injunctive relief in the Court of Common Pleas of Somerset County to require
the developer/permitee to remove the noncompliant wind turbine generator(s).
   (I)   State and federal requirements. The wind turbine generators shall meet
current standards and regulations, if any, of any other agency of the state or
federal government with the authority to regulate wind turbine generators. If
such standards and regulations are changed, then the developer/permitee shall
bring the wind turbine generators into compliance with such applicable revised
standards and regulations within six months of the effective date of such
standards and regulations, unless a different compliance schedule is mandated
by the controlling state or federal agency or approved by the township. Failure
to bring the wind turbine generators into compliance with such applicable
revised standards and regulations shall constitute an event of default. The
wind turbine generators shall be marked as required by the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA). A determination of no hazard for each wind turbine
generator must be obtained from the FAA as a condition precedent for the
installation of each turbine. The developer/permitee shall comply with any and
all future state and/or federal regulations which are applicable to wind
turbine generators or the wind farm, unless grandfathered.
   (J)   Design. Each wind turbine generator shall consist of a tubular
support, generator, nacelle and three blades. Each wind turbine generators site
will have access roads, underground transmission cabling to connect the
generators to an electric substation, and underground fiber optic lines. All
wind turbine generator sites shall be designed and constructed in such a
fashion as to avoid any disruption and/or interference with private wells,
springs and/or other water sources. In the event any problems occur with any
private water source, which problems are proximately caused by the developer/
permitee, the developer/permitee shall immediately supply potable water in such
quality and quantity as supplied by the original private water source.
   (K)   Signs. No advertising material or signage other than warning,
equipment information or indicia of ownership shall be allowed on the wind
turbine generators. This prohibition shall include the attachment of any flag,
decorative sign, streamers, pennants, ribbons, spinners or waiving, fluttering
or revolving devices, but not including weather devices.
   (L)   Lighting. The wind turbine generators shall not be artificially
illuminated except as required by the FAA or any other applicable authority. If
lighting is required, the lighting alternatives and design chosen will seek to
minimize the disturbance to the surrounding views.
   (M)   Aesthetics. The towers and generators of the wind turbine generators
shall have a non-reflective, painted steel finish in a neutral color, subject
to any applicable standards of the FAA or other regulatory requirements. The
blades of the wind turbine generators are not covered by this section.
   (N)   Stray voltage/electromagnetic fields (EMF). The developer/permitee
will utilize good utility practice to minimize, to the extent practicable, the
impact, if any, of stray voltage and/or EMF on non-participating property. The
developer/permitee expects there will be no stray voltage impacts from the
project because such impacts occur only on distribution facilities which are
not included in the project.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.090 TEMPORARY METEOROLOGIC TOWERS.
   The Zoning Hearing Board may approve a special exception for the
establishment of temporary meteorological towers within the C, RR, R1 and R2
Zoning Districts upon the following criteria.
   (A)   The developer has submitted a site plan for approval which complies
with the requirements for a site plan under §
154.034;
   (B)   The grant of the special exception will be for a period of no more
than 12 months, upon the conclusion of which the tower will be entirely
dismantled and removed and the conditions returned to original;
   (C)   The developer installs and maintains visible fencing around all site
facilities; and
   (D)   The location of the meteorological tower is at least five times the
height of the tower from an occupied residential structure, or the proposer has
received a waiver or consent from the owner of any such residential structure.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.091 OUTDOOR FURNACES.
   (A)   Outdoor furnaces shall not be placed less than 40 feet from the
nearest point of intersection of any other adjacent property owner’s structure
and shall have a chimney stack, smokestack and/or other source of smoke
utilized for the purposes of emitting smoke from a building heating system of
at least 20 feet and/or at least two feet above the roof line of the highest
structure within 200 feet, when installed. Said chimney stack shall also have a
spark arrestor installed on top.
   (B)   Outdoor furnaces shall not be placed less than 20 feet from the
nearest point of intersection of the property line of another property owner.
   (C)   An area of 20 feet around the outdoor furnace structure shall be free
of combustible material, including vegetation, except grass not exceeding four
inches in height.
   (D)   The minimum required lot size for an outdoor furnace is 40,000 square
feet.
   (E)   No fuel other than natural wood without additive, wood pellets without
additive, coal, #2 heating oil and agricultural seeds in their natural state
may be burned in an outdoor furnace or building heating system. Processed wood
products and other non-wood products, recyclable materials, plastics, rubber,
paper products, garbage and painted or treated wood are prohibited.
   (F)   Furnaces are prohibited to burn between June 1 and August 30.
   (G)   Outdoor furnaces which are designed to heat structures 10% greater
than the size of the structure(s) to be heated are not permitted.
   (H)   Outdoor furnaces and associated installation shall be subject to
inspection by the Township Code Enforcement Officer at any reasonable time to
assure compliance with the terms hereof.
   (I)   Outdoor furnace installation is subject to the permit provisions of
the other township ordinances including, but not limited to, Building Code
ordinances including furnishing the following information:
      (1)   A drawing providing and identifying all of the information
necessary to assure compliance herewith, including property lines, location of
neighboring properties and structures, height of nearby buildings and the like;
      (2)   Manufacturer’s specifications for the outdoor furnace; and
      (3)   Compliance with all applicable state and federal statutes including
the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Underwriter’s Laboratory (UL)
listing.
   (J)   Nothing contained herein shall authorize any installation that is a
public or private nuisance, regardless of compliance herewith.
   (K)   This section shall not be a defense to any civil claims.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.092 CHANGES TO NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   (1)   The lawful use of a building existing at the time of the
effective date of this chapter may be continued, although such use does not
conform to the provisions hereof. If no structural alterations are made, a
nonconforming use of a building may be changed to another nonconforming use of
the same or more restricted character, as a special exception approved by the
Zoning Hearing Board.
      (2)   Whenever a nonconforming use has been changed to a more restricted
use or to a conforming use, such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less
restricted one.
      (3)   Whenever the use of a building becomes nonconforming through a
change in the zoning chapter or district boundaries, such use may be continued
and if no structural alterations are made, it may be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same or of a more restricted character.
   (B)   In determining whether a use is of a more or less restrictive
character than a pre-existing nonconforming use, the Zoning Hearing Board shall
take into account, the difference between the historical use and the proposed
use for each of the following factors:
      (1)   Hours of operation;
      (2)   Amount of outdoor lighting;
      (3)   Amount of lot coverage;
      (4)   Amount of landscaping, or natural buffer;
      (5)   Noise generated in the nonconforming use audible at neighboring
property lines;
      (6)   Noxious fumes, dust or particulate emissions from the property;
      (7)   Stormwater runoff from the property;
      (8)   Degree of impediment to air and light to neighboring properties;
      (9)   Traffic impacts and trips to and from property;
      (10)   Number of persons to be occupying or using the structure; and
      (11)   Risks or danger to the public health and safety.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.093 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. Adult business uses, as defined herein, are only permitted
in the HI - Heavy Industrial District, and only as a conditional use subject to
the specific criteria expressed in this and other applicable ordinances.
   (B)   Conditions. A conditional use permit for such uses shall be issued by
the Township Supervisors, providing the following specific conditions are met.
      (1)   Applications for a conditional use permit for an adult business use
shall be submitted to the Zoning Officer at least 15 days prior to the next
regular meeting of the Township Supervisors. At that meeting, the Supervisors
shall receive the application and all information required by this section. The
Supervisors shall refer a complete application to the Planning Commission for
its review before taking action on the conditional use permit application.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application for an adult business use
conditional use permit, the Supervisors shall establish the date, time and
place for a public hearing on the application. Notice of the public hearing
shall be published at least once in a newspaper with general circulation in the
municipality not less than ten days nor more than 20 days from the date of the
hearing. The notice shall establish the time, date and place of the hearing and
shall describe the proposal in general terms. In addition to the public hearing
notice, a written notice shall be mailed to the owners of all property within
500 feet of the site proposed for the adult business use. Such public hearing
shall be held not later than 60 days following the meeting at which the
Township Supervisors receives such application.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall review the application at its next
legally advertised regular meeting following the receipt of the application
from the Township Supervisors. Within seven days of such review, the Planning
Commission shall submit a written report to the Supervisors on its findings on
the conformity of the adult business use conditional use permit application
with the requirements of this and other applicable ordinances.
      (4)   At the first regular or special meeting of the Township Supervisors
subsequent to Supervisors conducting the public hearing, the Supervisors shall
take action on such application. The Supervisors may approve the conditional
use permit subject to specific conditions or changes, or may disapprove the
conditional use permit with a specific list of reasons for such disapproval.
Written notification of the Supervisors’ action, with reasons therefor, shall
be mailed to the applicant by the Zoning Officer within five days of said
action by Supervisors.
      (5)   (a)   All applications for an adult business use conditional use
permit shall be accompanied by a site plan.
         (b)   The minimum information required on the site plan shall include:
            1.   The adult business use intended;
            2.   The location and elevations of all buildings, structures,
walls, fences and landscaping on the site; and
            3.   Off-street parking areas and traffic circulation patterns, and
all signs, displays and advertising, including location(s).
   (C)   Other requirements.
      (1)   All storage and displays shall be located within the building.
      (2)   All business transactions on the premises shall be conducted within
the building.
      (3)   No exterior changes, excluding maintenance, to a building proposed
to be used for an adult business use shall be made without the approval of
Township Supervisors. In no case shall opaque covering of display windows be
permitted.
      (4)   All new construction shall be in keeping with the scale and
architectural styles of the buildings surrounding the site proposed for an
adult business use.
      (5)   Not more than one type of adult business use, as defined herein,
may operate on any lot.
      (6)   Advertisements, displays or other promotional materials of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas shall not be shown or
exhibited so as to be visible to the public from the exterior of the building.
      (7)   In adult mini-motion picture theaters, no openings are permitted
through walls separating private viewing booths.
   (D)   Signs and other visible messages. In addition to the regulations of
applicable state laws, the following shall apply to all adult business uses.
      (1)   Sign messages shall be limited to written description of material
or services available on the premises.
      (2)   Sign messages may not include any graphic or pictorial depiction of
material related to specific sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (3)   Adult business uses shall be limited to 20 square feet in sign
area, with lettering on said signs not exceeding four inches in height.
   (E)   Location requirements/restrictions.
      (1)   No adult business use shall be located within 1,000 feet of any
other existing adult business use, measured from the property lines of the lot
on which the adult business use is located.
      (2)   No adult business use shall be located within 500 feet of any
residential zoning district or within 500 feet of the lots on which the
following uses are located:
         (a)   Churches, monasteries, chapels, synagogues, convents or
rectories;
         (b)   Schools up to and including the twelfth grade and their adjunct
play areas; and
         (c)   Public playgrounds, public parks, public swimming pools and
public libraries.
   (F)   Statement of ownership. Applications for a conditional use permit for
an adult business use shall include a statement providing specific information
on each individual, partner, limited partner, corporate officer, corporate
director or corporate stockholder owning more than 3% of the issued and
outstanding stock of a corporate applicant, comprising the applicant, to
include the following:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Residence address; and
      (3)   Social Security number.
   (G)   Termination or modification of conditional use permit.
      (1)   When a conditional use permit for an adult business use is
authorized by the Supervisors, the continuation of such use shall be dependent
upon the conditions established under the permit and this chapter; in the event
of a change of conditions or noncompliance of conditions, the Supervisors shall
have the responsibility and right to terminate or revoke the conditional use
permit.
      (2)   A conditional use permit may be modified subject to the criteria
and procedures established in this chapter.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.094 TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS.
   (A)   Telecommunications towers, as defined herein, may be erected in the C,
RR, IL and HI Districts as a special exception so long as they do not exceed
300 feet, and so long as such towers:
      (1)   The developer has submitted a site plan for approval which complies
with the requirements for a site plan under §
154.034;
      (2)   The developer shall post a bond covering the cost of removal of the
tower; and
      (3)   Tower location shall be located not less than the height of the
tower from any lot line plus the required setback. The required setback shall
be in accordance with the setbacks set forth for the district in which it is to
be erected.
   (B)   Accessory appurtenant structures, support cables and other structures
associated with any tower shall be located not less than the setbacks in that
district in which it is to be constructed.
   (C)   (1)   All towers, support cables and appurtenant structures shall be
within a protective fence with locking gates.
      (2)   Such fences shall be a minimum six feet in height.
   (D)   (1)   All safety lighting shall be installed and maintained and all
operations shall be conducted in accordance with FAA, FCC or other applicable
regulations.
      (2)   Lighting shall be directed away from neighboring structures.
(Ord. 686, passed 4-18-2012)
§ 154.095 RECREATIONAL CABINS.
   (A)   Recreational cabins may be constructed as a permitted use in the C, RR
and R1 Zoning Districts.
   (B)   Recreational cabins, as defined and exempted from buildings code
requirements, as set forth in the State Uniform Construction Code (UCC) shall
meet all of the following requirements.
      (1)   All recreational cabins shall be served by an approved sewage
disposal system in accordance with State Department of Environmental Protection
for on-lot disposal systems and township rules and regulations or those areas
serviced by a community sewer system.
      (2)   All recreational cabins shall meet all of the following
requirements.
         (a)   The cabin shall be equipped with at least one smoke detector,
one fire extinguisher and one carbon monoxide detector in both the kitchen and
an sleeping areas.
         (b)   The owner shall file the following: written proof of insurance
from an insurer authorized to do business in the commonwealth stating that the
structure meets the definition of a “recreational cabin” found in § 103 of Act
92.
         (c)   1.   The owner shall provide written notice in any sales
agreement and the deed, upon sale of a recreational cabin which has been
excluded from UCC construction requirements, that:
               a.   The structure is exempt from the requirements of the UCC;
               b.   The structure may not be in conformance with the UCC; and
               c.   The structure is not subject to municipal construction
regulations.
            2.   A failure to provide this notice shall void the sale, at the
option of the purchaser.
(Ord. 686, passed 4-18-2012)
§ 154.096 REGULATING THE CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION, AND DECOMMISSIONING OF SOLAR
ELECTRIC FACILITIES.
   (A)   Title and purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide
requirements for the construction, operation, and decommissioning of solar
electric facilities in the township, subject to reasonable conditions that will
protect the public health, safety, and welfare. The township hereby
distinguishes between solar electric facilities which are accessory to another
primary land use and because of meeting certain additional criteria are exempt
from regulations contained in this section and solar electric facilities which
are stand alone or do not otherwise qualify for an exemption.
   (B)   Solar electric facilities.
      (1)   Solar electric facilities which are accessory to another primary
land use on a property are exempt from this section's regulations if:
         (a)   All of the proposed facilities are located at least 1,000 feet
from any neighboring property line; or
         (b)   All of the proposed facilities are located on the roof or walls
of an existing primary use structure; or
         (c)   All of the proposed facilities occupy a space of not more than
one-sixteenth of an acre (approximately 50 feet by 50 feet).
      (2)   “Exempt” facilities under division (B)(1) above must comply with
the Uniform Construction Code, the National Electric Code and all other
township ordinance requirements, including setbacks, lot coverage and other
general requirements of the district in which they are located.
      (3)   Solar electric facilities which do not qualify for exemption under
division (B)(1) above shall be permitted as a special exception in the Light
Industrial, Heavy Industrial and Commercial Travelers Zoning Districts upon the
applicant demonstrating compliance with requirements set forth in division (C)
below.
   (C)   Requirements for special exception for solar electric facilities.
      (1)   Fencing. Solar electric facilities shall provide secure fencing, at
least six feet in height, surrounding all facilities with a locked gate. The
operator shall maintain a placard on the gate indicating the name of the
current solar electric facility owner and a 24 hour, seven day a week emergency
phone number.
      (2)   Access. At a minimum, permittee shall demonstrate the presence of a
25 foot right-of-way providing access to the fenced area, as well as a 12 foot
paved cartway.
      (3)   Screening. Solar electric facilities shall be screened by
vegetation from any adjacent property that is utilized as a residence.
      (4)   Setbacks. The maximum lot coverage and minimum setbacks from front,
side, and rear property lines shall be those which comply with the Conemaugh
Township Zoning Ordinance for the zoning district in which the solar electric
facility is to be located. The minimum setback for any ground-mounted solar
electric facility from any public highway or property line shall be 50 feet as
measured from the base thereof.
      (5)   Appropriate safety warning signage concerning electrical hazards
shall be placed on all solar facilities.
      (6)   Solar electric facilities shall not be located in any easement or
right-of-way or within any waterway or stormwater conveyance system.
      (7)   There shall be no artificial lighting other than manually switched
off and on, or dusk to dawn security lights utilized at the solar electric
facilities.
      (8)   Permit applications and site plan submissions shall document
compliance with this division (C) and shall be accompanied by drawings showing
the location of the system on the building or property, including property
lines. Permits must be kept on the premises where the solar electric facility
is constructed.
      (9)   The applicant shall comply with county and/or township subdivision
and land development requirements.
      (10)   The applicant shall comply with all other applicable federal,
state, and local laws, rules, codes and regulations, including but not limited
to, requirements of the National Electric Code.
      (11)   The applicant shall demonstrate compliance with stormwater
management requirements. Total surface area of solar panels shall be considered
impervious surface for stormwater calculations.
   (D)   Decommissioning of solar facilities. Unless satisfactory evidence is
furnished to the township that the solar electric facility owner and/or
operator has included in a lease agreement or other agreement with the
landowner a provision for sufficient financial security to cover the costs of
decommissioning all improvements or common amenities including, but not limited
to, the solar panels and any base and footing, stormwater detention and/or
retention basins and other related drainage facilities, and electrical
apparatus and restoration of the land to its original condition, including
forestry plantings of the same type and density as the original, which
provision is at least as stringent as the requirements set forth below, and
unless satisfactory evidence has been furnished to the township that such
security has, in fact, been provided, the following requirements must be met:
      (1)   Before a permit may be approved and/or issued to a solar electric
facility owner and/or operator, said owner and/or operator must submit to the
township financial security (which shall be in addition to any other financial
security required pursuant to any applicable subdivision and land development
ordinance) which shall be deposited with the township in an amount sufficient
to cover the costs of decommissioning all improvements or common amenities
including, but not limited to, the solar panels and any base and footing, storm
water detention and/or retention basins and other related drainage facilities,
and electrical apparatus and restoration of the land to its original condition,
including forestry plantings of the same type and density as the original.
      (2)   Such financial security shall be in the form of cash, an
irrevocable letter of credit, or a bond, satisfactory in form to the township
solicitor whose review of same shall be reimbursed to the township by the owner
and/or operator, and posted with a bonding company chosen by the party posting
the financial security, provided that said bonding company is authorized to
conduct such business with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
         (a)   Such bond shall provide for and secure to the township the
decommissioning of the improvements.
         (b)   The amount of the bond to be posted for the decommissioning of
any improvements shall be equal to 110% of the estimated cost thereof less the
amount of a bona fide quote for salvage value of the solar electric facilities.
The permittee shall adjust the required amount of the bond by submission of
updated costs every five years. Subsequent to said adjustment, the township may
require the solar electric facility owner and/or operator to post additional
security in the form of an increased bond in order to assure that the financial
security equals said 110%. Any additional security shall be posted by the solar
electric facility owner and/or operator in accordance with this subsection and
any additional review of any future bond form by the township's solicitor shall
be reimbursed by the solar electric facility owner and/or operator to the
township.
         (c)   The amount of financial security required shall be based upon an
estimate of the cost of decommissioning of any improvements, submitted by the
solar electric facility owner and/or operator and prepared by a professional
engineer licensed as such in this commonwealth and certified by such engineer
to be a fair and reasonable estimate of such cost, less salvage value. The
township, upon the recommendation of the municipal engineer, may refuse to
accept such estimate for good cause shown. If the solar electric facility owner
and/or operator and the township are unable to agree upon an estimate, then the
estimate shall be recalculated and recertified by another professional engineer
licensed as such in this commonwealth and chosen mutually by the township and
the solar electric facility owner and/or operator. The estimate certified by
the third engineer shall be presumed fair and reasonable and shall be the final
estimate. In the event that a third engineer is so chosen, fees for the
services of said engineer shall be paid equally by the township and the solar
electric facility owner and/or operator.
         (d)   As the work of decommissioning of any improvements proceeds, the
party posting the bond may request the governing body to release, or authorize
the release, from time to time, such portions of the bond(s) necessary for
payment to the contractor or contractors performing the work. Any such requests
shall be in writing addressed to the Board of Supervisors and the Board of
Supervisors shall request the municipal engineer to certify, in writing, to the
Board of Supervisors that such portion of the decommissioning of any
improvements has been completed. Upon such certification, the Board of
Supervisors shall authorize release by the bonding company or bank of an amount
as estimated by the municipal engineer fairly representing the value of the
decommissioning of any improvements.
         (e)   The owner of any participating property which is subject to
decommissioning shall be given the option to keep the road(s) created on such
owner's property by or in connection with construction of any solar electric
facility.
         (f)   When the solar electric facility owner and/or operator has
completed the decommissioning of all improvements, such owner and/or operator
shall notify the Board of Supervisors, in writing, by certified or registered
mail of the completion of the aforesaid decommissioning of all improvements and
shall send a copy thereof to the municipal engineer. The Board of Supervisors
shall direct and authorize the municipal engineer to inspect the site. The
municipal engineer shall indicate to the township approval or rejection of said
decommissioning of all improvements, either in whole or in part, and if said
improvements, or any portion thereof, shall not be approved or shall be
rejected by the municipal engineer, said report shall contain a statement of
reasons for such non-approval or rejection.
         (g)   The Board of Supervisors shall notify the solar electric
facility owner and/or operator as to the municipal engineer's acceptance or
rejection of the decommissioning. If the decommissioning is acceptable, the
township shall release the bond. If the decommissioning is not acceptable, the
solar electric facility owner and/or operator shall, within 30 days of notice
by the township of the deficiencies, correct the same and in the event the said
deficiencies are not so corrected within the said time period, the township may
utilize the bond to accomplish the same as set forth herein.
         (h)   All disposal of solar electric facility components shall be in
accordance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules, and
regulations.
      (3)   In the event that any required decommissioning of improvements has
not been completed as provided in this section, the Board of Supervisors of the
township is hereby granted the power to enforce any corporate bond or otherwise
leverage the financial security required hereunder. If proceeds of such
financial security are insufficient to pay the cost of decommissioning of
improvements covered by said security, the Board of Supervisors of the township
may, at its option, proceed with the decommissioning of all improvements and
may institute appropriate legal or equitable action to recover the monies
necessary to complete the remainder of the improvements, including but not
limited to the placement of a municipal lien against the property upon which
the solar facilities were located.
      (4)   The solar electric facility owner and/or operator shall reimburse
the township for the reasonable and necessary expenses incurred for the
inspection of decommissioning of improvements, including review of any plans,
documents, or materials by the municipal engineer and/or solicitor in
connection therewith, as well as view of the site, if necessary. Such expense
shall be reasonable and in accordance with the ordinary and customary fees
charged by the municipal engineer or solicitor for work performed for similar
services performed for the township.
      (5)   As used herein, the "municipal engineer" shall be a duly registered
professional engineer appointed by the township or one engaged by the township
as a consultant.
      (6)   Each solar electric facility and all solar related equipment shall
be removed by the owner and/or operator within 12 months of the date that the
use of the same has been discontinued or abandoned or upon expiration of the
useful life of the same.
      (7)   The solar electric facility shall be presumed to be discontinued or
abandoned if no electricity is generated by such solar electric facility for a
period of 24 continuous months or if no electricity is generated by such solar
electric facility for a nonconsecutive period of 365 days over a 24-month
period.
      (8)   The solar electric facility owner shall, at the request of the
township, provide documentation to the township sufficient to show the daily
amounts of energy generated by the solar electric facility over the immediately
preceding 24 months.
   (E)   Duty to maintain. The solar electric facility owner and/or operator
shall repair, maintain and replace the solar electric facility and related
solar equipment during the term of the permit in a manner consistent with
industry standards as needed to keep the solar electric facility in good repair
and operating condition. The solar electric facility must also be properly
maintained and kept free from all hazards, including but not limited to, faulty
wiring, loose fastenings, and being in an unsafe condition or detrimental to
public health, safety or general welfare. In the event of a violation of any of
the foregoing provisions, the township shall give written notice to the solar
electric facility owner and/or operator specifying the violation to the owner
and/or operator of the solar electric facility and permitting 30 days for the
solar electric facility to conform to the law or to remove the solar electric
facility. Owner and/or operator shall repair, maintain and replace the solar
electric facility and related solar equipment during the term of the permit in
a manner consistent with industry standards as needed to keep the solar
electric facility in good repair and operating condition.
(Ord. 707, passed 2-15-2023)v
PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
§ 154.110 GENERAL.
   (A)   General provisions. The regulations of this chapter as hereinafter
defined may be modified to include a planned residential development in order
that this chapter may be furthered in a time of growing demand for economies in
buildings and utilities layout; to ensure the uniform treatment of the
improvement of land consistent with the objectives of sound zoning; to
encourage innovation in design and layout of structures and land areas to
conserve and more efficiently use open space; to provide flexibility of
provisions governing land development. Greater concentration on density or
intensity of land use is permitted within certain sections provided that this
greater concentration be offset by a smaller concentration, or by appropriate
reservation of open space on other sections.
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. Principal uses permitted include only
      (1)   Large scale residential developments, including single-family, two-
family and multi-family dwellings as regulated in § 213;
      (2)   Churches and parish houses;
      (3)   Essential services;
      (4)   Public and recreation areas;
      (5)   Schools except trade schools for adults;
      (6)   Temporary tract houses and tract signs; and
      (7)   Seasonal dwellings.
   (C)   Special uses permitted. Special uses permitted include only:
      (1)   Cemeteries, country clubs, golf courses;
      (2)   Electric and telephone transmission and distribution facilities
including substations and water pumping stations;
      (3)   Essential services;
      (4)   Hospitals and sanitariums, except animal hospitals;
      (5)   Institutions for children and the aged;
      (6)   Nursing homes; and
      (7)   Other institutional and educational uses.
   (D)   Accessory uses permitted. Accessory uses permitted include only:
      (1)   Home occupations;
      (2)   Private parking areas and garages;
      (3)   Signs as regulated by §§
154.145 through
154.149;
      (4)   Private swimming pools; and
      (5)   Other accessory uses and structures customarily appurtenant to a
principal permitted use.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.111 PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   Planned residential development as defined herein shall be permitted as a
special exception and shall be developed in accordance with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Conformity with master plan. The proposed planned residential
development shall conform to the municipality’s master plan in terms of general
location.
   (B)   Planned residential developments. The purpose of this section shall be
to permit the large-scale development of housing in such a manner as to provide
for the flexibility of design and arrangement of dwelling structures which
would achieve the objectives of this chapter but would not be bound by the
standards establishment for individual lot by lot developments. Such
developments shall, however, be subject to the broader standards set forth
below.
   (C)   Spacing and orientation of residential developments. Spacing between
buildings and orientation in residential building groups shall be as follows:
      (1)   In buildings containing multiple dwelling units, walls containing
main window exposures or main entrances, shall be so oriented as to ensure
adequate light and air exposures;
      (2)   Such buildings shall be so arranged as to avoid undue exposure to
concentrated loading or parking facilities and shall be so oriented as to
preserve visual and audible privacy between adjacent buildings; and
      (3)   A building group may not be so arranged that any temporary or
permanently inhabited building is inaccessible by emergency vehicles.
   (D)   Vehicle and pedestrian circulation. Adequate provision for vehicle and
pedestrian circulation shall be designed as follows:
      (1)   Safe and convenient arrangement of walks, roadways, driveways and
off-street parking and loading space; and
      (2)   Separation of general vehicle traffic from pedestrian walks and
public transportation loading places, such as grass or landscaped areas, curb,
fence, guide rail, as deemed appropriate by the Township Planning Commission.
   (E)   Paving and drainage. The developer shall install throughout any
proposed planned residential development, streets that are installed in
accordance with township subdivision and land development standards, which
shall include curbs or gutters, catch basins and storm sewers.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.112 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR PRDS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit.
      (1)   Single-family detached and attached dwellings. Although the average
minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall not be less than a minimum area
requirement for the district where the development is located, the size of each
lot may be reduced as needed, to not less than two-thirds of the minimum
required in the R1 District; provided, however, that for cluster developments
each lot may be reduced to one-third of the minimum lot area, but the average
area per dwelling unit within each development section including open space
shall not be less than the minimum otherwise required for the R1 District.
      (2)   Two-family dwellings, garden apartments and other multi-family
dwellings. The average minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall not be less
than the minimum area required for each respective type of dwelling structure
in the district where such principal permitted uses are first permitted. The
dimensions of each individual lot may, however, be reduced by not more than
one-third of the minimum requirement, provided that the average lot area per
dwelling unit within each development district shall not be less than the area
otherwise required.
   (B)   Minimum lot size. There shall be no minimum lot size requirements for
any housing types other than the average minimum lot area required for such
dwellings as described in divisions (A) above.
   (C)   Minimum lot frontage. There shall be no minimum lot frontage required
except as follows:
      (1)   One-family and two-family dwellings detached: 80 feet;
      (2)   One-family and two-family dwellings, semi-detached: 50 feet for
each side;
      (3)   One-family dwellings, attached (townhouses): 25 feet per dwelling
unit, plus an additional 25 feet at each end of all rows;
      (4)   One-family cluster development: none;
      (5)   Multi-family garden apartments: none; and
      (6)   Other multi-family dwelling structures: none.
   (D)   Minimum lot depth. No lot for any residential structure or group of
residential structures shall have a lot depth of less than 100 feet.
   (E)   Minimum front yards. The minimum front yard for all residential
structures shall be 25 feet, except that garden apartments and other multi-
family structures not including townhouses shall have a minimum front yard of
not less than 50 feet.
   (F)   Minimum side yards and other distances between buildings.
      (1)   Minimum side yards for all single-family dwellings including
cluster developments shall be as specified for each zoning district for one-
family dwellings.
      (2)   There shall be no side yard requirements for all other residential
structures, except, as follows:
         (a)   Side yards adjoining public rights-of-way or other thoroughfares
shall be not less than 50; and
         (b)   All other distances between buildings shall be as set forth
under the zoning district regulations in which the planned residential
development is located.
   (G)   Maximum lot coverage. There shall be no maximum lot coverage
limitation on a lot-by-lot basis; provided, however, that the overall coverage
of land by buildings within any planned residential development shall not
exceed 25% of the net land area (excluding land used for public street rights-
of way).
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.113 COMMERCIAL USES IN PRDS.
   Local retail and service commercial facilities, including those uses
permitted as principal permitted uses in a CN Commercial District may be
permitted in a large-scale residential development provided that such
commercial development including required off-street parking, off-street
loading and landscaping shall not exceed 10% of the net land area of the large-
scale residential development and, provided further, that the location of such
commercial facilities shall be approved by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.114 AESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS IN PRDS.
   Due to the potential impact of a large-scale development on the municipality
as a whole; and, since the developer is provided the opportunity to modify
otherwise minimum development standards, the Planning Commission may withhold
the overall approval of such projects as well as the approval of reduced
standards pending their review and approval of the proposed overall design,
arrangement and layout of the buildings to be erected, including the exterior
design of such buildings provided that the architectural character of the
large-scale development area will be compatible with that of the adjoining
areas.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.115 PRD PROCEDURES FOR APPLICATION.
   Procedures for application and approval of a planned residential development
plan shall be as provided by the township zoning and subdivision regulations
and the State Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. Ch. 30, Act 247 and
its subsequent amendments. Applications shall be submitted to the Township
Supervisors, along with the required fee(s), as set forth by resolution.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK
§ 154.130 CRITERIA FOR SPECIAL EXCEPTION REVIEW.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   A manufactured home park may be permitted as a special exception in
the R3 - Residential District with the minimum requirements as hereinafter set
forth in division (A)(2).
      (2)   No manufactured home park shall be located or constructed in a
designated floodplain area of the township.
   (B)   Lot area. The minimum area for every manufactured home park hereafter
developed shall be ten acres.
   (C)   Plot plan. Each application shall be accompanied by three copies of a
plot plan drawn at a scale of one inch equals 20 feet prepared by a licensed
surveyor or engineer, showing limits and square footage of the proposed
manufactured home park and location and size of driveways, parking areas,
drying areas, playgrounds, service buildings, other buildings and manufactured
home lots, together with required setbacks from rights-of-way and property
lines. All manufactured home lots shall be numbered in sequence on the plot
plan.
   (D)   Minimum lot area for each manufactured home. The minimum unit area for
each lot used or occupied by and under each manufactured home shall be as
follows.
      (1)   Seventy-five percent of the lots in one manufactured home park
shall be not less than 2,600 square feet in area.
      (2)   Twenty-five percent of the lots in any one manufactured home park
shall be not less than 2,100 square feet in area.
      (3)   Density in any manufactured home park shall not exceed ten units
per gross acre.
   (E)   Minimum width of manufactured home lots. The minimum width of each
manufactured home lot shall be 35 feet.
   (F)   Minimum distance between manufactured homes. No manufactured home
shall be placed within 20 feet of one another, provided that, with respect to
manufactured homes parked end-to-end, the distance between manufactured homes
so parked shall be not less than 25 feet.
   (G)   Setbacks. The distance between manufactured homes and the manufactured
home park boundary shall be not less than the yard setback required in the
zoning district which abuts each boundary line. In no case shall a manufactured
home be parked less than 25 feet from the manufactured home park boundary.
   (H)   Manufactured home stands. The area of the manufactured home stand
shall be improved to provide adequate support for the placement and tie-down of
the mobile home, thereby securing the superstructure against uplift, rotation
and overturning. All requirements of the State Uniform Construction Code shall
be met.
   (I)   Permanent markers. Every manufactured home lot shall be clearly
defined on the ground by permanent markers. There shall be posted and
maintained in a conspicuous place on each lot a number corresponding to the
number of each lot as shown on the plot plan.
   (J)   Streets and driveways. The lane or driveway on which an individual
manufactured home lot fronts shall be not less than 24 feet in width. In cases
where driveways dead-end, there shall be constructed at each dead-end a cul-de-
sac with a minimum turning radius of 60 feet. All streets and driveways shall
be paved in accordance with standards and specifications required for local
streets contained in the township subdivision and land development regulations.
All construction material for such roads shall meet established township
requirements. Where any manufactured home park has an entrance from a state
highway, approval of said entrance from the State Department of Transportation
must be secured before said development is approved.
   (K)   Water and sewer facilities. An adequate supply of water approved by
the Department of Environmental Protection shall be furnished from a public
water supply system or from a private water system conforming to all applicable
laws, regulations, resolutions and ordinances, with supply faucets located on
each manufactured home lot. In each manufactured home park, all wastewater from
a faucet, toilet, tub, shower, sink, drain, washing machine, garbage disposal
unit or laundry shall empty into an approved sewer system installed in
accordance with state and township regulations.
   (L)   Service buildings. Each manufactured home park shall provide service
buildings to house the following facilities.
      (1)   All service buildings shall be permanent structures complying with
ordinances regulating the construction of buildings.
      (2)   All service buildings shall be adequately lighted at all times of
the day and night, shall be well ventilated, shall be constructed of such
moisture proof material, including painted woodwork, as shall permit repeated
cleaning and washing and shall be maintained at a temperature of not less than
68°F during the period from October 1 to May 1.
      (3)   All service buildings and the grounds of the park shall be
maintained in a clean, sanitary condition and kept free of any condition that
will menace the health of any occupant or the public or constitute a nuisance
or fire hazard.
   (M)   Storage tanks. Gasoline, liquefied petroleum, gas or oil storage tanks
shall be so installed as to comply with all township, county, state and
national fire prevention code regulations.
   (N)   Playgrounds. The purpose of this section is to provide for area
facilities for recreational purposes appropriate to the needs of the occupants.
At least 250 square feet of playground space shall be developed and maintained
for each manufactured home lot. Each manufactured home park must provide not
less than one playground, and no playground shall be less than 2,500 square
feet in area. Such areas shall be used exclusively for playground purposes.
   (O)   Additions to manufactured homes. No permanent or semi-permanent
structures shall be affixed to any mobile home as an addition to such
manufactured home, nor shall any accessory structure be permitted on any
manufactured home lot, except one accessory building per manufactured home not
to exceed 120 square feet in area, and further excepting those accessory
structures required by these regulations and an office structure. The
prohibition herein against any addition or accessory building to a manufactured
home or manufactured home lot shall not apply to a canopy or awning designed
for use with a manufactured home. The manufactured home and any accessory
building shall not exceed 40% of the total manufactured home lot.
   (P)   Parking. Parking shall be provided as follows.
      (1)   Off-street parking shall be provided at the rate of two spaces for
each manufactured home lot.
      (2)   All parking areas shall be paved in accordance with paving
standards established by the township.
   (Q)   Procedures for development. All procedures for development of a
manufactured home park shall be the same as required for a special use
exception as specified within this chapter and as per the State Municipalities
Code.
   (R)   Compliance with other regulations. Plans and supporting information
shall be required to show compliance with the stormwater management ordinances
or regulations, as hereafter enacted or amended.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
SIGNS
§ 154.145 GENERAL SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any sign hereafter erected or maintained shall conform to the
provisions of this subchapter and any other ordinance or regulations of the
township.
   (B)   Zoning approval and a separate building permit shall be required for
all signs and billboards, unless otherwise noted within this subchapter.
   (C)   All signs shall be erected and maintained in safe, orderly condition.
The Zoning Officer may order the repair or removal of any sign which he or she
has declared unsafe. In the event that the owner fails to remove or repair an
unsafe sign within ten days following such notification by the Zoning Officer,
it may be removed by the township at the owner’s expense.
   (D)   All signs shall be erected in a manner which will not obstruct vision
or in any way impede the safe movement of vehicular and/or pedestrian traffic.
   (E)   No sign mounted on a building shall project above the ridgeline of a
sloping roof or above the eave line of a flat roof.
   (F)   No sign shall project over a public sidewalk unless authorized as a
special exception by the Zoning Hearing Board and approved by the Township
Supervisors.
   (G)   Each sign must be maintained in good condition and repair.
   (H)   All signs shall be made a part of the architectural design of a new
commercial construction or major alterations of existing buildings. Drawings
submitted for sign permits shall show size, location and illumination in
detail.
   (I)   All nonconforming signs and billboards at the effective date of this
chapter shall not be altered, expanded or enlarged without approval of the
Zoning Hearing Board.
   (J)   All signs or billboards shall also comply with all state and federal
regulations relating to signage along highways.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.146 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following types of signs shall be permitted in RR, R1, R2, R3 and CN
districts, except as otherwise provided in the district regulations:
   (A)   Traffic-control signs. Traffic-control signs, installed and maintained
by the township, the county, the commonwealth or any other governmental
authority, shall not require a permit;
   (B)   Professional, accessory use or name signs. Indicating the name,
profession or activity of the occupant of the dwelling, provided that:
      (1)   The size of any such sign shall not exceed ten square feet;
      (2)   Not more than one such sign shall be erected for each permitted use
or dwelling;
      (3)   No such sign shall be illuminated; and
      (4)   No such sign shall stand more than ten feet from ground level to
the top of the sign.
   (C)   Identification signs. For farms or estates, schools, churches,
hospitals, supporting commercial facility uses and similar permitted uses other
than dwellings, provided that:
      (1)   The size of any such sign shall not exceed 32 square feet;
      (2)   Not more than one sign shall be placed on premises held in single
and separate ownership, unless such premises front on more than one street, in
which case one such sign may be erected on each street frontage;
      (3)   No such sign shall be illuminated except by concealed or indirect
light attached to the sign itself; and
      (4)   No such sign shall stand more than ten feet from the ground level
to the top of the sign.
   (D)   “For Sale” or “For Rent” signs. Signs advertising the sale or rental
of premises, provided that:
      (1)   Zoning approval and building permits shall not be required for
these types of signs;
      (2)   The size of any such sign shall not exceed 12 square feet;
      (3)   Not more than two such signs shall be erected for any property held
in single and separate ownership;
      (4)   No such signs shall be illuminated; and
      (5)   No such sign shall stand more than ten feet from the ground level
to the top of the sign.
   (E)   Signs indicating the location and direction of premises in the process
of development. Signs indicating the location and direction of premises in the
process of development (subdivisions, land development and the like), provided
that:
      (1)   Zoning approval and building permits shall not be required for
these types of signs;
      (2)   The size of any such sign shall not exceed 12 square feet;
      (3)   Not more than two such signs shall be erected on each 500 feet of
street frontage;
      (4)   No such sign shall be illuminated; and
      (5)   All such signs shall be removed on completion or when active work
on the development ceases.
   (F)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs for contractors and artisans,
provided that:
      (1)   Zoning approval and building permits shall not be required for
these types of signs;
      (2)   Such signs shall be erected only on the premises where such work is
being performed;
      (3)   The size of any such sign shall not exceed 12 square feet;
      (4)   Such signs shall not be illuminated; and
      (5)   Such signs shall be removed promptly upon completion of active
work.
   (G)   Directional sign. One, not exceeding one and one-half square feet.
   (H)   Directional signs in connection with a parking facility. Not to exceed
eight square feet.
   (I)   Any other use. Any use other than specified in divisions (A) through
(H) above, which use is a permitted use in a residential district, and signs
for uses which are preexisting, nonconforming uses, provided that:
      (1)   The size of any such sign shall not exceed 20 square feet;
      (2)   Not more than one sign shall be placed on premises held in single
and separate ownership, unless such premises front on more than one street, in
which case one such sign may be erected on each street frontage; and
      (3)   No such sign shall be illuminated except by concealed or indirect
light attached to the sign itself.
   (J)   Signs for nonconforming uses.
      (1)   The total area of such signs relating to a single use at the
effective date of this chapter or at the effective date of any amendment of
this chapter by which any sign shall be made nonconforming shall not be
increased.
      (2)   No such signs shall be changed or replaced except when such change
or replacement results in a new sign being in conformity with the following
sign regulations:
         (a)   One freestanding business sign or identification sign, not to
exceed 32 square feet and shall be set back at least ten feet from a lot or
street line; and
         (b)   The total area on one side of all signs attached to a building
and facing any one street frontage on any one premises shall not exceed 8% of
the area of the wall surface, including window and door areas on which they are
displayed.
   (K)    Any signs in any residential district. Shall be non-flashing and non-
animated; those not attached to a building shall be set back at least 15 feet
from a lot or right-of-way line; and
   (L)   No trespassing sign or sign indicating the private nature of a
driveway or premises. One, provided that the size of any such sign shall not
exceed two square feet.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.147 NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICT SIGNS.
   The following types of signs shall be permitted in the CT, IL and HI
Districts:
   (A)   Generally. Any sign permitted in a residential district which relates
to a use permitted in the district;
   (B)   Real estate signs. Advertising the sale or rental of premises,
provided that:
      (1)   Zoning approval and building permits shall not be required for
these types of signs;
      (2)   The size of any such sign shall not exceed 24 square feet; and
      (3)   Not more than two such signs shall be erected for any property held
in single and separate ownership.
   (C)   Signs indicating the location and direction of premises in the process
of development. Signs indicating the location and direction of premises in the
process of development (subdivisions, land development and the like), provided
that:
      (1)   Zoning approval and building permits shall not be required for
these types of signs;
      (2)   The size of any such sign shall not exceed 50 square feet;
      (3)   Not more than two such signs shall be erected on each 500 feet of
street frontage;
      (4)   No such sign shall be illuminated; and
      (5)   All such signs shall be removed on completion or when active work
on the development ceases.
   (D)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs for contractors and artisans,
provided that:
      (1)   Zoning approval and building permits shall not be required for
these types of signs;
      (2)   Such signs shall be erected only on the premises where such work is
being performed;
      (3)   The size of any such sign shall not exceed 12 square feet;
      (4)   Such signs shall not be illuminated; and
      (5)   Such signs shall be removed promptly upon completion of active
work.
   (E)   Directional signs in connection with a parking facility. Not to exceed
eight square feet;
   (F)   Freestanding business or related signs. Freestanding business or
related signs shall be permitted as follows:
      (1)   Any sign permitted in a residential district;
      (2)   One freestanding business sign or identification sign, not to
exceed 50 square feet for any one business, except as provided in division (C)
(3) above; and
      (3)   Where a group of three or more businesses are located on one parcel
or tract, one freestanding business or identification sign shall be permitted
per street, and no such sign shall exceed 100 square feet per street.
   (G)   Signs not attached to a building. Signs not attached to a building
shall be set back at least ten feet from a lot or street line or any required
buffer area. Signs located on a corner lot shall be set back a minimum of 15
feet from the front and side street lines. A freestanding sign shall not exceed
40 feet in height, as measured from the ground to the top of the sign. No sign
mounted on a building shall project above the ridgeline of a sloping roof or
above the eave line of a flat roof;
   (H)   Total area on one side. The total area on one side of all signs
attached to a building and facing any one street frontage on any one premises
shall not exceed 12% of the area of the wall surface, including window and door
areas on which they are displayed;
   (I)   Stationary. All signs in any CT, IL and HI District shall be
stationary, non-revolving, non- flashing and non-animated; if illuminated, they
shall utilize reflected or refracted light in such manner as shall not
detrimentally affect any property in another zoning district, except as
follows:
      (1)   Electronic/changeable message signs shall have a message that does
not change more than one time in any eight second time frame;
      (2)   The display shall contain a default mechanism that will freeze the
sign in one position if a malfunction occurs;
      (3)   The display shall not display light of such intensity or brilliance
to cause glare or otherwise impair the vision of any motor vehicle operator, or
cause a nuisance to any motor vehicle operator;
      (4)   The display shall not be configured to resemble a warning or danger
signal or to cause a driver to mistake the digital image as a warning or danger
sign or symbol, or any official traffic-control devices; and
      (5)   A display shall be equipped with a dimmer control and a photocell,
which automatically adjusts the display’s intensity according to natural
ambient light conditions.
   (J)   Wall signs. Wall signs shall not project over 12 inches from the face
of a building; and
   (K)   Temporary/portable signs. Temporary/portable signs which shall not
exceed 12 square feet and not more than two such signs shall be placed on any
100 feet of street frontage. No temporary/portable sign shall be on display for
a period of more than 30 days. Temporary/portable signage shall not be
displayed more than three times in any one calendar year. TEMPORARY/PORTABLE
SIGN shall be defined as a sign which is not permanent and is capable of being
carried and/or easily moved.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.148 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   No stringing of light bulbs, no animated sign nor signs that revolve, swing
or have movable parts or have flashing lights or reflectors shall be permitted
after the effective date of this chapter, except when authorized as a special
exception by the Zoning Hearing Board, and no advertising signs, banner,
pennant balance, spinners or display constructed of cloth, canvas, wallboard or
other like materials shall be erected, suspended or hung on any property except
as otherwise permitted for temporary/portable signs, provided that:
   (A)   No such sign or display shall exceed in the size the area permitted
for permanent signs as provided for each zoning district;
   (B)   No sign shall be placed in such a position that it will cause danger
to traffic on a street by obscuring the view;
   (C)   No such sign or display shall be permitted within the lines of any
public street or public sidewalk, or shall be closer to a curb than ten feet,
unless specifically authorized by other ordinances and regulations of the
township; and
   (D)   No sign or display shall be permitted to be placed across a public
street or highway.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.149 BILLBOARDS.
   Billboards shall be permitted by special exception in CN, CT, IL and HI
Districts.
   (A)   Any billboard permitted in the CN District shall not exceed 75 square
feet.
   (B)   Any billboard permitted in the CT District shall not exceed 300 square
feet.
   (C)   Any billboard permitted in the IL and HI Districts shall not exceed
600 square feet.
   (D)   Setbacks from public road rights-of-way or property lines shall be a
minimum of 50 feet.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.160 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FLOOR AREA. The square feet of floor space within the outside line of walls
and includes the total of all space on all floors of a building. It does not
include porches, garages or space in a basement or cellar.
   LOADING SPACE. A space within the main building or on the same lot having a
minimum dimension of 12 feet by 55 feet.
   MANEUVERING SPACE. The unobstructed area needed for a truck to back in a
single movement directly from the access street into a loading space, the depth
of which is measured perpendicular to and from the front of the loading space
to the curbside of the most remote lane in the access street.
   PARKING SPACE. An area on a lot (or within a building) sufficient in size to
store one automobile (not less than ten feet wide and 20 feet long) connected
to a public street or alley by a driveway not less than ten feet wide. Except
for single-family dwellings, the parking space and connecting driveways shall
be surfaced with a permanent dust-free paving, except that the pavement for the
apron within the street right-of-way shall be the same as specified for the
street.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.161 THE FOLLOWING OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES SHALL BE PROVIDED.
   (A)   For dwellings: one space on the lot for each living unit in the
building. For dwelling units found in apartments with more than four living
units: one and one-half spaces for each living unit in the building. For
dwellings having a permitted home occupation: one space for resident and two
for patron use;
   (B)   For churches erected on new sites: one parking space on the lot for
each four seats in the main auditorium, or each 64 square feet where there are
no seats;
   (C)   For places of public assembly, including auditoriums and theaters: one
space for each four seats provided or each 32 square feet of assembly area
where there are no seats;
   (D)   For elementary schools: two spaces for each classroom; for junior high
or middle schools: four spaces for each classroom; and for senior high schools:
seven spaces for each classroom;
   (E)   For hospitals: one space for each hospital bed, plus one space for
every two employees;
   (F)   For hotels or motels: one space for each guest unit, plus one space
for every two employees;
   (G)   For institutions, clubs, lodges and other public and semi-public
buildings: one space for each 50 square feet of floor area;
   (H)   For commercial uses in CN, CT, R1, R2 and R3 Districts: sufficient
off-street parking to eliminate parking on the street and to reduce the hazards
of motorists stopping on the street or highway;
   (I)   For industrial uses in the IL and HI Districts: one space for each two
employees on the premises at any one time; and
   (J)   For retail and wholesale uses in the RR: sufficient off-street parking
to eliminate parking on the street and to reduce the hazard of motorist
stopping on the street or highway.
(11/09/88; Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.162 THE FOREGOING REQUIREMENTS ARE SUBJECT TO THE FOLLOWING GENERAL RULES
AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   In the CN, CT and IL Districts, parking spaces may be provided on a
separate lot if within 300 feet of a building and two or more owners may join
together in the provision of this parking space.
   (B)   Parking spaces may be provided in side and rear yards in the R
Districts and in any yard in the RR, C and I Districts except that in the CT, C
and I Districts, no parking space shall be provided in a front yard unless the
building is set back at least 40 feet from the street right-of-way line.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.163 THE FOLLOWING OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE SHALL BE PROVIDED.
   (A)   No loading space shall be required for commercial or industrial
buildings having a floor area of less than 5,000 square feet; however, should a
loading space be provided, it shall conform to the definition of loading space
in §
154.160.
   (B)   Commercial or industrial buildings with a floor area of more than
5,000 square feet shall provide one loading space on the lot for each 12,000
square feet of floor area or fraction thereof. Where such space is located in
such a manner that a truck must back directly into the loading space, a
maneuvering space of 55 feet shall be provided. A minimum vertical clearance of
16 feet shall be provided for trucks.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.164 ALTERATION OF REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Existing buildings not complying with off-street parking or loading
requirements may be remodeled, repaired and structurally altered, but any
enlargement must provide the parking space as required by the enlargement.
   (B)   For any off-street parking facility as required by this chapter, a
layout plan showing entrances, drives and parking stalls shall be submitted to
the Planning Commission, and before a building permit is issued, the layout
must be approved by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Before an occupancy permit is issued for the building which the
required parking facility is to serve, the parking facility must be constructed
and certified by the Zoning Officer as being in conformance with all
requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Alteration or reduction of these requirements may be made by the
Planning Commission where the applicant demonstrates that the specific use of a
building would make unnecessary the full number of parking spaces required by
this chapter.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
ZONING HEARING BOARD;
POWERS, DUTIES AND ESTABLISHMENT ARE PRESCRIBED
§ 154.175 ZONING HEARING BOARD IS CREATED.
   A Zoning Hearing Board is hereby established. The word “Board” when used is
this chapter shall be construed to mean the “Zoning Hearing Board”. The Board
shall consist of three members to be appointed by the Township Supervisors, one
of whom shall be designated to serve until January 1 in the year following the
adoption of this chapter; one until the first day of the second January
thereafter, and one until the first day of the third January thereafter. Their
successors shall be appointed on the expiration of their respective terms, to
serve three years. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any
member whose term becomes vacant. A Board member, whose term expires, can be
re-elected following a one-year period.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.176 BOARD MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board shall elect its own officers and adopt rules in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. No regular meetings shall be scheduled;
however, the Board shall convene upon request of a hearing. The Board shall
keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each
question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact and shall keep
records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be
public records. The concurring vote of two members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any
administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under this chapter, or to effect any
variation, except as may otherwise be provided in the State Municipalities
Planning Code, being 53 P.S. Ch. 30.
   (B)   The Board shall keep a stenographic record of the proceedings. The
appearance fee for a stenographer shall be shared equally by the applicant and
the Board. The cost of the original transcript shall be paid by the Board if
the transcript is ordered by the Board or Hearing Officer or shall be paid by
the person appealing from the decision of the Board if such appeal is made, and
in either event the cost of additional copies shall be paid by the person
requesting such copy of copies. In other cases the party requesting the
original transcript shall bear the cost thereof.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.177 APPEALS TO THE BOARD.
   (A)   Appeals. Appeals to the Zoning Hearing Board shall be handled as set
forth in the Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. Ch. 30.
   (B)   Mediation.
      (1)   With respect to proceedings before the Board, the parties may
attempt to use mediation as an aid to completing such proceedings. However, in
no case shall the Board initiate mediation or participate as a mediating party.
Mediation shall supplement, not replace, those procedures in this subchapter
and the provisions of the Municipal Planning Code, being 53 P.S. Ch. 30 once
they have been formally initiated.
      (2)   Participation in mediation shall be wholly voluntary. The
appropriateness of mediation shall be determined by the particulars of each
case and the willingness of the parties to negotiate. In each case, the
mediating parties, assisted by the mediator as appropriate, shall develop terms
and conditions for:
         (a)   Funding mediation;
         (b)   Selecting a mediator who, at a minimum, shall have a working
knowledge of municipal zoning and subdivision procedures and demonstrated
skills in mediation;
         (c)   Completing mediation, including time limits for such completion;
         (d)   Suspending time limits otherwise authorized in this chapter,
provided there is written consent be the mediating parties, and by an applicant
or Board or Township Supervisors or Township Planning Commission if any of them
are not a party to the mediation;
         (e)   Identifying all parties and affording them the opportunity to
participate;
         (f)   Subject to legal restraints, determining whether some or all of
the mediation sessions shall be open or closed to the public; and
         (g)   Assuring that mediated solutions are in writing and signed by
the parties, and become subject to review and approval by the appropriate
decision-making body pursuant to the authorized procedures set forth in the
other sections of this act.
      (3)   No offers or statements made in the mediation sessions, excluding
the final written mediated agreement, shall be admissible as evidence in any
subsequent judicial or administrative proceedings.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.178 POWERS OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   Powers shall be as prescribed by the Municipalities Planning Code,
being 53 P.S. Ch. 30.
   (B)   To permit the following two exceptions:
      (1)   Use of premises for public utility and railroad purposes; provided
that the Board shall find some compelling necessity for the use, and that any
office, repair storage or garage uses are accessory to the main use, and
providing use(s) would not be detrimental to the public welfare, would not
adversely affect the adjoining property owners, would not unreasonably impair
the scheme of zoning use established by the chapter, and providing that such
exception, as granted, would be the minimum exception required to accomplish
the purpose of the request for exception; and
      (2)   To permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming building which has
been destroyed, or partially destroyed, by fire or Act of God where the Board
shall find some compelling public necessity requiring a continuance of the
nonconforming use, but in no case shall such a permit be issued if its primary
function is to continue a monopoly.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.179 PUBLIC HEARING AND PERMITS ISSUED BY THE BOARD.
   (A)   In exercising the above mentioned powers the Board may, in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, reserve or affirm, wholly or partly, or
may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and
may take such order, requirement, decision or determination as ought to be made
and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal
is taken. Every change granted or denied by the Board shall be accompanied by a
written record specifying the reason for granting or denying the variation.
   (B)   Any person or persons jointly or severally, aggrieved by a decision of
the Board may then appeal as provided by law. Any person applying to the Board,
or taking an appeal to the Board, for permission to vary from the provision of
this chapter, shall pay an application fee to the township at the time of
making such application or appeal, to pay for the advertising and other costs
of such application or appeal.
   (C)   The Zoning Officer shall keep records of all such appeals or
applications and of all fees paid thereafter and shall transmit all of such
fees collected to the Township Supervisors for deposit to the General Fund of
the township.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 154.190 CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   The uses named in this chapter and the establishment or enlargement
thereof shall be considered conditional uses which cannot be adjusted to their
environments with a maximum of mutual protection by a rigid application of the
district regulations of this zoning chapter which apply uniformly and in detail
to the great majority of properties within any particular district.
   (B)   They may be permitted in the districts herein designated by the
Supervisors after a public hearing, report and recommendation by the Planning
Commission, subject to:
      (1)   Approval of a site plan and location;
      (2)   The conditions hereunder prescribed, without variance;
      (3)   All other applicable provisions of this zoning chapter, unless
otherwise prescribed or excepted hereunder, without variance; and
      (4)   Such other conditions and safeguards that the Planning Commission
or Supervisors may recommend and that the Supervisors may approve to protect
the best interests of surrounding properties, and the development goals and
objectives expressed in the this township zoning chapter.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.191 PROCEDURES FOR CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Submission of application.
      (1)   The application for a conditional use shall be submitted to the
Township Supervisors together with eight additional copies. All information
submitted by the proposed conditional use developer shall be considered a part
of the application and incorporated into the final permit, by reference. The
plan may contain provisions for phasing of development of a project. The
request shall be reviewed by the Township Planning Commission and the
application either approved and passed onto the Supervisors for approval or
rejected with the reasons for rejection noted.
      (2)   If a developer feels the application has been unreasonably or
wrongfully rejected, it may request consideration by the Township Supervisors
notwithstanding the rejection by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Notice of application.
      (1)   The applicant must provide written notice of application to all
property owners and tenants occupying property within 2,500 feet of the
boundaries of the property upon which the conditional will be located.
      (2)   Proof of service of such notice by certified mail or notarized
affidavit of hand delivery must be provided with the application.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.192 APPLICATION AND PERMIT FEES FOR CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Application fees for commercial power generating windmills.
      (1)   An application fee, in accordance with a resolution approved by the
Township Supervisors, shall be submitted with the application. In addition, the
applicant shall be responsible for payment of any review fees incurred by the
township in obtaining technical review of any portion of the application
submitted which are in excess of the application fee collected.
      (2)   A permit fee, in accordance with a resolution approved by the
Township Supervisors, per megawatt, shall be paid following approval of the
conditional use and prior to the issuance of the conditional use permit. Any
approval given shall be void if payment of the permit fee has not been made
within five years of approval. The permit fee shall be utilized to pay the
costs of assuring that the project commences in accordance with the approval
conditions granted. The applicant shall be responsible for payment of any costs
or fees incurred by the township in inspecting and reviewing of any portion of
the construction or of the facilities to determine that they are proceeding in
compliance with the conditions of approval. A conditional use permit once paid
and issued shall remain effective for a construction period of 24 months. The
construction period may be extended by the Township Supervisors for good cause
shown.
   (B)   Application fees for adult entertainment establishments.
      (1)   An application fee, in accordance with a resolution approved by the
Township Supervisors, shall be submitted with the application. In addition, the
applicant shall be responsible for payment of any review fees incurred by the
township in obtaining technical or legal review of any portion of the
application submitted which are in excess of the application fee collected.
      (2)   A permit fee, in accordance with a resolution approved by the
Township Supervisors, shall be paid upon approval of the conditional use by the
Planning Commission and the Township Supervisors, and the issuance of said
permit by the Zoning Officer.
   (C)   Impact fee. Where appropriate, an impact fee, payable either annually,
or as a lump sum, shall be negotiated between the Supervisors and developer.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.193 PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   Planning Commission public meeting. Upon receipt of a complete
application for approval of a conditional use, the Planning Commission shall
advertise for a public meeting. All property owners within the zone of interest
shall be notified of the public hearing. A notice of the public meeting shall
be advertised one time in a newspaper of general public distribution within the
township no more than 30 days nor less than seven days before the public
meeting. The developer shall have the opportunity to request a continuance of
the public meeting to provide answers to any objections raised at the public
meeting. Continued meetings shall be adjourned sine die and shall not require
additional advertisements. Following conclusion of the last meeting, the
Planning Commission shall prepare a written recommendation to the Supervisors.
Notwithstanding any other provision, the Planning Commission shall present its
report to the Supervisors within 40 days of developer’s application unless the
developer has requested an extension of time, in writing.
   (B)   Consideration of application.
      (1)   Upon presentation of the report of the Planning Commission, or in
the event of a failure of the Planning Commission to present the report within
the time prescribed, the Supervisors shall consider the developer’s application
for conditional use approval and approve or reject the same subject to any
conditions deemed appropriate.
      (2)   In the case of denial or conditions being imposed which are not
accepted by the developer, the Supervisors’ determination shall be accompanied
within five days a written statement of reasons.
   (C)   Approval. Approval shall be in the form of a building permit in
substantially the form issued for all permits, subject to any conditions placed
thereon through this conditional use approval.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.194 CONTINUED COMPLIANCE.
   A conditional use granted pursuant to this chapter shall be conditioned upon
full compliance, on a continuing basis, with the requirements set forth in this
section and the performance standards identified in the developer’s application
and as set forth in the permit document itself.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.205 ZONING OFFICER POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Zoning Officer shall enforce this chapter, appeals from his or her
decision may be taken to the Board. (See §§
154.175 through
154.179.)
   (B)   Enforcement shall be pursuant to the procedures and requirements as
set forth in the Municipal Planning Code, being 53 P.S. Ch. 30.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.206 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No building may be undertaken in the township without an occupancy permit as
required by §
154.207.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.207 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Each application for an occupancy permit shall be accompanied by a
plat in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the name of the person making the
application, the actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon as shown by a
survey, the size, shape, the location of the building to be erected and such
other information as may be necessary to provide for the enforcement of this
chapter.
   (B)   A record of applications and plats shall be kept in the offices of the
township.
      (1)   Subsequent to the effective date of this chapter no change in the
use or occupancy of land, or any change of use or occupancy in an existing
building other than for dwelling purposes, shall be made, nor shall any new
building be occupied until a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the
Zoning Officer.
      (2)   (a)   Every certificate of occupancy shall state that the new
occupancy complies with all provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   It shall be a statement based on an inspection by the Zoning
Officer setting forth either that a building, structure, sign and/or land
complies with this zoning chapter or that a building, structure, sign and/or
land may lawfully be employed for specified uses or both.
      (3)   (a)   No permit for excavation for or the erection or alteration of
any building shall be issued before the application has been made and approved
for a certificate of occupancy and compliance, and no building or premises
shall be occupied until such certificate and permit is issued.
         (b)   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file
in the office of the Township Supervisors and copies shall be furnished on
request to any interested person.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.208 MINOR DIMENSIONAL SETBACK VARIANCE.
   (A)   Minor dimensional side or rear yard variances for decks, pools or
other similar non-enclosed structures, or detached storage sheds less than 144
square feet in size with no permanent foundation may be approved by the Zoning
Officer where the adjoining landowner(s) has executed a consent to waiver of
setback in a form approved by the township.
   (B)   In any event, said minor dimensional variance shall not permit the
side or rear setback to be reduced to less than two feet from the neighboring
property line.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
AMENDMENTS OF THE CHAPTER
§ 154.220 GENERAL.
   The Township Supervisors may amend this chapter upon their own motion or
upon action through a petition.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.221 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Before voting on the enactment of an amendment, the Township
Supervisors shall hold a public hearing thereon, pursuant to public notice. In
addition, if the proposed amendment involves a zoning map change, notice of
said public hearing shall be conspicuously posted by the municipality at points
deemed sufficient by the Township Supervisors along the perimeter of the tract
to notify potentially interested citizens. The affected tract or area shall be
posted at least on week prior to the date of the hearing.
   (B)   In the case of an amendment other than that prepared by the Township
Planning Commission, the Township Supervisors shall submit each such amendment
to the Township Planning Commission at least 30 days prior to the hearing on
such proposed amendment to provide the Township Planning Commission an
opportunity to submit recommendations.
   (C)   If, after any public hearing held upon an amendment, the proposed
amendment is changed substantially, or is revised to include land previously
not affected by it, the Township Supervisors shall hold another public hearing,
pursuant to public notice, before proceeding to vote on the amendment.
   (D)   The Township Supervisors shall, at least 30 days prior to the public
hearing on the amendment by them, submit the proposed amendment to the County
Planning Commission for recommendations.
   (E)   The township may offer a mediation option as an aid in completing
proceedings authorized by this section. In exercising such an option, the
township and mediating parties shall meet the stipulations and follow the
procedures set forth in §
154.177(B).
   (F)   Within 30 days after enactment, a copy of the amendment to this
chapter shall be forwarded to the County Planning Commission.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
VIOLATION AND VALIDITY
§ 154.235 VIOLATIONS.
   In case any building, structure, landscaping or land is, or is proposed to
be, erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted, maintained or used
in violation of this chapter, the Township Supervisors or, with the approval of
the Township Supervisors, the Zoning Officer, or any aggrieved owner or tenant
or real property who shows that his or her property or person will be
substantially affected by the alleged violation, in addition to other remedies,
may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, restrain,
correct or abate such building, structure, landscaping or land or to prevent,
in or about such premises, any act, conduct, business or use constituting a
violation. When any such action is instituted by a landowner or tenant, notice
of that action shall be served upon the township at least 30 days prior to the
time the action is begun by serving a copy of the complaint on the Township
Supervisors. No such action may be maintained until such notice has been given.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.236 VALIDATION.
   Should any subchapter or section or any provisions of this chapter be
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, that decision
shall not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole or any part thereof,
other than the part so declared to be invalid, the Township Supervisors hereby
declaring that it would have passed those parts of this chapter which are
valid, and omitted any parts which may be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid
if it had known that such parts were invalid at the time of the adoption of
this chapter.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 678, passed 10-20-2010)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Pennsylvania Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Code
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA STATUTES
P.S. Section Code Section
P.S. Section                          Code Section
16 P.S. § 11011-6                    34.106
24 P.S. § 6-686                      34.016
                                      151.001,
32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq.          151.039,
                                      151.068,
                                      151.085
35 P.S. Ch. 29E                       32.31
35 P.S. §§ 690 et seq.              50.16
                                      50.15—
                                      50.17,
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.            52.082,
                                      52.999,
                                      150.48
35 P.S. §§ 1680.401 et seq.         34.100
35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 through 6018.100150.01
35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 through 7210.110150.30
40 P.S. §§ 361 et seq.              32.45
                                      153.001,
                                      153.110,
53 P.S. Ch. 30                        154.115,
                                      154.176—
                                      154.178,
                                      154.205
53 P.S. §§ 3102.501 et seq.         50.02
53 P.S. § 6913                       34.030
53 P.S. § 6920.1                     35.01
53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq.             34.109
53 P.S. §§ 7106 et seq.             34.001
53 P.S. § 7143                       34.001
53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq.            10.03,
                                      31.05
53 P.S. § 66601                      10.99
53 P.S. § 66902                      31.20
65 P.S. §§ 67.101 et seq.           33.24
72 P.S. Ch. 4                         34.055
72 P.S. §§ 4750.56 et seq.          34.098
72 P.S. §§ 8101 D et seq.           34.096
                                      
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CODE
Pa.Code Section Code Section
Pa.Code Section                      Code Section
25 Pa. Code                          50.17
                                     151.032,
34 Pa. Code                          151.033,
                                     151.070,
                                     151.101
                                     150.30,
34 Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405 151.066,
                                     151.067,
                                     151.070
67 Pa. Code                          71.07
67 Pa. Code Chapter 459, § 459.2    93.04
67 Pa. Code Chapter 459, § 459.7    93.04
67 Pa. Code Chapter 459, § 459.8    93.04
67 Pa. Code Chapter 459, § 459.9    93.04
67 Pa. Code Chapter 459, § 459.12   93.04
                                     
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES
Pa.C.S. Section Code Section
Pa.C.S. Section              Code Section
2 Pa.C.S. §§ 551 et seq.   53.04
2 Pa.C.S. §§ 551 through 5554.22,
                             54.25
2 Pa.C.S. §§ 551, 751      53.06
2 Pa.C.S. §§ 751 through 7554.22,
                             54.25
18 Pa.C.S. § 4108           93.12
35 Pa.C.S. §§ 79A01 et seq.32.33
35 Pa.C.S. §§ 7101 et seq. 33.05,
                             54.15
53 Pa.C.S. §§ 8421 et seq. 34.039
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES ANNOTATED
Pa.C.S.A. Section Code Section
Pa.C.S.A. Section           Code Section
2 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 105 et seq.50.16
2 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 551 et seq.32.33
42 Pa.C.S.A. § 8953        32.01
75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq71.02
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 3323(b)     70.21
                            71.02,
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902        71.06,
                            71.07,
                            71.99
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902(a)     70.35
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902(b)     71.99
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 6106        71.04
                            
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
136      3-2-1957    34.055
173      3-6-1959    34.055
192      11-6-1959   93.25—
                     93.34
311      2-17-1967   34.055
322      3-1-1968    34.055
389      2-1-1974    51.01
R02-02   5-22-2002   110.02
R01-04   5-19-2004   52.110
R07-04   9-15-2004   33.04
R01-07   1-2-2007    35.01
R04-07   7-18-2007   52.110
R05-07   10-24-2007  52.110
R13-08   12-17-2008  33.20—
                     33.26
R02-09   2-18-2009   34.015
R09-09   4-15-2009   33.02
R11-09   8-19-2009   35.01
R12-09   10-21-2009  52.110
R13-09   10-21-2009  150.01
R06-10   11-17-2010  33.04
R01-11   1-19-2011   33.05
R03-15   6-17-2015   50.02
R06-15   10-21-2015  33.04
R07-17   12-20-2017  34.002
R06-18   9-18-2018   33.03
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     52.095—
195      12-12-1959  52.098,
                     52.999
                     112.01—
261      8-7-1964    112.07,
                     112.99
                     34.070—
266      11-6-1964   34.080,
                     34.999
295      2-4-1966    31.01—
                     31.05
307      5-6-1966    34.071,
                     34.074
313      2-17-1967   34.071,
                     34.074
326      3-1-1968    34.071,
                     34.074
                     150.45—
327      3-1-1968    150.48,
                     150.99
                     153.001—
                     153.004,
                     153.015,
                     153.016,
                     153.030—
                     153.042,
                     153.055—
295      3-14-1974   153.059,
                     153.070—
                     153.075,
                     153.090—
                     153.098,
                     153.110—
                     153.115,
                     153.999
390      3-15-1974   31.20—
                     31.25
                     111.01—
410      7-16-1976   111.16,
                     111.99
424      6-3-1977    150.48
                     52.080—
428      1-6-1978    52.082,
                     52.999
434      12-15-1978  131.01,
                     131.99
                     91.01—
440      6-29-1979   91.05,
                     91.99
454      7-2-1981    72.01—
                     72.04
555      8-28-1981   154.004
                     130.20—
562      12-2-1982   130.23,
                     130.99
566      7-14-1983   32.30
585      3-2-1989    31.01
                     52.060—
590      8-9-1990    52.069,
                     52.999
                     153.016,
                     153.042,
                     153.071—
592      12-13-1990  153.073,
                     153.094,
                     153.110,
                     153.999
                     93.01—
598      5-10-1994   93.12,
                     93.99
                     130.01—
602      9-14-1995   130.07,
                     130.99
                     51.15—
605      6-19-1996   51.20,
                     51.99
                     91.99,
607      8-21-1996   150.99,
                     153.999
                     52.045—
614      12-18-1996  52.048,
                     52.999
                     90.20—
617      3-18-1998   90.24,
                     90.99
                     93.01—
619      8-19-1998   93.12,
                     93.99
                     54.01—
                     54.04,
                     54.15—
620      10-26-1998  54.26,
                     54.40,
                     54.55,
                     54.99
627      12-20-2000  32.31
                     110.01—
638      8-15-2001   110.05,
                     110.99
642      1-7-2002    34.016
643      1-7-2002    35.01
645      7-17-2002   35.01
646      8-21-2002   32.34
652      6-16-2004   150.30
                     92.01—
654      7-21-2004   92.03,
                     92.99
                     52.025—
657      10-27-2004  52.031,
                     52.999
                     90.01—
662      6-21-2006   90.06,
                     90.99,
                     Ch. 90, App. A
                     70.01—
                     70.05,
                     70.20,
661      6-21-2006   70.21,
                     70.35,
                     70.50,
                     70.65,
                     70.99
664      9-4-2007    31.01
                     52.001—
666      9-17-2008   52.013,
                     52.999
668      12-17-2008  34.001,
                     34.999
                     53.01—
673      12-16-2009  53.06,
                     53.99
                     90.01—
674      12-16-2009  90.06,
                     90.99,
                     Ch. 90, App. A
                     32.45—
676      6-16-2010   32.48,
                     32.99
679      9-15-2010   33.01,
                     33.99
                     154.001—
                     154.004,
                     154.015,
                     154.030—
                     154.039,
                     154.050—
                     154.058,
                     154.070—
                     154.072,
                     154.085—
                     154.093,
                     154.110—
                     154.115,
                     154.130,
678      10-20-2010  154.145—
                     154.149,
                     154.160—
                     154.164,
                     154.175—
                     154.179,
                     154.190—
                     154.194,
                     154.205—
                     154.208,
                     154.220,
                     154.221,
                     154.235,
                     154.236,
                     154.999
682      3-16-2011   50.01
685      2-22-2012   50.15—
                     50.21
                     154.034,
                     154.050—
                     154.052,
686      4-18-2012   154.057,
                     154.058,
                     154.094,
                     154.095
                     151.001,
                     151.015—
                     151.019,
                     151.030—
                     151.039,
                     151.050—
                     151.054,
                     151.065—
688      8-22-2012   151.071,
                     151.085—
                     151.088,
                     151.100,
                     151.101,
                     151.115,
                     151.116,
                     151.130,
                     151.131,
                     151.999
                     34.030—
689      11-21-2012  34.041,
                     34.999
690      11-21-2012  32.01
                     71.01—
691      1-16-2013   71.08,
                     71.99
696      4-15-2015   30.01
–      8-17-2016   32.32
                     150.15,
697      8-17-2016   150.16,
                     150.99
–      9-20-2017   32.32
700      6-20-2018   32.33,
                     32.99
701      9-18-2019   34.095—
                     34.110
702      12-18-2019  Adopting Ordinance
706      12-21-2022  152.01
                     154.056—
707      2-15-2023   154.058,
                     154.096
                    
 
