GREENE TOWNSHIP, PENNSYLVANIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Local Legislation Ord. No. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Approval, adoption and enactment of code
   
10.02   Effect of code on previous provisions
   
10.03   Repeal of legislation not contained in code
   
10.04   Legislation saved from repeal; matters not affected by repeal
   
10.05   Inclusion of new legislation prior to adoption of code
   
10.06   Changes and revisions in previously adopted legislation; new provisions
   
10.07   Interpretation of provisions
   
10.08   Titles and headings; editor’s notes
   
10.09   Filing of copies of code
   
10.10   Amendments to code
   
10.11   Code books to be kept up-to-date
   
10.12   Publication of notices
   
10.13   Altering or tampering with code; penalties for violation
   
10.14   Severability
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  APPROVAL, ADOPTION AND ENACTMENT OF CODE.
   Pursuant to § 1601(d) of the Second Class Township Code (53 P.S. § 66601
(d)), the codification of a complete body of legislation for the Township of
Greene, County of Beaver, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, as revised, codified
and consolidated into chapters, articles and sections and consisting of Titles
I through XV, together with a Table of Special Ordinances, are hereby approved,
adopted, ordained and enacted as a single ordinance of the Township of Greene,
which shall be known and is hereby designated as the “Code of the Township of
Greene”, hereinafter referred to as the “code”.
(2003 Code, § 1-1)  (Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 10.02  EFFECT OF CODE ON PREVIOUS PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this code, insofar as they are substantively the same as
those of ordinances and in force immediately prior to the enactment of these
regulations, are intended as a continuation of such ordinances and not as new
enactments, and the effectiveness of such provisions shall date from the date
of adoption of the prior code. All such provisions are hereby continued in full
force and effect and are hereby reaffirmed as to their adoption by the Board of
Supervisors of the township, and it is the intention of said Board of
Supervisors that each such provision contained within the code is hereby
reenacted and reaffirmed as it appears in said code. Only such provisions of
former ordinances as are omitted from this code shall be deemed repealed or
abrogated by the provisions of §
10.03, and only new or changed provisions, as described in §
10.06, shall be deemed to be enacted from the effective date of this code.
(2003 Code, § 1-2)  (Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 10.03  REPEAL OF LEGISLATION NOT CONTAINED IN CODE.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances of a general and permanent nature
adopted by the township and in force on the date of the adoption of this code
and not contained in the code are hereby repealed as of the effective date,
except as hereinafter provided.
(2003 Code, § 1-3)  (Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 10.04  LEGISLATION SAVED FROM REPEAL; MATTERS NOT AFFECTED BY REPEAL.
   The adoption of this code and the repeal of ordinances provided for in §
10.03 shall not affect the following ordinances, rights and obligations, which
are hereby expressly saved from repeal; provided, however, that the repeal of
ordinances pursuant to §
10.03 or the saving from repeal of ordinances pursuant to this section shall
not be construed so as to revive any ordinance previously repealed, superseded
or no longer of any effect:
   (A)   Any ordinance adopted subsequent to to the adoption of this code of
ordinances;
   (B)   Any right or liability established, accrued or incurred under any
legislative provision of the township prior to the effective date of this code
or any action or proceeding brought for the enforcement of such right or
liability or any cause of action acquired or existing;
   (C)   Any offense or act committed or done before the effective date of this
code in violation of any legislative provision of the township or any penalty,
punishment or forfeiture which may result therefrom;
   (D)   Any prosecution, indictment, action, suit or other proceeding pending
or any judgment rendered prior to the effective date of this code, brought
pursuant to any legislative provision of the township;
   (E)   Any franchise, license, right, easement or privilege heretofore
granted or conferred by the township or any lawful contract, obligation or
agreement;
   (F)   Any ordinance appropriating money or transferring funds, promising or
guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the issuance and delivery of
any bond of the township or other instruments or evidence of the township’s
indebtedness;
   (G)   Any ordinance adopting an annual budget or establishing an annual tax
rate;
   (H)   Any ordinance providing for the levy, imposition or collection of
special taxes, assessments or charges;
   (I)   Any ordinance authorizing the purchase, sale, lease or transfer of
property or acquiring property by acceptance of deed, condemnation or exercise
of eminent domain;
   (J)   Any ordinance annexing land to the township;
   (K)   Any ordinance providing for or requiring the construction or
reconstruction or opening of sidewalks, curbs and gutters;
   (L)   Any ordinance or part of an ordinance providing for laying out,
opening, altering, widening, relocating, straightening, establishing grade,
changing name, improvement, acceptance or vacation of any right-of-way,
easement, street, road, highway, sidewalk, park or other public place or
property or designating various streets as public highways;
   (M)   Any ordinance establishing water, sewer or other special purpose
districts and designating the boundaries thereof; providing for a system of
sewers or water supply lines; or providing for the construction, extension,
dedication, acceptance or abandonment of any part of a system of sewers or
water supply lines;
   (N)   Any ordinance providing for the making of public improvements;
   (O)   Any ordinance providing for the salaries and compensation of officers
and employees of the township or setting the bond of any officer or employee;
   (P)   Any ordinance concerning changes and amendments to the Zoning Map;
   (Q)   Any ordinance relating to or establishing a pension plan or pension
fund for municipal employees, specifically including Ord. 2-91 and Ord. 1-93;
and
   (R)   Any ordinance or portion of an ordinance establishing a specific fee
amount for any license, permit or service obtained from the township.
(2003 Code, § 1-4)  (Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 10.05  INCLUSION OF NEW LEGISLATION PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a general and permanent nature adopted subsequent to the
date given in §
10.04(A) and/or prior to the date of adoption of this code are hereby deemed to
be a part of the code and shall, upon being printed, be included therein.
Attested copies of all such ordinances shall be temporarily placed in the code
until printed supplements are included.
(2003 Code, § 1-5)  (Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 10.06  CHANGES AND REVISIONS IN PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED LEGISLATION; NEW
PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Nonsubstantive grammatical changes. In compiling and preparing the
ordinances of the township for adoption and revision as part of the code,
certain nonsubstantive grammatical and style changes were made in one or more
of said ordinances. It is the intention of the Board of Supervisors that all
such changes be adopted as part of the code as if the ordinances so changed had
been previously formally amended to read as such.
   (B)   Substantive changes and revisions. In addition to the changes and
revisions described above, changes and revisions of a substantive nature, as
set forth in Schedule A attached hereto and made a part hereof as if set out in
full, are hereby made to various ordinances included in the code. These changes
are enacted to bring provisions into conformity with the desired policies of
the Board of Supervisors, and it is the intent of the Board of Supervisors that
all such changes be adopted as part of the code as if the legislation so
changed had previously formally amended to read as such. All such changes and
revisions shall be deemed to be in effect as of the effective date of the code.
   (C)   Nomenclature.  Throughout the code, any of the following are updated
as indicated:
      (1)   References to the “Township Secretary” or “Treasurer” or “Secretary
Treasurer” are revised to refer to the “Administrative Secretary/Treasurer”.
      (2)   References to a “Justice of the Peace” or “District Magistrate” are
updated to read “District Justice”.
      (3)   References to the “Department of Environmental Resources” or “DER”
are revised to refer to the “Department of Environmental Protection” or “DEP”.
      (4)   References to the “Department of Community Affairs” are amended to
read “Department of Community and Economic Development”.
   (D)   Fees and bonds. In the following sections the specific fees and/or
bond amounts are removed and replaced with wording to provide that said amounts
shall be as set from time to time by resolution of the Board of Supervisors: §§
50.03(A) and (B),
50.05,
50.09 and
51.01.
   (E)   Penalties.
      (1)   In §§
31.99(B)(2)(a),
34.99(B),
50.99(B),
51.99(C),
90.99(B) and
91.99, penalties are revised to incorporate standardized wording providing for
enforcement at the $600 civil level, substantially as follows: “Any person who
violates or permits a violation of this chapter shall, upon being found liable
therefor in a civil enforcement proceeding commenced by the township before a
District Justice, pay a fine of not more than $600, plus all court costs,
including reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred by the township in the
enforcement of this chapter. The minimum fine shall be one-half the maximum
specified. No judgment shall be imposed until the date of the determination of
the violation by the District Justice. If the defendant neither pays nor timely
appeals the judgement, the township may enforce the judgment pursuant to the
applicable Rules of Civil Procedure. Each day a violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense. Further, the appropriate officers or agents of
the township are hereby authorized to seek equitable relief, including
injunction, to enforce compliance herewith.”
      (2)   In §§
34.99(C),
50.99(C),
51.99(B) and
92.99, penalties are revised to incorporate standardized wording providing for
enforcement at the $1,000 criminal level, substantially as follows: “Any person
who violates or permits a violation of this chapter shall, upon conviction in a
summary proceeding brought before a District Justice under the Pennsylvania
Rules of Criminal Procedure, be guilty of a summary offense and shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000, plus costs of prosecution. The
minimum fine shall be one-half the maximum specified. In default of payment
thereof, the defendant may be sentenced to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 90 days. Each day or portion thereof that such violation continues or
is permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense, and each section
of this chapter that is violated shall also constitute a separate offense.”
(2003 Code, § 1-6)  (Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 10.07  INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of the code, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare.
   (B)   Where the provisions of the code impose greater restrictions or
requirements than those of any statute, other ordinance, resolution or
regulation, the provisions of the code shall control.
   (C)   Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance, resolution or
regulation impose greater restrictions or requirements, the provisions of such
statute, other ordinance, resolution or regulation shall control.
(2003 Code, § 1-7)  (Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 10.08  TITLES AND HEADINGS; EDITOR’S NOTES.
   (A)   Chapter and subchapter titles, headings and titles of sections and
other divisions in the code or in supplements made to the code are inserted in
the code and may be inserted in supplements to the code for the convenience of
persons using the code and are not part of the legislation.
   (B)   Editor’s notes indicating sources of sections, giving other
information or referring to the statutes or to other parts of the code are
inserted in the code and may be inserted in supplements to the code for the
convenience of persons using the code and are not part of the legislation.
(2003 Code, § 1-8)  (Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 10.09  FILING OF COPIES OF CODE.
   Three copies of the code in a volume shall be filed with the ordinance book
in the office of the Administrative Secretary/Treasurer and shall remain there
for use and examination by the public. Upon adoption, such copies shall be
certified to by the Administrative Secretary/Treasurer, as provided by law, and
such certified copies shall remain on file in the office of the Administrative
Secretary/Treasurer, available to persons desiring to examine the same during
all times while said code is in effect.
(2003 Code, § 1-9)  (Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 10.10  AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   Any and all additions, deletions, amendments or supplements to the code,
when passed and adopted in such form as to indicate the intention of the Board
of Supervisors to be a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into
such code so that reference to the code shall be understood and intended to
include such changes. Whenever such additions, deletions, amendments or
supplements to the code shall be adopted, they shall thereafter be printed and,
as provided hereunder, inserted in the book containing said code as amendments
and supplements thereto.
(2003 Code, § 1-10)  (Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 10.11  CODE BOOKS TO BE KEPT UP-TO-DATE.
   It shall be the duty of the Administrative Secretary/Treasurer or someone
authorized and directed by him or her to keep up-to-date the certified copies
of the book containing the code required to be filed in the office of the
Administrative Secretary/Treasurer for the use of the public. All changes in
said code and all legislation adopted by the Board of Supervisors subsequent to
the effective date of this codification which the Board of Supervisors shall
adopt specifically as part of the code shall, when finally adopted, be included
therein by reference until such changes or new legislation are printed as
supplements to said code books, at which time such supplements shall be
inserted therein.
(2003 Code, § 1-11)  (Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 10.12  PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   The Administrative Secretary/Treasurer, pursuant to law, shall cause to be
published in the manner required a notice of the introduction of the code in a
newspaper of general circulation in the township. The enactment and application
of this code, coupled with the publication of the notice of introduction, the
availability of copies of the code for inspection by the public and the filing
of an attested copy of this ordinance with the county, as required by law,
shall be deemed, held and considered to be due and legal publication of all
provisions of the code for all purposes.
(2003 Code, § 1-12)  (Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 10.13  ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH CODE; PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to improperly change or amend, by additions
or deletions, or to alter or tamper with the code or any part or portion
thereof, in any manner whatsoever, which will cause the law of the township to
be misrepresented thereby. Any person who violates or permits a violation of
this section of this chapter, upon being found liable therefor in a civil
enforcement proceeding, shall pay a fine of not more than $600, plus all court
costs, including reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred by the township in the
enforcement of this chapter. No judgment shall be imposed until the date of the
determination of the violation by the District Justice and/or Court. If the
defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the township may
enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable rules of civil procedure. Each
day a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense. Further, the
appropriate officers or agents of the township are hereby authorized to seek
equitable relief, including injunction, to enforce compliance herewith.
(2003 Code, § 1-13)  (Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.14  SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this code and of the code adopted hereby are severable,
and if any clause, sentence, division, section, subchapter, chapter or part
thereof shall be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal,
invalid or unconstitutional, such judgment or decision shall not affect, impair
or invalidate the remainder thereof but shall be confined in its operation and
application to the clause, sentence, division, section, subchapter, chapter or
part thereof rendered illegal, invalid or unconstitutional. It is hereby
declared to be the intent of the Board of Supervisors that this chapter and the
code would have been adopted if such illegal, invalid or unconstitutional
clause, sentence, division, section, subchapter, chapter or part thereof had
not been included therein.
(2003 Code, § 1-14)  (Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalty. Any person who violates or permits a violation of this
code shall, upon being found liable therefor in a civil enforcement proceeding
commenced by the township before a District Justice, pay a fine of not more
than $600, plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred
by the township in the enforcement of this chapter. The minimum fine shall be
one-half the maximum specified. No judgment shall be imposed until the date of
the determination of the violation by the District Justice. If the defendant
neither pays nor timely appeals the judgement, the township may enforce the
judgment pursuant to the applicable Rules of Civil Procedure. Each day a
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense. Further, the appropriate
officers or agents of the township are hereby authorized to seek equitable
relief, including injunction, to enforce compliance herewith.
   (B)   Criminal penalty. Any person who violates or permits a violation of
this chapter shall, upon conviction in a summary proceeding brought before a
District Justice under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, be guilty
of a summary offense and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000,
plus costs of prosecution. The minimum fine shall be one-half the maximum
specified. In default of payment thereof, the defendant may be sentenced to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days. Each day or portion thereof that
such violation continues or is permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense, and each section of this chapter that is violated shall also
constitute a separate offense.
(2003 Code, § 1-6)  (Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Ordinances; penalty, see 53 P.S. § 66601
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWNSHIP OFFICIALS
      
32.   TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   TOWNSHIP POLICIES
      
34.   FINANCES
      
35.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Pensions and retirement
Salaries and Compensation
   
30.15   Annual amount
   
30.16   Payment schedule
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01  PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT.
   Current provisions regarding pensions and retirement are on file in the
township offices.
(2003 Code, Ch. 29)
SALARIES AND COMPENSATION
§ 30.15  ANNUAL AMOUNT.
   (A)   Each Supervisor of the township, elected or appointed to office, shall
receive annual compensation in the amount of $1,875 for exercising the
statutory duties of Supervisor.
   (B)   Should a Supervisor fail to attend more than 25% of the scheduled
workshop/business meetings in a given year, than that Supervisor’s salary shall
be reduced proportionally by the total number of meetings missed from the total
number of meetings held during that year.
   (C)   This rate of compensation shall become effective at the beginning of
the next term of the Supervisor.
(2003 Code, § 42-1)  (Ord. 4-2015, passed 1-5-2015)
§ 30.16  PAYMENT SCHEDULE.
   Such compensation shall be paid in monthly installments.
(2003 Code, § 42-2)  (Ord. 4-2015, passed 1-5-2015)
CHAPTER 31:  TOWNSHIP OFFICIALS
Section
Secretary/Treasurer, Administrative
   
31.01   Creation of office
   
31.02   Appointment; term; demonstration of qualifications
   
31.03   Duties
   
31.04   Assignment of directives by Board
   
31.05   Compensation; reimbursement of expenses
   
31.06   Posting of bond
   
31.07   Conflicts of interest
Code Enforcement
   
31.20   Establishment of office; appointment of Code Enforcement Officer;
relief from personal liability; recording of office business and activities
   
31.21   Duties and powers of Code Enforcement Officer
   
31.22   Permits, certificates and fees
   
31.23   Savings clause; title
 
   
31.99   Penalty
SECRETARY/TREASURER, ADMINISTRATIVE
§ 31.01  CREATION OF OFFICE.
   There is hereby created by the township an office of the township to be
known as the “office of Administrative Secretary/Treasurer”. Said office shall
have certain duties and responsibilities, outlined in the job description
adopted pursuant to this subchapter, as such job description may be amended
from time to time. Said job description is on file in the township offices.
(2003 Code, § 47-1)  (Ord. 1-99, passed 3-2-1999)
§ 31.02  APPOINTMENT; TERM; DEMONSTRATION OF QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Administrative Secretary/Treasurer shall be appointed at the annual
reorganization meeting of the township and shall serve at the pleasure of the
Board of Supervisors. The individual appointed to the position shall have
demonstrated that relevant education or experience has qualified him or her to
meet the standards defined in the job description.
(2003 Code, § 47-2)  (Ord. 1-99, passed 3-2-1999)
§ 31.03  DUTIES.
   The Administrative Secretary/Treasurer shall support the policy-making role
of the Supervisors by providing them with the information necessary to
thoroughly evaluate available options when problems and issues arise,
developing options and even indicating a recommended course of action.
(2003 Code, § 47-3)  (Ord. 1-99, passed 3-2-1999)
§ 31.04  ASSIGNMENT OF DIRECTIVES BY BOARD.
   Directives to the Administrative Secretary/Treasurer, other than requests
for correspondence or other non-impacting inquiries, should be done by a
majority vote of the Board of Supervisors, and not by a single member of the
Board. When conflicts arise over directives given by individual Board members,
the dispute shall be resolved by the Chairperson.
(2003 Code, § 47-4)  (Ord. 1-99, passed 3-2-1999)
§ 31.05  COMPENSATION; REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES.
   Compensation for the position of Administrative Secretary/Treasurer shall be
fixed annually by the Board of Supervisors and shall be commensurate with the
abilities of the individual appointed to the office. Reimbursement for mileage
on the individual’s vehicle to perform township business shall be paid at the
rate set annually for all township personnel.
(2003 Code, § 47-5)  (Ord. 1-99, passed 3-2-1999)
§ 31.06  POSTING OF BOND.
   The Administrative Secretary/Treasurer shall post bond, with a corporate
surety in an amount approved by the Board of Supervisors, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of his or her duties. The fee for said bond shall be paid
by the township.
(2003 Code, § 47-6)  (Ord. 1-99, passed 3-2-1999)
§ 31.07  CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   The Administrative Secretary/Treasurer shall have no personal interest,
direct or indirect, in any contracts with the township.
(2003 Code, § 47-7)  (Ord. 1-99, passed 3-2-1999)
CODE ENFORCEMENT
§ 31.20  ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE; APPOINTMENT OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER;
RELIEF FROM PERSONAL LIABILITY; RECORDING OF OFFICE BUSINESS AND ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Creation of office of Code Enforcement. There is hereby created by the
Board of Supervisors of the township an office of the township to be known as
the “office of Code Enforcement”. Said office shall have the responsibility for
administering and enforcing the provisions of this subchapter and of those
other codes and/or ordinances of the township (herein referred to as the
“applicable codes and ordinances”) which do not designate other enforcement
officers or agencies as its administration and enforcement official.
   (B)   Appointment of Code Enforcement Officer. There shall be appointed by
the Board of Supervisors of the township a Code Enforcement Officer who shall
be in charge of the office of Code Enforcement of the township. The Code
Enforcement Officer shall supervise such other employees or assistants as shall
be necessary for the administration and execution of the responsibilities of
said office, as appointed and approved by the Board of Supervisors of the
township. Said Code Enforcement Officer and other personnel may consist of
employees directly hired and compensated by the township.
   (C)   Relief from personal liability. The Code Enforcement Officer or other
official or employees shall not, while acting for the township, render
themselves liable personally because of any act or omission as required or
permitted in the discharge of his, her or their official duties. Any suit
instituted against such Code Enforcement Officer, official or employee because
of any act performed in the lawful discharge of authorized duties shall be
defended by the Solicitor of the township and/or its insurance carrier, and in
no case will said Officer, official or employee be liable for costs in any
action, suit or proceeding.
   (D)   Official record. An official record shall be kept of all business and
activities of the office of Code Enforcement, and all such records shall be
open to the public for inspection at all appropriate times, except that no
individual, owner, operator, occupant or other person shall be subject to
unwarranted invasion of privacy, and except that all evidence or information
obtained in the course of any inspection shall be considered privileged
information and shall be kept confidential. Such evidence or information shall
not be disclosed, except as may be necessary in the judgment of the Code
Enforcement Officer for the proper and effective administration and enforcement
of the provisions of this subchapter and shall not otherwise be made public
without the consent of the owner, occupant, operator or other person in charge
of the unit, structure or premises inspected.
(2003 Code, § 78-1)  (Ord. 1-91, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 31.21  DUTIES AND POWERS OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   Enforcement of Code Enforcement Officer. The Code Enforcement Officer
shall enforce and administer all of the provisions of this subchapter and of
those other applicable codes and ordinances which establish the office of Code
Enforcement as its administration and enforcement official.
   (B)   Duties of Code Enforcement Officer. The duties of the Code Enforcement
Officer shall include the receipt of applications, the issuance of permits,
notices, certificates and orders, the making of inspections to determine
conformance with applicable codes and ordinances, the undertaking of systematic
inspection programs, the undertaking of research and investigations, the
keeping of records, the issuance of written reports, the initiation of
citations for violations of codes or ordinances of the township, and such other
activities as may be required.
   (C)   Right of entry.
      (1)   In the discharge of his or her duties, the Code Enforcement
Officer, upon showing proper identification where requested, is hereby
authorized to enter and inspect, between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.,
any structure or premises in the township to enforce the provisions of this
chapter and of those other applicable codes and ordinances. The assistance and
cooperation of all other municipality officials shall be available to the Code
Enforcement Officer to assist in the performance of his or her duties and in
securing right of entry.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Officer and the owner, operator or occupant or
other person in charge of any structure or premises, subject to the provisions
of this subchapter, may agree to an inspection by appointment at a mutually
convenient time.
      (3)   The owner, operator or occupant or other person in charge of any
structure or premises shall give the Code Enforcement Officer entry and free
access thereto and to every part of the structure or to the premises
surrounding the structure.
      (4)   If any owner, operator or occupant or other person in charge fails
or refuses to permit entry and free access to the structure or premises under
his or her control, or to any part thereof, with respect to any authorized
inspection, the Code Enforcement Officer may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the inspection, either request the issuance of a search
warrant by the District Justice then having jurisdiction, or file a complaint
and may petition for and obtain an order directing compliance with the
inspection requirements of this subchapter from a court of competent
jurisdiction. Any person who refuses to comply with such a search warrant or an
order issued pursuant to this section shall be subject to such penalties as may
be authorized by law for violation of a court order or for failing to heed a
search warrant.
(2003 Code, § 78-2)  (Ord. 1-91, passed 4-2-1991)  Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.22  PERMITS, CERTIFICATES AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required. An application for a permit shall be required in
accordance with the provisions of those applicable codes and ordinances which
the office of Code Enforcement has the responsibility to administer. Said
application shall be submitted in such form as may be prescribed by the Code
Enforcement Officer and shall be accompanied by any required fee.
   (B)   Action on application. The Code Enforcement Officer shall examine said
application to determine compliance with those other applicable codes and
ordinances of the township and shall, within 30 days after filing, either
approve or reject said application. If said application is rejected, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall inform the applicant in writing, stating the reasons
for such rejection.
   (C)   Required fees. Applicants for permits required by any of the
applicable codes and ordinances shall pay, at the time of application, to the
Code Enforcement Officer, for use by the township, fees according to the
schedule of fees adopted from time to time by resolution of the Board of
Township Supervisors.
   (D)   Permits. All permits granted under any of the above applicable codes
and ordinances shall be good for a period of six months, provided that
extensions may be requested in writing, and such extensions may be granted by
the Code Enforcement Officer for good reason; except that any permit granted
for demolition activities shall be valid for six months only, and if such
demolition work is not completed within that time, any bond posted by the
applicant shall be forfeited.
(2003 Code, § 78-3)  (Ord. 1-91, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 31.23  SAVINGS CLAUSE; TITLE.
   (A)   Saving clause. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to affect
any suit or proceeding now pending in any court, or any actions required, or
liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action accrued or existing, under
any act or ordinance repealed hereby. No right or remedy of any character shall
be lost, impaired or affected by this subchapter.
   (B)   Short title. The subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the
“Code Enforcement Ordinance of the Township of Greene”.
(2003 Code, § 78-5)  (Ord. 1-91, passed 4-2-1991)
§ 31.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Code enforcement.
      (1)   Procedure in case of violations. Whenever the Code Enforcement
Officer determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has
been a violation of any provision of §§
31.20 through
31.23 or of the other applicable codes and ordinances, or of any rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, he or she shall proceed as follows:
         (a)   Serve notice in writing of the alleged violation which shall be
signed by the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her authorized representative.
Said notice shall be served personally on the responsible owner, occupant,
operator or other person in charge, or served by registered mail with a return
receipt requested, or, where such responsible person in charge cannot be found,
service may be made by posting a notice in or about the structure or premises
or by publishing such notice in a newspaper of general circulation for a period
of three consecutive days, or served by any other method authorized under the
laws of the commonwealth;
         (b)   Said notice shall include a statement of the reasons why the
notice is being issued, the sections of the code and/or ordinances which have
been violated and the remedial actions required;
         (c)   Said notice shall allow a reasonable time not to exceed 60 days,
for the initiation and correction of the violation alleged or of the remedial
actions required, except where emergency conditions exist which require
immediate corrective action;
         (d)   Said notice shall contain a statement indicating that the notice
will become an order if no request and approval for an extension of time is
made to the Code Enforcement Officer; and
         (e)   The Code Enforcement Officer may grant a request for a
reasonable extension of time where he or she has evidence to believe that the
responsible person is attempting to remove the alleged violation; however, no
such extension of time may exceed a period of 90 days.
      (2)   Penalties.
         (a)   Any person who fails to correct a violation or institute a
remedial action, as ordered by the Code Enforcement Officer, or who violates a
provision or fails to comply with any requirements of §§
31.20 through
31.23, or of any other applicable codes or ordinances, shall, upon being found
liable therefor in a civil enforcement proceeding commenced by the township
before a District Justice, pay a fine of not more than $600, plus all court
costs, including reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred by the township in the
enforcement of §§
31.20 through
31.23. The minimum fine shall be one-half the maximum specified. No judgment
shall be imposed until the date of the determination of the violation by the
District Justice. If the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the
judgment, the township may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable
Rules of Civil Procedure. Each day a violation exists shall constitute a
separate offense. Further, the appropriate officers or agents of the township
are hereby authorized to seek equitable relief, including injunction, to
enforce compliance herewith. The Code Enforcement Officer is specifically
authorized to initiate action for violations by filing citations with the local
District Justice.
         (b)   The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not
preclude the Solicitor representing the township from initiating, and he or she
is hereby ordered to initiate, appropriate actions or proceedings at law, or in
equity, to effect the purposes of §§
31.20 through
31.23.
(2003 Code, § 78-4)  (Ord. 1-91, passed 4-2-1991)
CHAPTER 32:  TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
32.01   Establishment
   
32.02   Composition; terms of office
   
32.03   Powers and duties
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Planning Commission formerly consisting of seven members, shall now
consist of five members, pursuant to the provisions of Article II, §§ 201
through 203, of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as established
by the Act of July 31, 1968, P.L. 805, No. 247, as amended and reenacted (see
53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.).
(2003 Code, § 35-1)  (Ord. 2-2006, passed 11-6-2006; Ord. 9-2016, passed 10-4-
2016)
§ 32.02  COMPOSITION; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The Planning Commission shall be comprised of five members who shall be
appointed for terms of office of four years. The positions of the current
members, absent resignation, whose terms shall be the next two to expire
following the effective date of this subchapter, shall not be filled, thereby
reducing the membership of the Commission from seven to five.
(2003 Code, § 35-2)  (Ord. 2-2006, passed 11-6-2006; Ord. 9-2016, passed 10-4-
2016)
§ 32.03  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have all the powers and duties conferred and
imposed upon it as set forth in the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code,
established by the Act of July 31, 1968, P.L. 805, No. 247, as amended and
reenacted (see 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.).
(2003 Code, § 35-3)  (Ord. 2-2006, passed 11-6-2006; Ord. 9-2016, passed 10-4-
2016)
CHAPTER 33:  TOWNSHIP POLICIES
Section
Mutual Aid; Fire and Emergency Situations -
Beaver County and Beaver County Municipalities
   
33.01   Approval of agreement
   
33.02   Execution of agreement
Intergovernmental Agreement for Mutual Aid; Fire Protection and Emergency
Situations -
Borough of Hookstown and Borough of Georgetown
   
33.15   Agreement
   
33.16   Authorization
   
33.17   Provisions of agreement
Intergovernmental Cooperation Agreement; Road Maintenance -
Borough of Hookstown and Borough of Georgetown
   
33.30   Legislative intent and applicability
   
33.31   Intergovernmental agreement
   
33.32   Duration of agreement
   
33.33   Purpose and objectives of agreement
MUTUAL AID; FIRE AND EMERGENCY SITUATIONS -
BEAVER COUNTY AND BEAVER COUNTY MUNICIPALITIES
§ 33.01  APPROVAL OF AGREEMENT.
   The agreement between the Township of Greene, the municipalities which have
executed copies of this agreement and the County of Beaver, a copy of which is
on file in the township offices, for intergovernmental cooperation in providing
aid and assistance for fire protection and emergency situations is hereby
accepted and approved.
(2003 Code, § 24-1)
Editor’s Note:
   See Ord. 1-97, passed 11-4-1997 authorizing the township to enter into an
agreement between the township and Beaver County and Beaver County
Municipalities for mutual aid during times of fire, explosion or other
emergency situation. The agreement referenced in this section was signed on
November 4, 1997 and is on file in the township offices.
§ 33.02  EXECUTION OF AGREEMENT.
   The proper officials of the township are hereby authorized to execute said
agreement on behalf of the township.
(2003 Code, § 24-2)
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT FOR MUTUAL AID; FIRE PROTECTION AND
EMERGENCY SITUATIONS - BOROUGH OF HOOKSTOWN AND
BOROUGH OF GEORGETOWN
§ 33.15  AGREEMENT.
   The agreement between the Borough of Hookstown, the Borough of Georgetown
and the Township of Greene (“the township”), contained herein below, for
intergovernmental cooperation in providing aid and assistance for fire
protection and emergency services, is hereby accepted and approved.
(Ord. 1-1992, passed 3-3-1992)
Editor’s Note:
   The intergovernmental cooperation agreement codified herein was signed by
the township on March 4, 1992. The Constitution and By-laws of the Board are on
file in the township offices.
§ 33.16  AUTHORIZATION.
   The proper officials of the township are hereby authorized to execute said
agreement on behalf of the township.
(Ord. 1-1992, passed 3-3-1992)
§ 33.17 PROVISIONS OF AGREEMENT.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The Borough of Hookstown, the Borough of Georgetown and the
township have, in the past, extended to each other aid and assistance for fire
protection and emergency services; and
      (2)   The authority to provide aid and assistance for fire protection and
emergency services and to make appropriations therefor is contained in the
following Act of Assembly:
         (a)   Dec. 19, P.L. 1158, No. 177, §§ 1 et seq. (53 Pa.C.S. §§ 2301 et
seq.)
         (b)   Boroughs:  P.L. 432, 2014, No. 37, § 1202 (8 Pa.C.S. § 1202
(24)); and
         (c)    Second-Class Townships: Act of June 19, 1961; P.L. 454, § 1 (53
P.S.  § 65704, as amended.)
      (3)   Without intergovernmental cooperation providing aid and assistance
for fire protection and emergency services, the quality of such services,
which, in the past, has been afforded to the residents of the signatory
parties, would be adversely affected; and
      (4)   53 Pa.C.S. §§ 2301 et seq. requires that agreements providing for
joint cooperation be in writing and be adopted by ordinance; and
      (5)   The signatory parties now desire to reduce to writing their
previous understandings to assure intergovernmental cooperation to provide aid
and assistance for fire protection and emergency services upon request.
      (6)   The governing bodies of the signatory parties, pursuant to the
aforesaid authority, and intending to be legally bound, do mutually covenant
and agree as set out in the following sections.
   (B)   Purpose and objectives.
      (1)   The purpose of the Emergency Services Board of Hookstown,
Georgetown and the township is to ensure the continued provision of fire
protection and emergency services for the communities of Hookstown, Georgetown
and the township.
      (2)   The primary objectives are as follows:
         (a)   To review, evaluate and recommend to governmental bodies the
current financial condition and immediate needs of the Hookstown Volunteer Fire
Department, and to initiate audits at the Board's discretion.
         (b)   To provide immediate and future recommendations to the Hookstown
Volunteer Fire Department for the development and effective use of financial
resources and general management improvements. To suggest long-term growth
requirements for the Hookstown Volunteer Fire Department.
         (c)   To provide feedback of pertinent information to all
participating municipalities.
         (d)   To evaluate, if necessary, alternate sources of fire protection.
         (e)   To evaluate current and future needs of other emergency
services, such as ambulance, police, etc., and make recommendations to
governmental bodies.
         (f)   To evaluate requests for financial assistance and distribute
funding the Board has available, by line item approval.
         (g)   To seek available funding for emergency services, including, but
not limited to, grants, tax levies, insurance collections, fund-raising and the
Foreign Fire Fund.
   (C)   Administration.
      (1)   A joint emergency services program shall be administered under the
terms and conditions of this agreement by a board, which is hereby known as the
Emergency Services Board of Hookstown, Georgetown and the township (hereinafter
referred to as “Board”).
      (2)   The Board shall be composed of one regular member and one alternate
member appointed by each of the respective parties to this agreement. In
addition, a member and alternate shall be appointed by the Volunteer Fire
Department, and an at-large member and alternate shall be appointed by the
township. The alternate member will serve in the absence of the regular member.
In the absence of both the regular and the alternate member, a representative
will have full voting rights if the substitute representative presents written
evidence of his or her appointment by the proper officers of the party that the
substitute is representing. If any representative of a party ceases to be a
member of the Board, the vacancy shall be filled by the proper authorities of
the party for the balance of the unexpired term. All appointments to the Board
shall be made in writing and  shall be executed by the proper officers of the
party making the appointment. If a party to this agreement subsequently
withdraws from this agreement, its representation on  the Board shall cease
upon the effective date of its withdrawal.
      (3)   A quorum shall exist when one-half of the voting members are
present. All decisions of the Board shall be made by a majority vote of those
present, except that a budget must be approved by a majority of all of the
voting members of the Board.
   (D)   Administrative policy.
      (1)   The Board may organize itself and adopt its own by-laws, provided,
however, that the by-laws must be approved by the parties to this agreement.
      (2)   The Board shall have authority to hire such full-time and part-time
employees as it deems necessary. The Board shall be empowered to enter into
contracts for policies of group insurance and employee benefits,  including
social security,  for its employees.
      (3)   The Board shall be responsible for furnishing appropriate reports,
preparing an annual budget and for doing all other things necessary to carry
out the functions of the Board.
      (4)   The Board shall have the authority to purchase emergency services
equipment and to distribute to the appropriate emergency services provider.
   (E)   Finances.
      (1)   The fiscal year of the Board shall be the calendar year.
      (2)   No later than September 15 of each year, the Board shall submit to
each party to this agreement, a revenue budget indicating the proposed
contribution of each party for the succeeding calendar year. Each party shall
have until October 15, or 30 days after the presentation of the revenue budget,
whichever last occurs, to withdraw from participation in the Emergency Services
Board of Hookstown, Georgetown and the township. In the event that half or more
of the members withdraw from the agreement, the remaining members shall meet
within 30 days of October 15 to determine whether the Board shall be continued
or be dissolved. A majority of the remaining members may dissolve the Board.
      (3)   The contributions of the member municipalities shall be as follows:
         (a)   Each member municipality shall contribute one mill of real
estate tax to the Board, for operational expenses, until such time that it be
deemed no longer necessary by a unanimous vote of the Board's voting members.
         (b)   The Board shall obtain any remaining income or revenue through
fees and charges to Emergency Services users.
      (4)   In the event that the Board is dissolved, the real and personal
assets shall be distributed to the parties in proportion to the cumulative
contributions of the parties from the date of this agreement to the time of
dissolution.
      (5)   All funds shall be deposited in a financial institution or
institutions of the Board's selection. All expenditures shall be made by the
treasurer of the Board as directed by the Board.
   (F)   Facilities.
      (1)   Each of the participating parties shall attempt to cooperate in
making their property, equipment and buildings available for the use of the
Board when there is no conflict with the use of said facilities and equipment
by the participating parties.
      (2)   The Board shall pay for all custodial or other services associated
with the use of the host community's facilities and equipment.
      (3)   The rate of pay for custodial or other services shall be determined
by mutual agreement between the Board and participating municipalities
involved, as shall other matters relating to the use of any property, equipment
and buildings of any participating party to this agreement.
   (G)   Terms of agreement.
      (1)   This agreement shall become effective as of January 1, 1992 and
continue until December 31, 1992 and shall be automatically self-renewed from
year to year thereafter, provided, however, that any participating party may
withdraw from the terms of this agreement by giving written notice of such
withdrawal within the time established under division (C), above.
      (2)   Additional parties may be added to this agreement upon the
unanimous consent of the Board, and upon written agreement of the additional
party to be bound by the terms and conditions of this agreement.
(Ord. 1-1992, passed 3-3-1992)
INTERGOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT; ROAD MAINTENANCE -
BOROUGH OF HOOKSTOWN AND BOROUGH OF GEORGETOWN
§ 33.30 LEGISLATIVE INTENT AND APPLICABILITY.
   The background of this subchapter and the legislative intention of the Board
of Supervisors (“Board”) and the Borough Councils of Georgetown and Hookstown
(“Councils”) in enacting it are as follows:
   (A)   Greene Township (“township”) is a municipal corporation and township
of the Second Class and Georgetown and Hookstown are municipal corporations and
Boroughs organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
   (B)   The General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has provided
for intergovernmental cooperation in the performance of governmental functions
and powers by the Act of December 19, 1996, P.L. 1158, No. 177 § 2301, as
amended.
   (C)   The Intergovernmental Cooperation Act authorizes two or more local
governments or an authority in the Commonwealth to jointly cooperate in the
exercise or in the performance of their respective governmental functions,
powers or responsibilities, so long as the municipality adopts an ordinance so
providing.
   (D)   The Board and the Councils desire to enter into an agreement whereby
the township will provide snow removal, patching, grading and repairs on the
streets, roads and alleys of Georgetown and Hookstown.
   (E)   The Board and the Councils have determined that it is in the best
interests of the township, Georgetown Borough and Hookstown Borough to enter
into the aforementioned agreement.
(Ord. -2016, passed -4-2016)
§ 33.31 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT.
   The covenants, terms and conditions of the intergovernmental cooperation
agreement, incorporated herein by reference, are hereby incorporated herein by
reference with the same effect as though fully set forth at length.
(Ord. -2016, passed -4-2016)
§ 33.32  DURATION OF AGREEMENT.
   The duration of the intergovernmental cooperation agreement is set forth in
the term of said agreement.
(Ord. -2016, passed -4-2016)
§ 33.33  PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES OF THE AGREEMENT.
   The purpose of said intergovernmental cooperation agreement is to perform
minor road maintenance including snow removal, patching, grading and repairs
(excluding major work such as milling, subbase and paving) on borough streets,
roads and alleys.
(Ord. -2016, passed -4-2016)
CHAPTER 34:  FINANCES
Section
Rental Occupancy Reports
   
34.01   Purpose
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   Reports by landlords
   
34.04   Reports by persons upon becoming landlords
   
34.05   Reports of changes in use or occupancy
   
34.06   Duties of Administrative Secretary/Treasurer
Fire Insurance Escrow
   
34.20   Designated officer
   
34.21   Municipal certificate required; claims payment procedure
   
34.22   Fees
Local Government Investment Trust
   
34.35   Entrance into Trust
   
34.36   Purchase and redemption of shares
   
34.37   Custody of funds
   
34.38   Findings and determination
 
   
34.99   Penalty
RENTAL OCCUPANCY REPORTS
§ 34.01  PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted to provide for the uniform and equitable
distribution of the tax levies in the township and upon the inhabitants thereof
and to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the township.
(2003 Code, § 124-1)  (Ord. 3-86, passed 11-4-1986)
§ 34.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS UNIT. A parcel of real estate, with or without improvements located
thereon, utilized by any person or persons for any commercial activity or
purpose.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms used for living and sleeping purposes
arranged for occupancy by one family or by one or more persons.
   LANDLORD. A lessor, or person who acts as agent for the lessor, of any
parcel of real estate located in the township, or a lessor, or person who acts
as agent for the lessor, of any improvements on real estate or any building
located in the township.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, firm or corporation.
   TENANT. A person who has the use, either by himself or herself or with
others, of a dwelling unit or a business unit owned by a person other than
himself or herself, for a period exceeding 30 days.
(2003 Code, § 124-2)  (Ord. 3-86, passed 11-4-1986)
§ 34.03  REPORTS BY LANDLORDS.
   No later than October 31 of each year, each landlord shall submit to the
Administrative Secretary/Treasurer of the township a report form supplied by
the Administrative Secretary/Treasurer of the township which includes the
following information:
   (A)   List of the dwelling units and business units owned by the landlord,
located within the township limits, whether occupied or not occupied;
   (B)   Address of each dwelling unit and business unit;
   (C)   Brief description of each dwelling unit or business unit;
   (D)   Whether or not said dwelling unit or business unit is inhabited or
utilized by tenants; and
   (E)   Name(s) of the tenant or tenants utilizing the aforementioned dwelling
unit or business unit, if any.
(2003 Code, § 124-3)  (Ord. 3-86, passed 11-4-1986)
§ 34.04  REPORTS BY PERSONS UPON BECOMING LANDLORDS.
   After the effective date of this subchapter, any person who becomes a
landlord of any parcel of real estate or any improvement on real estate or
building located in the township by agreement of sale, by deed, or by any other
means shall, within 30 days thereafter, report to the Administrative Secretary/
Treasurer of the township the information and data set forth in §
34.03 and on forms to be provided by the Administrative Secretary/Treasurer of
the township.
(2003 Code, § 124-4)  (Ord. 3-86, passed 11-4-1986)
§ 34.05  REPORTS OF CHANGES IN USE OR OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   After the effective date of this subchapter, each and every landlord
of property within the township shall report to the Administrative Secretary/
Treasurer, on a report form to be supplied by the Administrative Secretary/
Treasurer, any change in the use or occupancy of any dwelling unit or business
unit owned by such landlord. The reported change shall include the name or
names of new tenants of such dwelling unit or business unit, the date when such
change was effected, and the forwarding address of the old tenant or tenants if
known. A landlord of a hotel, inn or boardinghouse shall not be required to
report a person as a “tenant” until that person has resided in such landlord’s
establishment for a period exceeding 30 days.
   (B)   In the event that a dwelling unit or business unit was used or
utilized by a tenant and then becomes vacant, this change shall also be
reported to the Administrative Secretary/Treasurer. All reports required by
this section shall be made within ten days after a landlord has knowledge that
such a unit has had a change in occupancy or has become vacant.
(2003 Code, § 124-5)  (Ord. 3-86, passed 11-4-1986)
§ 34.06  DUTIES OF ADMINISTRATIVE SECRETARY/TREASURER.
   The Administrative Secretary/Treasurer, under the authority of this
subchapter, shall:
   (A)   Maintain on file at the township office the names of the landlords
owning dwelling units and business units in the township, said list to include
the names of the current tenants of said dwelling units and business units;
   (B)   Maintain a supply of forms for landlords to use in making reports to
the Administrative Secretary/Treasurer, as required by §§
34.03,
34.04 and
34.05 of this subchapter; and
   (C)   Notify the Fire Chief of the township of the address and description
of any dwelling unit or business unit that is vacant, unoccupied and not in
use.
(2003 Code, § 124-6)  (Ord. 3-86, passed 11-4-1986)
FIRE INSURANCE ESCROW
§ 34.20  DESIGNATED OFFICER.
   The Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer is hereby appointed as the
designated officer who is authorized to carry out all responsibilities and
duties stated herein.
(2003 Code, § 101-1)  (Ord. 3-92, passed 12-29-1992)
§ 34.21  MUNICIPAL CERTIFICATE REQUIRED; CLAIMS PAYMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   No insurance company, association or exchange (hereinafter referred to
as the “insuring agent”) doing business in the commonwealth shall pay a claim
of a named insured for fire damage to a structure located within the township
where the amount recoverable for the fire loss to the structure under all
policies exceeds $7,500, unless the named insured or insuring agent is
furnished by the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer with a municipal
certificate pursuant to § 508(b) of Act 98 of 1992 (see 40 P.S. § 638) and
unless there is compliance with § 508(c) and (d) of Act 98 of 1992 and the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Where the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer issues a
certificate indicating that there are no delinquent taxes, assessments,
penalties or user charges against real property, the insuring agent shall pay
the claim of the named insured; provided, however, that if the loss is agreed
upon by the named insured and the insuring agent equals or exceeds 60% of the
aggregate limits of liability on all fire policies covering the building or
other structure, the following procedures must be followed.
      (1)   Amount of transfer.
         (a)   The insuring agent shall transfer from the insurance proceeds to
the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer of the township in the
aggregate of $2,000 for each $15,000 of a claim and for each fraction of that
amount of a claim, this section to be applied such that if the claim is $15,000
or less, the amount transferred to the township shall be $2,000; or
         (b)   If, at the time of a proof of loss agreed to between the named
insured and the insuring agent, the named insured has submitted a contractor’s
signed estimate of the costs of removing, repairing or securing the building or
other structure in an amount less than the amount calculated under the
foregoing transfer formula, the insuring agent shall transfer to the township
from the insurance proceeds the amount specified in the estimate.
      (2)   Transfer of proceeds. The transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro
rata basis by all companies, associations or exchanges insuring the building or
other structure.
      (3)   Signed estimate. After the transfer, the named insured may submit a
contractor’s signed estimate of the costs of removing, repairing or securing
the building or other structure, and the Township Administrative Secretary/
Treasurer shall return the amount of the funds transferred to the township in
excess of the estimate to the named insured, if the township has not commenced
to remove, repair or secure the building or other structure.
      (4)   Township action. Upon receipt of proceeds under this section, the
township shall do the following.
         (a)   The Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer shall place the
proceeds in the separate fund to be used solely as security against the total
costs of removing, repairing or securing the building or structure which are
incurred by the township. Such costs shall include, without limitation, any
engineering, legal or administrative costs incurred by the township in
connection with such removal, repair or securing of the building or any
proceedings related thereto.
         (b)   It is the obligation of the insuring agent when transferring the
proceeds to provide the township with the name and address of the named
insured. Upon receipt of the transferred funds and the name and address of the
named insured, the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer shall contact
the named insured, certify that the proceeds have been received by the township
and notify the named insured that the procedures under this division (B) shall
be followed.
         (c)   When repairs, removal or securing of the building or other
structure has been completed in accordance with all applicable regulations and
orders of the township and the required proof of such completion received by
the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer, and if the township has not
incurred any costs for repairs, removal or securing, the fund shall be returned
to the named insured. If the township has incurred costs for repairs, removal
or securing of the building or other structure, the cost shall be paid from the
fund, and if excess funds remain, the township shall transfer the remaining
funds to the named insured.
         (d)   To the extent that interest is earned on proceeds held by the
township pursuant to this section and not returned to the named insured, such
interest shall belong to the township. To the extent that proceeds are returned
to the named insured, interest earned on such proceeds shall be distributed to
the named insured at the time that the proceeds are returned.
      (5)   Deficiencies. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit
the ability of the township to recover any deficiency. Furthermore, nothing in
this division (B) shall be construed to prohibit the township and the named
insured from entering into an agreement that permits the transfer of funds to
the named insured if some other reasonable disposition of the damaged property
has been negotiated.
(2003 Code, § 101-2)  (Ord. 3-92, passed 12-29-1992)  Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.22  FEES.
   The Board of Supervisors may, by resolution, fix reasonable fees to be
charged for certificates and bills, performance of inspections and opening
separate fund accounts.
(2003 Code, § 101-3)  (Ord. 3-92, passed 12-29-1992)
LOCAL GOVERNMENT INVESTMENT TRUST
§ 34.35  ENTRANCE INTO TRUST.
   The township shall join with other local governmental units in accordance
with the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act (53 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 2301 et seq.) and
other similar acts by becoming a settlor of the Pennsylvania Local Government
Investment Trust (the “Trust”) and entering into the declaration of trust,
which is adopted by reference with the same effect as if it had been set out
verbatim in this section, and a copy of which shall be filed with the minutes
of the meeting at which this subchapter was adopted.
(2003 Code, § 18-1)  (Ord. 2-94, passed 2-1-1994)
§ 34.36  PURCHASE AND REDEMPTION OF SHARES.
   The township is authorized to purchase shares in the Trust from time to time
with available funds, and to redeem some or all of those shares from time to
time as funds are needed for other purposes, subject to the terms and
restrictions of the declaration of trust referred to in §
34.35. These actions are to be taken by the officers designated for this
purpose, pursuant to general or specific instructions by the Board of
Supervisors of the township.
(2003 Code, § 18-2)  (Ord. 2-94, passed 2-1-1994)
§ 34.37  CUSTODY OF FUNDS.
   The Trustees of the Trust are designated as having official custody of the
township’s funds which are invested by the purchase of shares in the Trust.
(2003 Code, § 18-3)  (Ord. 2-94, passed 2-1-1994)
§ 34.38  FINDINGS AND DETERMINATION.
   As required by the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act, the following matters
are specifically found and determined:
   (A)   The conditions of the agreement are set forth in the declaration of
trust referred to in §
34.35;
   (B)   The township’s participation in the Trust shall be terminable at any
time by resolution, subject to the terms and restrictions of the declaration of
trust referred to in §
34.35;
   (C)   The declaration of trust and the purchase of its shares are for the
purpose of investing the township’s funds in obligations which are otherwise
legal investments, as part of a pooled arrangement with other local
governmental units, thereby achieving economic and other advantages of pooled
investments; and the powers and scope of authority delegated are set forth in
the declaration of trust referred to in §
34.35;
   (D)   It is not necessary to finance the agreement authorized herein from
funds of the township except through the purchase of shares in the Trust;
   (E)   The Trust shall be managed by a Board of Trustees as set forth in the
declaration of trust and the bylaws provided for therein;
   (F)   Shares may be repurchased and redeemed from time to time as the
township may determine to be necessary or appropriate to meet its cash
investment requirements in accordance with the terms and restrictions of the
declaration of trust referred to in §
34.35; and
   (G)   The Trust shall be empowered to enter into contracts for policies of
group insurance and employee benefits, including Social Security, for its
employees.
(2003 Code, § 18-4)  (Ord. 2-94, passed 2-1-1994)
§ 34.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates or permits a violation of §§
34.01 through
34.06 shall, upon being found liable therefor in a civil enforcement proceeding
commenced by the township before a District Justice, pay a fine of not more
than $600, plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred
by the township in the enforcement of §§
34.01 through
34.06. The minimum fine shall be one-half the maximum specified. No judgment
shall be imposed until the date of the determination of the violation by the
District Justice. If the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the
judgment, the township may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable
Rules of Civil Procedure. Each day a violation exists shall constitute a
separate offense. Further, the appropriate officers or agents of the township
are hereby authorized to seek equitable relief, including injunction, to
enforce compliance herewith.
(2003 Code, § 124-7)
   (C)   Any person who violates or permits a violation of §§
34.20 through
34.22 shall, upon conviction in a summary proceeding brought before a District
Justice under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, be guilty of a
summary offense and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000, plus
costs of prosecution. The minimum fine shall be one-half the maximum specified.
In default of payment thereof, the defendant may be sentenced to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 90 days. Each day or portion thereof that such
violation continues or is permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense, and each section of §§
34.20 through
34.22 that is violated shall also constitute a separate offense.
(2003 Code, § 101-4)
(Ord. 3-86, passed 11-4-1986; Ord. 3-92, passed 12-29-1992)
CHAPTER 35:  TAXATION
Section
Earned Income and Net Profits Tax
   
35.01   Statutory authority
   
35.02   Definitions
   
35.03   Imposition of tax
   
35.04   Declaration, return and payment of tax
   
35.05   Collection at source
   
35.06   Applicability
Realty Transfer Tax
   
35.20   Short title
   
35.21   Authority
   
35.22   Definitions
   
35.23   Imposition of tax; interest
   
35.24   Exempt parties
   
35.25   Excluded transactions
   
35.26   Documents relating to associations or corporations and members,
partners, stockholders or shareholders thereof
   
35.27   Acquired company
   
35.28   Credits against tax
   
35.29   Extension of lease
   
35.30   Proceeds of judicial sale
   
35.31   Administration
   
35.32   Statement of value
   
35.33   Lien
   
35.34   Enforcement
   
35.35   Enforcing official; regulations
   
35.36   Interest
   
35.37   Repeal
   
35.38   Effective date
Local Services Tax
   
35.50   Title
   
35.51   Authority
   
35.52   Purpose
   
35.53   Definitions
   
35.54   Levy
   
35.55   Restricted use
   
35.56   Duty of employer
   
35.57   Returns
   
35.58   Dates determining tax liability and payment
   
35.59   Individuals engaged in more than one occupation
   
35.60   Exemptions to the local services tax
   
35.61   Self-employed individuals
   
35.62   Employees and self-employed individuals residing beyond the limits of
the township
   
35.63   Administration of tax
   
35.64   Suit for collection
   
35.65   Effective date
 
   
35.99   Penalty
EARNED INCOME AND NET PROFITS TAX
§ 35.01  STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   It is hereby ordained and enacted by virtue of the authority granted by the
Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq., as follows.
(2003 Code, § 151-1)  (Ord. 1-69, passed 1-6-1969)
§ 35.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition(s) shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. In
compliance with the requirement of the Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. §§
6924.101 et seq., the following word(s) and phrase(s), when used in this
subchapter, shall have the meaning ascribed to it/them in this section.
   INCOME TAX OFFICER or OFFICER. Person, public employee or private agency
designated by the tax collection district to collect and administer the tax on
earned income and net profits.
§ 35.03  IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   An annual tax for general revenue purposes of 0.5% is hereby imposed
on:
      (1)   The earned income of all residents of the township earned or paid
after July 1 of the current year;
      (2)   All earned income earned or paid after July 1 of the current year
by or to nonresidents of the township for work done or services performed or
rendered in the township;
      (3)   The net profit earned after July 1 of the current year of
businesses, professions or other activities conducted by residents; and
      (4)   The net profit earned after July 1 of the current year of
businesses, professions or other activities conducted in the township by
nonresidents.
   (B)   The tax levied under divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above shall relate to
and be imposed upon salaries, wages, commissions, bonuses, incentive payments,
fees and other earned income paid by an employer on his or her behalf to any
person who is employed by or rendered services to him or her. The tax levied
under divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) above shall relate to and be imposed on the
net profits or other earned income of any business, profession or enterprise
carried on by any person as owner or proprietor, either individually or in
association with some other person or persons.
   (C)   Said tax shall first be levied, collected and paid with respect to the
earned income and net profits of individuals, businesses, professions and other
activities earned during the period between July 1 of the current year and
ending on December 31 of the current year, and each and every calendar year
thereafter.
(2003 Code, § 151-3)  (Ord. 1-69, passed 1-6-1969)
§ 35.04  DECLARATION, RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Net profits. Every taxpayer making net profits in any year shall file
a declaration of his or her estimated net profits for the current year and
shall pay the tax due thereon in quarterly installments, and shall file a final
return and pay to the officer the balance of the tax due, all as provided in §
13, III, A(1) of the Local Tax Enabling Act.
   (B)   Earned income.
      (1)   Filing. Every taxpayer shall make and file final returns and pay
the taxes due, all as provided in § 13, III, B, first paragraph of the Local
Tax Enabling Act.
      (2)   Quarterly returns. Every taxpayer who is employed for a salary,
wage, commission or other compensation and who received any earned income not
subject to the provisions relating to collection at source shall make and file
with the officer quarterly returns and shall pay quarter-annually the amount of
tax shown as due on such returns, all as provided in § 13, III, B(2) of the
Local Tax Enabling Act.
(2003 Code, § 151-4)  (Ord. 1-69, passed 1-6-1969)
§ 35.05  COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
   Every employer having an office, factory, workshop or other place of
business within the township shall deduct the tax imposed by this subchapter on
the earned income due to his or her employee or employees and shall file
quarterly returns and final returns and pay quarterly to the Income Tax Officer
the amount of tax deducted, as set forth in § 13, IV, of the Local Tax Enabling
Act, except that:
   (A)   For the period from July 1 of the current year to December 31 of the
current year such employers shall, on or before October 31 of the current year
and on or before January 31 of the succeeding year, file a return and pay to
the officer the taxes deducted during the preceding three-month periods ending
September 30 of the current year and December 31 of the current year,
respectively;
   (B)   On or before February 28 of the succeeding year, every employer shall
file with the officer:
      (1)   An annual return showing the total amount of earned income paid,
the total amount of tax deducted, and the total amount of tax paid to the
Officer for the period beginning July 1 of the current year and ending December
31 of the current year; and
      (2)   A return withholding statement for each employee employed during
all or any part of the period beginning July 1 of the current year and ending
December 31 of the current year setting forth the employee’s name, address and
Social Security number, the amount of earned income paid to the employee during
said period, the amount of tax deducted, the political subdivisions imposing
the tax upon such employee and the amount of tax paid to the officer. Every
employer shall furnish two copies of the individual return to the employee for
whom it is filed.
   (C)   Every employer who discontinues business prior to December 31 of the
current year shall, within 30 days after discontinuance of business, file
returns and withholding statements hereinabove required and pay the tax due;
and
   (D)   No employer shall be required to register, deduct taxes, file returns
or pay taxes in the cases of domestic servants.
(2003 Code, § 151-5)  (Ord. 1-69, passed 1-6-1969)
§ 35.06  APPLICABILITY.
   The tax imposed in §
35.03 of this subchapter shall not be levied on the net profits of any person,
institution or organization as to whom it is beyond the power of the township
to impose said tax under the Constitution of the United States of America or
the Constitution and laws of the commonwealth.
(2003 Code, § 151-7)  (Ord. 1-69, passed 1-6-1969)
REALTY TRANSFER TAX
§ 35.20  SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Realty Transfer Tax Ordinance of the
Township of Greene”.
(2003 Code, § 151-8)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 35.21  AUTHORITY.
   A realty transfer tax for general revenue purposes is hereby imposed upon
the transfer of real estate or interest in real estate situated within the
township, regardless of where the documents making the transfer are made,
executed or delivered, or where the actual settlements on such transfer took
place as authorized by Article XI-D, Local Real Estate Transfer Tax, 72 P.S. §§
8101-D et seq.
(2003 Code, § 151-9)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 35.22  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, the words and phrases defined in 72 P.S. § 8101-
C shall have the meanings ascribed to them in said section.
(2003 Code, § 151-10)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 35.23  IMPOSITION OF TAX; INTEREST.
   (A)   Every person who makes, executes, delivers, accepts or presents for
recording any document, or on whose behalf any document is made, executed,
delivered, accepted or presented for recording, shall be subject to pay for and
in respect to the transaction part thereof a tax at the rate of 1% of the value
of the real estate represented by such document, which tax shall be payable at
the earlier of the time the document is presented for recording or within 30
days of acceptance of such document or within 30 days of becoming an acquired
company.
   (B)   The payment of the tax imposed herein shall be evidenced by the
affixing of an official stamp or writing by the Recorder, whereon the date of
the payment of the tax, amount of the tax and the signature of the collecting
agent shall be set forth.
   (C)   It is the intent of this subchapter that the entire burden of the tax
imposed herein on a person or transfer shall not exceed the limitations
prescribed in the Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq., so that
if any other political subdivision shall impose or hereafter shall impose such
tax on the same person or transfer when the tax levied by the township under
the authority of that Act shall during the time such duplication of the tax
exists, except as hereinafter otherwise provided, be one-half of the rate and
such one-half rate shall become effective without any action on the part of the
township; provided, however, that the township and any other political
subdivision which imposes such tax on the same person or transfer may agree
that, instead of limiting their respective rates to one-half of the rate herein
provided, they will impose respectively different rates, the total of which
shall not exceed the maximum rate permitted under the Local Tax Enabling Act.
   (D)   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate
in effect at the time the tax is due shall be added and collected.
(2003 Code, § 151-11)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 35.24  EXEMPT PARTIES.
   The United States, the commonwealth or any of their instrumentalities,
agencies or political subdivisions shall be exempt from payment of the tax
imposed by this subchapter. The exemption of such governmental bodies shall
not, however, relieve any other party to a transaction from liability for the
tax.
(2003 Code, § 151-12)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 35.25  EXCLUDED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   The tax imposed by §
35.23 shall not be imposed upon:
      (1)   A transfer to the commonwealth, or to any of its instrumentalities,
agencies or political subdivisions, by gift, dedication or deed in lieu of
condemnation or deed of confirmation in connection with condemnation
proceedings, or a reconveyance by the condemning body of the property condemned
to the owner of record at the time of condemnation which reconveyance may
include property line adjustments provided said reconveyance is made within one
year from the date of condemnation;
      (2) A document which the township is prohibited from taxing under the
Constitution or statutes of the United States;
      (3)   A conveyance to a municipality, township, school district or county
pursuant to acquisition by the municipality, township, school district or
county of a tax delinquent property at sheriff sale or tax claim bureau sale;
      (4)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration which corrects or
confirms a transfer previously recorded, but which does not extend or limit
existing record legal title or interest;
      (5)   A transfer of division in kind for no or nominal actual
consideration of property passed by testate or intestate succession and held by
co-tenants; however, if any of the parties take shares greater in value than
their undivided interest, tax is due on the excess;
      (6)   A transfer between husband and wife, between persons who were
previously husband and wife who have since been divorced, provided the property
or interest therein subject to such transfer was acquired by the husband and
wife or husband or wife prior to the granting of the final decree in divorce,
between parent and child or the spouse of such child, between brother and
sister or spouse of a brother or sister and brother or sister or the spouse of
a brother or sister, and between grandparent and grandchild or the spouse of
such grandchild, except that a subsequent transfer by the grantee within one
year shall be subject to tax as if the grantor were making such transfer;
      (7)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration of property
passing by testate or intestate succession from a personal representative of a
decedent to the decedent’s devisee or heir;
      (8)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration to a trustee of
an ordinary trust where the transfer of the same property would be exempt if
the transfer was made directly from the grantor to all of the possible
beneficiaries that are entitled to receive the property or proceeds from the
sale of the property under the trust, whether or not such beneficiaries are
contingent or specifically named. A trust clause which identifies the
contingent beneficiaries by reference to the heirs of the trust settlor as
determined by the laws of the intestate succession shall not disqualify a
transfer from the exclusion provided by this division (A)(8). No such exemption
shall be granted unless the Recorder of Deeds is presented with a copy of the
trust instrument that clearly identifies the grantor and all possible
beneficiaries;
      (9)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration to a trustee of a
living trust from the settlor of the living trust. No such exemption shall be
granted unless the Recorder of Deeds is presented with a copy of the living
trust instrument;
      (10)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from a trustee
of an ordinary trust to a specifically named beneficiary that is entitled to
receive the property under the recorded trust instrument or to a contingent
beneficiary where the transfer of the same property would be exempt if the
transfer was made by the grantor of the property into the trust to that
beneficiary. However, any transfer of real estate from a living trust during
the settlor’s lifetime shall be considered for the purposes of this subchapter
as if such transfer were made directly from the settlor to the grantee;
      (11)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from a trustee
of a living trust after the death of the settlor of the trust or from a trustee
of a trust created pursuant to the will of a decedent to a beneficiary to whom
the property is devised or bequeathed;
      (12)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from the trustee
of a living trust to the settlor of the living trust if such property was
originally conveyed to the trustee by the settlor;
      (13)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from trustee to
successor trustee;
      (14)   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration between
principal and agent or straw party; or from or to an agent or straw party
where, if the agent or straw party were his or her principal, no tax would be
imposed under this subchapter. Where the documents by which title is acquired
by a grantee or statement of value fails to set forth that the property was
acquired by the grantee from, or for the benefit of, his or her principal, that
is a rebuttable presumption that the property is the property of the grantee in
his or her individual capacity if the grantee claims an exemption from taxation
under this division (A)(14);
      (15)   A transfer made pursuant to the statutory merger or consolidation
of a corporation or statutory division of a non-profit corporation, except
where the Department reasonably determines that the primary intent for such
merger, consolidation or division is avoidance of the tax imposed by this
subchapter;
      (16)   A transfer from a corporation or association of real estate held
of record in the name of the corporation or association where the grantee owns
stock of the corporation or an interest in the association in the same
proportion as his or her interest in or ownership of the real estate being
conveyed and where the stock of the corporation or the interest in the
association has been held by the grantee for more than two years;
      (17)   A transfer from a non-profit industrial development agency or
authority to a grantee of property conveyed by the grantee to that agency or
authority as security for a debt of the grantee or a transfer to a non-profit
industrial development agency or authority;
      (18)   A transfer from a non-profit industrial development agency or
authority to a grantee purchasing from it, but only if the grantee shall
directly use such real estate for the primary purpose of manufacturing,
fabricating, compounding, processing, publishing, research and development,
transportation, energy conversion, energy production, pollution control,
warehousing or agriculture and the agency or authority has the full ownership
interest in the real estate transferred;
      (19)   A transfer by a mortgagor to the holder of a bona fide mortgage in
default in lieu of a foreclosure or a transfer pursuant to a judicial sale in
which the successful bidder is the bona fide holder of a mortgage, unless the
holder assigns the bid to another person;
      (20)   Any transfer between religious organizations or other bodies or
persons holding title for a religious organization if such real estate is not
being or has not been used by such transferor for commercial purposes;
      (21)   A transfer to a conservancy which possesses a tax exempt status
pursuant to § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (68A Stat. 3, 26
U.S.C. § 501(c)(3)) and which has as its primary purpose preservation of land
for historic, recreational, scenic, agricultural or open space opportunities;
or a transfer from such a conservancy to the United States, the commonwealth or
to any of their instrumentalities, agencies or political subdivisions; or any
transfer from such a conservancy where the real estate is encumbered by a
perpetual agricultural conservation easement as defined by the Act of June 30,
1981 (P.L. 128, No. 43, 3 P.S. §§ 901 et seq.) known as the Agricultural Area
Security Law, and such conservancy has owned the real estate for at least two
years immediately prior to the transfer;
      (22)   A transfer of real estate devoted to the business of agriculture
to a family farm corporation by a member of the same family which directly owns
at least 75% of each class of the stock thereof;
      (23)   A transfer of real estate devoted to the business of agriculture
to a family farm partnership by a member of the same family, which family
directly owns at least 75% of the interests in the partnership;
      (24)   A transfer between members of the same family of an ownership
interest in a real estate company, family farm corporation or family farm
partnership which owns real estate;
      (25)   A transaction wherein the tax due is $1 or less; and
      (26)   Leases for the production or extraction of coal, oil, natural gas
or minerals and assignments thereof.
   (B)   In order to exercise any exclusion provided in this section, the true,
full and complete value of the transfer shall be shown on the statement of
value. A copy of the state realty transfer tax statement of value may be
submitted for this purpose. For leases of coal, oil, natural gas or minerals,
the statement of value may be limited to an explanation of the reason such
document is not subject to tax under this subchapter.
(2003 Code, § 151-13)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 35.26  DOCUMENTS RELATING TO ASSOCIATIONS OR CORPORATIONS AND MEMBERS,
PARTNERS, STOCKHOLDERS OR SHAREHOLDERS THEREOF.
   Except as otherwise provided in §
35.25, documents which make, confirm or evidence any transfer or devise of
title to real estate between associations or corporations and the members,
partners, shareholders or stockholders thereof are fully taxable. For the
purposes of this subchapter, corporations and associations are entities
separate from their members, partners, stockholders or shareholders.
(2003 Code, § 151-14)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 35.27  ACQUIRED COMPANY.
   (A)   A real estate company is an acquired company upon a change in the
ownership interest in the company, however effected, if the change does not
affect the continuity of the company; and of itself or together with prior
changes has the effect of transferring, directly or indirectly, 90% or more of
the total ownership interest in the company within a period of three years.
   (B)   With respect to real estate acquired after February 16, 1986, a family
farm corporation is an acquired company when, because of voluntary or
involuntary dissolution, it ceases to be a family farm corporation or when,
because of issuance or transfer of stock or because of acquisition or transfer
of assets that are devoted to the business of agriculture, it fails to meet the
minimum requirements of a family farm corporation under this subchapter.
   (C)   A family farm partnership is an acquired company when, because of
voluntary or involuntary dissolution, it ceases to be a family farm partnership
or when, because of transfer of partnership interests or because of
agriculture, it fails to meet the minimum requirements of a family farm
partnership under this subchapter.
   (D)   Within 30 days after becoming an acquired company, the company shall
present a declaration of acquisition with the Recorder of each county in which
it holds real estate for the affixation of documentary stamps and recording.
Such declaration shall set forth the value of real estate holdings of the
acquired company in such county. A copy of the state realty transfer tax
declaration of acquisition may be submitted for this purpose.
(2003 Code, § 151-15)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 35.28  CREDITS AGAINST TAX.
   (A)   Where there is a transfer of a residential property by a licensed real
estate broker which property was transferred to him or her within the preceding
year as consideration for the purchase of other residential property, a credit
for the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to him or her shall
be given to him or her toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   (B)   Where there is a transfer by a builder of residential property which
was transferred to the builder within the preceding year as consideration for
the purchase of new, previously unoccupied residential property, a credit for
the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to the builder shall be
given to the builder toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   (C)   Where there is a transfer of real estate which is leased by the
grantor, a credit for the amount of tax paid at the time of the lease shall be
given the grantor toward the tax due upon the transfer.
   (D)   Where there is a conveyance by deed of real estate which was
previously sold under a land contract by the grantor, a credit for the amount
of tax paid at the time of the sale shall be given the grantor toward the tax
due upon the deed.
   (E)   If the tax due upon the transfer is greater than the credit given
under this section, the difference shall be paid. If the credit allowed is
greater than the amount or tax due, no refund or carryover credit shall be
allowed.
(2003 Code, § 151-16)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 35.29  EXTENSION OF LEASE.
   In determining the term of a lease, it shall be presumed that a right or
option to renew or extend a lease will be exercised if the rental charge to the
lessee is fixed or if a method for calculating the rental charge is
established.
(2003 Code, § 151-17)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 35.30  PROCEEDS OF JUDICIAL SALE.
   The tax herein imposed shall be fully paid, and have priority out of the
proceeds of any judicial sale of real estate before any other obligation,
claim, lien, judgment, estate or costs of the sale and of the writ upon which
the sale is made except the state realty transfer tax, and the Sheriff or other
officer conducting said sale shall pay the tax herein imposed out of the first
moneys paid to him or her in connection therewith. If the proceeds of the sale
are insufficient to pay the entire tax herein imposed, the purchaser shall be
liable for the remaining tax.
(2003 Code, § 151-18)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 35.31  ADMINISTRATION.
   As provided in 16 P.S. § 11011-6, as amended by Act of July 7, 1983 (P.L.
40, No. 21), the Recorder of Deeds shall be the collection agent for the local
realty transfer tax; provided that, if the correct amount of the tax is not
paid by the last date prescribed for timely payment, the township, pursuant to
§ 1102-D of the Tax Reform Code of 1971 (72 P.S. § 8102-D), authorizes and
directs the Department of Revenue of the commonwealth to determine, collect and
enforce the tax, interest and penalties.
(2003 Code, § 151-19)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987; Ord. 3-2006, passed 12-4-
2006)
§ 35.32  STATEMENT OF VALUE.
   Every document lodged with or presented to the Recorder of Deeds for
recording shall set forth therein and as a part of such document the true, full
and complete value thereof, or shall be accompanied by a statement of value
executed by a responsible person connected with the transaction showing such
connection and setting forth the true, full and complete value thereof or the
reason, if any, why such document is not subject to tax under this subchapter.
A copy of the state realty transfer tax statement of value may be submitted for
this purpose. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any excludable
real estate transfers which are exempt from taxation based on family
relationships. Other documents presented for the affixation of stamps shall be
accompanied by a certified copy of the document and statement of value executed
by a responsible person connected with the transaction showing such connection
and setting forth the true, full and complete value thereof or the reason, if
any, why such document is not subject to tax under this subchapter.
(2003 Code, § 151-20)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 35.33  LIEN.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall become a lien upon the lands,
tenements, or hereditaments or any interest therein, lying or being situated,
wholly or in part, within the boundaries of the township, which lands,
tenements, hereditaments or interest therein are described in or conveyed by or
transferred by the deed which is the subject of the tax imposed, assessed and
levied by this subchapter, said lien to begin at the time when the tax under
this subchapter is due and payable, and continue until discharge by payment, or
in accordance with the law, and the Solicitor is authorized to file a municipal
or tax claim in the Court of Common Pleas of the county in accordance with the
provisions of the Municipal Claims and Liens Act of 1923, 53 P.S. §§ 7101 et
seq., its supplements and amendments.
(2003 Code, § 151-22)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 35.34  ENFORCEMENT.
   All taxes imposed by this subchapter, together with interest and penalties
prescribed herein, shall be recoverable as other debts of like character are
recovered.
(2003 Code, § 151-23)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 35.35  ENFORCING OFFICIAL; REGULATIONS.
   The Administrative Secretary/Treasurer of the township is charged with
enforcement and collection of tax and is empowered to promulgate and enforce
reasonable regulations for enforcement and collection of the tax. The
regulations which have been promulgated by the Pennsylvania Department of
Revenue under 72 P.S. §§ 8101-C et seq. are incorporated into and made a part
of this subchapter.
(2003 Code, § 151-24)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 35.36  INTEREST.
   Any tax imposed under §
35.23 that is not paid by the date the tax is due shall bear interest as
prescribed for interest on delinquent municipal claims under the Act of May 16,
1923 (P.L. 207, No. 153, 53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq.), as amended, known as the
“Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act”. The interest rate shall be the lesser of
the interest rate imposed upon delinquent commonwealth taxes as provided in §
806 of the Act of April 9, 1929 (P.L. 343, No. 176, 72 P.S. § 806), as amended,
known as the “Fiscal Code”, or the maximum interest rate permitted under the
Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act for tax claims.
(2003 Code, § 151-25)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987; Ord. 3-2006, passed 12-4-
2006)
§ 35.37  REPEAL.
   (A)   As of the effective date of this subchapter amendment (January 1,
2007), the former § 151-19 is repealed.
   (B)   The repealed sections of this subchapter shall remain effective for
documents that became subject to tax prior to the effective date of this
subchapter.
(2003 Code, § 151-26)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987; Ord. 3-2006, passed 12-4-
2006)
§ 35.38  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this subchapter amendment shall become effective on and be
applicable to any document made, executed, delivered, accepted or presented for
recording on or after January 1, 2007.
(2003 Code, § 151-27)  (Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987; Ord. 3-2006, passed 12-4-
2006)
LOCAL SERVICES TAX
§ 35.50  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Greene Township
Local Services Tax Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 35.51  AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted under the authority of the Local Tax Enabling
Act, as amended by Act No. 7 of 2007, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq., and the
Second Class Township Code.
(Ord. 2-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 35.52  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide revenue for police, fire and
emergency services; road construction and maintenance; the reduction of
property taxes and for such other purposes as may be specified for such tax
from time to time by the laws of the commonwealth.
(Ord. 2-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 35.53  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR. The person or firm, from time to time, designated by motion of
the Board of Supervisors of township to collect and administer the provision of
this subchapter and collect the tax levied by this subchapter.
   EARNED INCOME. “Compensation” as determined under 72 P.S. § 7303 known as
the Tax Reform Code of 1971, 72 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq., and regulations in 61 Pa.
Code Pt. I Subpt. B Art. V (relating to personal income tax) not including,
however, wages or compensation paid to individuals on active military service.
Employee business expenses are allowable deductions as determined under Article
III of the Tax Reform Code of 1971, 72 P.S. §§ 7301 to 7361. Any housing
allowance provided to a member of the clergy shall not be taxable as EARNED
INCOME.
   EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, governmental
body, agency or other entity employing one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission, fee or other compensation basis, including a self-employed person.
   HE, HIS or HIM. Includes the singular and plural number and male, female and
neuter gender.
   INDIVIDUAL. Any person engaged in any occupation, trade or profession within
the jurisdictional limits of township whose total earned income and net profits
within township are greater than $12,000 per calendar year.
   NET PROFITS. The net income from the operation of a business, profession or
other activity, (except from corporations), determined under 72 P.S. § 7303,
known as the Tax Reform Code of 1971, 72 P.S. §§ 7301 to 7361, and regulations
in 61 Pa. Code Pt. 1 Subpt. B Art. V (relating to personal income tax). The
term does not include income which is not paid for services provided and which
is in the nature of earnings from an investment. For taxpayers engaged in the
business, profession or activity of farming, the term shall not include:
      (1)   Any interest generated from monetary accounts or investment
instruments of the farming business;
      (2)   Any gain on the sale of farming machinery;
      (3)   Any gain on the sale of livestock held 12 months or more for draft,
breeding or dairy purposes; and
      (4)   Any gain on the sale of other capital assets of the farm.
   OCCUPATION. Any trade, profession, business or undertaking of any type, kind
or character including services, domestic or other, carried on or performed
within the jurisdictional limits of the township for which compensation is
charged and/or received, whether by salary, wages, commissions, fees or net
profits for services rendered.
   RESERVE COMPONENT OF THE ARMED FORCES. The United States Army Reserve,
United States Navy Reserve, United States Marine Corps Reserve, United States
Coast Guard Reserve, United States Air Force Reserve, the Pennsylvania Army
National Guard or the Pennsylvania Air National Guard.
   TAX. The local services tax levied in this subchapter.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
(Ord. 2-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 35.54  LEVY.
   The township hereby levies and imposes on every individual engaging in an
occupation within the jurisdictional limits of township a tax in the amount of
$52 per annum, beginning January 1, 2015 and continuing on a calendar basis
annually thereafter, until modified or repealed by subsequent ordinance. This
tax is in addition to all other taxes of any kind or nature heretofore levied
by township.
(Ord. 2-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 35.55  RESTRICTED USE.
   (A)   The township shall use the revenue derived from this tax for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Emergency services, which shall include emergency medical services,
police services and/or fire services;
      (2)   Road construction and/or maintenance;
      (3)   Reduction of property taxes; and
      (4)   Property tax relief through implementation of a homestead and
farmstead exclusion in accordance with 53 Pa.C.S. Chapter 85 Subchapter F
(relating to homestead property exclusion).
   (B)   The township shall use no less than 25% of the funds derived from the
local services tax for emergency services.
(Ord. 2-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 35.56  DUTY OF EMPLOYER.
   (A)   Each employer within township and each employer situated outside the
township who engages in business within the township, is hereby charged with
the duty of collecting the tax from each of the employees engaged by the
employer and performing work for the employer within the township. Each person
subject to the tax shall be assessed a pro rata share of the tax for each
payroll period in which the person is engaging in an occupation.
   (B)   The pro rata share of the tax assessed on the person for a payroll
period shall be determined by dividing the combined rate of the local services
tax levied for the calendar year by the number of payroll periods established
by the employer for the calendar year. For purposes of determining the pro rata
share, an employer shall round down the amount of the tax collected each
payroll period to the nearest one-hundredth of a dollar.
   (C)   Employer collection of the local services tax shall be made on a
payroll period basis for each payroll period, beginning with the first payroll
period in which the person is engaging in an occupation.
   (D)   No employer shall be held liable for failure to withhold the local
services tax or for the payment of the withheld tax money to a political
subdivision if the failure to withhold taxes arises from incorrect information
submitted by the employee as to the employee’s place or places of employment,
the employee’s principal office or where the employee is principally employed.
(Ord. 2-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 35.57  RETURNS.
   Employers are required to make and file a local services tax quarterly
return 30 days after the end of each quarter of a calendar year. The local
services tax quarterly return shall list the name, address, Social Security
number of the employee; the physical address of the employee’s place of
employment; the number of payroll periods for which the local services tax was
withheld and the amount of local services tax being remitted for each employee.
(Ord. 2-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 35.58  DATES DETERMINING TAX LIABILITY AND PAYMENT.
   Each employer shall use his or her employment and payroll records from 
January 1 to March 31 each year for determining the number of employees from
whom said tax shall be deducted and paid over to the collector on or before
April 30 of the same calendar year. Supplemental reports shall be made by each
employer on July 30, October 30 and January 31 for new employees as reflected
on his or her employment and payroll records from April 1 to June 30, July 1 to
September 30 and October 1 to December 31, and payments on these supplemental
reports shall be made on July 30, October 30 and January 30, respectively.
(Ord. 2-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 35.59  INDIVIDUALS ENGAGED IN MORE THAN ONE OCCUPATION.
   (A)   In the event a person is engaged in more than one occupation, that is,
concurrent employment, or an occupation which requires the person working in
more than one political subdivision during the payroll period, the priority of
claim to collect the local services tax shall be in the following order:
      (1)   The political subdivision in which a person maintains his or her
principal office or is principally employed;
      (2)   The political subdivision in which the person resides and works, if
the tax is levied by that political subdivision; and
      (3)   The political subdivision in which a person is employed and which
imposes the tax nearest in miles to the person’s home.
   (B)   In the case of concurrent employment, an employer shall refrain from
withholding the local services tax, if the employee provides:
      (1)   A recent pay statement from a principal employer that includes the
name of the employer, the length of the payroll period and the amount of local
services tax withheld; and
      (2)   A statement from the employee that the pay statement is from the
employee’s principal employer and the employee will notify other employers of a
change in principal place of employment within two weeks of its occurrence.
   (C)   The situs of the tax shall be the place of employment on the first day
the person becomes subject to the tax during each payroll period. It is the
intent of this section that no person shall be subject to the payment of the
local services tax by more than one political subdivision during each payroll
period.
(Ord. 2-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 35.60  EXEMPTIONS TO THE LOCAL SERVICES TAX.
   (A)   The local services tax shall be no more than $52 on each person for
each calendar year, irrespective of the number of political subdivisions within
which a person may be employed.
   (B)   The law requires municipalities and school districts who levy the
local services tax at a combined rate exceeding $10 to exempt any person from
the local services tax whose total earned income and net profits from all
sources within the political subdivision is less than $12,000 for the calendar
year in which the local services tax is levied.
   (C)   Each political subdivision levying the local services tax shall exempt
the following persons from the local services tax:
      (1)   Any person who served in any war or armed conflict in which the
United States was engaged and is honorably discharged or released under
honorable circumstances from active service if, as a result of military
service, the person is blind, paraplegic or a double or quadruple amputee or
has a service connected disability declared by the United States Veterans
Administration or its successor to be a total 100% permanent disability; and
      (2)   Any person who serves as a member of a reserve component of the
armed forces and is called to active duty at any time during the taxable year.
A RESERVE COMPONENT OF THE ARMED FORCES shall mean the United States Army
Reserve, United States Navy Reserve, United States Marine Corps Reserve, United
States Coast Guard Reserve, United States Air Force Reserve, the Pennsylvania
Army National Guard or the Pennsylvania Air National Guard.
   (D)   A person seeking to claim an exemption from the local services tax may
annually file an exemption certificate with the collector of the tax for the
township and file a copy of the certificate with the person’s employer
affirming that the person reasonably expects to receive earned income and net
profits from all sources within the political subdivision of less than $12,000
in the calendar year for which the exemption certificate is filed.
   (E)   The exemption certificate shall have attached to it a copy of all of
the employee’s last pay stubs or W-2 forms from employment within the political
subdivision for the year prior to the fiscal year for which the employee is
requesting to be exempted from the local services tax.
   (F)   Upon receipt of the exemption certificate and until otherwise
instructed by the collector of the tax for the township the employer shall not
withhold the tax from the person during the calendar year or remainder of the
calendar year for which the exemption certificate applies. With respect to a
person who claimed an exemption from the local services tax, upon notification
to an employer by the person or by the collector of the tax for the township,
that the person has received earned income and net profits from all sources
within the township equal to or in excess of $12,000 in that calendar year or
that the person is otherwise ineligible for the tax exemption for that calendar
year, or upon an employer’s payment to the person of earned income within the
township in an amount equal to or in excess of $12,000 in that calendar year,
an employer shall withhold the Local Services Tax from the person as follows:
      (1)   If a person who claimed an exemption for a given calendar year from
the local services tax becomes subject to the tax for the calendar year the
employer shall withhold the tax for the remainder of that calendar year; and
      (2)   The employer shall withhold from the person, for the first payroll
period after receipt of the notification under division (F)(1) above, a lump
sum equal to the amount of the tax that was not withheld from the person due to
the exemption certificate filed by the person, plus the per payroll amount due
for that first payroll period.
   (G)   The amount of tax withheld per payroll period for the remaining
payroll periods in that calendar year shall be the same amount withheld for
other employees.
   (H)   In the event the employment of a person subject to withholding of the
local services tax under this exception is severed in that calendar year, the
person shall be liable for any outstanding balance of tax due and the political
subdivision levying the tax may pursue collection under this Act.
   (I)   Employers shall not be responsible for investigating exemption
certificates, monitoring tax exemption eligibility or exempting any employee
from a local services tax.
   (J)   (1)   Employers shall be responsible for retaining a copy of all
exemption certificates filed by employees within a given calendar year for a
minimum of three years.
      (2)   Employers who have failed to withhold the local services tax from
an employee or employees, and do not have copies of the employee exemption
certificate or certificates, will be held responsible for the payment of the
local services tax as if the tax had been originally levied against the
employer.
(Ord. 2-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 35.61  SELF-EMPLOYED INDIVIDUALS.
   All self-employed individuals and individuals whose employer is not required
to withhold local taxes (certain state and federal agencies) will be billed
quarterly for the local services tax. The full amount of tax must be paid by
the date indicated on such billing. If such taxpayer qualifies for a low-income
exemption, the taxpayer may complete the required exemption certificate or make
application for a refund of the tax paid.
(Ord. 2-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 35.62  EMPLOYEES AND SELF-EMPLOYED INDIVIDUALS RESIDING BEYOND THE LIMITS OF
THE TOWNSHIP.
   All employers and self-employed individuals residing or having their place
of business outside the township but who engage in any occupation within the
township, do by virtue thereof agree to be bound by and subject themselves to
the provisions, penalties and regulations promulgated under this subchapter
with the same force and effect as though they were residents of the township.
Further, any individual engaged in an occupation within the township and an
employee of a nonresident employer may for the purpose of this subchapter be
considered a self-employed person and in the event this tax is not paid, the
collector shall have the option of proceeding against either the employer or
employee for collection of this tax as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 2-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 35.63  ADMINISTRATION OF TAX.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the collector to accept and receive payments
of this tax and keep a record thereof showing the amount received by him or her
from each employer or self-employed person, together with the date the tax was
received. It shall be the duty of the collector to accept and keep a record of
the information submitted by employers relating to the number of employees
subject to the tax, the number of employees exempt from the tax, the employee
exemption certificates and refunds of the tax paid to individuals and
employers.
   (B)   The collector is hereby charged with the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter and is hereby empowered to prescribe, adopt,
promulgate and enforce rules and regulations relating to any matter pertaining
to the administration and enforcement of this subchapter, including provisions
for the examination of the payroll records of any employer subject to this
subchapter; the examination and correction of any return made in compliance
with this subchapter; and any payment alleged or found to be incorrect or as to
which overpayment is claimed or found to have occurred. Any person aggrieved by
any decision of the collector shall have the right to appeal to the Court of
Common Pleas of the county as in other cases provided.
   (C)   The collector is hereby authorized to examine the books and payroll
records of any employer in order to verify the accuracy of any return made by
an employer; or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax due. Each employer
is hereby directed and required to give the collector the means, facilities and
opportunity for such examination.
(Ord. 2-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 35.64  SUIT FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   In the event any of the tax under this subchapter remains due or
unpaid 30 days after the due date set forth above, the collector may sue for
the recovery of such tax due or unpaid together with interest and penalty.
   (B)   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate
of 6% per annum on the amount of said tax, and an additional penalty of 10%
shall be added to the flat rate of said tax for non-payment thereof. Where suit
is brought for the recovery of this tax, the individual liable therefor shall,
in addition, be responsible and liable for the costs of collection, including,
but not limited to, attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 2-2014, passed 6-3-2014)  Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.65  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become fully effective on January 1, 2015.
(Ord. 2-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 35.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter, for which no
other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   If any part of any underpayment of tax imposed by §§
35.20 through
35.38 is due to fraud, there shall be added to the tax an amount equal to 50%
of the underpayment.
      (2)   In the case of failure to record a declaration required under §§
35.20 through
35.38 on the date prescribed therefor, unless it is shown that such failure is
due to reasonable cause, there shall be added to the tax 5% of the amount of
such tax if the failure is for not more than one month, with an additional 5%
for each additional month or fraction thereof during which such failure
continues, not exceeding 50% in the aggregate.
(2003 Code, § 151-21)
   (C)   Whoever makes any false or untrue statement on any return required by
§§
35.50 through
35.65, or who refuses inspection of his or her books, records or accounts in
his or her custody and control in order to determine the number of employees
subject to this tax who are in his or her employment, or who fails or refuses
to file any return required by §§
35.50 through
35.65, or fails or refuses to pay the tax herein levied shall, upon conviction,
be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $600 plus costs and, in default of
payment of said fine and costs, be sentenced to a term of imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days. It is further provided that the action to enforce the fine and
penalty herein provided may be instituted against any person in charge of the
business of any employer who has failed or refused to file a return required by
§§
35.50 through
35.65.
(Ord. 1-69, passed 1-6-1969; Ord. 1-87, passed 4-7-1987; Ord. 2-2014, passed 6-
3-2014)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50:  SOLID WASTE
Section
Dumps and Dumping
   
50.01   Definitions and word usage
   
50.02   Prohibitions and exception
   
50.03   Application for operation of solid waste disposal area; fee; bond
   
50.04   Action on application
   
50.05   Rejection of application
   
50.06   Location
   
50.07   Littering of road and adjacent areas
   
50.08   Requirements for hauling
   
50.09   Posting of bond
   
50.10   Municipally owned dumps
Waste Flow Control
   
50.25   Definitions
   
50.26   Disposal of municipal waste at designated facilities
   
50.27   Unlawful activity
   
50.28   Injunction; concurrent remedies
 
   
50.99   Penalty
DUMPS AND DUMPING
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS AND WORD USAGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GARBAGE. Includes all table refuse, animal and vegetable matter, offal
from meat, fish and fowl, fruits, vegetables and parts thereof, and other
articles of materials ordinarily used for food which have become unfit for such
use or which are for any reason discarded.
      PERSON. Any natural person, association, partnership, firm or
corporation.
      PROCESSING. Any treatment, preparation, packaging, manufacture or
conversion into other forms.
      REFUSE. All discarded articles or materials, except sewage and liquid
waste, and including garbage, ashes, rubbish and other combustible and
noncombustible waste.
   (B)   In this subchapter, the singular shall include the plural and the
masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
(2003 Code, § 137-1)  (Ord. 1-73, passed 10-1-1973)
§ 50.02  PROHIBITIONS AND EXCEPTION.
   (A)   From and after the adoption of this subchapter, no person shall keep
or suffer to remain on his or her premises or any private or public property
any garbage, refuse, ashes or fly ash or cast the same upon any lot or piece of
ground within the township, or upon the shores or margin of any stream or body
of water, or into any sewer inlet or upon any road, street, berm or sidewalk
within the township; nor may any person use or permit to be used any land, spot
or place within the township as a public or private dump or storage area for
garbage, refuse, ashes or fly ash; nor shall any person use or permit to be
used any land within the township for the purpose of disposing of garbage,
refuse, ashes or fly ash by the landfill method, or in any way use or allow the
land to be used for operation of a landfill; nor shall any person use or permit
to be used any land, spot, place or building within the township for the
processing or storing of garbage, refuse, ashes or fly ash.
   (B)   This section is subject to the exception set forth hereinafter.
(2003 Code, § 137-2)  (Ord. 1-73, passed 10-1-1973)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03  APPLICATION FOR OPERATION OF SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL AREA; FEE; BOND.
   (A)   Any person desiring to secure permission to operate a garbage, refuse,
ash or fly ash disposal, processing or storage area, or desiring to permit his
or her land situated within the township to be used for said purpose or
purposes, must file an application with the Administrative Secretary/Treasurer
of the Board of Supervisors of the township setting forth in detail:
      (1)   The name, place of residence and post office address of the person
or persons desiring to operate said area;
      (2)   The names, places of residence and post office addresses of the
owner or owners of the land on which the operation is proposed to be conducted;
      (3)   An engineering or survey plot based upon a true and accurate survey
of the premises which the operator and landowner proposes to be used in the
operation. Said plot or survey must be prepared by a duly registered surveyor
and be based upon an actual field survey made by a surveyor duly registered and
licensed under state law;
      (4)   A detailed statement of the proposed operator’s past experience in
the operation of any garbage, refuse, ash or fly ash disposal, processing or
storage area, his or her past experience with operating any sanitary landfill,
processing place or storage area and his or her present qualifications for
operating a sanitary landfill, processing place or storage area; and
      (5)   A detailed statement of what the proposed operation will be and the
manner in which it will be conducted.
   (B)   The aforesaid application, to be filed with the Township
Administrative Secretary/Treasurer, must be signed by both the proposed
operator and the landowner. Said application shall be sworn to by the operator
and landowner or landowners and shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   An application fee, in the amount as set from time to time by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors, in cash or certified check; and
      (2)   A cash bond in the amount as set from time to time by resolution of
the Board of Supervisors.
   (C)   In addition to the above, the Board of Supervisors may request such
other information to be provided by both the operator and the landowner as may
be reasonable under the circumstances.
(2003 Code, § 137-3)  (Ord. 1-73, passed 10-1-1973)
§ 50.04  ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   The receipt of an application and other required items shall be called
to the attention of the Board of Supervisors at the next regular meeting of the
Board of Supervisors. If the Board of Supervisors desires the applicants to
furnish additional information, it shall notify the applicants in writing as to
what additional information is required.
   (B)   If the application complies with all of the requirements set forth
above, then the Board of Supervisors shall set a date for a public hearing on
the proposed application.
   (C)   Notice of a public hearing on said application shall be given by
publication once a week for two consecutive weeks in the Beaver County Times
and Beaver County Legal Journal and by posting the land or building in ten
prominent places. The expense of said advertising and posting shall be paid by
the applicants and, if not so paid, then the application shall be rejected at
the time of hearing and the advertising costs shall be deducted from the amount
of the bond filed with the Administrative Secretary/Treasurer.
   (D)   At the time set, the Board of Supervisors shall conduct a public
hearing. If the Board of Supervisors is of the opinion that the proposed
operation shall not be detrimental to the health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the residents of the township, then the said Board of Supervisors
may by majority vote grant an exception to the prohibition contained in §
50.02 hereof and may permit the proposed operation. However, the granting of
the exception shall be subject to all the limitations set forth hereinafter.
(2003 Code, § 137-4)  (Ord. 1-73, passed 10-1-1973)
§ 50.05  REJECTION OF APPLICATION.
   If the application is rejected, the cash bond as set from time to time by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors, less any unpaid advertising expense as
provided above, shall be returned to the applicant. The application fee shall
be retained. Any rejected application that is resubmitted must be accompanied
by an application fee as set from time to time by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors.
(2003 Code, § 137-5)  (Ord. 1-73, passed 10-1-1973)
§ 50.06  LOCATION.
   No processing place or storage area for garbage, refuse, ashes or fly ash
shall be located or operated within a distance of 2,500 feet of any residence
or public building within the township.
(2003 Code, § 137-6)  (Ord. 1-73, passed 10-1-1973)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07  LITTERING OF ROAD AND ADJACENT AREAS.
   Both the operator and landowner of a landfill, processing place or storage
area shall be responsible for the littering of the road leading to the
landfill, processing place or storage area with any garbage, refuse, ashes or
fly ash and must at all times keep said road and areas adjacent thereto free
from such littering. Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a
violation of this subchapter and failure to clear any such littering of said
road or adjacent area shall terminate the permission granted for said operation
to the same extent as if no exception had been granted or permit issued. In
addition thereto, failure of the operator and landowner to clean up such litter
after receiving written notice from the Township Administrative Secretary/
Treasurer shall render the operator and landowner responsible for payment to
the township for all costs involved in hiring the clearing away of said litter,
and said costs may be deducted from the cash bond posted in accordance with the
terms of this subchapter.
(2003 Code, § 137-7)  (Ord. 1-73, passed 10-1-1973)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08  REQUIREMENTS FOR HAULING.
   Any person who desires to haul garbage, refuse, ashes or fly ash over the
roads and streets of the township shall use a watertight vehicle provided with
a cover so constructed as to prevent offensive odors escaping from the vehicle
and garbage, refuse, ashes or fly ash from being dislodged, dropped, blown or
spilled from said vehicle. Both the operator of a landfill, processing place or
storage area and the landowner on which the operation or storage is located
shall be responsible for the requirements of this section and failure to comply
with the section shall constitute a violation of this subchapter and terminate
the permission granted for the operation to the same extent as if no exception
had been granted or permit issued.
(2003 Code, § 137-8)  (Ord. 1-73, passed 10-1-1973)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09  POSTING OF BOND.
   (A)   The operator and owner of the land shall post with the Township
Administrative Secretary/Treasurer, as hereinabove provided for at the time of
filing his or her application, a cash bond as set from time to time by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors to guarantee full and faithful
compliance with all terms and requirements of this subchapter. Said cash bond
shall be held by the township during all the time that the operation is being
conducted and shall be returned only upon conclusion of the operation or the
ceasing of the use of the land, and then only if said operator and landowner
have at all times fully complied with all the terms and requirements of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Failure of either the operator or the landowner to fully comply with
the terms of this subchapter, or the violation by either of them of any terms
of this subchapter, shall immediately constitute a full and complete forfeiture
of the said cash bond as set from time to time by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors so posted.
(2003 Code, § 137-9)  (Ord. 1-73, passed 10-1-1973)
§ 50.10  MUNICIPALLY OWNED DUMPS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not affect a municipally owned dump.
(2003 Code, § 137-11)  (Ord. 1-73, passed 10-1-1973)
WASTE FLOW CONTROL
§ 50.25  DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the terms used in this
subchapter shall have the same meanings as attributed to the same terms by the
definition section of Act 101, the Municipal Waste Planning, Recycling and
Waste Reduction Act, Act of July 28, 1988, P.L. 556, No. 101 (53 P.S. §§
4000.101 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended.
(2003 Code, § 137-12)  (Ord. 4-92, passed 12-29-1992)
§ 50.26  DISPOSAL OF MUNICIPAL WASTE AT DESIGNATED FACILITIES.
   All municipal waste collectors and transporters permitted by the county and
hereafter operating in the township shall deliver and dispose of all municipal
waste generated within the township, other than recyclable materials as may, in
the future, be designated in a township recycling ordinance, only at sites
designated by the township. In this regard, the township reserves the right to
contract for waste disposal capacity reservation with any or all disposal
facilities licensed to be a disposal site by the county. It shall be the
responsibility of the municipal waste collectors operating in the township to
contact the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer during January of each
year to secure a listing of waste disposal facilities under contract with the
township, together with the terms thereof.
(2003 Code, § 137-13)  (Ord. 4-92, passed 12-29-1992)
§ 50.27  UNLAWFUL ACTIVITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Violate, cause or assist in the violation of any provision of this
subchapter;
   (B)   Cause municipal waste generated within the township to be processed,
treated or disposed of at a facility other than the disposal facilities under
contract with the township pursuant to written waste disposal agreements;
   (C)   Collect or transport municipal waste generated within the township
without a valid license issued by the county;
   (D)   Hinder, obstruct, prevent or interfere with the township in the
enforcement of this subchapter; or
   (E)   Act in any manner that is contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter.
(2003 Code, § 137-14)  (Ord. 4-92, passed 12-29-1992)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.28  INJUNCTION; CONCURRENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Restraining violations. In addition to any other remedy provided in
this subchapter, the township may institute a suit in equity, if unlawful
conduct exists, for an injunction to restrain future violations of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Concurrent remedies. The penalties and remedies prescribed by this
subchapter shall be deemed concurrent; the existence or exercise of any remedy
shall not prevent the township from exercising any other remedy provided by
this subchapter or otherwise provided at law or equity.
(2003 Code, § 137-16)  (Ord. 4-92, passed 12-29-1992)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates or permits a violation of §§
50.01 through
50.10 shall, upon being found liable therefor in a civil enforcement proceeding
commenced by the township before a District Justice, pay a fine of not more
than $600, plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred
by the township in the enforcement of §§
50.01 through
50.10. The minimum fine shall be one-half the maximum specified. No judgment
shall be imposed until the date of the determination of the violation by the
District Justice. If the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the
judgment, the township may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable
Rules of Civil Procedure. Each day a violation exists shall constitute a
separate offense. Further, the appropriate officers or agents of the township
are hereby authorized to seek equitable relief, including injunction, to
enforce compliance herewith.
(2003 Code, § 137-10)
   (C)   Any person who violates or permits a violation of §§
50.25 through
50.28 shall, upon conviction in a summary proceeding brought before a District
Justice under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, be guilty of a
summary offense and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000, plus
costs of prosecution. The minimum fine shall be one-half the maximum specified.
In default of payment thereof, the defendant may be sentenced to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 90 days. Each day or portion thereof that such
violation continues or is permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense, and each section of §§
50.25 through
50.28 that is violated shall also constitute a separate offense.
(2003 Code, § 137-15)
(Ord. 1-73, passed 10-1-1973; Ord. 4-92, passed 12-29-1992)
CHAPTER 51:  SEWERS
Section
Sewage Disposal Systems
   
51.01   Permit required; fee
   
51.02   On-lot septic systems; ten acre permit exemption
   
51.03   Adoption of other provisions by reference
Holding Tanks
   
51.15   Purpose
   
51.16   Definitions
   
51.17   Rights and privileges granted
   
51.18   Rules and regulations
   
51.19   Rules and regulations to be in conformity with applicable law
   
51.20   Rates and charges
   
51.21   Exclusiveness of rights and privileges
   
51.22   Duties of improved property owner
   
51.23   Abatement of nuisances
 
   
51.99   Penalty
SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 51.01  PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   No person shall install an individual sewage disposal system or construct
any building in which an individual sewage disposal system is to be installed
without first obtaining a permit from the Township Administrative Secretary/
Treasurer indicating that the site and the plans and specifications of such
system are in compliance with the provisions of the Act of January 24, 1966,
P.L. 537, § 1, known as the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (35 P.S. §§
750.1 et seq.) and the standards adopted pursuant to said Act; provided that,
the provisions contained in said Act applicable to individual sewage systems
shall be hereafter extended to and be applied to any and all individual sewage
systems, without regard to the size of the lot, parcel or tract of land upon
which said facility is to be constructed and which shall result in the
disposing of sewage in whole or in part into the soil of the said property or
into any waters of this township. A fee in the sum as set from time to time by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors and stipulated in the township’s annual
fee resolution shall be paid to the township at the time of making application
for an individual or community sewage disposal system.
(2003 Code, § 130-1)  (Ord. 1-68, passed 7-1-1968)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02  ON-LOT SEPTIC SYSTEMS; TEN ACRE PERMIT EXEMPTION.
   After the effective date of this section, property owners who propose on-lot
septic systems on lots of ten acres or more shall be exempt from the permit
requirements of this section as long as said on-lot septic system meets the
requirements set forth in the Sewage Facilities Act (35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.),
25 Pa. Code Ch. 72, § 72.22(e) and (f) (as amended by Act 149), and any future
amendments thereto, and adopted by reference as if set out in full herein, and
the owner provides the ten-acre permit exemption documentation as set forth in
the attachment hereto and on file in the township offices, which must be
completed and filed with the township prior to construction of the system.
(2003 Code, § 130-1.5)  (Ord. 1-68, passed 7-1-1968)
§ 51.03  ADOPTION OF OTHER PROVISIONS BY REFERENCE.
   All other provisions of the aforesaid Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act are
hereby incorporated into this subchapter by reference therein with the same
force and effect and with the same validity as though the said Act had been
repeated at length herein, with the exception, however, of the provisions
contained in §
51.01.
(2003 Code, § 130-2)  (Ord. 1-68, passed 7-1-1968)
HOLDING TANKS
§ 51.15  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish procedures for the use and
maintenance of holding tanks designed to receive and retain sewage whether from
residential or commercial uses, and it is hereby declared that the enactment of
this subchapter is necessary for the protection, benefit and preservation of
the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of this township.
(2003 Code, § 130-4)  (Ord. 1-84, passed 5-1-1984)
§ 51.16  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOLDING TANK. A watertight receptacle which receives and retains sewage and
is designed and constructed to facilitate ultimate disposal of the sewage at
another site. HOLDING TANKS include, but are not limited to, the following.
      (1)   CHEMICAL TOILET. A toilet using chemicals that discharge to a
holding tank.
      (2)   RETENTION TANK. A holding tank where sewage is conveyed to it by a
water carrying system.
      (3)   VAULT PIT PRIVY. A holding tank designed to receive sewage where
water under pressure is not available.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property within the township upon which there is
erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy
or use by human beings or animals from which structure sewage shall or may be
discharged.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any property located in the township.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, association, corporation or
other group or entity.
   SEWAGE. Any substance that contains any of the waste products or excrement
or other discharge from the bodies of human beings and any noxious or
deleterious substance being harmful or inimical to the public health, or to
animal or aquatic life or to the use of water for domestic water supply or for
recreation.
   SUPERVISORS. The Greene Township Board of Supervisors.
   TOWNSHIP. Greene Township, Beaver County, Pennsylvania.
(2003 Code, § 130-5)  (Ord. 1-84, passed 5-1-1984)
§ 51.17  RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES GRANTED.
   The Supervisors are hereby authorized and empowered to undertake within the
township the control and methods of holding tank sewage disposal and the
collection and transportation thereof.
(2003 Code, § 130-6)  (Ord. 1-84, passed 5-1-1984)
§ 51.18  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Supervisors are hereby authorized and empowered to adopt such rules and
regulations concerning sewage which they may deem necessary from time to time
to effect the purpose herein.
(2003 Code, § 130-7)  (Ord. 1-84, passed 5-1-1984)
§ 51.19  RULES AND REGULATIONS TO BE IN CONFORMITY WITH APPLICABLE LAW.
   All such rules and regulations adopted by the Supervisors shall be in
conformity with the provisions herein, all applicable laws, and applicable
rules and regulations of administrative agencies of the commonwealth.
(2003 Code, § 130-8)  (Ord. 1-84, passed 5-1-1984)
§ 51.20  RATES AND CHARGES.
   The Supervisors shall have the right and power to fix, alter, charge and
collect rates, assessments and other charges in the area served by its
facilities at reasonable and uniform rates as authorized by applicable law.
(2003 Code, § 130-9)  (Ord. 1-84, passed 5-1-1984)
§ 51.21  EXCLUSIVENESS OF RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
   The collection and transportation of all sewage from any improved property
utilizing a holding tank shall be done solely by or under the direction and
control of the Supervisors or their designee, and the disposal thereof shall be
made only at such site or sites as may be approved by the Department of
Environmental Protection of the commonwealth.
(2003 Code, § 130-10)  (Ord. 1-84, passed 5-1-1984)
§ 51.22  DUTIES OF IMPROVED PROPERTY OWNER.
   The owner of an improved property that utilizes a holding tank shall:
   (A)   Maintain the holding tank in conformance with this or any ordinance of
this township, the provisions of any applicable law and the rules and
regulations of the Supervisors and any administrative agency of the
commonwealth; and
   (B)   Permit only the Supervisors or anyone having a permit from the
Supervisors to collect, transport and dispose of the contents therein.
(2003 Code, § 130-11)  (Ord. 1-84, passed 5-1-1984)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   In addition to any other remedies provided in this subchapter, any violation
of §
51.22 shall constitute a nuisance and may be abated by the municipality or the
Supervisors by either seeking appropriate equitable or legal relief from a
court of competent jurisdiction.
(2003 Code, § 130-13)  (Ord. 1-84, passed 5-1-1984)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates or permits a violation of §§
51.01 through
51.03 shall, upon conviction in a summary proceeding brought before a District
Justice under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, be guilty of a
summary offense and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000, plus
costs of prosecution. The minimum fine shall be one-half the maximum specified.
In default of payment thereof, the defendant may be sentenced to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 90 days. Each day or portion thereof that such
violation continues or is permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense, and each section of §§
51.01 through
51.03 that is violated shall also constitute a separate offense.
(2003 Code, § 130-3)
   (C)   Any person who violates or permits a violation of §§
51.15 through
51.23 shall, upon being found liable therefor in a civil enforcement proceeding
commenced by the township before a District Justice, pay a fine of not more
than $600, plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred
by the township in the enforcement of §§
51.15 through
51.23. The minimum fine shall be one-half the maximum specified. No judgment
shall be imposed until the date of the determination of the violation by the
District Justice. If the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the
judgment, the township may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable
Rules of Civil Procedure. Each day a violation exists shall constitute a
separate offense. Further, the appropriate officers or agents of the township
are hereby authorized to seek equitable relief, including injunction, to
enforce compliance herewith.
(2003 Code, § 130-12)
(Ord. 1-68, passed 7-1-1968; Ord. 1-84, passed 5-1-1984)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   WEIGHT LIMITS
      
71.   PARKING
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  WEIGHT LIMITS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Findings
   
70.03   Vehicle weight limits established
   
70.04   Permits and security
   
70.05   Erection of signs
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. A fire department vehicle, police vehicle, ambulance,
blood-delivery vehicle, armed forces emergency vehicle, or a vehicle used for
answering emergency calls, or other vehicle designated by the State Police
under 75 Pa.C.S. § 7606 of the Vehicle Code (relating to designation of
emergency vehicles by the Pennsylvania State Police).
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle or combination which is defined and/or governed
by the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq., as amended.
   SCHOOL BUS. A motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten passengers,
exclusive of the driver, and used for the transportation of school children.
(2003 Code, § 158-1)  (Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 70.02  FINDINGS.
   The Board of Supervisors have determined and hereby determine that the roads
or bridges, listed in
Chapter 72, Sch. I, under the jurisdiction of the township may be damaged or
destroyed unless the permissible weight of motor vehicles or combinations is
reduced to the weight limits listed in
Chapter 72, Sch. I.
(2003 Code, § 158-2)  (Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 70.03  VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the findings under §
70.02, no motor vehicle or combination shall, when operated on any of the roads
or bridges listed in
Chapter 72, Sch. I of this code of ordinances, have a gross weight exceeding
the weight limit listed for said road in
Chapter 72, Sch. I.
   (B)   The following motor vehicles shall be exempted from the restrictions
imposed under division (A) above:
      (1)   School buses;
      (2)   Emergency vehicles;
      (3)   Vehicles making local deliveries or pickups; and
      (4)   Locally owned empty trucks traveling to or from the owner’s
residence.
(2003 Code, § 158-3)  (Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 70.04  PERMITS AND SECURITY.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors of the township may issue permits for the
movement of motor vehicles or combinations of size and weight in excess of the
restrictions imposed under §
70.02, and require such undertaking or security as the Board of Supervisors
deems necessary to cover the cost of anticipated or probable repairs and/or
restoration necessitated by the permitted movement of vehicles.
   (B)   All actions taken under the authority of this section shall be taken
in accordance with the rules and regulations adopted from time to time by the
Board of Supervisors and in the absence thereof, in accordance with the rules
and regulations adopted by Pennsylvania Department of Transportation as found
in 67 Pa.Code.
(2003 Code, § 158-4)  (Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 70.05  ERECTION OF SIGNS.
   The township shall erect or cause to be erected and maintained restriction
signs designating the restrictions at each end of a bridge or portion of road
restricted as provided in this chapter. In the case of a restriction on a
bridge or on a road which does not begin or end at an intersection with an
unrestricted road, the township shall also place an advance informational sign
at the intersection nearest each end of the restricted bridge or portion of
road which would allow drivers to avoid the restricted bridge or portion of
road. No person shall be found to have violated any section of this chapter
unless the restriction sign designating the restricted bridge or portion of
road to traffic moving in the direction the person was driving was posted as
required in this section. However, failure to post the restriction sign
designating the restricted bridge or portion of road to traffic moving in the
opposite direction or failure to post any advance informational sign shall not
constitute a defense to a violation of this section.
(2003 Code, § 158-5)  (Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   Any individual or entity found to have violated any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a summary offense, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding $1,000, or undergo imprisonment
for a period not exceeding 30 days, or both. Each additional day or provision
of this chapter violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(2003 Code, § 158-6)  (Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
CHAPTER 71:  PARKING
Section
   
71.01   Prohibited roads
   
71.02   Towing and impoundment
   
71.03   Temporary limits
 
   
71.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:    Prohibited Roads
§ 71.01  PROHIBITED ROADS.
   (A)   No person shall park a motor vehicle at any time upon either side of
the entirety of any of the described streets, rights-of-way encompassing said
streets or any parts thereof identified on Appendix A attached to the ordinance
codified herein and incorporated as if set out in full.
   (B)   The right-of-way of said roads shall be determined as 35.5 feet from
the centerline of said roadway.
(Ord. 10-2016, passed 10-4-2016)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02  TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   The township shall be authorized to impound any vehicle in violation of this
chapter and to remove any such vehicle to a designated impound area. The
registered owner of any vehicle impounded by the township shall be promptly
notified in writing of the fact of the removal and of the place to which said
vehicle has been removed. Said owner may obtain possession of the vehicle upon
payment in full of any and all towing and storage charges. Neither the township
nor any of its employees, agents or independent contractors involved in the
removal and/or impounding and storage of a vehicle in violation of this chapter
shall be responsible for and shall be held harmless from any damages occurring
as a result of the towing, impounding and storage of any vehicle parked in
violation of this chapter by the owner of said vehicle. Any person who violates
a parking restriction in the township may have his or her offending vehicle
removed at the direction of the Code Enforcement Officer; shall pay all costs
associated with the removal and storage of the offending vehicle, and shall
hold the third party towers harmless from any claims for damage to the
offending vehicle resulting from said removal.
(Ord. 10-2016, passed 10-4-2016)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03  TEMPORARY LIMITS.
   Notwithstanding the prohibitions contained in this chapter, permits may be
obtained from the Administrative Secretary/Treasurer for good cause shown
allowing temporary parking on the aforementioned streets. Said temporary
permits shall only be valid if the conditions established by the township and
contained on said permits are fully complied with by the permitee. Said permits
are to be conspicuously posted by the property owner at the location of the
property line meeting the right-of-way line.
(Ord. 10-2016, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Parking violations in the township shall constitute a summary offense
punishable as follows:
Violation Fine
Violation                      Fine
Handicap parking               $100
Illegal parking or fire lane
   If paid within 72 hours  $15
   If not paid within 72 hou$30
Parking at fire hydrant        $25
Parking in prohibited zone     $25
Parking on yellow line or curb $25
Other violations               $15
 
   (B)   Payment of the fines set forth herein shall be made within 20 days of
issuance or the fine due shall be tripled and recoverable by action before the
Magisterial District Justice.
   (C)   Actions before the Magisterial District Justice shall permit the
recovery of court costs, police officer compensation for attendance at the
hearing and legal fees incurred by the township as additional sanctions.
(Ord. 10-2016, passed 10-4-2016)
APPENDIX A: PROHIBITED ROADS
Road Name
Road Name
Cain Road
Chapman Road
Cross Road
Crystal Drive
Cullen Drive
Dam Road
Ford Reed Road
Francis Drive
Georgetown Road
Glass Road
Greene Road
Heizler Drive
Hill Road
Kennedy Hill Road
Langham Drive
Leeper Road
Lincoln Court
Littel Road
Little Blue Road
Lokomski Road
Long Road
McCleary Road
Pittsburgh Grade Road
Pole Cat Hollow Road
Pole Cat Hollow Road Extension
Potts Road
Reddog Road
Reddog Road Extension
Shaffer Road (north)
Shaffer Road (south)
Sharon Drive
Silver Slipper Road
Snowden Road
Tate Road
Temple Road
Tomlinson Run Church Road
Tower Lane
Upper Service Road
Wellington Road
 
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Vehicle weight limits
      
II.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I.  VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS.
Road Number Road Name Posted Weight Limit (Tons)
Road Number Road Name                      Posted Weight Limit (Tons)
T-312       ReddogRoad                     10
T-312       Reddog Road Extension          10
T-312       Cross Road                     10
T-314       Leeper Road                    10
T-318       Pittsburgh Grade Road          10
T-341       Temple Road                    10
T-348       Lokomski Road                  10
T-355       Tomlinson Run Church Road      10
T-357       Chapman Road                   10
T-362       Pole Cat Hollow Road Extension 10
T-365       Long Road                      10
T-367       Upper Service Road             10
T-368       Silver Slipper Road            10
T-370       Hill Road                      10
T-382       Greene Road                    10
T-385       Kennedy Hill Road              10
T-386       Snowden Road                   10
T-444       Cain Road                      10
T-445       Glass Road                     10
T-447       Ford Reed Road                 10
T-452       Shaffer Road (north)           10
T-452       Shaffer Road (south)           10
T-460       Tate Road                      10
T-462       Pole Cat Hollow Road           10
T-462       Dam Road                       10
T-464       Little Blue Road               10
T-465       Sharon Drive                   10
T-466       Cullen Drive                   10
T-467       Cullen Drive                   10
T-700       Lincoln Court                  10
T-725       Tower Lane                     10
T-820       Potts Road                     10
T-821       Langham Drive                  10
T-822       Heizler Drive                  10
T-822       Crystal Drive                  10
T-824       Georgetown Road                10
T-825       Francis Drive                  10
T-826       Wellington Road                10
T-827       Littel Road                    10
T-825       McCleary Road                  10
 
(2003 Code, § 158-2)  (Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II.  SPEED LIMITS.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township have determined that the following
township roads are located in a residence district as provided in the Vehicle
Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 3362, and hereby establish the maximum speed limit for
said roads at 25 mph. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at
a higher speed than said maximum speed limit.
Name of Road
Name of Road
Cain Road
Chapman Road
Connecting Road
Cross Road
Dam Road
Glass Road
Hill Road
Kennedy Hill Road
Leeper Road
Little Blue Road
Little Blue Hollow Road
Long Road
Pittsburgh Grade Road
Pole Cat Hollow Extension
Pole Cat Hollow Road
Red Dog Road
Shaffer Road
Shaffer Road Extension
Silver Slipper Road
Snowden Road
Tate Road
Temple Road
Tomlinson Run Church Road
Upper Service Road
 
(2003 Code, § 158-7)  (Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   OPEN BURNING
CHAPTER 90:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Openings
   
90.01   Permit required
   
90.02   Application for permit
   
90.03   Issuance of permit
   
90.04   Notice of completion
   
90.05   Inspection by township
Parking and Snow Removal
   
90.20   Parked vehicles
   
90.21   Removal of vehicles
   
90.22   Illegal snow and ice removal
 
   
90.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND OPENINGS
§ 90.01  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   In accordance with the provisions of 53 P.S. § 67322 of the Second Class
Township Code, as amended, no railroad or street railway shall hereafter be
constructed upon any township road, nor shall any railroad or street railway
crossings, nor any gas pipe, water pipe, electric conduits or other piping be
laid upon or in, nor shall any telephone, telegraph or electric light or power
poles or any coal tipples or any other obstructions be erected upon or in any
portion of a township road except under such conditions, restrictions and
regulations relating to the installation and maintenance thereof, as may be
prescribed in permits granted by the township for such purpose.
(2003 Code, § 142-1)  (Ord. 2-74, passed 11-21-1974; Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-
2003)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   The application for a permit shall be on a form prescribed by the
township and submitted to the township in triplicate. The application shall be
accompanied by a fee set by annual fee resolution and accompanied by bond.
   (B)   In addition, the applicant shall submit three copies of a sketch
showing such dimensions as the location of the intended facility, width of the
traveled roadway, right-of-way lines and a dimension to the nearest
intersecting street.
(2003 Code, § 142-2)  (Ord. 2-74, passed 11-21-1974; Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-
2003)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   A permit shall be issued to the applicant after all the aforementioned
requirements have been filed.
(2003 Code, § 142-3)  (Ord. 2-74, passed 11-21-1974)
§ 90.04  NOTICE OF COMPLETION.
   Upon completion of the work, the applicant shall give written notice thereof
to the township.
(2003 Code, § 142-4)  (Ord. 2-74, passed 11-21-1974)
§ 90.05  INSPECTION BY TOWNSHIP.
   (A)   Upon completion of the work authorized by the permit, the township
shall inspect the work and, when necessary, enforce compliance with the
conditions, restrictions and regulations prescribed by the permit.
   (B)   In addition to that inspection, the Board of Supervisors or its agents
may reinspect the work not more than two years after its completion, and if any
settlement of the road surface or other defect appears in the work contrary to
the conditions, restrictions and regulations of the township, the Board of
Supervisors may enforce compliance therewith.
   (C)   Where any settlement or defect in the work occurs, if the applicant
fails to rectify a defect which presents an immediate or imminent safety or
health problem within 48 hours or any other defect within 60 days after written
notice from the township to do so, the township may do the work and impose upon
the applicant the cost thereof, together with an additional 20% of such cost.
(2003 Code, § 142-5)  (Ord. 2-74, passed 11-21-1974; Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-
2003)
PARKING AND SNOW REMOVAL
§ 90.20  PARKED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to park or allow to be parked any motor vehicle or
other vehicle on any township rights-of-way which are part of the township
system after the start of a snow fall and until the snow has stopped falling
and the snow has been completely plowed for the full width of the township
right-of-way.
(2003 Code, § 142-7)  (Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   Any member of the township road crew, or any employee of the township
engaged in road work, is hereby authorized to have removed any vehicle
abandoned or parked upon any public highway or street in violation of the terms
and provisions of this subchapter, and to take any said vehicle to the tow
operator’s impoundment lot designated by the township to receive such vehicles.
The registered owner of any said vehicle shall be notified of the fact of the
removal and of the place to which said vehicle has been removed, where he or
she may obtain the same upon payment of any and all towing and storage charges.
Neither the township nor any of its officers or employees shall be held
responsible for any damage to any vehicle occurring as a result of towing and/
or storage of a vehicle parked in violation of the subchapter.
(2003 Code, § 142-8)  (Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 90.22  ILLEGAL SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for owners, occupants or tenants of property to do the
following:
   (A)   Dump, throw, shovel, pile or push any snow or ice removed from
driveways or walkways into any public right-of-way;
   (B)   Push or deposit snow, ice, slush or combination thereof, into any
drainage area, stream, river, culvert or catch basin;
   (C)   Push, deposit or maintain snow, ice, slush or combination thereof,
within a commercial, manufacturing, light industrial or multiple-family zoning
district parking facility or at or near an intersection in any zoning district,
in a manner or at location which creates a traffic hazard by impairing
visibility from or of a public highway; and/or
   (D)   Damage township property, including but not restricted to, traffic
signs, culverts and the like, while removing snow, ice, slush or a combination
thereof. Any damage to township property shall be repaired or replaced in
accordance with the requirements of the township at the expense of the property
owner and/or snow removal agency.
(2003 Code, § 142-9)  (Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation or utility who violates or permits a
violation of §§
90.01 through
90.05 shall, upon being found liable therefor in a civil enforcement proceeding
commenced by the township before a District Justice, pay a fine of not more
than $600, plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred
by the township in the enforcement of §§
90.01 through
90.05. The minimum fine shall be one-half the maximum specified. No judgment
shall be imposed until the date of the determination of the violation by the
District Justice. If the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the
judgment, the township may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable
Rules of Civil Procedure. Each day a violation exists shall constitute a
separate offense. Further, the appropriate officers or agents of the township
are hereby authorized to seek equitable relief, including injunction, to
enforce compliance herewith.
(2003 Code, § 142-6)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates or permits a violation of
§§
90.20 through
90.22 shall, upon being found liable therefor in a civil enforcement proceeding
commenced by the township before a District Justice, pay a fine of not more
than $500, plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred
by the township in the enforcement of §§
90.20 through
90.22. The minimum fine shall be one-half the maximum specified. No judgment
shall be imposed until the date of the determination of the violation by the
District Justice. If the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the
judgment, the township may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable
Rules of Civil Procedure. Each day a violation exists shall constitute a
separate offense. Further, the appropriate officers or agents of the township
are hereby authorized to seek equitable relief, including injunction, to
enforce compliance herewith.
(2003 Code, § 142-10)
(Ord. 2-74, passed 11-21-1974; Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
CHAPTER 91:  PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS
Section
Mill Creek Community Park
   
91.01   Designation
   
91.02   Rules and regulations; park hours; permits
   
91.03   Enforcing official
   
91.04   Possession of permit required
 
   
91.99   Penalty
MILL CREEK COMMUNITY PARK
§ 91.01  DESIGNATION.
   The tract of land located off Pennsylvania Route 168 and owned by the
township, having been established as a public park, is hereby designated Mill
Creek Community Park, a public recreation facility provided by the township.
(2003 Code, § 119-1)  (Ord. passed 6-3-2002)
§ 91.02  RULES AND REGULATIONS; PARK HOURS; PERMITS.
   The following rules and regulations are hereby established for the
management and protection of Mill Creek Community Park, hereinafter designated
“the park”.
   (A)   The park shall be open daily from sunrise to sunset.
   (B)   No person shall remove any bench, seat or table from the park or
change the location thereof without permission from the township.
   (C)   No person shall injure, deface, remove, cut or damage any of the
trees, plants, shrubs, turf, buildings, structures or fixtures therein, or any
other property of the township located within the park.
   (D)   No person shall conduct himself or herself within the park so as to
annoy any other person using the park for recreational purposes.
   (E)   Permits.
      (1)   Permits for guaranteed use of the picnic pavilion will be sold by
the township’s administration. The application for such permit shall be in the
name of a person who shall be responsible for seeing that all refuse left by
the group shall be placed in proper containers before leaving the park.
      (2)   Each permit will require a deposit and rental fee for any shelter
or facility used by the group. Said rental fee shall be established from time
to time by resolution.
      (3)   Any person or organization or group holding a permit for usage of a
specific park location or facility shall have priority of usage over any
person, organization or group not holding a permit.
   (F)   No person shall set up any booth, table or stand for the sale of any
article whatsoever within the limits of the park without the written consent of
the township, which shall have the authority to refuse such consent in any
instance.
   (G)   No person shall dispose of any litter, waste or garbage in the park.
All persons using the park shall dispose of all waste and garbage left by them
in such proper receptacles.
   (H)   No person shall injure, deface or destroy any notice, rule or
regulation posted at any place within the park by authority of the township,
nor shall any person post, at any place within the park, any notice or placard
other than by authority of the township.
   (I)   No person shall set or maintain any fire in the park except in stoves
and fireplaces maintained for the purpose and located by authority of the
township. As hereinafter set forth, only charcoal and/or wooden fires are
permitted. In the event a wooden fire is instituted, any wood so utilized shall
be brought from outside the park.
   (J)   The use, possession, transportation or consumption of alcoholic
beverages within the park is prohibited.
   (K)   No person, other than an officer of the law, shall carry any firearm
within the limits of the park. Likewise, no person shall engage in archery
sports, nor engage in any other functions involving force-propelled devices
unless first approved by the township.
   (L)   No person shall operate or cause to have in his or her possession any
unlicensed motor vehicle and/or cycle.
   (M)   No person shall bring unrestrained pets into the park.
   (N)   There shall be no parking and/or driving in the areas other than those
designated parking areas or on paved roadways.
   (O)   The speed limit within the territorial confines of the park shall be
five mph as indicated by the posting of signs stating such fact.
   (P)   No person shall climb any tree or sit, stand or walk on any park sign,
park structure or park building not customarily utilized for such purposes.
   (Q)   No person shall erect tents, shacks, shelters, trailers/recreational
vehicles or any other structures for overnight camping or otherwise without
express township approval.
   (R)   No person shall post, draw, tack or otherwise cause any sign to be in
existence without township approval.
   (S)   No open fires are permitted in the park; fires are only permitted
after due consideration for the health, safety and welfare of the persons and
property within the park. In any event, however, only charcoal and/or wooden
fires are permitted.
   (T)   No remote control and/or hobby devices are permitted to be operated
within the confines of the park unless approval is obtained from the township.
(2003 Code, § 119-2)  (Ord. passed 6-3-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  ENFORCING OFFICIAL.
   The Code Enforcement Officer of the township shall generally be charged with
the enforcement of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 119-4)  (Ord. passed 6-3-2002)
§ 91.04  POSSESSION OF PERMIT REQUIRED.
   All permits required by the provisions of this chapter shall be required to
be in the possession of the permit holder when using the facilities of the park
for which the permit has been issued.
(2003 Code, § 119-5)  (Ord. passed 6-3-2002)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or permits a violation of this chapter shall, upon
being found liable therefor in a civil enforcement proceeding commenced by the
township before a District Justice, pay a fine of not more than $600, plus all
court costs, including reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred by the township in
the enforcement of this chapter. The minimum fine shall be one-half the maximum
specified. No judgment shall be imposed until the date of the determination of
the violation by the District Justice. If the defendant neither pays nor timely
appeals the judgment, the township may enforce the judgment pursuant to the
applicable Rules of Civil Procedure. Each day a violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense. Further, the appropriate officers or agents of
the township are hereby authorized to seek equitable relief, including
injunction, to enforce compliance herewith.
(2003 Code, § 119-3)  (Ord. passed 6-3-2002)
CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Creation or maintenance of nuisance unlawful
   
92.03   Notice of violation; abatement; appeals
   
92.04   Condemnation procedure
   
92.05   Abatement by township; costs; additional remedies
   
92.06   Construal of provisions; additional remedies
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any use of any structure for a retail or wholesale commercial
establishment, whether for profit or not, and the storage or stocking of any
inventories for a retail or wholesale commercial establishment, for the purpose
of dealing in the sale of goods, wares, merchandise or services to other
persons.
   DWELLING. The actual or intended use of any structure for human habitation.
   PERSON. Any individual human being, partnership, association, firm or
corporation. In this chapter, the singular shall include the plural, the plural
shall include the singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine and
the neuter.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any use or lack of use of real property within the
township, or any condition upon any real property within the township, that,
other than infrequently or occasionally:
      (1)   Shall cause or result in annoyance or disturbance to persons beyond
the boundaries of such property;
      (2)   Interferes with the health and/or safety of persons beyond the
boundaries of such property;
      (3)   Shall cause or result in disturbance to, disruption of or
interference with the peaceful use of the property of other persons within the
township;
      (4)   Shall constitute a violation of the laws of the commonwealth, the
regulations of the State Department of Health or the State Department of
Environmental Protection, or ordinances and/or rules and regulations enacted or
approved by the Township Board of Supervisors; or
      (5)   Shall cause or result in the maintenance of any structure which is
in a blighted or dilapidated condition and/or which contains dangerous
conditions or materials, as defined and determined by the laws of the
commonwealth, the regulations of the State Department of Health or the State
Department of Environmental Protection, or ordinances and/or rules and
regulations enacted or approved by the Township Board of Supervisors.
   STRUCTURE. Any construction or any production or piece of work artificially
built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner and
affixed to or located on real property in the township.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Greene.
(2003 Code, § 115-1)  (Ord. 1-94, passed 1-3-1994)
§ 92.02  CREATION OR MAINTENANCE OF NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create or maintain any public
nuisance anywhere within the limits of the township.
(2003 Code, § 115-2)  (Ord. 1-94, passed 1-3-1994)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03  NOTICE OF VIOLATION; ABATEMENT; APPEALS.
   Upon the existence of such a prohibited public nuisance coming to the
attention of the Code Enforcement Officer of the township, he or she shall
cause to be served upon the person who created and/or maintained such public
nuisance, written notice of said violation and notice to repair or remove or
otherwise abate said public nuisance.
   (A)   The person who created or maintained such public nuisance, or his or
her agent, worker, servant or employee, shall commence the repair, removal or
other remedy necessary to abate the herein prohibited condition within ten days
of receipt of such notice and shall complete the same within 30 days thereof,
unless a longer period is granted by the Township Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   The notice herein required shall contain the name of the person who
created and/or maintained such public nuisance, the identification or location
of the offending property, the nature of the unlawful condition hereunder and
whether it is the determination of the Code Enforcement Officer that the same
be repaired, removed or otherwise abated.
   (C)   Service of the notice herein required upon the person who created and/
or maintained such public nuisance may be accomplished by:
      (1)   Handing of same to him or her personally by an adult;
      (2)   Handing of same to an adult member of his or her family with which
he or she resides, or an adult employee in charge of his or her office or place
of business;
      (3)   Certified mail delivered to addressee only; or
      (4)   By conspicuous posting of same on the offending property if the
whereabouts of the person who created and/or maintained such public nuisance is
unknown.
   (D)   The notice herein required shall set forth that the person who created
and/or maintained such public nuisance shall have the right to appeal the
decision of the Township Code Enforcement Officer to the Township Board of
Supervisors within ten days of receipt of said notice by filing the appropriate
appeal in writing with the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer. If an
appeal is filed, the Township Board of Supervisors will hold a public hearing
after due notice and will render written findings and conclusions.
(2003 Code, § 115-3)  (Ord. 1-94, passed 1-3-1994)
§ 92.04  CONDEMNATION PROCEDURE.
   When a structure is found by the Code Enforcement Officer to be unsafe, or
when a structure is found unfit for human occupancy or is found unlawful, such
structure shall be condemned pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Unsafe structure. An unsafe structure is one that is found to be
dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the
occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or
warn occupants in the event of fire, or because such structure contains unsafe
equipment or is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of
such faulty construction or unstable foundation that partial or complete
collapse is likely.
   (B)   Unsafe equipment. Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating
equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable
liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or within the structure
which is in such disrepair or condition that such equipment is a hazard to
life, health, property or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or
structure.
   (C)   Structure unfit for human occupancy. A structure is unfit for human
occupancy whenever the Code Enforcement Officer finds that such structure is
unsafe, unlawful or, because of the degree to which the structure is in
disrepair or lacks maintenance, is unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains
filth and contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or
heating facilities or other essential equipment required by this chapter, or
because the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of
the structure or to the public.
   (D)   Unlawful structure. An unlawful structure is one found in whole or in
part to be occupied by more persons than permitted by law, or was erected,
altered or occupied contrary to law.
   (E)   Closing of vacant structures. If the structure is vacant and unfit for
human habitation and occupancy and is not in danger of structural collapse, the
Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to post a placard of condemnation on the
premises and order the structure closed up so as not to be an attractive
nuisance. Upon failure of the owner to close up the premises within the time
specified in the order, the Code Enforcement Officer shall cause the premises
to be closed through any available public agency or by contract or arrangement
by private persons, and the cost thereof shall be charged against the real
estate upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real
estate.
   (F)   Notice. Whenever the Code Enforcement Officer has condemned a
structure under the provisions of this section, notice shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice and served
on the owner or the person or persons responsible for the structure in
accordance with §
92.03(C). The notice shall be in the form prescribed in §
92.03(B).
   (G)   Placarding. Upon failure of the owner or person responsible to comply
with the notice provisions within the time given, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall post on the premises a placard bearing the word “Condemned” and a
statement of the penalties provided for occupying the premises, operating the
equipment or removing the placard.
   (H)   Prohibited occupancy. Any person who shall occupy a placarded premises
or shall operate placarded equipment, and any owner or any person responsible
for the premises who shall let anyone occupy a placarded premises or operate
placarded equipment, shall be liable for the penalties provided by this
chapter.
   (I)   Removal of placard. The Code Enforcement Officer shall remove the
condemnation placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation
and placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces
or removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the Code Enforcement
Officer shall be subject to the penalties provided by this chapter.
   (J)   Imminent danger. When, in the opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer,
there is imminent danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure
which endangers life, or when any structure or part of a structure has fallen
and life is endangered by the occupation of the structure, or when there is
actual or potential danger to the building occupants or those in the proximity
of any structure because of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors or the
presence of toxic fumes, gases or materials, or operation of defective or
dangerous equipment, the Code Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized and
empowered to order and require the occupants to vacate the premises forthwith.
The Code Enforcement Officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
structure a notice reading as follows: “This structure is unsafe and its
occupancy has been prohibited by the Code Enforcement Officer.” It shall be
unlawful for any person to enter such structure except for the purpose of
securing the structure, making the required repairs, removing the hazardous
condition or of demolishing the same.
(2003 Code, § 115-4)  (Ord. 1-94, passed 1-3-1994)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05  ABATEMENT BY TOWNSHIP; COSTS; ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   If any person shall fail, neglect or refuse to commence work to remove or
abate such public nuisance, or to file an appeal as herein provided within the
time limit provided for in §
92.03(A) and (D), respectively, hereof, the Township Code Enforcement Officer
shall have authority to remove or abate such public nuisance, and, in so doing,
shall have authority to enter upon the property on which such public nuisance
shall be present or exist. Thereupon, the township shall collect the cost and
expense of such abatement or removal with an additional amount of 10% from the
person who created and/or maintained such public nuisance, such person having
failed, neglected or refused to remove or abate such nuisance, in the manner
provided for the collection of municipal claims or by an action in assumpsit
without the filing of a claim; provided such cost and expense, and additional
amount, may be in addition to any penalty imposed under §
92.99. In addition to any other rights exercisable by the township, the
Township Code Enforcement Officer shall also have the right to file legal
action in the Court of Common Pleas of the county for the removal of any
structure or other condition on the land which constitutes a public nuisance as
herein provided.
(2003 Code, § 115-5)  (Ord. 1-94, passed 1-3-1994)
§ 92.06  CONSTRUAL OF PROVISIONS; ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   This chapter shall not be construed to constitute the sole or exclusive
means for abatement of public nuisances within the township, and nothing herein
shall preclude any person from proceeding individually or with other injured
persons to effect the abatement of a private nuisance. Furthermore, in the
exercise of the powers herein conferred, the township may institute proceedings
in courts of equity.
(2003 Code, § 115-7)  (Ord. 1-94, passed 1-3-1994)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or permits a violation of this chapter shall, upon
conviction in a summary proceeding brought before a District Justice under the
Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, be guilty of a summary offense and
shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000, plus costs of
prosecution. The minimum fine shall be one-half the maximum specified. In
default of payment thereof, the defendant may be sentenced to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 90 days; provided each day’s continuance of an unlawful
condition hereunder after ten days after service of the herein required notice
shall constitute a separate offense, and also each section of this chapter that
is violated shall constitute a separate offense. A fine of $100 per day shall
be imposed for any second violation of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 115-6)  (Ord. 1-94, passed 1-3-1994)
CHAPTER 93:  OPEN BURNING
Section
   
93.01   Findings and purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Burning regulations
   
93.04   Enforcement orders
   
93.05   Unlawful conduct
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared to be a matter of public health and safety to regulate
the disposal of waste by open burning in the township. It is further declared
that the dangers of open fires, the air pollution from fires, and the
management of waste removal and disposal necessitate regulation to protect the
peace, good order and welfare of the township and the health and safety of its
citizens. Although inspections may be conducted of the materials to be burned
and the burn site, open burning is performed at the person’s own risk and it is
the property owner’s responsibility to ensure that the burning is performed in
a safe manner.
(2003 Code, § 73-1)  (Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-2010)
§ 93.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT. An individual 18 years or older who is not under the influence of
drugs or alcohol, which may impair his or her ability to properly supervise a
fire, control and/or extinguish the fire, at all times.
   BURNING. The act of consuming by fire, to flame, char, scorch or blaze. As
used in this chapter, SMOLDERING shall have the same meaning and any smoldering
shall be deemed BURNING.
   CLEARING AND GRUBBING WASTES. Trees, shrubs and other native vegetation
which are cleared from land during or prior to the process of construction or
agricultural land maintenance. The term does not include demolition wastes and
dirt laden roots.
   DOMESTIC REFUSE. All perishable animal and vegetable matter resulting from
the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food; any solid or liquid
material which, when ignited, creates toxic or noxious fumes including, but not
limited to, plastics, rubber, petrochemicals, furniture, mattresses, box
springs, television sets, appliances, PVC products, automobiles, automobile
parts, carpets, rags, old clothing and any waste not herein defined as yard
waste or trade waste.
   HOLIDAY. New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Jr.’s Birthday, Presidents Day,
Good Friday, Memorial Day, Flag Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day,
Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Eve and Christmas Day.
   MUNICIPALITY. A city, incorporated town, borough, county, township or other
public body created under commonwealth law having jurisdiction over the
disposal of wastes.
   OPEN BURNING. A fire emitting contaminants directly into the atmosphere, not
directed through a flue.
   PERSON. Any individual, public or private corporation for profit or not for
profit, association, partnership, firm, estate, department, board, bureau or
agency of the commonwealth or the federal government, municipality, district
authority, or any other legal entity whatsoever, recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   TRADE WASTE. All solid or liquid waste material resulting from construction,
building operations or the performance of any business, trade or industry
including, but not limited to, asphalt shingles, electric wiring, plastic
products, cartons, paint, grease, oil, tires and other petroleum products,
chemicals, cinders, processed wood and other forms of solid and liquid waste
material; provided, however, that the TRADE WASTE shall not include any coal
refuse associated with the mining or preparation of coal.
   YARD WASTE. Leaves, grass clippings, garden residue, tree trimmings, chipped
shrubbery and other vegetative material from residential yard maintenance.
(2003 Code, § 73-2)  (Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-2010)
§ 93.03  BURNING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All open burning requires adult supervision and no fire will be left
unattended.
   (B)   All open burning shall be done in an approved container such as a
metal barrel covered with a non-flammable mesh or a concrete enclosure and
conform to the following.
      (1)   Said container shall be placed on privately owned property, but in
no event shall be placed closer than 50 feet from adjacent property line, from
any dwelling or structure, inhabited or not, or flammable materials or
containers.
      (2)   Said container shall not be placed on or near any combustible
material or on the surface of any public street or road.
      (3)   No open burning shall be permitted on any day from dusk to dawn or
on Sundays or holidays. The time limitation set forth in this division (B)(3)
may be waived by the Chief of the Hookstown Volunteer Fire Company, or his or
her designee.
   (C)   Clearing and grubbing waste may be burned subject to the following
requirements.
      (1)   A 48-hour notice must be provided the Chief of the Hookstown
Volunteer Fire Company, or his or her designee.
      (2)   No open burning can take place prior to the site/materials
inspection performed by the Chief of the Hookstown Volunteer Fire Company, or
his or her designee.
      (3)   Weather conditions must be acceptable for burning; no existing fire
bans are in place, no drought conditions, storms or high winds are expected.
      (4)   No open burning shall be permitted on any day from dusk to dawn or
on Sundays or holidays.
      (5)   Clearing and grubbing provisions can only be waived by the Chief of
the Hookstown Volunteer Fire Company, or his or her designee.
   (D)   Burning of domestic refuse and trade waste is prohibited. No person
shall burn domestic refuse or trade waste for any reason within the township.
   (E)   Wastes of any kind cannot be transported for the purpose of burning
from one area of the municipality to another or into the municipality from any
other municipality.
   (F)   The municipal governing body may declare a fire ban emergency in the
municipality with consultation of the Chief of the Hookstown Volunteer Fire
Company operating within the municipality during a period of drought, or other
periods of high risk to woodlands or property within the municipality. Upon the
municipal governing body or Chief of the Hookstown Volunteer Fire company, or
his or her designee, declaring a fire ban emergency, all outdoor burning or
fire shall be prohibited until the ban is lifted by the municipal governing
body. Notice of declaring or lifting a fire ban shall be published at least
once in a local newspaper of general circulation.
   (G)   The following types of fires are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter except during a fire ban (division (F) above):
      (1)   Fire solely for cooking food;
      (2)   Recreational fires for warmth, fellowship, food preparation,
camping, ceremonial purposes of private individuals or organizations (i.e.,
Boy/Girl Scouts) limited to a maximum size of six feet in diameter; and
      (3)   Fires set in the performance of an official duty by any firefighter
or public officer where the fire is for the prevention of a hazard, safety or
welfare; for the purpose of instructing personnel in fire safety; or for other
official purposes.
(2003 Code, § 73-3)  (Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-2010)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04  ENFORCEMENT ORDERS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police and any other police officer, state police
officer, the municipal ordinance enforcement officer and any other duly
authorized agent shall have the power of duty to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Whenever the Ordinance Enforcement Officer finds open burning
occurring in the municipality, other than those exceptions noted in §
93.03(G), the Ordinance Enforcement Officer may order the owner or operator to
take corrective action in a manner satisfactory to the municipality or order
the owner/operator to allow access to the land by a third party to take such
action.
(2003 Code, § 73-4)  (Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-2010)
§ 93.05  UNLAWFUL CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with or to cause or assist in the
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or fail to comply with any
order or other requirement of the municipality; or to cause a public nuisance;
or to hinder, obstruct, prevent or interfere with the municipality or its
personnel in the performance of any duty hereunder, including denying the Code
Enforcement Officer or other authorized personnel access to the property in
question.
(2003 Code, § 73-6)  (Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-2010)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter or failing to comply
herewith shall, upon conviction before a District Justice, be subject to a fine
of not less than $10 nor more than $1,000, plus costs of prosecution, for each
violation. Each day the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
(2003 Code, § 73-5)  (Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-2010)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESS, PANHANDLING, CANVASSING AND SOLICITATION
      
111.   JUNKYARDS AND JUNK DEALERS
      
112.   LOGGING
CHAPTER 110:  TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESS, PANHANDLING,
CANVASSING AND SOLICITATION
Section
   
110.01   Title
   
110.02   Purpose
   
110.03   Definitions
   
110.04   License required; issuance; fee
   
110.05   Application for license
   
110.06   Investigation of application; license issuance; display
   
110.07   Prohibited acts; restrictions
   
110.08   Supervision of activities; records and reports
   
110.09   Business hours
   
110.10   Suspension and revocation of licenses; appeals
   
110.11   Restricted residence listing
   
110.12   Implementation of chapter
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Greene Township Transient Retail
Business, Panhandling, Canvassing and Solicitation Ordinance”.
(Ord. 1-2014, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 110.02  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter and the policy of the township, in order
to protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare of its citizens,
to establish the rights and obligations of those who wish to engage in legal
temporary or transient business or canvassing.
(Ord. 1-2014, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 110.03  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CANVASSING. Includes any person who goes from private house to house
questioning persons for the purposes of obtaining information data or opinions
from such persons contacted for any issue of public interest, including
political, religious, charitable or educational purposes, whether or not a
donation from the resident(s) is sought from the canvasser.
      CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization which has been granted an
exemption by the United States Internal Revenue Service under the United States
Internal Revenue Code of 1954, being 26 U.S.C. §§ 501(c) and 509(a) and/or any
person or organization who has complied with the provisions of the Pennsylvania
Solicitation of Funds for Charitable Purposes Act, 10 P.S. §§ 162.1 et seq., as
amended.
      LEGAL HOLIDAY. Any holiday characterized by the suspension of business of
the state or federal government, including, but not limited to, New Year’s Day,
Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
      PANHANDLING.
         (a)   Includes, but not be limited to, using the spoken, written or
printed word, bodily gestures, signs, music, singing or other street
performance with the purpose of obtaining an immediate donation of money or
other thing of value. PANHANDLING shall also include exchanges in which the
person being approached receives an item or thing of value of little or no
monetary value in exchange for a donation, under circumstances where a
reasonable person would understand that the transaction is in substance a
donation.
         (b)   PANHANDLING IN AN AGGRESSIVE MANNER means:
            1.   Following behind, ahead or alongside a person for more than 50
feet either before, during or after soliciting if that conduct is intended or
is likely to cause a reasonable person to fear bodily harm to oneself or to
another, or damage to or loss of property or otherwise be intimidated into
giving money or other thing of value;
            2.   Continuing to solicit from a person after that person has
given a negative response to such soliciting or walked away from the solicitor;
            3.   Intentionally touching or causing contact with the solicited
person without such person’s consent;
            4.   Intentionally blocking or interfering with the safe or free
passage of a person or vehicle being solicited by any means, including
unreasonably causing a person or vehicle operator to take evasive action to
avoid physical contact;
            5.   Using profane or abusive language, or speaking in an
unreasonably loud volume, either during the solicitation or following a refusal
to make a donation, or making any statement or gestures toward a solicited
person which would cause a reasonable person to be fearful or feel compelled;
or
            6.   Soliciting from a person while that person is waiting in line
for entry to a building or for another purpose.
      PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, association, corporation or
other legal entity.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of
persons has access, including, but not limited to, any street, highway,
sidewalk, parking facility, plaza, transportation facility, school, place of
amusement, park or playground, and any doorway, entrance, hallway, lobby, or
other portion of any business establishment, apartment house or hotel not
constituting a room or apartment designed for actual residences.
      SOLICITING. Includes, but is not limited to, a person going:
         (a)   From private house to house, conveying or transporting goods,
wares or merchandise, or offering or exposing the same for sale or making sales
or delivering articles, goods, wares or merchandise to purchasers; and
         (b)   From private house to house, soliciting or attempting to take
orders from individuals for sale of goods, wares or merchandise, including
magazines, books, periodicals or other personal property of any nature
whatsoever, for future delivery or for services to be performed at that time or
in the future, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes for sale
a sample of the subject of such order or whether or not he or she is collecting
advance payments on such orders.
      TOWNSHIP. Greene Township, Beaver County, Pennsylvania.
      TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESS.
         (a)   The term includes the following:
            1.   Engaging in begging, panhandling, peddling, soliciting or
taking orders or money, either by sample or otherwise, for any goods, wares or
merchandise or for rides or amusements (including fairs and carnivals) upon any
street, alley, sidewalk or public ground or from house to house within the
township;
            2.   Selling, soliciting or taking orders for any goods, wares or
merchandise from a fixed location within the township on a temporary basis,
which shall include, but shall not be limited to, such activities conducted at
the time of special occasions or celebrations, for seasonal purposes or for or
in advance of specific yearly or legal holidays; and
            3.   The business conducted by any TRANSIENT MERCHANT, which term
shall include any person who, temporarily and for a short time, hires, rents or
obtains a definite place of business, whether a storeroom or a market stand or
a private residence, for the sale of goods, wares, merchandise or to offer or
expose the same for sale or for future delivery and sale. The terms TEMPORARILY
and SHORT TIME shall be construed as three months or less.
         (b)   The term shall not include:
            1.   The solicitation of funds for non-profit charitable, religious
or political organizations or any other activity with a predominantly
charitable, religious or political purpose;
            2.   The solicitation of funds by school children through and
including grade for any school-approved activity or organization;
            3.   Sales made to dealers by commercial sales agents in the usual
course of business, calling upon or dealing with manufacturers, wholesalers,
distributors or retailers at their places of business; and
            4.   Yard and/or garage sales as conducted by a township resident
from his or her place of residence.
   (B)   The singular shall include the plural, the plural shall include the
singular and the masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
(Ord. 1-2014, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 110.04  LICENSE REQUIRED; ISSUANCE; FEE.
   (A)   No person shall engage as a solicitor in any transient retail business
within the township without first registering with the township and having
obtained from the township a license, for which a fee of $50 shall be charged.
The amount of the fee may be amended and fixed from time to time by resolution
of the Supervisors.
   (B)   No license fee shall be charged for the following transient retail
businesses:
      (1)   To farmers selling their own produce;
      (2)   For the sale of goods, wares and merchandise donated by the owners
thereof, or the proceeds of which sale are to be applied to any charitable or
philanthropic purpose;
      (3)   To any manufacturer or producer in the sale of bread and bakery
products, meat and meat products or milk and milk products;
      (4)   To the seeking or taking of orders by insurance agents or brokers
licensed under the insurance laws of the commonwealth; and
      (5)   Noncommercial craft or flea markets when operated no more than 48
hours annually.
   (C)   All persons exempted hereby from the payment of the license fee shall
be required to register with the Administrative Secretary/Treasurer and obtain
a license from the township without fee; provided, further, that any person
dealing in one or more of the above-mentioned exempted categories and dealing
with other goods, wares or merchandise not so exempted shall be subject to the
payment of the license fee fixed by this section for his or her activities in
connection with the sale of goods, wares and merchandise not in such exempted
categories.
   (D)   Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
issued on an individual basis to persons engaging in such business; every
individual shall obtain a separate license, issued to him or her in his or her
name, and the license fee hereby imposed shall be applicable to every such
individual license.
   (E)   No person under the age of 18 shall be permitted to engage as a
solicitor or in any transient retail business except as provided below.
      (1)   A license shall be obtained by a sponsoring person, company or
organization for employment or engagement of any person under the age of 18 in
soliciting or a transient retail business. Said sponsor must be at least 21
years of age.
      (2)   A separate license must be acquired for each sponsored person under
the age of 18.
      (3)   The sponsor shall be responsible for supervising and controlling
the conduct of the sponsored person or persons.
(Ord. 1-2014, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 110.05  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person desiring a license under this chapter shall first make
application to the township for such license. If such person shall also be
required to obtain a license from any state or county officer, he or she shall,
when making such application, exhibit a valid license from such state or county
officer. The applicant shall state thereof and present:
      (1)   A photo identification document in the form of a state-issued
driver’s license, state-issued non-driver identification card, U.S. passport or
passport card, U.S. military identification, U.S. permanent residency card or
photo identification from an accredited institution of higher learning. Photo
identification must be valid for the dates during which the licensee will be
engaged in solicitation or transient retail business;
      (2)   The name and physical description of the applicant;
      (3)   The complete permanent home and local address of the applicant and,
in the case of transient merchants, the local address from which proposed sales
will be made;
      (4)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold or the organization on behalf of which funds will be solicited;
      (5)   If employed, the name and address of the employer;
      (6)   If a motor vehicle is to be used, a description of the vehicle
together with the motor vehicle registration number and the driver’s license
number;
      (7)   The source of supply of the goods or property proposed to be sold,
or orders taken for the sale thereof, and the proposed method of delivery;
      (8)   The names of other communities in which the applicant has worked as
a solicitor in the past 12 months; and if he or she was employed by a different
transient retail business in those communities, the name of those companies
shall also be stated;
      (9)   Two recent photographs of the applicant, said photographs being at
least two inches by three inches in dimension and clearly showing the
applicant’s head and shoulders;
      (10)   Documentation of whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any felony, misdemeanor or crime involving moral turpitude and a brief
description of each such conviction;
      (11)   Proof of sales tax permit issued by the commonwealth or proof that
the goods sold are not subject to such sales tax; and
      (12)   The length of time, with beginning date and ending date, during
which said business or solicitation is to be conducted in the township, said
length of time not to exceed six consecutive days.
   (B)   No application for a transient retail business license, including
those that exempt from the license fee under the conditions previously covered
in this chapter, will be accepted less than three business days prior to the
beginning date stated in the application.
(Ord. 1-2014, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 110.06  INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION; LICENSE ISSUANCE; DISPLAY.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such application and the prescribed license fee, it
shall be referred to the Administrative Secretary/Treasurer who shall cause an
investigation to be made as to all matters contained in the application to
ensure the protection of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   The Administrative Secretary/Treasurer shall endorse on such
application his or her approval or disapproval for the issuance of the license
and shall notify the Township Supervisors of the same within three days, not
including weekends or holidays, of receipt of such application.
   (C)   The Township Supervisors, or other designee, if it shall find such
application in order, shall issue the license required under this chapter.
Every license issued hereunder shall remain valid for a period of one year from
the date of issuance unless otherwise suspended or revoked.
   (D)   As a condition prerequisite to issuance of said permit, and as
continuing condition for use and maintenance of such permit, the Township
Supervisors may impose such conditions as it deems necessary to protect and
preserve the health, safety, morals, general welfare, cleanliness, beauty and
convenience of the township, the township residents and visitors to the
township. Said conditions may include, but are not limited to, an obligation
assumed, in writing, by the permittee and other interested persons or entities
to reimburse the township for public safety cost incurred as a result of the
use of the permit and to protect, defend, indemnify and hold the township
officials, employees and representatives harmless from all claims, causes of
action and loss arising from issuance and/or use of said permit.
   (E)   Every license holder shall carry such license upon his or her person
if engaged in transient retail business from house to house or upon any of the
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds or shall display such license at
the location where he or she shall engage in such business if doing so at a
fixed location. He or she shall exhibit such license, upon request, to all
police officers, township officials and citizens or residents of the township.
(Ord. 1-2014, passed 5-6-2014)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07  PROHIBITED ACTS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Sell any product or type of product not mentioned in his or her
license;
      (2)   Hawk or cry his or her wares upon any of the streets, alleys,
sidewalks or public grounds in the township;
      (3)   When operating from a vehicle, stop or park such vehicle upon any
of the streets or alleys in the township for longer than necessary in order to
sell therefrom to persons residing in the immediate vicinity;
      (4)   Park any vehicle upon any of the streets or alleys in the township
for the purpose of sorting, rearranging or cleaning any of his or her goods,
wares or merchandise or of disposing of any carton, wrapping material or of any
stock or wares or foodstuffs which have become unsalable through handling, age
or otherwise;
      (5)   Engage in a transient retail business in an aggressive manner. As
used in this section, AGGRESSIVE MANNER means continuing the soliciting
activity after the person has made a negative response, whether before or after
being invited into a residence, by blocking the path of the person solicited,
or by following or walking alongside with the person solicited, in a manner
that is likely to cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the
commission of a criminal act upon property in a person’s possession or in or
about the residence, or is intended to or is, likely to intimidate the person
into responding affirmatively to the peddling or soliciting activity;
      (6)   Misrepresent the purpose of the solicitation. False or misleading
representations include, but are not limited to, the following: stating that
the solicitor is from out of town and stranded when such is not true; stating
or suggesting falsely that the solicitor is either a present or former member
of the armed services indicated; wearing or displaying an indication of
physical disability, when the solicitor does not suffer the disability
indicated; or stating that the solicitor is homeless, when he or she is not;
      (7)   Use at any time a license issued to any other person;
      (8)   Permit any other person to use a license that was not issued to
said other person;
      (9)   Solicit at any private residence exhibiting a sign reading “no
solicitors”, or words having the same connotation; and
      (10)   Canvass at any private residence exhibiting a sign reading “no
canvassers”, or words having the same connotation.
   (B)   No person may operate a transient retail business, panhandle or
solicit in any of the following locations, unless located within a permanent
storefront or residence:
      (1)   On any public space, within 20 feet of any intersection or
pedestrian crosswalk;
      (2)   Within 20 feet of the entrance to or exit from any public toilet
facility, which includes any temporary use site (port-a-toilet);
      (3)   Within 20 feet of any bus stop or taxi stand;
      (4)   Within 20 feet of an automatic teller machine (ATM); provided that
when an automated teller machine is located within an automated teller machine
facility, such distance shall be measured from the entrance or exit of the
automated teller machine facility;
      (5)   Within 20 feet of any fire hydrant;
      (6)   Within any metered parking spaces owned by the township;
      (7)   On the median of any divided roadway;
      (8)   Within 200 feet of another vending location assigned to another
vendor on a public sidewalk;
      (9)   In any public transportation vehicle, or in any bus, or within 20
feet of any bus stop or taxi;
      (10)   From any operator of a motor vehicle that is in traffic on a
public street; provided, however, that this division (B)(10) shall not apply to
sendees rendered in connection with emergency repairs requested by the owner
for passengers of such vehicle;
      (11)   Within 20 feet of an entrance to or exit from any financial
institution, check cashing business without the consent of the owner of the
property or another person legally in possession of such faculties; and
      (12)   Within 20 feet of the outside perimeter of any restaurant or other
establishment serving food or alcoholic beverage for immediate consumption,
outdoor café, licensed sidewalk food vendor or store licensed for package sales
of alcoholic beverages by the Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board, unless
expressly authorized by the owner, manager or supervisor of the establishment.
(Ord. 1-2014, passed 5-6-2014)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08  SUPERVISION OF ACTIVITIES; RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Township Supervisors or his or her designated representative shall
supervise the activities of all persons holding licenses under this chapter.
The Administrative Secretary/Treasurer shall keep a record of all licenses
issued hereunder and shall make a report thereof each month to the Township
Supervisors.
(Ord. 1-2014, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 110.09  BUSINESS HOURS.
   Transient retail business, canvassing and solicitation may be conducted at
business properties in the township during all regular business hours and may
be conducted in the township public streets and other public places from 9:00
a.m., prevailing time, to 6:00 p.m. (except for the Hookstown Fair which may
operate later than 6:00 p.m.); provided that such business persons and/or
solicitors, with canvassers excepted, obtain a license as required by this
chapter and that such activities are conducted subject to all other provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2014, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 110.10  SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSES; APPEALS.
   (A)   The Township Supervisors are hereby authorized to deny, suspend or
revoke any license issued under this chapter when he or she deems such denial,
suspension or revocation to be necessary to assist in the prevention of crime
and/or necessary to protect the security of the homes of township residents
from annoyance. In addition, the Township Supervisors may deny, suspend or
revoke any license issued under this chapter for violation of any provision of
this chapter and/or for the giving of any false information upon any
application for a license hereunder.
   (B)   Notice of the denial, revocation or suspension of a license shall be
given, in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the
opportunity for a hearing. Such notice shall be given by the Township
Supervisors or Township Secretary personally to the applicant or may be
transmitted by certified mail, postage prepaid, to the applicant or licensee at
his or her address given in said application.
   (C)   Appeals from any denial, suspension or revocation may be made to the
Township Supervisors, in writing, at any time within ten days after such
denial, suspension or revocation. Such notice of appeal shall state, in detail,
the reasons why the applicant or permittee believes said denial, revocation or
suspension is improper. No part of a license fee shall be refunded to any
person whose license shall have been suspended or revoked.
   (D)   (1)   Hearing on an appeal under this chapter shall be conducted by
Township Supervisors according to the provisions of the Pennsylvania Local
Agency Law, the Act of April 28, 1978, P.L. 202, No. 53, as amended. Such
hearing shall be commended within 45 days after receiving notice of such
appeal. The appellant shall be notified of Supervisors’ decision with 45 days,
after the conclusion of said hearing, or any, continuance thereof.
      (2)   Said notice of decision of Supervisors shall be given to the
appellant, in writing, specifying reasons for said decision and shall be mailed
to the appellant by certified mail, postage prepaid, at appellant’s address set
forth in the application for license.
      (3)   The decision of Supervisors shall be the decision of a majority of
a quorum of the members of Supervisors voting on said appeal and said decision
shall be final.
(Ord. 1-2014, passed 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Pennsylvania Open Meetings and Hearings Act, see 2 Pa.C.S. §§ 551 et seq.,
751 et seq. and 65 P.S. §§ 701 et seq.
§ 110.11  RESTRICTED RESIDENCE LISTING.
   (A)   Any resident, upon written request to the Township Supervisors, may
ask to be placed on a restricted listing which will be given to all applicants
being issued a transient retail business license. Persons to whom licenses are
issued shall not call upon any residents named on the restricted listing.
   (B)   All persons wishing to engage in any transient retail business within
the township are required to first obtain a list of residents who have notified
the township of their desire to be placed on the restricted residence listing.
The list may be obtained in person or by telephoning the Township
Administrative Secretary/Treasurer with a request for the list to be delivered
by facsimile or e-mail.
(Ord. 1-2014, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 110.12  IMPLEMENTATION OF CHAPTER.
   The Township Supervisors, Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer and
Township Solicitor, and all others employed or appointed by the township, are
authorized to take any and all action necessary to ensure implementation of
this chapter and to effectuate the purpose hereof.
(Ord. 1-2014, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $600 and costs
of prosecution or, in default of payment of such fine and costs, to undergo
imprisonment for no more than 30 days. Each separate act of sale or
solicitation committed in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
constitute a separate violation thereof.
(Ord. 1-2014, passed 5-6-2014)
CHAPTER 111:  JUNKYARDS AND JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
111.01   Recordkeeping
   
111.02   Delay in disposal; exceptions
   
111.03   Maintenance of premises
   
111.04   Inspections
   
111.05   Storage and arrangement requirements
   
111.06   Burning of junk prohibited
   
111.07   Storage away from bodies of water
   
111.08   Off-street parking required
§ 111.01  RECORDKEEPING.
   Every licensee hereunder shall provide and shall at all times keep and
maintain records, in the English language, of the time of his or her purchase,
acquisition or receipt of junk, a full and complete description, including
trade names, serial or manufacturer’s numbers, if any, of every article or item
of junk purchased, acquired or received by him or her, the date and approximate
hour of such purchase, acquisition or receipt, and the name and address of the
person from whom such article or item of junk was purchased, acquired or
received. Such written records shall at all times be subject to the inspection
of the Township Board of Supervisors, or its designated agent, for just cause.
Such records shall be retained for a period of two years.
(2003 Code, § 106-10)  (Ord. 2-82, passed 4-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02  DELAY IN DISPOSAL; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Every licensee hereunder shall keep and retain upon the licensed
premises, for a period of 24 hours after the purchase, acquisition or receipt
thereof, every item or article of junk so purchased, acquired or received by
him or her and placed on the licensed premises.
   (B)   The licensee shall not disturb or reduce or alter the original form,
shape or condition of the same until such period of 24 hours shall have
elapsed; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to a licensee who
has in his or her possession a certificate of title or a certificate of junk
for said item or article.
(2003 Code, § 106-11)  (Ord. 2-82, passed 4-6-1982)
§ 111.03  MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   Every licensee hereunder shall constantly maintain the licensed premises in
the manner hereinafter prescribed.
   (A)   Such premises shall at all times be maintained so as not to constitute
a nuisance, or a menace to the health and welfare of the community or to
residents nearby, or a place for the breeding of rodents and vermin.
   (B)   No garbage or other organic waste shall be stored on such premises.
   (C)   The manner of storage and arrangement of junk and the drainage
facilities of the premises shall be such as to prevent the accumulation of
stagnant water upon the licensed land and to facilitate access for inspection
purposes and firefighting.
   (D)   No junk shall be stored or accumulated, nor shall any structure be
erected, within 60 feet of the side and rear lines of the licensed premises,
nor within 75 feet of any existing dwelling house erected upon premises
adjacent to the licensed premises. Nor shall any junk be stored or accumulated
or any structure be erected that is used in connection with said junkyard
within 60 feet of that line of the licensed premises abutting a public street
or highway within the township; provided that in cases where two or more lines
of the licensed premises abut public streets or highways within the township,
one line only of such premises shall be governed by the above-provided setback
of 60 feet; provided that nothing contained in this division (D) shall apply to
existing structures pertaining to and being used in connection with junkyards
presently established and operating.
   (E)   Every structure erected upon the licensed premises and used in
connection therewith shall be of fireproof construction.
   (F)   The premises shall be enclosed by a solid barrier-type fence,
constructed of wood or other nonporous material, or, in lieu thereof, a solid
masonry or metal wall of a uniform design, texture and structure. The erection
of such fence or wall shall be controlled by the setback provisions of division
(D) above. Such fence or wall shall not be less than six feet in height, nor
shall two or more vehicles, or major parts thereof, be stacked on top of one
another or otherwise as to protrude above it. The erection of said fence shall
be completed before issuance of license. If, in the sole and exclusive opinion
of a majority of the Board of Township Supervisors, it should appear that the
owner and/or operator of a junkyard situated within the township has clearly
demonstrated that he or she is making a continuing bona fide effort to comply
with the fencing provisions of this division (F), then, and in such event, the
Board may, in its sole discretion, grant an extension of time to such owner or
operator of a junkyard for the completion of the erection of said fence, upon
receipt of a written letter from said junkyard owner or operator requesting
such an extension of time. It is further provided that the foregoing fencing
provisions shall be applicable only to that portion of the premises being
immediately used for the storage of junk, and shall not be applicable to the
balance of the property owned or used by said junkyard operator, so long as
said remaining portion of land is not being used for the storage of junk, as
defined in this chapter. A plan of said fencing must be submitted to the
Township Supervisors prior to its installation in order to ensure compliance
with this section.
(2003 Code, § 106-12)  (Ord. 2-82, passed 4-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04  INSPECTIONS.
   The Township Board of Supervisors, or its designated agent, shall, from time
to time, regularly inspect the premises of every licensee hereunder for the
purpose of determining whether said licensee has established and maintained his
or her premises in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter and such
rules and regulations which may hereafter be adopted by the township regulating
and licensing junk dealers and the establishment and maintenance of junkyards.
The Township Board of Supervisors, or its designated agent, shall forthwith
prosecute any discovered violation of this chapter. The Township Board of
Supervisors, or its designated agent, shall, not less than twice yearly,
furnish to the township a report of such inspections, the same to be in writing
and in the form prescribed by the Board of Supervisors of the township.
(2003 Code, § 106-13)  (Ord. 2-82, passed 4-6-1982)
§ 111.05  STORAGE AND ARRANGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Every junkyard in the township shall at all times be subject to inspection
during reasonable hours of the day by the Township Board of Supervisors, or its
designated agent. To facilitate such inspection and fire control, all junk
therein shall be arranged and maintained in a neat and orderly fashion. All of
such junk vehicles and other junk are to be arranged in rows, with a minimum of
20 feet of clear space between each row, and each of said rows to be no greater
in width than 40 feet.
(2003 Code, § 106-14)  (Ord. 2-82, passed 4-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06  BURNING OF JUNK PROHIBITED.
   There shall be no burning of junk, rubbish or other material in connection
with said junkyards.
(2003 Code, § 106-15)  (Ord. 2-82, passed 4-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07  STORAGE AWAY FROM BODIES OF WATER.
   No junk, scrap or automobile bodies, motors or any other item of junk, as
defined in this chapter, shall be stored, maintained, situated, placed or
otherwise located within 20 feet of any river, stream, run, creek, irrigation
ditch or any other natural course within the boundary lines of the township.
(2003 Code, § 106-16)  (Ord. 2-82, passed 4-6-1982)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.08  OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIRED.
   No junkyard, as defined in this chapter, shall be granted a license under
the provisions hereof, unless off-street parking is provided within the
property owner’s boundary lines.
(2003 Code, § 106-17)  (Ord. 2-82, passed 4-6-1982)
CHAPTER 112:  LOGGING
Section
   
112.01   Title
   
112.02   Authority
   
112.03   Policy; purpose
   
112.04   Definitions
   
112.05   Notification; preparation of a logging plan
   
112.06   Contents of the logging plan
   
112.07   Forest practices
   
112.08   Responsibility for road maintenance and repair; road bonding
   
112.09   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Greene Township Logging
Ordinance”.
(2003 Code, § 110-1)  (Ord. 1-2012, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 112.02  AUTHORITY.
   The municipal government of the township, under and by virtue of and
pursuant to the authority granted by the Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§
65101 et seq., does hereby enact and ordain this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 110-2)  (Ord. 1-2012, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 112.03  POLICY; PURPOSE.
   In order to conserve forested open space and the environmental and economic
benefits they provide, it is the policy of the township to encourage the owners
of the forest land to continue to use their land for forestry purposes,
including the long-term production of timber, recreation, wildlife and amenity
values. The timber harvesting regulations contained in §§
112.03 through
112.09 apply to all timber harvesting within the township where the value of
the trees, logs or other timber products removed exceeds $1,000. The provisions
do not apply to the cutting of trees for the personal use of the landowner or
for pre-commercial timber stand improvement.
(2003 Code, § 110-3)  (Ord. 1-2012, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 112.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FELLING. The act of cutting a standing tree so that it falls to the ground.
   FORESTRY. The management of forests and timberlands when practiced in
accordance with accepted silvicultural principles, through developing,
cultivating, harvesting, transporting and selling trees for commercial
purposes, which does not involve any land development.
   LANDING. A place where logs, pulpwood or firewood are assembled for
transportation to processing facilities.
   LANDOWNER. An individual, partnership, company, firm, association or
corporation that is in actual control of forest land, whether such control is
based on legal or equitable title, or any other interest entitling the holder
to sell or otherwise dispose of any or all of the timber on such land in any
manner, and any agents thereof acting on their behalf, such as forestry
consultants, who set up and administer timber harvesting.
   LITTER. Discarded items not naturally occurring on the site such as tires,
oilcans, equipment parts and other rubbish.
   LOP. To cut tops and slash into smaller pieces to allow material to settle
close to the ground.
   OPERATOR. An individual, partnership, company, firm, association or
corporation engaged in timber harvesting, including the agents, subcontractors
and employees thereof.
   PRE-COMMERCIAL TIMBER STAND IMPROVEMENT. A forest practice, such as thinning
or pruning, which results in better growth, structure, species composition or
health for the residual stand but which does not yield a net income to the
landowner, usually because any trees cut are of poor quality, too small or
otherwise of limited marketability or value.
   SKIDDING. Dragging trees on the ground from the stump to the landing by any
means.
   SLASH. Woody debris left in the woods after logging, including logs, chunks,
bark, branches, uprooted stumps, and broken or uprooted trees or shrubs.
   STAND. Any area of forest vegetation whose site conditions, past history and
current species composition are sufficiently uniform to be managed as a unit.
   STREAM. Any natural or artificial channel of conveyance for surface water
with an annual or intermittent flow within a defined bed and bank.
   TIMBER HARVESTING, TREE HARVESTING or LOGGING. The part of forestry
involving cutting down trees and removing logs from the forest for the primary
purpose of sale or commercial processing into wood products.
   TOP. The upper portion of a felled tree that is not merchantable because of
small size, taper or defect.
   TOWNSHIP STAFF. The Board of Supervisors, Planning Commission, Code
Enforcement Officer and any other authorized agent of the township.
   WETLAND. Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at
a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions including swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas.
(2003 Code, § 110-4)  (Ord. 1-2012, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 112.05  NOTIFICATION; PREPARATION OF A LOGGING PLAN.
   (A)   Notification of commencement or completion. For all timber harvesting
operations that are expected to exceed two acres, the landowner and the
operator shall notify the township staff at least 30 business days before the
operation commences and within 30 business days before the operation is
complete. No timber harvesting shall occur until the notice has been provided.
Notification shall be in writing and shall specify the land on which harvesting
will occur, the expected size of the harvest area, and, as applicable, the
anticipated starting or completion date of the operation.
      (1)   All landowners adjoining the property to be logged shall be
contacted by the operator at least 30 business days before harvest is to begin.
A list of the landowners contacted will be provided to the township.
      (2)   After the required completion notice has been given to the township
staff and before any bonds are released, any access roads coming off a township
road shall be removed and put back to original status as certified by the
township staff.
   (B)   Logging plan. The operator shall prepare a written logging plan in the
form specified by this chapter. No timber harvested shall occur until the plan
has been prepared. The provisions of the plan shall be followed throughout the
operation. The plan shall be available at the harvest site at all times during
the operation and shall be provided to the township and the Planning Commission
upon request.
   (C)   Responsibility for compliance. The landowner and the operator shall be
jointly and severally responsible for complying with the terms of the logging
plan.
(2003 Code, § 110-5)  (Ord. 1-2012, passed 6-4-2012)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06  CONTENTS OF THE LOGGING PLAN.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. At a minimum, the logging plan shall include the
following:
      (1)   Design, construction maintenance and retirement of the access
system, including haul roads, skid roads, skid trails and landings;
      (2)   Design, construction and maintenance of water control measures and
structures such as culverts, broad-based dips, filter strips and water bars;
      (3)   Design construction and maintenance of stream and wetland
crossings; and
      (4)   The general location of the proposed operation in relation to
municipal and state highways, including any accesses to those highways.
   (B)   Map. Each logging plan shall include a sketch map or drawing
containing the following information:
      (1)   Site location and boundaries, including both the boundaries of the
property on which the timber harvest will take place and the boundaries of the
proposed harvest area within that property;
      (2)   Significant topographic features related to potential environmental
problems;
      (3)   Location of all earth disturbance activities such as roads,
landings and water control measures and structures;
      (4)   Location of all crossings of waters of the commonwealth; and
      (5)   The general location of the proposed operation to municipal and
state highways, including any accesses to those highways.
   (C)   Compliance with state law. The logging plan shall address and comply
with requirements of all applicable state regulations including, but not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Erosion and sedimentation control regulations contained the 25 Pa.
Code Ch. 102, promulgated pursuant to the Clean Streams Law (35 P.S. §§ 691.1
et seq.); and
      (2)   Stream crossing and wetlands protection regulations contained in 25
Pa. Code Ch. 105, promulgated pursuant to the Dam Safety and Encroachments Act
(32 P.S. §§ 693.1 et seq.)
   (D)   Relationships of state laws, regulations and permits to the logging
plan. Any permits required by state laws and regulations shall be attached to
and become part of the logging plan. An erosion and sedimentation pollution
control plan that satisfies the requirements of 25 Pa. Code Ch. 102, shall also
satisfy the requirements for the logging plan and associated map specified in
divisions (A) and (B) above, provided that all information required by these
divisions (A) and (B) above is included or attached.
   (E)   Plans. Plans must include a non-refundable application fee as set in
the township’s annual fee resolution.
(2003 Code, § 110-6)  (Ord. 1-2012, passed 6-4-2012)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07  FOREST PRACTICES.
   The following requirements shall apply to all timber harvesting operations
in the township.
   (A)   Felling or skidding on or across any public thoroughfare is prohibited
without the express written consent of the township or the Pennsylvania
Department of Transportation, whichever is responsible for maintenance of the
thoroughfare.
   (B)   No tops or slash shall be left within 25 feet of any public
thoroughfare or private roadway providing access to adjoining residential
property.
   (C)   All tops and slash between 25 feet from a public roadway or private
roadway providing access to adjoining residential property or within 50 feet of
adjoining residential property shall be lopped to a maximum height of four feet
above the ground.
   (D)   No tops or slash shall be left on or across the boundary of any
property adjoining the operation without the consent of the owner thereof.
   (E)   Litter resulting from a timber harvesting operation shall be removed
from the site before it is vacated by the operator.
(2003 Code, § 110-7)  (Ord. 1-2012, passed 6-4-2012)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08  RESPONSIBILITY FOR ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR; ROAD BONDING.
   (A)   Pursuant to 75 Pa.C.S. Ch. 49; and 67 Pa. Code Ch. 189, the operator
shall be responsible for repairing any damage to township roads caused by
traffic associated with the timber harvesting operation to the extent the
damage is in excess of that caused by normal traffic and shall be required to
furnish a bond to guarantee the repair of such damages.
   (B)   The operator shall be responsible for removing all mud and debris
caused by the logging operation from any township road within 24 hours or mud
and debris will be removed by township employees with the cost being paid by
the operator.
(2003 Code, § 110-8)  (Ord. 1-2012, passed 6-4-2012)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Township Enforcement Officer. The township staff shall be the
enforcement officers for §§
112.03 through
112.09.
   (B)   Inspections. Upon request by the landowner a township representative
may go upon the site of any timber harvesting operation before, during or after
active logging to:
      (1)   Review the logging plan or any other required documents for
compliance with §§
112.03 through
112.09; and
      (2)   Inspect the operation for compliance with the logging plan and
other on-site requirements of these regulations.
   (C)   Violation notices; suspensions.
      (1)   Upon finding that a timber harvesting operation is in violation of
any provision of §§
112.03 through
112.09, the Township Enforcement Officer shall issue the operator a written
notice of violation describing each violation and specifying a date by which
corrective action must be taken.
      (2)   The Township Enforcement Officer may order the immediate suspension
of any operation upon finding that:
         (a)   Corrective action has not been taken by the date specified in a
notice of violation;
         (b)   The operation is proceeding without a logging plan; or
         (c)   The operation is causing immediate harm to the environment.
      (3)   Suspension orders shall be in writing, shall be issued to the
operator and a copy sent to the landowner, and shall remain in effect until, as
determined by the Township Enforcement Officer, the operation is brought into
compliance with §§
112.03 through
112.09 or other applicable statutes or regulations. The operator may appeal an
order or decision of an Enforcement Officer within 30 days of issuance to the
Board of Supervisors of the Township.
(2003 Code, § 110-9)  (Ord. 1-2012, passed 6-4-2012)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any landowner or operator who violates any provision of §§
112.03 through
112.09, refuses to allow the township staff access to a harvest site pursuant
to §
112.09(B), or who fails to comply with a notice of violation or suspension
order issued under §
112.09(C) of this section is guilty of a summary offense and upon conviction
shall be subject to a fine of not less that $100 nor more than $300, plus
costs, for each separate offense.
   (B)   Each day of continued violation of any provisions of §§
112.03 through
112.09 shall constitute a separate offense.
(2003 Code, § 110-9)  (Ord. 1-2012, passed 6-4-2012)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS
      
151.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
152.   SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
      
153.   ZONING
      
154.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDINGS
Section
Building Construction; Uniform Construction Codes
   
150.01   Election to administer and enforce
   
150.02   Adoption and incorporation by reference
   
150.03   Methods of administration and enforcement
   
150.04   Board of Appeals
   
150.05   Effect on other regulations
   
150.06   Fees
   
150.07   Effective date
   
150.08   Severability
Numbering of Buildings
   
150.20   Statement of intent
   
150.21   Posting of address identification number required
   
150.22   Sign specifications; availability from township; posting required on
private roads and multiple-use buildings; replacement plates
   
150.23   Posting and display of address identification number plates
   
150.24   Notification of violation
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION; UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODES
§ 150.01  ELECTION TO ADMINISTER AND ENFORCE.
   The township hereby elects to administer and enforce the provisions of the
Pennsylvania Construction Code Act, Act 45 of 1999, (35 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 7210.101
to 7210.1103 inclusive), as amended from time to time, and its regulations.
(2003 Code, § 66-1)  (Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 150.02  ADOPTION AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   The Uniform Construction Code, contained in 34 Pa. Code Chs. 401 through
405, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference as the municipal building code of the township.
(2003 Code, § 66-2)  (Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 150.03  METHODS OF ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Administration and enforcement of the code within the township shall be
undertaken in any of the following ways as determined by the Supervisors of the
township from time to time by resolution:
   (A)   By the designation of an employee of the township to serve as the
municipal code official to act on behalf of the township;
   (B)   By the retention of one or more construction code officials or third-
party agencies to act on behalf of the township;
   (C)   By agreement with one or more other municipalities for the joint
administration and enforcement of this Act on behalf of the township;
   (D)   By entering into a contract with another municipality for the
administration and enforcement of this Act on behalf of the township; and
   (E)   By entering into an agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of
Labor and Industry for plan review, inspections and enforcement of structures
other than one-family or two-family dwelling units and utility and
miscellaneous use structures.
(2003 Code, § 66-3)  (Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 150.04  BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   A Regional Board of Appeals is established by the Beaver County
Regional Council of Governments in accordance with the Pennsylvania
Construction Code Act, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   The Regional Board of Appeals will be applicable to the township in
matters relating to the Pennsylvania Construction Code Act, as amended from
time to time, providing a process for challenging decisions made by the
Building Code Official as employed by or retained by the township.
   (C)   The township, through its membership in the Beaver County Regional
Council of Governments and through its appointed, voting delegate, will have a
vote on the selection of qualified members on the Regional Board of Appeals.
   (D)   The township agrees to enter into an intergovernmental cooperation
agreement with the Beaver County Regional Council of Governments in order to
effectuate the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 3-2012, passed 11-5-2012)
§ 150.05  EFFECT ON OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All building code ordinances or portions of ordinances which were
adopted by the township on or before July 1, 1999, and which equal or exceed
the requirements of the code shall continue in full force and effect until such
time as such provisions fail to equal or exceed the minimum requirements of the
code, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   All building code ordinances or portions or ordinances which are in
effect as of the effective date of this subchapter and whose requirements are
less than the minimum requirements of the code are hereby amended to conform
with the comparable provisions of the code.
   (C)   All relevant ordinances, regulations and policies of the township not
governed by the code shall remain in full force and effect.
(2003 Code, § 66-5)  (Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 150.06  FEES.
   Fees assessable by the township for the administration and enforcement
undertaken pursuant to this subchapter and the code shall be established by the
Supervisors by resolution from time to time.
(2003 Code, § 66-6)  (Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 150.07  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective on and after July 1, 2004.
(2003 Code, § 66-7)  (Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 150.08  SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence or clause of this subchapter is held for
any reason to be invalid, such decision or decisions shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this subchapter.
(2003 Code, § 66-8)  (Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.20  STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to establish a uniform system of
property/dwelling/building address numbering within the township in order that
there be an accurate address database in connection with the township’s
participation in the county enhanced 9-1-1 system and establish a uniform
system of posting and display of address identification numbering in order that
property/dwelling/building addresses within the township may be easily located
in emergency situations.
(2003 Code, § 71-1)  (Ord. 1-1990, passed 7-12-1990)
§ 150.21  POSTING OF ADDRESS IDENTIFICATION NUMBER REQUIRED.
   Within 90 days after assignment or reassignment by the township, the owners
of each property/dwelling/building shall post an address identification number
assigned by the township.
(2003 Code, § 71-2)  (Ord. 1-1990, passed 7-12-1990; amended at the time of
prior code adoption in 2003)
§ 150.22  SIGN SPECIFICATIONS; AVAILABILITY FROM TOWNSHIP; POSTING REQUIRED ON
PRIVATE ROADS AND MULTIPLE-USE BUILDINGS; REPLACEMENT PLATES.
   (A)   The identification numbers to be posted shall be on address signs
approved by the township. The address signs shall be made of seven-inch by ten-
inch aluminum plate with a white reflective Mylar background with four-inch “B”
series black letters or numbers. The township shall supply one original sign
plate to each property owner free of charge, except as stated herein.
   (B)   The county enhanced 9-1-1 system is established to provide a separate
identification number for every 52.8 feet of public road frontage. The
township, therefore, will provide an original sign plate to the owner of
property fronting on a public road. Any owner of property fronting on a private
road and any owner of property with multiple uses served by one driveway
accessing on a public road (i.e., mobile home parks, apartment complexes,
industrial parks, multi-family residences and the like) shall be required to
post a separate identification sign plate on each individual parcel or lot so
as to further identify the property in emergency situations after the emergency
response person or vehicle has left the public road system. The plates required
hereby shall not be supplied to the owner by the township, but must be
purchased by the owner at the owner’s expense.
   (C)   For any additional or replacement plates, current market charge will
be assessed the property owner.
(2003 Code, § 71-3)  (Ord. 1-1990, passed 7-12-1990)
§ 150.23  POSTING AND DISPLAY OF ADDRESS IDENTIFICATION NUMBER PLATES.
   (A)   All owners of each property/dwelling/building shall conspicuously post
the above-described address identification plate, if possible, at the entrance
of the driveway to the premises; the reflective side of the number plate shall
be posted toward the traffic flow.
   (B)   The identification number plate shall be mounted at a minimum height
of two feet four inches (bottom of plate from ground).
   (C)   The plate may be mounted on display posts such as a wood pole, steel
rod or masonry pillar. If displayed on a structure or dwelling, rather than at
the driveway entrance, the number plate must be clearly visible from the street
which provides public access to the premises.
   (D)   Regardless of the type of posting used, the identification number
plate must be clearly visible, the view of the plate not to be obstructed by
vegetation, trees or any other object.
(2003 Code, § 71-4)  (Ord. 1-1990, passed 7-12-1990)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.24  NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   The Township Code Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized to give written
notice, by personal service or by United States mail, to the owner of any
premises whereupon the address identification plate at the premises is not
posted in violation of the provisions of this chapter, directing and requiring
such owner to post the address identification plate so as to conform with the
requirements of this subchapter within 15 days after issuance of such notice.
In case any owner shall neglect, fail or refuse to comply with such notice
within the period of time stated herein, the township authorities may post a
street number on the premises and collect the cost thereof, together with any
additional penalty authorized by law, from the owner in the manner provided by
law.
(2003 Code, § 71-5)  (Ord. 1-1990, passed 7-12-1990)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any owner who shall violate or fail, neglect or refuse to comply with
any of the provisions of §§
150.20 through
150.24 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $600 and, in default of payment of such fine,
imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30 days; provided that each day’s
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(2003 Code, § 71-6)  (Ord. 1-1990, passed 7-12-1990)
CHAPTER 151:  FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Statutory authorization
   
151.002   Definitions
   
151.003   Purposes and intent
   
151.004   Applicability
   
151.005   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.006   Severability
   
151.007   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.020   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.021   Permits required
   
151.022   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.023   Application procedures and requirements
   
151.024   Review by the County Planning Commission and the County Conservation
District
   
151.025   Review of application by others
   
151.026   Changes
   
151.027   Placards
   
151.028   Start of construction
   
151.029   Enforcement; notices
   
151.030   Appeals
Identification of Floodplain Areas
   
151.045   Identification
   
151.046   Description and special requirements of identified floodplain areas
   
151.047   Changes in identification of area
   
151.048   Boundary disputes
   
151.049   Jurisdictional boundary changes
Technical Provisions
   
151.060   General
   
151.061   Elevation and floodproofing requirements
   
151.062   Design and construction standards
   
151.063   Development which may endanger human life
   
151.064   Special requirements for subdivisions
   
151.065   Special requirements for manufactured homes
   
151.066   Special requirements for recreational vehicles
Prohibited Activities
   
151.080   General
Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas
   
151.095   Existing structures
   
151.096   Improvements
Variances
   
151.110   General
   
151.111   Variance procedures and conditions
Enactment
   
151.125   Adoption
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has, by the passage of
the Pennsylvania Flood Plain Management Act 166 of 1978, delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt floodplain management
regulations to promote public health, safety and the general welfare of its
citizenry. Therefore, the Board of Supervisors for the township does hereby
enact and ordain as follows.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.002  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms, when used in this chapter, have the following
meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Unless specifically
defined below, words and phrases used in this chapter shall be interpreted so
as to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   ACT. The Flood Plain Management Act (32 P.S. §§ 679.101 through 679.601).
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD or 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD).
   BASE FLOOD DISCHARGE. The volume of water resulting from a base flood as it
passes a given location within a given time, usually expressed in cubic feet
per second (cfs).
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30 that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from a flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor below ground level on
all sides.
   BUILDING. A combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all manufactured homes and trailers to be
used for human habitation.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion or alteration of buildings or other structures; the placement
of manufactured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling, grading
and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of equipment or
materials; and the subdivision of land.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXISTING STRUCTURE. A structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975 for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING STRUCTURE may also be referred to as
“existing construction”.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency, to which was transferred the
functions of the Federal Insurance Administration, Department of Housing and
Urban Development, under Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1978, 43 FR 41943
(September 19, 1978), and Executive Order 12127, 44 FR 19367 (April 3, 1979).
   FILL. Sand, gravel or other material placed or deposited so as to form an
embankment or raise the elevation of the land surface.
   FLOOD. A temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map of the township on which
FEMA has delineated both the floodplain/special flood hazard area and the risk
premium zones applicable to the township.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Insurance Administration that includes flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate
Map, the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map and the water surface elevation of the
base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The person and/or entity responsible for the
administration of this chapter as designated/approved by the township.
   FLOODPLAIN AREA. A relatively flat or low land area which is subject to
partial or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river or
watercourse; and/or any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HIGHWAY OBSTRUCTION or HIGHWAY. A roadway, highway embankment, highway
drainage structure or highway appurtenant structure constructed, owned or
maintained by the Commonwealth or a political subdivision of the Commonwealth
which might impede, retard or change flood flows, including, but not limited
to, new highway construction, pavement or shoulder widening, reconstruction
with additional embankment, turning lanes and curve flattening.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation that have been certified either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest fully enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished, flood resistant partially enclosed area, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access and incidental storage, in an area
other than a basement area is not considered the LOWEST FLOOR of a building;
provided that such space is not designed and built so that the structure is in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis, and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term includes
park trailers, travel trailers, recreational and other similar vehicles which
are placed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel or contiguous parcels of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MINOR REPAIR. The replacement of existing work with equivalent materials for
the purpose of its routine maintenance and upkeep, but not including the
cutting away of any wall, partition or portion thereof, the removal or cutting
of any structural beam or bearing support, or the removal or change of any
required means of egress, or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting
the exitway requirements; nor shall minor repairs include addition to,
alteration of, replacement or relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer,
drainage, drain leader, gas, oil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric
wiring or mechanical or other work affecting public health or general safety.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after August 4, 2015 and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures. Any construction started after September 10, 1984 and before August
4, 2015 is subject to the ordinance in effect at the time the permit was
issued, provided the start of construction was within 180 days of permit
issuance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   OBSTRUCTION. A structure or assembly of materials owned or maintained by the
commonwealth, a political subdivision of the commonwealth, a public utility
and/or any private entity, whether non-profit or for profit, including fill
above or below the surface or land or water or an activity conducted by the
commonwealth, a political subdivision of the commonwealth a public utility and/
or a private non-profit or for profit entity which might impede, retard or
change flood flows. The term excludes planting, cultivation and harvesting of
field and orchard crops; the grazing of livestock; and the maintenance of
necessary appurtenant agricultural fencing.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility or any other legal entity whatsoever, which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred after December 31, 1974 or on or after the township
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) dated September 10, 1984 whichever is
later, and, as such, would not be required to be compliant with the regulations
of the National Flood Insurance Program.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred on or before December 31, 1974 or before the township
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) dated September 10, 1984 whichever is
later, and, as such, would not be required to be compliant with the regulations
of the National Flood Insurance Program.
   PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE. The rendering of the following services for the
public:
      (1)   Gas, electricity or steam production, generation, transmission or
distribution;
      (2)   Water diversion, pumping, impoundment or distribution;
      (3)   Railroad transportation of passengers or properties;
      (4)   Operation of a canal, turnpike, tunnel, bridge, wharf or similar
structure;
      (5)   Transportation of natural or artificial gas, crude oil, gasoline or
petroleum products, materials for refrigeration, or other fluid substances by
pipeline or conduit;
      (6)   Telephone or telegraph communications; and
      (7)   Sewage collection, treatment or disposal.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Not more than 400 square feet, measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Not designed for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus a freeboard
safety factor of one and one-half feet.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damages occurred.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES. Include, but are not limited to, repaving;
replacement of rails, ties or ballast; gas or water main repairs; and
replacement in kind of individual components or appurtenant structures and the
like or any activities that may affect future flooding activities.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). An area in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on the FIRM as
Zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99 or AH.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the permit was issued; provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days from the date of the permit
and shall be completed within 12 months after the dated of the issuance of the
permit unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain
Administrator. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation or the placement of a manufacture home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land by
any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided, however, that
the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into parcels of more
than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of access or any
residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage from any cause sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% or more of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage or repetitive loss regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a structure to
correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
   UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE (UCC). The statewide building code adopted by the
Pennsylvania General Assembly in 1999 applicable to new construction in all
municipalities whether administered by the municipality, a third party or the
Department of Labor and Industry. Applicable to residential and commercial
buildings, the Code adopted the International Residential Code (IRC) and the
International Building Code (IBC), by reference, as the construction standard
applicable with the state floodplain construction. For coordination purposes,
references to the above are made specifically to various sections of the IRC
and the IBC including any revisions and/or updates as may be adopted from time
to time.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in VIOLATION until
such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel or conveyance of surface water having defined bed and
banks, whether natural or artificial, with perennial or intermittent flow.
Areas within the commonwealth which have been identified by FEMA as being
subject to flooding by a 100-year flood are determined to be flood hazard
areas. Areas subject to flooding by a 100-year flood are areas of special flood
hazard on Flood Insurance Studies and maps provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.003  PURPOSES AND INTENT.
   The purposes and intent of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Promote the general health, welfare and safety of the community;
   (B)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future;
   (C)   Minimize danger to public health by protecting water supply and
natural drainage;
   (D)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the township and its residents, by
preventing excessive development in areas subject to flooding;
   (E)   Comply with federal and state floodplain management requirements,
including, but not limited to, the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified at 44 C.F.R. parts 59 through 78, as amended
pursuant to the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et
seq.; the Act of October 4, 1978, P.L. 851, No. 166 known and cited as the
Flood Plain Management Act; and other applicable/associated statutes, rules,
regulations and the like so as to assist the township in qualifying for the
National Flood Insurance Program and/or maintain the township’s eligibility in
the National Flood Insurance Program;
   (F)   Encourage planning and development in floodplains which are consistent
with sound land use practices;
   (G)   Protect people and property in floodplains from the dangers and damage
of floodwaters and from materials carried by such floodwaters;
   (H)   Prevent and eliminate urban and rural blight which results from the
damages of flooding;
   (I)   Authorize a comprehensive and coordinated program of floodplain
management, based upon the National Flood Insurance Program, designed to
preserve and restore the efficiency and carrying capacity of the streams and
floodwaters of the commonwealth;
   (J)   Provide for and encourage local administration and management of
floodplains; and
   (K)   Minimize the expenditure of public and private funds for flood control
projects and for relief, rescue and recovery efforts.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.004  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or
corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any construction or
development anywhere within the township unless a permit has been obtained from
the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   A permit shall not be required for minor repairs to existing buildings
or structures.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.005  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any other conflicting provisions which may be in
effect in identified floodplain areas. However, any other ordinance provisions
shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that those provisions are
more restrictive. If there is any conflict between any of the provisions of
this chapter, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.006  SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter shall
be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such a decision shall not affect
the remaining portions of the chapter, which shall remain in full force and
effect, and for this purpose the provisions of this chapter are hereby declared
to be severable.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.007  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this
chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
acceptable engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and
bridge openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas
outside any identified floodplain areas or that land uses permitted within such
areas will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   (B)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the township or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.020  DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Officer of the township is hereby appointed to administer
and enforce this chapter and is referred to herein as the Floodplain
Administrator.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator may:
      (1)   Fulfill the duties and responsibilities set forth in these
regulations;
      (2)   Delegate duties and responsibilities set forth in these regulations
to qualified technical personnel, plan examiners, inspectors and other
employees; or
      (3)   Enter into a written agreement or written contract with another
agency or private sector entity to administer specific provisions of these
regulations.
   (C)   Administration of any part of these regulations by another entity
shall not relieve the community of its responsibilities pursuant to the
participation requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program as set forth
in the Code of Federal Regulations at 44 C.F.R. § 59.22.
   (D)   In the absence of a designated Floodplain Administrator, the
Floodplain Administrator duties are to be fulfilled by the Township Secretary.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.021  PERMITS REQUIRED.
   As applicable, a permit shall be required before any construction or
development is undertaken within any floodplain or flood hazard area located
within any area of the township and said permit shall be issued by the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.022  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit only after it has
been determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance
with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of any permit, the Floodplain Administrator
shall review the application for the permit to determine if all other necessary
government permits required by state and federal laws have been obtained, such
as those required by the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (35 P.S. §§ 750.1
et seq., as amended); the Pennsylvania Dam Safety and Encroachments Act (32
P.S. §§ 693.1 et seq., as amended); the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Act (35 P.S.
§§ 691.1 et seq., as amended); and the U.S. Clean Water Act, § 404, 33 U.S.C. §
1344, the Pennsylvania Flood Plain Management Act (32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq.),
the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code (53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., as
reenacted and amended). No permit shall be issued until this determination has
been made and the applicant has provided a copy of such permit(s) to the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   In the case of existing structures, prior to the commencement of any
construction or other activity and/or the issuance of any permit, the
Floodplain Administrator shall review the history of repairs to the subject
building, so that any repetitive loss issues can be addressed before the permit
is issued.
   (D)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator shall
inspect the premises to determine that the work is progressing in compliance
with the information provided on the permit application and with all applicable
municipal laws and ordinances, related to the floodplain/flood hazard area. The
Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections during and upon
completion of the work as deemed necessary by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (E)   In the discharge of his or her duties, the Floodplain Administrator
shall have the authority to enter any building, structure, premises or
development in the identified floodplain area, upon presentation of proper
credentials, at any reasonable hour to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does
not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances,
or that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant,
the Floodplain Administrator shall immediately serve written notice of such to
the township and shall take whatever action the Floodplain Administrator deems
appropriate, including the revocation of the permit.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain in perpetuity all records
associated with the requirements of this chapter including, but not limited to,
finished construction elevation date, permitting, inspection and enforcement.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall consider the requirements of the 34
Pa. Code and the 2009 IBC and the 2009 IRC or latest revisions thereof.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.023  APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for such a permit shall be made, in writing, to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms supplied by the Floodplain Administrator.
Such application shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is
to occur;
      (3)   Name and address of contractor;
      (4)   Site location including address;
      (5)   Listing of other permits required;
      (6)   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost, including a
breakout of flood-related cost and the market value of the building before the
flood damage occurred where appropriate;
      (7)   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures; and
      (8)   Any other information as may be required/requested by the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   If any proposed construction or development is located entirely or
partially within any identified floodplain area, applicants for permits shall
provide all the necessary information in sufficient detail and clarity to
enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine, at a minimum, that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and conform with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes
and ordinances;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards;
      (4)   Structures will be anchored to prevent floatation, collapse or
lateral movement;
      (5)   Building materials are flood-resistant;
      (6)   Appropriate practices that minimize flood damage have been used;
and
      (7)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities have been designed and/or located to
prevent water entry or accumulation.
   (C)   Applicants shall file the following minimum information plus any other
pertinent information as may be required by the Floodplain Administrator to
make the above determination:
      (1)   A completed permit application form;
      (2)   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of
one inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
         (a)   North arrow, scale and date;
         (b)   Topographic contour lines, if available;
         (c)   The location of all existing and proposed building, structures
and other improvements, including the location of any existing or proposed
subdivision and development;
         (d)   The location of all existing streets, drives and other
accessways; and
         (e)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
identified floodplain areas, and, if available, information pertaining to the
floodway, and the flow of water including direction and velocities.
      (3)   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
         (a)   The proposed lowest floor elevation of any proposed building
based upon North American Vertical Datum of 1988;
         (b)   The elevation of the base flood; and
         (c)   Supplemental information as may be necessary under 34 Pa. Code
and the 2009 IBC or the 2009 IRC or the latest versions thereof.
      (4)   The following data and documentation:
         (a)   If available, information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with a base
flood;
         (b)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing
measures and corresponding elevations;
         (c)   If available, information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with a base
flood; and floodway area (see §
151.046(A)) when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the base flood elevation at any point;
         (d)   Documentation, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, to show that the cumulative effect of any proposed development
within an AE Area/District without floodway (see §
151.046(B)) when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the base flood elevation more than one foot at any point
within the community;
         (e)   A document, certified by a state registered professional
engineer or architect, which states that the proposed construction or
development has been adequately designed to withstand the pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces associated with the base flood elevation.
Such statement shall include a description of the type and extent of
floodproofing measures which have been incorporated into the design of the
structure and/or the development;
         (f)   Detailed information needed to determine compliance with §§
151.062(F) and
151.063, including:
            1.   The amount, location and purpose of any materials or
substances referred to in §§
151.062(F) and
151.063 which are intended to be used, produced, stored or otherwise maintained
on site; and
            2.   A description of the safeguards incorporated into the design
of the proposed structure to prevent leaks or spills of the dangerous materials
or substances listed in §
151.063 during a base flood.
         (g)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s “Planning Module for Land Development”; and
         (h)   Where any excavation/grading, including cut and fill is
proposed, a plan meeting the requirements of the Department of Environmental
Protection, to implement and maintain erosion and sedimentation control.
      (5)   Applications for permits shall be accompanied by a fee, payable to
the township based upon the estimated cost of the proposed construction as
determined by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.024  REVIEW BY THE COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION AND THE COUNTY CONSERVATION
DISTRICT.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall advise that the township submits to the
County Planning Commission copies of all land development plans (as defined by
the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., as
amended) within the floodplain that are under the review of the Floodplain
Administrator. Such submittal shall be in accordance with the subdivision and
land development review process as established by the County Planning
Commission. The recommendations of the County Planning Commission shall be
considered by the Floodplain Administrator in its review of these land
development plans. In those municipalities in which the County Conservation
District has not been designated/appointed as the Floodplain Administrator, a
copy of all applications and plans for any proposed construction or development
in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval shall be
submitted by that municipality’s Floodplain Administrator to the County
Conservation District for review and comment prior to the issuance of a permit.
The recommendations of the County Conservation District shall be considered by
the municipality and/or its Floodplain Administrator for possible incorporation
into the proposed plan.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.025  REVIEW OF APPLICATION BY OTHERS.
   As directed by the Floodplain Administrator, a copy of all plans and
applications for any proposed construction or development in any identified
floodplain area to be considered for approval shall be submitted by the
applicant to any other entities and/or individuals as deemed appropriate by the
Floodplain Administrator for review and comment by those entities/individuals.
Applicants shall provide proof of delivery of these materials/documents to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.026  CHANGES.
   After the issuance of a permit by the Floodplain Administrator, no changes
of any kind shall be made to the application, permit or any of the plans,
specifications or other documents submitted with the application without the
written consent or approval of the Floodplain Administrator. Requests for any
such change shall be in writing, and shall be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and disposition.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.027  PLACARDS.
   In addition to the permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a
placard which shall be displayed on the premises during the time construction
is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the permit, the date of
its issuance, any other information as deemed appropriate by the Floodplain
Administrator and is to be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.028  START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Work on the proposed construction and/or development shall begin
within 180 days after the date of issuance and shall be completed within 12
months after the date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall expire
unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain
Administrator. The actual start of construction means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as pouring
of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns or
any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home
on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such
as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of
streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement,
footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it
include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as
garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   (B)   Time extensions shall be considered only if a written request is
received 45 calendar days before the expiration of the existing permit is
submitted by the applicant, which sets forth sufficient and reasonable cause
for the Floodplain Administrator to act upon such a request, and the original
permit is compliant with this chapter and FIRM/FIS in effect at the time the
extension is granted.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.029  ENFORCEMENT; NOTICES.
   (A)   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized
representative determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that
there has been a violation of any provisions of this chapter, or of any
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, the Floodplain Administrator shall give
notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time not to exceed a period of 30 calendar days
for the performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or his or her agent as the case
may require; provided, however, that such notice or order shall be deemed to
have been properly served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been
served with such notice by any other method authorized or required by the laws
of the commonwealth; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.030  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any action or decision of the Floodplain
Administrator concerning the administration of the provisions of this chapter,
may appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board of the township. Such appeal must be
filed, in writing, within 30 calendar days after the decision, determination or
action of the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such appeal the Zoning Hearing Board of the township
shall set a time and place, within not less than ten or not more than 30
calendar days, for the purpose of considering the appeal. Notice of the time
and place at which the appeal will be considered shall be given to all parties.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Zoning Hearing Board of
the township may seek relief therefrom by appeal to a court of competent
jurisdiction, as provided by the laws of the commonwealth, including the
Pennsylvania Flood Plain Management Act.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
IDENTIFICATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 151.045  IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   The identified floodplain area shall be:
      (1)   Any areas of the township classified as special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and the accompanying Flood Insurance
Rate Maps (FIRMs) dated August 17, 2015 and issued by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or the most recent revision thereof, including all
digital data developed as part of the Flood Insurance Study; and
      (2)   Any community identified flood hazard areas.
   (B)   The above referenced FIS and FIRMs, and any subsequent revisions and
amendments are hereby adopted by the Township Board of Supervisors and declared
to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.046  DESCRIPTION AND SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS OF IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   The identified floodplain area shall consist of the following specific
areas.
   (A)   The Floodway Area/District identified as floodway in the FIS which
represents the channel of a watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must
be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation by more than one foot at any point. This
term shall also include floodway areas which have been identified in other
available studies or sources of information for those special flood hazard
areas where no floodway has been identified in the FIS.
      (1)   Within any floodway area, encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements or other development, shall not be
permitted unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the township during the occurrence of base flood discharge.
      (2)   No new construction or development shall be allowed, unless a
permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection Regional
Office.
   (B)   The AE Area/District shall be those areas identified as an AE Zone on
the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which base flood elevations
have been provided.
      (1)   The AE Area adjacent to the floodway shall be those areas
identified as an AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for
which base flood elevations have been provided and a floodway has been
delineated.
      (2)   The AE Area/District without floodway shall be those areas
identified as an AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and
for which base flood elevations have been provided in the FIS but no floodway
has been delineated.
         (a)   No permit shall be granted for any construction, development,
use or activity within the AE Area/District without floodway unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development would not,
together with all other existing and anticipated development, increase BFE more
than one foot at any point.
         (b)   No new construction or development shall be located within the
area measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless
a permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection Regional
Office.
   (C)   (1)   The A Area/District shall be those areas identified as an A Zone
on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no 1% annual
flood elevations have been provided. For those areas, elevation and floodway
information from other federal, state or other acceptable sources shall be used
when available. Where other acceptable information is not available, the base
flood elevation shall be determined by using the elevation of a point on the
boundary of the identified floodplain area which is nearest the construction
site.
      (2)   In lieu of the above, the township, upon notice to applicant, may
allow/require the applicant to determine the elevation with hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering techniques. Hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be
undertaken only by professional engineers or others of demonstrated
qualifications, who shall certify that the technical methods used correctly
reflect currently accepted technical concepts. Studies, analyses, computations
and the like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough
technical review by the township.
   (D)   The Shallow Flooding Area/District shall be those areas identified as
Zones AO and AH on the FIRM and in the FIS. These areas are subject to
inundation by 1% annual chance shallow flooding where average depths are
between one and three feet. In Zones AO and AH, drainage paths shall be
established to guide floodwaters around and away from structures and slopes.
   (E)   Community identified flood hazard areas shall be those areas where the
township has identified local flood hazard or ponding areas, as delineated and
adopted on a “Local Flood Hazard Map” using best available topographic data and
locally derived information such as flood of record, historic high water marks,
soils or approximate study methodologies.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.047  CHANGES IN IDENTIFICATION OF AREA.
   The identified floodplain area may be revised or modified by the township
where studies or information provided by a qualified agency or person documents
the need for such revision. However, prior to any such change, approval must be
obtained from the FEMA. Additionally, as soon as practicable, but not later
than six months after the date such information becomes available, the township
shall notify the FEMA of the changes by submitting technical or scientific
data.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.048  BOUNDARY DISPUTES.
   Should a dispute concerning any identified floodplain boundary arise, an
initial determination shall be made by the Floodplain Administrator and any
party aggrieved by this decision or determination may appeal to the township.
The burden of proof shall be on the appellant.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.049  JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARY CHANGES.
   Prior to development occurring in areas where annexation or other corporate
boundary changes are proposed or have occurred, the community shall review
flood hazard data affecting the lands subject to boundary changes. The
community shall adopt and enforce floodplain regulations in areas subject to
annexation or corporate boundary changes which meet or exceed those in 44
C.F.R. § 60.3.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
TECHNICAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.060  GENERAL.
   (A)   Alteration or relocation of watercourse.
      (1)   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected
by such action and the Floodplain Administrator have been notified by the
township, and until all required permits or approvals have been first obtained
from the Department of Environmental Protection Regional Office.
      (2)   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse unless it can be shown that the activity will not
reduce or impede the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse in any way.
      (3)   In addition, FEMA and Pennsylvania Department of Community and
Economic Development shall be notified by the Floodplain Administrator prior to
any alteration or relocation of any watercourse.
   (B)   Technical or scientific data. Technical or scientific data shall be
submitted by the township to FEMA for a letter of map revision (LOMR) as soon
as practicable but within six months of any new construction, development, or
other activity resulting in changes in the BFE. The situations when a LOMR or a
conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) are required are:
      (1)   Any development that causes a rise in the base flood elevations
within the floodway;
      (2)   Any development occurring in Zones A1-30 and Zone AE without a
designated floodway, which will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base
flood elevation; or
      (3)   Alterations or relocation of a stream (including, but not limited
to, installing culverts and bridges).
   (C)   New construction, development, uses or activities. Any new
construction, development, uses or activities allowed within any identified
floodplain area shall be undertaken in strict compliance with the provisions
contained in this chapter and any other applicable codes, ordinances and
regulations.
   (D)   Permit required. Within any identified floodplain area (see §
151.046), no new construction or development shall be located within the area
measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless a
permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection Regional
Office.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.061  ELEVATION AND FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures.
      (1)   In AE, A1-30 and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated up to, or
above, the regulatory flood elevation. (Regulatory flood elevation is one and
one-half feet above base flood elevation.)
      (2)   In A Zones, where there are no base flood elevations specified on
the FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood
elevation in accordance with §
151.046(C).
      (3)   In AO Zones, any new construction or substantial improvement shall
have the lowest floor (including basement) at or above the highest adjacent
grade at least as high as the depth number specified on the FIRM.
      (4)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
Pa. Code Chs. 401 through 405, as amended, shall be utilized.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   In AE, A1-30 and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement of a nonresidential structure shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood elevation,
or be designed and constructed so that the space enclosed below the regulatory
flood elevation:
         (a)   Is floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water; and
         (b)   Has structural components with the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   In A Zones, where no base flood elevations are specified on the
FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated or completely floodproofed up to, or above,
the regulatory flood elevation in accordance with §
151.046(C).
      (3)   In AO Zones, any new construction or substantial improvement shall
have their lowest floor elevated or completely floodproofed above the highest
adjacent grade to at least as high as the depth number specified on the FIRM.
      (4)   Any nonresidential structure, or part thereof, made watertight
below the regulatory flood elevation shall be floodproofed in accordance with
the W1 or W2 space classification standards contained in the publication
entitled “Flood-Proofing Regulations” published by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers (June 1972, as amended March 1992) or with some other equivalent
standard. All plans and specifications for such floodproofing shall be
accompanied by a statement certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect which states that the proposed design and methods of construction are
in conformance with the above referenced standards.
      (5)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
Pa. Code Chs. 401 through 405, as amended, shall be utilized.
   (C)   Space below the lowest floor.
      (1)   Fully enclosed space below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
which will be used solely for the parking of a vehicle, building access or
incidental storage in an area other than a basement, shall be designed and
constructed to allow for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters for the
purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on exterior walls. The term “fully
enclosed space” also includes crawl spaces.
      (2)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers and the like or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
   (D)   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to a principal building
need not be elevated or floodproofed to remain dry, but shall comply, at a
minimum, with the following requirements.
      (1)   The structure shall not be designed or used for human habitation,
but shall be limited to the parking of vehicles, or to the storage of tools,
material and equipment related to the principal use or activity.
      (2)   Floor area shall not exceed 100 square feet.
      (3)   The structure will have a low damage potential.
      (4)   The structure will be located on the site so as to cause the least
obstruction to the flow of floodwaters.
      (5)   Power lines, wiring and outlets will be elevated to the regulatory
flood elevation.
      (6)   Permanently affixed utility equipment and appliances such as
furnaces, heaters, washers, dryers and the like are prohibited.
      (7)   Sanitary facilities are prohibited.
      (8)   The structure shall be adequately anchored to prevent flotation or
movement and shall be designed to automatically provide for the entry and exit
of floodwater for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on the walls.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria.
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers and the like or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
   (E)   Historic structures. Historic structures undergoing repair or
rehabilitation that would constitute a substantial improvement as defined in
this chapter, must comply with all chapter requirements that do not preclude
the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure. Documentation
that a specific ordinance requirement will cause removal of the structure form
the National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic
places must be obtained from the Secretary of the Interior or the State
Historic Preservation Officer. Any exemption from ordinance requirements will
be the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.062  DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The following minimum standards shall apply for all construction and
development proposed within any identified floodplain area.
   (A)   Fill. If fill is used, it shall:
      (1)   Extend laterally at least 15 feet beyond the building line from all
points;
      (2)   Consist of soil or small rock materials only; sanitary landfills
shall not be permitted;
      (3)   Be compacted to provide the necessary permeability and resistance
to erosion, scouring or settling;
      (4)   Be no steeper than one vertical to two horizontal feet unless
substantiated data, justifying steeper slopes are submitted to and approved by
the Floodplain Administrator; and
      (5)   Be used to the extent to which it does not adversely affect
adjacent properties.
   (B)   Drainage facilities. Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to
convey the flow of stormwater runoff in a safe and efficient manner. The system
shall ensure proper drainage along streets, and provide positive drainage away
from buildings. The system shall also be designed to prevent the discharge of
excess runoff onto adjacent properties.
   (C)   Water and sanitary sewer facilities and systems.
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer facilities
and systems shall be located, designed and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damages and the infiltration of floodwaters.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer facilities and systems shall be designed to prevent
the discharge of untreated sewage into floodwaters.
      (3)   No part of any on-site sewage system shall be located within any
identified floodplain area except in strict compliance with all state and local
regulations for such systems. If any such system is permitted, it shall be
located so as to avoid impairment to it, or contamination from it, during a
flood.
      (4)   The design and construction provisions of the UCC and FEMA #348,
“Protecting Building Utilities From Flood Damages” and the International
Private Sewage Disposal Code shall be utilized.
   (D)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical and
telephone systems shall be located, elevated (where possible) and constructed
to minimize the chance of impairment during a flood.
   (E)   Streets. The finished elevation of all new streets shall be no more
than one foot below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (F)   Storage. All materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or in
times of flooding, could be injurious to human, animal or plant life, and not
listed in §
151.063, shall be stored at or above the regulatory flood elevation and/or
floodproofed so as to avoid impairment to them or contamination by them during
a flood.
   (G)   Placement of buildings and structures. All buildings and structures
shall be designed, located and constructed so as to offer the minimum
obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to have a minimum effect
upon the flow and height of floodwater.
   (H)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, storage tanks and other similar objects
or components located below the regulatory flood elevation shall be securely
anchored or affixed to prevent flotation.
   (I)   Floors, walls and ceilings.
      (1)   Wood flooring used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be installed to accommodate a lateral expansion of the flooring, perpendicular
to the flooring grain without causing structural damage to the building.
      (2)   Plywood used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be of
a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
      (3)   Walls and ceilings at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be designed and constructed of materials that are “water-resistant” and will
withstand inundation.
      (4)   Windows, doors and other components at or below the regulatory
flood elevation shall be made of metal or other “water-resistant” material.
   (J)   Paints and adhesives.
      (1)   Paints and other finishes used at or below the regulatory flood
elevation shall be of “marine” or “water-resistant” quality.
      (2)   Adhesives used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
of a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
      (3)   All wooden components (doors, trim, cabinets and the like) shall be
finished with a “marine” or “water-resistant” paint or other finishing
material.
   (K)   Electrical components.
      (1)   Electrical distribution panels shall be at least three feet above
the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Separate electrical circuits shall serve lower levels and shall be
dropped from above.
   (L)   Equipment. Water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and ventilating
units, and other electrical, mechanical or utility equipment or apparatus shall
not be located below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (M)   Fuel supply systems. All gas and oil supply systems shall be designed
to prevent the infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharges from
the system into floodwaters. Additional provisions shall be made for the
drainage of these systems in the event that floodwater infiltration occurs.
   (N)   Uniform Construction Code coordination. The standards and
specifications contained 34 Pa. Code Chs. 401 through 405, as amended and not
limited to, the following provisions shall apply to the above and other
sections of this chapter, to the extent that they are more restrictive and/or
supplement the requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   International Building Code (IBC) 2009 or the latest edition
thereof: §§ 801, 1202, 1403, 1603, 1605, 1612, 3402 and Appendix G; and
      (2)   International Residential Building Code (IRC) 2009 or the latest
edition thereof: §§ R104, R105, R109, R323, Appendix AE101, Appendix H and
Appendix J.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.063  DEVELOPMENT WHICH MAY ENDANGER HUMAN LIFE.
   (A)   In accordance with the Pennsylvania Flood Plain Management Act, and
the regulations adopted by the Department of Community and Economic Development
as required by the Act, any new or substantially improved structure which:
      (1)   Will be used for the production or storage of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances;
      (2)   Will be used for any activity requiring the maintenance of a supply
of more than 550 gallons, or other comparable volume, of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances on the premises; or
      (3)   Will involve the production, storage or use of any amount of
radioactive substances shall be subject to the provisions of this section, in
addition to all other applicable provisions. The following list of materials
and substances are considered dangerous to human life:
         (a)   Acetone;
         (b)   Ammonia;
         (c)   Benzene;
         (d)   Calcium carbide;
         (e)   Carbon disulfide;
         (f)   Celluloid;
         (g)   Chlorine;
         (h)   Hydrochloric acid;
         (i)   Hydrocyanic acid;
         (j)   Magnesium;
         (k)   Nitric acid and oxides of nitrogen;
         (l)   Petroleum products (gasoline, fuel oil and the like);
         (m)   Phosphorus;
         (n)   Potassium;
         (o)   Sodium;
         (p)   Sulphur and sulphur products;
         (q)   Pesticides (including insecticides, fungicides and
rodenticides); and
         (r)   Radioactive substances, insofar as such substances are not
otherwise regulated.
   (B)   Within any floodway area, any structure of the kind described in
division (A) above shall be prohibited.
   (C)   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, any new or
substantially improved residential structure of the kind described in division
(A) above shall be elevated to remain completely dry up to at least one and
one-half feet above base flood elevation.
   (D)   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, any new or
substantially improved nonresidential structure of the kind described in
division (A) above shall be:
      (1)   Elevated or designed and constructed to remain completely dry up to
at least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation; and
      (2)   Designed to prevent pollution from the structure or activity during
the course of a base flood elevation. Any such structure, or part thereof, that
will be built below the regulatory flood elevation shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the standards for completely dry floodproofing
contained in the publication “Flood-Proofing Regulations” (U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, June 1972 as amended March 1992), or with some other equivalent
watertight standard.
   (E)   Within any floodplain area, any new or substantially improved
structure of the kind described in division (A) above, shall be prohibited
within the area measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any
watercourse.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.064  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   All subdivision proposals and development proposals containing at least 50
lots or at least five acres, whichever is the lesser, in flood hazard areas
where base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by
hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analyses that determine base flood
elevations and floodway information. The analyses shall be prepared by a
licensed professional engineer in a format required by FEMA for a conditional
letter of map revision or letter of map revision. Submittal requirements and
processing fees shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.065  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Within any FW (Floodway Area), manufactured homes shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Within approximate floodplain or special floodplain area, manufactured
homes shall be prohibited within the area measured 50 feet landward from the
top-of-bank of any watercourse.
   (C)   Where permitted within any floodplain area, all manufactured homes,
and any improvements thereto, shall be:
      (1)   Placed on a permanent foundation;
      (2)   Elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation; and
      (3)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
   (D)   Installation of manufactured homes shall be done in accordance with
the manufacturers’ installation instructions as provided by the manufacturer.
Where the applicant cannot provide the above information, the requirements of
Appendix E of the 2009 International Residential Building Code or the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Permanent Foundations for
Manufactured Housing, 1984 Edition, draft or latest revision thereto shall
apply and 34 Pa. Code Chs. 401 through 405.
   (E)   Consideration shall be given to the installation requirements of the
2009 IBC, and the 2009 IRC or the most recent revisions thereto and 34 Pa.
Code, as amended where appropriate and/or applicable to units where the
manufacturers’ standards for anchoring cannot be provided or were not
established for the units(s) proposed installation.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.066  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles in Zones A, A1-30, AH and AE must either:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer that 180 consecutive days; and
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
   (C)   Meet the permit requirements for manufactured homes in §
151.065.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
151.999
PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES
§ 151.080  GENERAL.
   In accordance with the administrative regulations promulgated by the
Department of Community and Economic Development to implement the Pennsylvania
Flood Plain Management Act, the following activities shall be prohibited within
any identified floodplain area:
   (A)   The commencement of any of the following activities; or the
construction, enlargement, or expansion of any structure used, or intended to
be used, for any of the following activities:
      (1)   Hospitals public or private;
      (2)   Nursing homes public or private; and
      (3)   Jails or prisons.
   (B)   The commencement of, or any construction of, a new manufactured home
park or manufactured home subdivision, or substantial improvement to an
existing manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
151.999
EXISTING STRUCTURES IN IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 151.095  EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of this chapter do not require any changes or improvements to
be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an improvement is made
to any existing structure, the provisions of §
151.096 shall apply.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.096  IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following provisions shall apply whenever any improvement is made to an
existing structure located within any identified floodplain area.
   (A)   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within any floodway area/district that would cause any increase in the BFE.
   (B)   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within any AE Area/District that would, together with all other existing and
anticipated development, increase the BFE more than one foot at any point.
   (C)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure, to an extent or amount of 50% or more of its
market value, shall constitute a substantial improvement and shall be
undertaken only in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The above activity shall also address the requirements of the 34 Pa.
Code, as amended and the 2009 IBC, or the latest revisions thereof and the 2009
IRC, or the latest revisions thereof.
   (E)   Within any Floodway Area/District (see § 151.046(A)), no new
construction or development shall be allowed, unless a permit is obtained from
the Department of Environmental Protection Regional Office.
   (F)   Within any AE Area/District (see § 151.046(B)), no new construction or
development shall be located within the area measured 50 feet landward from the
top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless a permit is obtained from the Department
of Environmental Protection Regional Office.
   (G)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure, to an extent or amount of less than 50% of its
market value, shall be elevated and/or floodproofed to the greatest extent
possible.
   (H)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind that meets the definition of “repetitive loss” shall be undertaken only in
full compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
151.999
VARIANCES
§ 151.110  GENERAL.
   If compliance with any of the requirements of this chapter would result in
an exceptional hardship to a prospective builder, developer, applicant or
landowner, the township may, upon request, grant relief from the strict
application of the requirements.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.111  VARIANCE PROCEDURES AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Requests for variances shall be considered by the township in
accordance with the procedures contained in §§
151.020 through
151.030 (e.g., §
151.030) and the following.
      (1)   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use
or activity within any Floodway Area/District that would cause any increase in
the BFE.
      (2)   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use
or activity within any AE Area/District that would, together with all other
existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE more than one foot at
any point.
      (3)   Except for a possible modification of the regulatory flood
elevation requirement involved, no variance shall be granted for any of the
other requirements pertaining specifically to development regulated by
development which may endanger human life (§
151.063).
      (4)   No variance shall be granted for prohibited activities (§
151.080).
      (5)   If granted, a variance shall involve only the least modification
necessary to provide relief.
      (6)   In granting any variance, the township shall attach whatever
reasonable conditions and safeguards it considers necessary in order to protect
the public health, safety and welfare, and to achieve the objectives of this
chapter.
      (7)   Whenever a variance is granted, the township shall notify the
applicant in writing that:
         (a)   The granting of the variance may result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance; and
         (b)   Such variances may increase the risks to life and property.
      (8)   In reviewing any request for a variance, the township shall
consider, at a minimum, the following:
         (a)   There is good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   The granting of the variance will:
            1.   Neither result in an unacceptable or prohibited increase in
flood heights, additional threats to public safety or extraordinary public
expense; nor
            2.   Create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimize the public, or
conflict with any other applicable state or local ordinances and regulations.
      (9)   A complete record of all variance requests and related actions
shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator and the township. In
addition, a report of all variances granted during the year shall be included
in the annual report to the FEMA.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any of the above, however, all structures shall be
designed and constructed so as to have the capability of resisting the 1%
annual chance flood.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
151.999
ENACTMENT
§ 151.125  ADOPTION.
   This chapter shall be effective on August 4, 2015, relating to the National
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) Map adoption of August 17, 2015 and shall remain
in force until modified, amended or rescinded by the township.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
§ 151.999  PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or who fails or refuses to comply with any notice,
order or direction of the Floodplain Administrator shall pay a fine to the
County Conservation District of not less than $25 nor more than $600 plus costs
of prosecution. In addition to the above penalties all other actions are hereby
reserved including an action in equity for the proper enforcement of this
chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any violation of, or
noncompliance with, this chapter shall not excuse the violation or
noncompliance or permit it to continue and all such persons shall be required
to correct or remedy such violations and noncompliance within a reasonable time
not to exceed 30 calendar days unless agreed upon in writing by both parties.
Any development initiated or any structure or building constructed,
reconstructed, enlarged, altered or relocated in noncompliance with this
chapter may be declared by the Floodplain Administrator to be a public nuisance
and abatable as such. In such an event, the Floodplain Administrator shall
immediately notify the township.
(Ord. 5-2015, passed 8-4-2015)
CHAPTER 152:  SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Short title
   
152.002   Authority
   
152.003   Purpose; submission of plats
   
152.004   Jurisdiction
Definitions
   
152.015   Definitions
Administrative Authorities
   
152.030   Powers of governing body
   
152.031   Duties Township Planning Commission
   
152.032   Duties of Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer
   
152.033   Review by County Planning Commission
Procedures
   
152.045   Purpose
   
152.046   Preapplication; conference
   
152.047   Filing of applications; contents; action
   
152.048   Application for agricultural exempt subdivision
   
152.049   Application for minor subdivision
   
152.050   Application for major subdivision
Specification of Documents to be Submitted
   
152.065   Required documents; waiver
   
152.066   Chart of documents
Design and Improvement Standards
   
152.080   Purpose
   
152.081   Land requirements
   
152.082   Lot requirements
   
152.083   Street system
   
152.084   Street design
   
152.085   Curbs and sidewalks
   
152.086   Stormwater drainage
   
152.087   Development on private streets discouraged
   
152.088   Natural conditions and erosion
   
152.089   General regulations
Required Improvements
   
152.100   Installation of improvements
   
152.101   Streets
   
152.102   Curbs and sidewalks
   
152.103   Sewers
   
152.104   Water supply
   
152.105   Storm drainage
   
152.106   Utilities
   
152.107   Other improvements
   
152.108   Time limits
   
152.109   Inspection
   
152.110   Guarantees
Administration
   
152.125   Fees
   
152.126   Compliance required
   
152.127   Appeals
   
152.128   Interpretation and conflicts
   
152.129   Modification of provisions
   
152.130   Amendments
   
152.131   Township liability
Mobile Home Parks
   
152.145   Short title
   
152.146   Intent
   
152.147   Mobile home park size requirements
   
152.148   Mobile home lot requirements
   
152.149   Mobile home park street requirements
   
152.150   Buffer yards and screening
   
152.151   Recreation area
   
152.152   Off-street parking
   
152.153   Enclosures
   
152.154   Water
   
152.155   Sewage disposal
   
152.156   Electrical distribution system
   
152.157   Refuse handling
   
152.158   Insect and rodent control
   
152.159   Issuance of permits
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance of the Township of Greene”.
(2003 Code, § 146-1)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.002  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority delegated to the township
by the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq..
This chapter is further adopted to, in part, effectuate provisions, goals and
directions of the Comprehensive Plan of the township, which was adopted and
approved by action of the Board of Supervisors of the township by Res. 6-90 on
November 6, 1990, as reviewed, updated and amended.
(2003 Code, § 146-2)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.003  PURPOSE; SUBMISSION OF PLATS.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety
and general welfare of the citizens of the township while, at the same time,
implementing cost-saving efficiency. In protecting the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens, one of the objectives of this chapter is to maintain
the rural and agricultural atmosphere of the township. The provisions of this
chapter shall be administered to ensure orderly growth and development and
shall be used to supplement and facilitate implementation of provisions of
other official documents within the township, such as the Comprehensive Plan;
Chapter 153, Zoning, with official map; the Building Code; and §§
152.145 through
152.159 of this chapter.
   (B)   All subdivision and land development plats of land situated within the
township must be submitted for approval to the Township Board of Supervisors.
(2003 Code, § 146-3)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.004  JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all real
property, and owners, users and occupiers thereof, located within the
boundaries of Greene Township, Beaver County, Pennsylvania.
   (B)   No subdivision or land development of any lot, tract or parcel of land
shall be made, no street, sanitary sewer, water main or other improvements in
connection therewith shall be laid out, constructed, opened or dedicated for
public use or travel, or for the common use of occupants of buildings erected
or abutting thereon, except in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 146-4)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
DEFINITIONS
§ 152.015  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER. The Greene Township Code Enforcement Officer.
   AGRICULTURAL. The use of land for the production and preparation for market
of crops, livestock and livestock products and the production and harvesting of
agronomical, horticultural, silvicultural and aquacultural crops and
commodities prepared from crops.
   APPLICANT. A developer submitting an application for development.
   APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT. The application form and all accompanying
documents required by ordinance for approval of a subdivision plan or site
plan.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Greene Township Board of Supervisors.
   BUFFER. An area within a property or site, generally adjacent to and
parallel with the property line, either consisting of natural existing
vegetation or created by the use of trees, shrubs, fences and/or berms,
designed to limit continuously the view of and/or sound from the site to
adjacent sites or properties.
   BUILDING. A combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof, including, but not limited to, all mobile homes and trailers.
   CARTWAY. The actual road surface area from curbline to curbline, which may
include travel lanes, parking lanes and deceleration and acceleration lanes.
Where there are no curbs, the CARTWAY is that portion between the edges of the
paved, or hard surface, width.
   CHANNEL. The bed and banks of a natural stream which convey the constant or
intermittent flow of the stream.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. Land or water within or related to a development, not
individually owned or dedicated for public use, which is designed and intended
for the common use or enjoyment of the residents of the development. It may
include complementary structures and improvements, but not streets, off-street
parking areas or public open space.
   COMMUNITY SEWER SYSTEM. A sewage facility, whether publicly or privately
owned, for the collection of sewage from two or more lots, or two or more
equivalent dwelling units, and the treatment or disposal, or both, of the
sewage on one or more of the lots or at another site.
   CONCEPT PLAN. A preliminary presentation and attendant documentation of a
proposed subdivision or site plan of sufficient accuracy to be used for the
purpose of discussion and classification.
   CONDOMINIUM. Ownership in common with others of a parcel of land and certain
parts of a building thereon which would normally be used by all the occupants,
together with individual ownership in fee of a particular unit or apartment in
such building or on such parcel of land and may include dwellings, offices and
other types of space in commercial and industrial buildings or on real
property.
   COUNTY. The County of Beaver, Pennsylvania.
   COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the County of Beaver.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street open to vehicular and pedestrian traffic with one end
permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
   CULVERT. A structure designed to convey a watercourse not incorporated in a
closed drainage system under a road or pedestrian walk.
   CURB. A vertical or sloping edge of a roadway.
   DEDICATION. An act transmitting property or interest thereto.
   DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION (DEP). The Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection, its bureaus, divisions, departments and/or agencies,
as may from time to time be established, or such department or departments as
may in the future succeed it.
   DESIGN FLOOD. The relative size or magnitude of a major flood of reasonable
expectancy, which reflects both flood experience and flood potential and is the
basis of the delineation of the floodway, the flood hazard area and the water
surface elevations.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. Criteria that specifies the standards under which required
improvements are established.
   DESIGNATED FLOODPLAIN AREAS. A relatively flat or low land area adjoining a
river, stream or watercourse which is subject to partial or complete inundation
in a 100-year flood.
   DEVELOPER. The legal or beneficial owner or owners of a lot or of any land
included in a proposed development. Also, the holder of an option of contract
to purchase, or any other person having enforceable proprietary interest in
such land who makes, or causes to be made, a subdivision of land or a land
development. See LAND DEVELOPMENT.
   DEVELOPMENT REGULATION. Zoning, subdivision, site plan, official map,
floodplain regulation or other governmental regulation of the use and
development of land.
   DRAINAGE. The removal of surface water or groundwater from land by drains,
grading or other means.
   DRAINAGE FACILITY. Any component of the drainage system.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The system through which water flows from the land,
including all watercourses, waterbodies and wetlands.
   DRIVEWAY. A paved or unpaved area used for ingress or egress of vehicles,
and allowing access from a street to a building or other structure or facility.
   DWELLING. Any building which is designated for human living quarters, but
not including hotels, boardinghouses, tourist cabins, motels and other
accommodations used for transient occupancy.
   EASEMENT. A right-of-way granted, but not dedicated, for limited use of
private land for a public or quasi-public purpose and within which the owner of
the property shall not erect any permanent structures.
   ENGINEER. A registered professional engineer in the state designated by the
Township Board of Supervisors as the Township Engineer.
   ENVIRONMENTAL CONSTRAINTS. Features, natural resources or land
characteristics that are sensitive to improvements and may require conservation
measures or the application of creative development techniques to prevent
degradation of the environment or may require limited development, or, in
certain instances, may preclude development.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments, or the
wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice or gravity.
   EXCAVATION. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other similar
material is dug into, cut, quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated
or bulldozed. It shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
   FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of wood, masonry, stone, wire,
metal or any other manufactured material or combination of materials.
   FILL. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is
placed, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved to a new location above
the natural surface of the ground or on top of the stripped surface. It shall
include the conditions resulting therefrom. The difference in elevation between
a point on the original ground and a designated point of higher elevation of
the final grade. The material used to make FILL.
   FINAL APPROVAL. The official action of the Township Board of Supervisors
taken on a preliminarily approved major subdivision or site plan, after all
conditions, engineering plans and other requirements have been completed or
fulfilled and the required improvements have been installed, or guarantees
properly posted for their completion, or approval conditioned upon the posting
of such guarantee.
   FINAL PLAN. A complete and exact subdivision plan of all or a portion of a
subdivision, prepared by a registered land surveyor, for official recording as
required by statute, to delineate boundaries, define property rights, proposed
streets and all other improvements. If FINAL PLANS are to be for only a portion
of the entire area, a schedule for development of the remainder is required.
   FLOODPLAIN. The area along a natural watercourse which may, from time to
time, be overflowed by water therefrom.
   FLOOR AREA. Area of all floors of buildings or structures.
   FRONTAGE. See LOT FRONTAGE.
   GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan outlining general, rather than detailed,
development intentions. It describes the basic parameters of a major
development proposal, rather than giving full engineering details. As such, it
allows general intentions to be proposed and discussed without the extensive
costs involved in submitting a detailed proposal.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Greene Township Board of Supervisors.
   GRADE. The slope of a street, or other public way, specified in percentage
terms.
   GROUND COVER. A planting of low-growing plants or sod that, in time, forms a
dense mat covering the area, preventing soil from being blown or washed away
and the growth of unwanted plants.
   GUTTER. A shallow channel usually set along a curb or the pavement edge of a
road for purposes of catching and carrying off runoff water.
   HISTORIC SITE. A structure or place of historical significance. May be
designated as such by local, state or federal government.
   IMPOUNDMENT. A body of water, such as a pond, confined by a dam, dike,
floodgate or other barrier.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any human-made, immovable item which becomes part of, placed
upon or is affixed to real estate.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank, seepage tile sewage
disposal system or any other approved sewage treatment device serving a single
unit.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   The improvement of one or two or more contiguous lots, tracts or
parcels of land for any purpose involving:
         (a)   A group of two or more residential or nonresidential buildings,
whether proposed initially or cumulatively, or a single nonresidential building
on a lot or lots regardless of the number of occupants or tenure; or
         (b)   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially
or cumulatively, between or among two or more existing or prospective occupants
by means of or for the purpose of streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups or other features.
      (2)   The following shall be excluded from this definition:
         (a)   The conversion of an existing single-family detached dwelling or
single-family semi-detached dwelling into not more than three residential
units, unless such units are intended to be a condominium;
         (b)   The addition of an accessory building, including farm buildings,
on a lot or lots subordinate to an existing principal building; or
         (c)   The addition or conversion of building or rides within the
confines of an enterprise which would be considered an amusement park. For
purposes of this definition, an AMUSEMENT PARK is defined as a tract or area
used principally as a location for permanent amusement structures or rides.
This exclusion shall not apply to newly acquired acreage by an amusement park
until initial plans for the expanded area have been approved by proper
authorities.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan prepared in accordance with the application
requirements of this chapter for approval of a land development, as defined
herein.
   LIVING UNIT. A residential unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one family, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
   LOT. A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by a plat or
otherwise as permitted by law, and to be used, developed or built upon as a
unit.
   LOT AREA. The size of a lot measured within the lot lines and expressed in
terms of acres or square feet.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The portion of a lot extending along a street line.
   MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE. Any security which may be required and accepted by
the Township Board of Supervisors to ensure that necessary improvements will
function as required for a specific period of time.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision not classified as a minor subdivision.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Subdivisions developed along existing improved public
thoroughfares that require no additional streets or street openings or
realignment of existing vacant lots, and the division of lots containing more
than one principal structure for the purpose of transferring legal ownership of
lots or structures and the land on which they are situated, provided that no
new land development or new streets or realignment of existing streets is
involved.
   MOBILE HOME. A factory-assembled structure or structures equipped with the
necessary service connections and made so as to be readily movable as a unit or
units on its (their) own running gear and designed to be used as a dwelling
unit(s) without a permanent foundation. The phrase “without a permanent
foundation” indicates that the support system is constructed with the intent
that the mobile home placed thereon will be moved from time to time at the
convenience of the owner.
   MOBILE HOME ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A subordinate building or
structure which is an addition to or supplements the facilities provided by a
mobile home, such as awnings, cabanas, ramadas, storage structures, carports,
porches, fences, skirtings or windbreaks.
   MOBILE HOME DEVELOPMENT. A contiguous parcel of land which has been planned
and improved for the placement of mobile homes.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of a mobile home and the
exclusive use of its occupant.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single ownership which has been
planned and improved for the placement of mobile homes for nontransient use,
consisting of two or more mobile home lots.
   MODIFICATION. A relaxation or change in the provisions of this chapter that
is granted by the governing body in cases where the developer can show to the
satisfaction of the governing body that the literal enforcement of the
provisions would exact undue hardship because of peculiar conditions pertaining
to the land in question.
   MOVING LANE. Any traffic lane where traffic movement is the primary, if not
sole, function.
   MUNICIPALITIES PLANNING CODE. Act of Assembly of July 31, 1968, P.L. 805, as
reenacted and amended by Act 170 of 1988, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Township of Greene, Beaver County, Pennsylvania.
   OFF-SITE. Located outside the lot lines of the lot in question, but within
the property (of which the lot is a part) that is the subject of a development
application, or on a contiguous portion of a street or right-of-way.
   OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE. A parking space provided in a parking lot, parking
structure or private driveway.
   OFF-TRACT. Not located on the property that is the subject of a development
application nor on a contiguous portion of a street or right-of-way.
   ON-SITE. Located on the lot in question.
   ON-STREET PARKING SPACE. A parking space that is located on a dedicated
street right-of-way.
   ON-TRACT. Located on the property that is the subject of a development
application or on a contiguous portion of a street or right-of-way.
   ONE-HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD. A flood that, on the average, is likely to occur
once every 100 years.
   OPEN SPACE. Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved and
set aside, dedicated, designated or reserved for the public or private use or
enjoyment or for the use and enjoyment of owners and occupants of land
adjoining or neighboring such OPEN SPACE.
   OWNER. The legal or beneficial owner or owners of land, including the holder
of an option or contract to purchase (whether or not such option or contract is
subject to any condition), a lessee if he or she is authorized under the lease
to exercise the rights of the owner, or other persons having a proprietary
interest in the land, shall be deemed to be an OWNER for the purpose of this
chapter.
   PARKING LANE. A lane usually located on the sides of streets, designed to
provide on-street parking for vehicular traffic.
   PARKING SPACE. An area provided for the parking of a motor vehicle.
   PAVEMENT. See CARTWAY.
   PERC TEST (PERCOLATION TEST). A test designed to determine the ability of
ground to absorb water and used to determine the suitability of a soil for
drainage or for the use of a septic system.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any security that may be accepted by the township as
a guarantee that the improvements required as part of an application for
development are satisfactorily completed.
   PERMIT. As used in §§
152.145 through
152.159 of this chapter, a written document issued by the township permitting
the construction, alteration or expansion of a mobile home development.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation or other legally recognized
entity.
   PLAN. A map or maps of a subdivision or site plan.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An area of a minimum contiguous size, as specified
by ordinance, to be planned, developed, operated and maintained as a single
entity containing one or more structures to accommodate commercial or office
uses, or both, and appurtenant common areas and other uses incidental to the
predominant uses.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Greene Township Planning Commission.
   POTABLE WATER SUPPLY. Water suitable for drinking or cooking purposes.
   PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE. An initial meeting between developers and
municipal representatives which affords developers the opportunity to present
their proposals informally. This conference is not required, but is an option
offered to the developer.
   PRELIMINARY APPROVAL. The conferral of certain rights prior to final
approval after specific elements of a development plan have been agreed upon by
the Planning Commission and the applicant.
   PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAN. A tentative subdivision plan of an entire
tract prepared by a registered land surveyor, showing approximate street and
lot layout as a basis for consideration and review prior to preparation for a
final plan. It must include the entire tract or eventual area that is to be
subdivided.
   PUBLIC HEARING. A formal meeting held pursuant to public notice by the
governing body or Planning Commission, intended to inform and obtain public
comment, prior to taking action.
   PUBLIC NOTICE. Notice published once each week for two successive weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation in the township. Such notice shall state the
time and place of the hearing and the particular nature of the matter to be
considered at the hearing. The first publication shall be not more than 30
days, and the second publication shall not be less than seven days, from the
date of the hearing.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. An open space area conveyed or otherwise dedicated to a
municipality, municipal agency, board of education, state or county agency or
other public body for recreational or conservational uses.
   PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM. A system of sewers, owned and operated by a municipal
authority created under the Municipal Authorities Act (53 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 5601 et
seq.), for the collection and disposal of sewage.
   RESIDENTIAL DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per gross acre of
residential land area, including streets, easements and open space portions of
a development.
   RETAINING WALL. A structure erected between lands of different elevation to
protect structures and/or to prevent the washing down or erosion of earth from
the upper slope level.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, gas pipeline,
water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees or for another special
use.
   SCREEN. A structure or planting consisting of fencing, berms and/or
evergreen trees or shrubs providing a continuous view obstruction within a site
or property.
   SEPTIC SYSTEM. An underground system with a septic tank used for the
decomposition of domestic wastes.
   SEPTIC TANK. A watertight receptacle that receives the discharge of sewage.
   SETBACK. The distance between the street right-of-way line and the front
line of a building or any projection thereof, excluding uncovered steps.
   SEWAGE. A substance that contains the waste products or excrement or other
discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals and noxious or deleterious
substances being harmful or inimical to the public health, or to animal or
aquatic life, or to the use of water for domestic water supply or for
recreation or which constitutes pollution under the Clean Streams Law (35 P.S.
§§ 691 et seq.).
   SEWER. Any pipe conduit used to collect and carry away sewage or stormwater
runoff from the generating source to treatment plants or receiving streams.
   SHOULDER. The graded part of the right-of-way that lies between the edge of
the main pavement (main traveled way) and the curbline.
   SIDEWALK (AREA). A paved path provided for pedestrian use and usually
located at the side of a road within the right-of-way.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. A triangular-shaped portion of land established at street
intersections in which nothing is erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow
in such a manner as to limit or obstruct the sight distance of motorists
entering or leaving the intersection.
   SITE PLAN. An accurately scaled development plan that illustrates the
existing conditions on a land parcel, as well as depicting details of a
proposed development.
   SKETCH PLAN. A drawing, whether or not to scale, depicting a proposed
subdivision.
   STREET. A public or private way that affords the principal vehicular or
pedestrian means of on-grade access to abutting properties. A STREET may be
designated as a highway, thoroughfare, alley, parkway, boulevard, road, avenue,
lane, drive, place or other appropriate name.
   STREET CLASSIFICATIONS. The following street classifications shall apply to
all streets in the township.
      (1)   ARTERIAL. Carries major movements of traffic within or through the
community.
      (2)   COLLECTOR. Carries the internal traffic movements within the
township and connect developed areas with the arterial system. The collector
system simultaneously provides abutting property with road access and
accommodates local internal traffic movements.
      (3)   EXPRESSWAY. Limited access freeways that carry through traffic
between major urban centers and to and from points outside of a region with no
local interference.
      (4)   LOCAL. Provide access to immediately adjacent land but normally
carry a small portion of the total vehicle miles traveled daily.
      (5)   PRIVATE. Any vehicular way that is not dedicated as a public
street.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land by
any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land,
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, for lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or
devisees, transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided,
however, that the division by lease of land for agricultural purposes into
parcels of more than ten acres not involving any new street or easement of
access or any residential dwelling shall be exempted.
   SURVEYOR. A professional land surveyor licensed by the commonwealth.
   TOPSOIL. The original upper layer of soil material to a depth of six inches,
which is usually darker and richer than the subsoil.
   TREATMENT PLANT. A complete sewage treatment system designed and licensed to
treat sewage and discharge effluent into a watercourse.
   WATERCOURSE. A stream of water, river, brook, creek or channel or ditch for
water, whether natural or human-made.
(2003 Code, § 146-5)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996; Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-
2003; Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITIES
§ 152.030  POWERS OF GOVERNING BODY.
   The Township Board of Supervisors shall provide for the orderly
administration of this chapter by appointment of appropriate personnel,
amendment of provisions hereof as deemed necessary, and by final rejection or
approval of each subdivision request submitted to it.
(2003 Code, § 146-6)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.031  DUTIES TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Township Planning Commission is charged with the direct administration
of this chapter. Approval of subdivision plans by resolution of the Planning
Commission is a prerequisite or prior condition to any action being taken
thereon by the Township Board of Supervisors. In performing duties and
responsibilities hereby assigned to it, the Planning Commission can employ the
services of other township personnel, such as the Township Code Enforcement
Officer, the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer, the Township
Engineer, the Township Solicitor and the Township Sewage Enforcement Officer.
(2003 Code, § 146-7)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Planning Commission, see §§
32.01 through
32.03
§ 152.032  DUTIES OF TOWNSHIP ADMINISTRATIVE SECRETARY/TREASURER.
   The duly appointed Administrative Secretary/Treasurer of the township shall
be responsible for collection of and receipting for all data required hereunder
and delivery of the same to the appropriate administrative agency for action
thereon.
(2003 Code, § 146-8)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Secretary/Treasurer, Administrative, see §§
31.01 through
31.07
§ 152.033  REVIEW BY COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   After review and report thereon by the Township Planning Commission and
prior to action by the Township Board of Supervisors, all requests for
subdivision of property within the township shall be submitted to the County
Planning Commission for review and comment.
(2003 Code, § 146-9)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
PROCEDURES
§ 152.045  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the procedure for review and
action by the administrative agencies on applications for subdivisions. The
process is intended to provide orderly and expeditious processing of such
applications.
(2003 Code, § 146-10)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.046  PREAPPLICATION; CONFERENCE.
   For the purpose of expediting applications and reducing subdivision and site
plan design and development costs, the developer and/or owner may, but is not
required to, request a preapplication conference in accordance with the
following.
   (A)   Preapplication conference. Prospective subdividers may arrange a
preapplication conference with the Township Planning Commission to determine
the practical and legal feasibility of the proposed project prior to the
development of formal preliminary plan preparation. An appointment shall be
made at least ten days prior to the Commission’s regular meeting date. No fee
shall be required for said conference.
   (B)   Documentation. Submission of the following information at the
preapplication conference is recommended:
      (1)   General information. A general description of existing covenants,
land characteristics, the availability of community facilities and utilities.
Also, information relating to the proposed subdivision, such as the appropriate
number of lots, typical lot width and depth, commercial areas, playgrounds,
park areas, other public areas, proposed protective covenants, proposed utility
and street improvements;
      (2)   Topographic and location map. Existing USGS quadrangle sheet or
other acceptable map showing the location and topographic features of the site;
      (3)   Sketch plan. A simple sketch of the tract boundaries, proposed
layout of streets, lots, significant topographic modifications contemplated and
other features in relation to existing conditions;
      (4)   Timing. A projected timetable for development of the project,
including the anticipated schedule of project phasing;
      (5)   Fee. No fee shall be charged for the preapplication conference;
      (6)   Possible hazards. Consideration should be given to possible hazards
to health, safety and welfare. Land shall not be recommended for subdivision
until such hazards are properly addressed. Land subject to flooding, slides due
to soil type or slope or excavation, excessive erosion, improper drainage, mine
subsidence problems, or land unsuited for on-site sewage disposal shall be
deemed hazardous and shall require a specific demonstration of measures to
remove the identified hazard-producing condition; and
      (7)   Suitability of the plan. In assessing the suitability of the plan,
the Planning Commission shall consider the township’s future land use
projections and any other appropriate plans.
   (C)   Effect of preapplication conference. The applicant shall not be bound
by the discussions, comments or summation of the preapplication conference, nor
shall the Township Planning Commission, the County Planning Commission or the
Township Board of Supervisors be bound by any such review.
(2003 Code, § 146-11)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.047  FILING OF APPLICATIONS; CONTENTS; ACTION.
   (A)   Applications. The following applications may be filed:
      (1)   Exempt subdivision;
      (2)   Minor subdivision;
      (3)   Major subdivision;
      (4)   Preliminary approval; and
      (5)   Final approval.
   (B)   Content of application. An application shall include the items
specified in §§
152.065 and
152.066 of this chapter, which constitutes a checklist of items to be submitted
for subdivision review.
   (C)   Action on applications.
      (1)   All applications for approval of a plat, whether preliminary or
final, shall be acted upon by the Township Supervisors not later than 90 days
following the date of the regular meeting of the Planning Commission next
following the date the application is filed; provided that, should the said
next regular meeting occur more than 30 days following the filing of the
application, the said 90-day period shall be measured from the thirtieth day
following the day the application has been filed.
      (2)   The decision of the Supervisors shall be in writing and shall be
communicated by the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer to the
applicant personally or mailed to him or her at his or her last known address
not later than 15 days following the decision.
      (3)   When the application is not approved in terms as filed, the
decision shall specify the defects found in the application and describe the
requirements which have not been met and shall, in each case, cite the
provisions of the statute or ordinance relied upon.
      (4)   If the Planning Commission requests additional data or plan changes
as conditions precedent to approval, the subdivider may, in lieu of having a
disapproval or conditional approval sent to the governing body, request another
review meeting to provide the requested documentation. The subdivider shall
submit the request to the Planning Commission in writing within five working
days (Monday through Friday, holidays excluded) of the initial review meeting
and shall further agree in writing to an extension of the original 90-day
review period, if requested by the Planning Commission.
(2003 Code, § 146-12)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.048  APPLICATION FOR AGRICULTURAL EXEMPT SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Submissions. The applicant will be required to submit to the Township
Administrative Secretary/Treasurer the following:
      (1)   A survey certified by a surveyor showing all resulting parcels are
ten acres or larger in size, showing no new streets are created, and showing
access to public road(s) from all resulting parcels, as well as a notarized and
signed copy of the written lease; and
      (2)   Notarized affidavits from all owners of all proposed resulting
parcels signifying the intent of the owner(s) to use the parcel for
agricultural purposes.
   (B)   Determination of exempt subdivision. Final approval of an application
for exempt subdivision determination shall be made by the Township Board of
Supervisors only, and only after the Township Board of Supervisors has received
and reviewed a recommendation for said determination from the Township Planning
Commission.
(2003 Code, § 146-13)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.049  APPLICATION FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Waiver. The governing body may waive the normal requirements for
preliminary and final plans for minor subdivisions, as defined in this chapter,
which require no additional streets or street openings, upon application of the
subdivider for waiver of said requirements. In the case where a waiver is
granted, an application for plan approval shall be filed at least 15 days prior
to the regular monthly meeting of the Planning Commission along with the plans
and data required in §§
152.065 and
152.066.
   (B)   Completing application. The Township Administrative Secretary/
Treasurer shall declare the application complete or incomplete within a period
of 30 days of its submission. If complete, the Township Administrative
Secretary/Treasurer will submit the same to the Township Planning Commission
for review and action. If incomplete, the applicant will be notified in
writing, by first-class mail, of the documentation found to be lacking.
   (C)   Review of minor subdivision plan. The Township Planning Commission
will review the minor subdivision plan to determine if it meets the standards
set forth in this and other township ordinances, All mandated reviews by
governmental agencies and enforcement officials and all standards and
procedural requirements specified for preliminary and final subdivision plan
approvals shall apply to minor subdivision plan applications.
   (D)   Resubdividing or replatting. In the combination or recombination of
lots or portions of previously plotted lots when the resultant lots are
increased in street frontage and total area size so that they reach or exceed
the standards of this chapter and the street pattern is in conformity to the
Comprehensive Plan, the procedures and regulations heretofore described for
minor subdivision shall apply except as they may be further relaxed by the
governing body.
(2003 Code, § 146-14)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.050  APPLICATION FOR MAJOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Preliminary plan. An applicant requesting preliminary approval of a
major subdivision shall submit the plan as hereinbelow designated in the
prescribed form, together with the designated fee and evidence that no taxes or
assessments are outstanding against the property. Where the preliminary plan
covers only a part of the subdivider’s entire holding, a sketch shall be
included on the plan of a prospective site and street configuration for the
future use of the remainder of the property.
      (1)   Application filing. Following the (optional) preapplication
conference, the subdivider shall prepare and submit to the Township Planning
Commission, by delivery to the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer at
least 15 days prior to the regular monthly meeting of the Planning Commission,
copies of the preliminary plan. The number of copies to be filed shall be
specified by the Planning Commission. Upon receipt of the plan, the Township
Administrative Secretary/Treasurer shall forward copies to the County Planning
Commission for a review and report. The township shall not give final approval
of such application until the county report is received, or until the
expiration of 30 days from the date the application was forwarded to the
county.
      (2)   Review of preliminary plan.
         (a)   In addition to submission of the preliminary plan to the
Township Planning Commission, the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer
will also forward one copy of the preliminary plan to the Township Solicitor
(if requested by the Planning Commission, the Board of Supervisors or the Code
Enforcement Officer), the Township Engineer, the Code Enforcement Officer and
the Township Sewage Enforcement Officer for their review and comment to the
Township Planning Commission at or prior to the Township Planning Commission
meeting at which the application is to be considered.
         (b)   In cases where the subdivision adjoins an existing state highway
or has proposed streets entering onto a state highway, the applicant is
required to submit the plans to the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
for review and comment to the Township Planning Commission.
         (c)   In cases where the subdivision abuts any stream or natural
watercourse, the applicant is required to submit the plans to the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection for review and comment to the Township
Planning Commission.
         (d)   The Township Planning Commission will review the preliminary
plan to determine if it meets the standards set forth in this chapter and other
ordinances of the township.
         (e)   The Township Planning Commission will act on the preliminary
plan within 60 days of the official filing date, but, in any event, shall act
on the plan in time for the Township Board of Supervisors to render its
decision within 90 days from the official filing date. The Planning Commission
shall notify the subdivider of the scheduled meeting place, date, time and
agenda if the plan is to be reviewed at a later date.
         (f)   In the event any modification from this chapter is requested by
the applicant, the modification, and the justifications for its necessity,
shall be forwarded together with a recommendation by the Township Planning
Commission to the Board of Supervisors for consideration.
      (3)   Planning Commission recommendation. The Township Planning
Commission shall recommend whether the preliminary plan shall be approved,
approved with modifications or disapproved, and shall notify the Township Board
of Supervisors in writing thereof, including, if disapproved, a statement of
reasons for such action.
      (4)   Approval of preliminary plans.
         (a)   The Township Board of Supervisors shall act on the preliminary
plan within 90 days of the official filing date. Failure to do so shall be
deemed an approval. Before acting on a preliminary plan, the Township Board of
Supervisors may hold a hearing thereon after public notice.
         (b)   The Township Board of Supervisors shall notify the applicant of
its decision to approve, approve with conditions or disapprove the preliminary
plan in writing. Such notice shall be given to the applicant in person or
mailed to him or her at his or her last-known address not later than 15 days
following the decision. If the plan is approved with conditions acceptable to
the developer and accepted by him or her in writing, or disapproved, the
Township Board of Supervisors shall specify in its notice the conditions which
must be met and/or the defects found in the plan and the requirements which
have not been met, including specific reference to provisions of any statute or
ordinance which have not been fulfilled.
         (c)   Approval of the preliminary plan shall constitute approval of
the subdivision or land development as to the character and intensity of
development, the arrangement and approximate dimensions of streets, lots and
other planned features. The approval binds the subdivider or developer to the
general scheme of the subdivision shown, unless a revised preliminary plan is
submitted, and permits the subdivider to proceed with final detailed design of
improvements, to arrange for guarantee to cover installation of the
improvements and to prepare the final plan. Approval of the preliminary plan
does not authorize the sale of lots nor the recording of a preliminary plan.
   (B)   Final plan. An applicant requesting final plan approval of a major
subdivision shall submit the plan as hereinbelow designated in the prescribed
form, together with the designated fee and evidence that no taxes or
assessments are outstanding against the property.
      (1)   Application filing.
         (a)   Approval of a preliminary plan shall be prerequisite to the
filing of a final plan with the Township Planning Commission, except that the
requirement for a preliminary plan approval may be waived following a
preapplication conference (see §§ 152.045 through 152.050), provided that the
subdivision plan complies with the definition for a minor subdivision or the
subdivider does not contemplate further subdivision of the parcel, submits a
scale drawing of the entire parcel that delineates the areas to be subdivided
and complies with all requirements for final plans as specified in this chapter
and all other applicable local, county, state and federal rules and
regulations.
         (b)   The subdivider shall prepare and submit to the Township Planning
Commission, by delivery to the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer at
least 15 days prior to the regular monthly meeting of the Planning Commission,
copies of the final plan. The number of copies to be filed shall be specified
by the Planning Commission. Upon receipt of the plan, the Township
Administrative Secretary/Treasurer shall forward copies to the County Planning
Commission for a review and report. The township shall not give final approval
of such application until the county report is received or until the expiration
of 30 days from the date the application was forwarded to the county.
      (2)   Review of final plan.
         (a)   In addition to submission of the final plan to the Township
Planning Commission, the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer will also
forward one copy of the plan to the Township Solicitor (if requested by the
Planning Commission, the Board of Supervisors or the Code Enforcement Officer),
the Township Engineer, the Township Code Enforcement Officer and the Township
Sewage Enforcement Officer for their review and comment to the Township
Planning Commission at or prior to the Township Planning Commission meeting at
which the application is to be considered.
         (b)   The Township Planning Commission will review the final plan to
determine if it meets the standards set forth in this chapter and other
ordinances of the township.
         (c)   The Township Planning Commission will act on the final plan
within 60 days of the official filing date, but, in any event, shall act on the
plan in time for the Township Board of Supervisors to render its decision
within 90 days from the official filing date. The Planning Commission shall
notify the subdivider of the scheduled meeting place, date, time and agenda if
the plan is to be reviewed at a later date.
      (3)   Planning Commission recommendation. The Township Planning
Commission shall recommend whether the final plan shall be approved, approved
with modifications or disapproved and shall notify the Township Board of
Supervisors in writing thereof, including, if disapproved, a statement of
reasons for such action.
      (4)   Approval of final plans.
         (a)   The Township Board of Supervisors shall act on the final plan
within 90 days of the official filing date. Failure to do so shall be deemed an
approval. Before acting on a final plan, the Township Board of Supervisors may
hold a hearing thereon after public notice.
         (b)   The Township Board of Supervisors shall notify the applicant of
its decision to approve, approve with conditions or disapprove the final plan
in writing. Such notice shall be given to the applicant in person or mailed to
him or her at his or her last-known address not later than 15 days following
the decision. If the plan is approved with conditions acceptable to the
developer and accepted by him or her in writing, or disapproved, the Township
Board of Supervisors shall specify in its notice the conditions that have not
been met, including specific reference to provisions of any statute or
ordinance which have not been fulfilled.
         (c)   If the final plan is approved subject to conditions, the
Township Board of Supervisors shall not endorse the plan until all of the
conditions have been met.
         (d)   From the time an application for approval of a preliminary or
final plan is duly filed as provided in this chapter, and while such
application is pending approval or disapproval, no change or amendment of
Chapter 153, Zoning, this chapter or other governing ordinance or plan shall
affect the decision on such application adversely to the applicant, and the
applicant shall be entitled to a decision in accordance with the provisions of
the governing ordinances or plans as they stood at the time the application was
duly filed. However, if an application is properly and finally denied, any
subsequent application shall be subject to the intervening change in government
regulations.
            1.   When an application for approval of a plan has been approved
or approved subject to conditions acceptable to the applicant, no subsequent
change or amendment in the zoning, subdivision or other governing ordinance or
plan shall be applied to affect adversely the right of the applicant to
commence and to complete any aspect of the approved development in accordance
with the terms of such approval, within five years from such approval.
            2.   Where final approval is preceded by preliminary approval, the
five-year period shall be counted from the date of the preliminary approval. In
the case of any doubt as to the terms of a preliminary approval, the terms
shall be construed in the light of the provisions of the governing ordinances
or plans as they stood at the time when the application for such approval was
duly filed.
         (e)   If the Township Board of Supervisors approves the final plan or
grants a conditional approval, it shall set the amount of bonding or other
security necessary to guarantee the construction of improvements and community
facilities and shall state such amount in the notice to the applicant.
      (5)   Recording of final plans.
         (a)   Upon approval of the final plan, the subdivider or developer
shall prepare one transparent reproduction of the original final plan on stable
plastic base film and no less than six prints thereof, which shall be submitted
to the Township Board of Supervisors not later than 30 days after approval.
These plans, upon satisfaction of all conditions attached to the approval, will
be signed by the Township Board of Supervisors. The plastic original of the
signed final plan shall be recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of
the county within 90 days after approval of the final plan, or the approval of
the Township Board of Supervisors shall be null and void. The final plan must
be recorded before proceeding with the sale of lots or construction of
buildings.
         (b)   Recording the final plan shall be an irrevocable offer to
dedicate all streets and other public ways to public use, and to dedicate or
reserve all park reservations and other public areas to public use unless
reserved by the subdivider as hereinafter provided. The approval of the final
plan shall not impose any duty upon the Township Board of Supervisors or the
township concerning maintenance or improvements by ordinance or resolution.
         (c)   The subdivider shall place a notation on the final plan if there
is no offer of dedication to the public of streets and certain designated
public areas, in which event, the title to such areas shall remain with the
owner, and the township shall assume no responsibility for improvement or
maintenance thereof, which fact shall be noted on the final plan.
(2003 Code, § 146-15)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
SPECIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS TO BE SUBMITTED
§ 152.065  REQUIRED DOCUMENTS; WAIVER.
   (A)   This subchapter shall designate all documents to be submitted to the
Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer for each type of procedure
addressed in §§
152.080 through
152.089 of this chapter.
   (B)   In specific cases and for documented reasons, the Township Board of
Supervisors may waive the submission of a particular document. The reasons for
the waiver shall be indicated in the minutes of the Township Board of
Supervisors.
(2003 Code, § 146-16)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.066  CHART OF DOCUMENTS.
   The following chart lists the standard documents required to be submitted.
As indicated, some may be waived as indicated in §
152.065 hereof; also, others may be required if the Township Board of
Supervisors determines that valid circumstances exist for requiring information
or documentation not set forth in this chart:
Required Submission Documents
                     Minor Subdivision Major Subdivision Major Subdivision
Item No. Description Application       Preliminary       Final Application
                                       Application
Required Submission Documents
                          Minor Subdivision Major Subdivision Major Subdivision
Item No. Description      Application       Preliminary       Final Application
                                            Application
I.  Project - Plan Information
         Name, address of
1.       owner and        X                 X                 X
         applicant
         Name, signature,
         license number,
         seal and address
         of engineer,
         land surveyor,
         architect,
2.       planner and/or   X                 X                 X
         landscape
         architect, as
         applicable,
         involved in
         preparation of
         plan
         Title block
         denoting type of
         application, tax
         map sheet,
3.       county, name of  X                 X                 X
         municipality,
         block and lot
         and street
         location
         A key map at
         specified scale
         showing location
         of tract with
         reference to
         surrounding
4.       properties,      X                 X                 X
         streets,
         municipal
         boundaries and
         the like within
         500 feet; date
         of current
         survey
         A schedule of
         required and
         provided zone
         district
         requirements,
         including lot
5.       area, width,     X                 X                 X
         depth, yard
         setbacks,
         building
         coverage, open
         space, parking
         and the like
6.       North arrow and  X                 X                 X
         scale
7.       Proof that taxes X                 X                 X
         are current
         Signature blocks
         for Chairperson
         and
8.       Administrative   X                 X                 X
         Secretary/
         Treasurer of the
         Township Board
         of Supervisors
         Appropriate
9.       certification    X                 X                 X
         blocks
10.      Monumentation    X                                   X
         One of 10
         standardized
         sheets: 18
11.      inches by 24     X                 X                 X
         inches or 22
         inches by 34
         inches
         Metes and bounds
         description
         showing
         dimensions,
         bearings, curve
         data, length of
         tangents, radii,
12.      arcs, chords and X                                   X
         central angles
         for all
         centerlines and
         rights-of-way
         and centerline
         curves on
         streets
         Acreage of tract
13.      to the nearest   X                                   X
         tenth of an acre
         Date of original
14.      and all          X                 X                 X
         revisions
         Size and
         location of all
         existing or
         proposed
         structures, both
         within and up to
         60 linear feet
         from the
15.      subdivision      X                 X                 X
         perimeter, with
         all setbacks
         dimensioned,
         plus specified
         setback and
         building lines
         for all parcels
         within the
         subdivision
         Location and
         dimensions of
         any existing or
16.      proposed streets X                 X                 X
         or private
         rights-of-way
         (minor plans
         only)
         All proposed lot
         lines and area
17.      of lots in       X                 X                 X
         square feet and
         acreage
         Copy and/or
         delineation of
18.      any existing or  X                 X                 X
         proposed deed
         restrictions or
         covenants
         Any existing or
         proposed
19.      easement or land X                 X                 X
         reserved for or
         dedicated to
         public use
         Development
20.      stages or                          X                 X
         staging plans
         List of required
21.      regulatory       X                                   X
         approvals or
         permits1
         List of
22.      variances        X                 X                 X
         required or
         requested
         Requested or
23.      obtained design  X                 X                 X
         waivers or
         exceptions1
24.      Payment of       X                 X                 X
         application fees
II.  Setting - Environmental Information
         Property owners
         and lines of all
         parcels within
25.      200 feet                           X                 X
         identified on
         most recent tax
         map sheet
         All existing
         streets,
         watercourses,
         floodplains,
26.      wetlands or                        X                 X
         other
         environmentally
         sensitive areas
         on and within
         200 feet of site
         Existing rights-
         of-way and/or
         easements,
27.      septic systems                     X                 X
         and water
         systems on and
         within 200 feet
         of tract
         Existing and
         proposed contour
         intervals based
         on USC and GS
         data. Contours
         to extend at
28.      least 200 feet                     X                 X
         beyond subject
         property as
         follows:
         Up to 3% grade =
         2 feet
         3%+ grade = 5
         feet
         Boundary,
         limits, nature
         and extent of
         wood areas,
         specimen trees
29.      and other                          X                 X
         significant
         physical
         features
         (details may
         vary)
         Existing system
         of drainage of
         subject site and
30.      of any larger                      X                 X
         tract or basin
         of which it is a
         part
31.      Drainage area                      X                 X
         map
32.      Drainage                           X                 X
         calculations
33.      Perc tests       X                 X                 X
III.  Improvements and Construction Information
         Proposed utility
         infrastructure
         plans, including
         sanitary sewer,
         septic systems,
34.      water,                             X                 X
         stormwater
         management,
         telephone,
         electric and
         cable TV
         Soil erosion and
35.      sediment control                   X                 X
         plan
         Construction
         details as
36.      required by                                          X
         ordinance (if
         known)
         Road and paving
37.      cross sections                                       X
         and profiles
38.      Proposed street                                      X
         names
39.      Lighting plan                      X                 X
         and details
40.      Solid waste                        X                 X
         management plan
41.      Sight triangles                    X                 X
Notes:
X = Item required at indicated stage.
1 Conditional approval may be granted subject to other regulatory approvals.
 
(2003 Code, § 146-17)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
§ 152.080  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of good subdivision and site design is to create a functional
and attractive development, to minimize adverse impacts and to ensure a project
will be an asset to the township. To promote this purpose, the subdivision plan
must conform to the following standards, which are designed to result in a
well-planned community without adding unnecessarily to development costs.
(2003 Code, § 146-18)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.081  LAND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Land shall be suited to the purposes for which it is to be subdivided
or developed.
   (B)   Land which is unsuitable for development because of hazards to life,
safety, health or property shall not be subdivided or developed until such
hazards have been eliminated or unless adequate safeguards against such hazards
are provided for in the subdivision plan. Land included as having unsuitable
characteristics would be the following:
      (1)   Land subject to flooding or which has a high groundwater table;
      (2)   Land which, if developed, will create or aggravate a flooding
condition upon other land;
      (3)   Land subject to subsidence;
      (4)   Land containing significant areas of slopes greater than 15%;
      (5)   Land which, because of topography or means of access, is considered
hazardous by the Township Board of Supervisors; and
      (6)   Land which is subject to ground pollution or contamination.
   (C)   Proposed subdivisions of land developments shall be coordinated with
existing nearby neighborhoods so that the community as a whole may develop
harmoniously.
   (D)   Proposed land uses shall conform to Chapter 153, Zoning.
(2003 Code, § 146-19)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.082  LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   Because of the historical rural nature of the township, and because of the
stated intent of the Comprehensive Plan and this chapter, and, finally, because
of the present lack of public sewage and public water in the township, the
following requirements are imposed on lots to be subdivided and/or developed
hereunder.
   (A)   Lot sizes and building setback lines. All lot area requirements and
yard and setback designations shall meet the minimum standards set forth in
Chapter 153, Zoning, for the zoning district, or districts, in which the
subdivision is situated. Designations shall be dimensioned from public rights-
of-way where applicable. No lot area requirement or setback shall be computed
from within a public right-of-way.
   (B)   Lot access. Every lot shall front on a street which has already been
dedicated to the township or which the subdivider or developer proposes to
dedicate to the township in connection with approval of the final plan. The
only exceptions to this requirement shall be where the Township Board of
Supervisors specifically finds that:
      (1)   The lot is to be added to and become part of an existing lot; or
      (2)   The lot is to be served by a private road and both the lots and the
private road are located wholly within a commercial or industrial subdivision.
   (C)   Lot lines. Lot lines intersecting street lines shall be perpendicular
to, parallel to or radial to street lines, except in cases where variance to
this requirement is specifically granted by the Township Board of Supervisors.
   (D)   Lot grading. Lots shall be graded of such design as to carry surface
water to the nearest practical street, storm drain or natural watercourse.
(2003 Code, § 146-20)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.083  STREET SYSTEM.
   (A)   Proposed streets shall be properly related to such street plans or
parts thereof as have been officially prepared and adopted by the township and
shall be coordinated with existing or proposed streets in adjoining
subdivisions or land developments.
   (B)   Streets shall be related to the topography so as to produce usable
lots and acceptable grades.
   (C)   Access shall be given to all lots and portions of the tract in the
subdivisions or land development and to adjacent unsubdivided territory, unless
the topography clearly indicates that such connection is not feasible. Streets
giving such access shall be improved to the limits of the subdivision or land
development and shall be improved to the township specifications. Reserve
strips and landlocked areas shall not be created.
   (D)   Streets shall be laid out to preserve the integrity of their design.
Local access streets shall be laid out to discourage their use by through
traffic, and, where possible, arterial streets shall be designed for use by
through traffic.
   (E)   Half or partial streets will not be permitted in new subdivisions,
except where satisfactory assurance for dedication of the remaining part of the
street can be secured.
   (F)   Wherever a tract to be subdivided or developed borders an existing
half or partial street, the entire street shall be shown on the plan.
   (G)   Dead-end streets shall be prohibited, except as stubs (with adequate
turning capability) to permit future street extension into adjoining tracts or
when designed as culs-de-sac.
   (H)   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement of streets
in a proposed subdivision or land development shall be made to provide for the
proper projection of streets into the unsubdivided land.
   (I)   Street names shall be coordinated with existing or planned street
names, and if a new street is a continuation of or is aligned with an existing
or planned street, it shall bear the same name as the existing or planned
street.
   (J)   No street shall be laid out or opened which extends to or crosses any
boundary between the township and any other municipality, except with the
specific approval of the Township Board of Supervisors and upon such condition
as the Township Board of Supervisors may impose.
   (K)   All streets shall have a uniform width throughout their respective
lengths, except where otherwise required by the Township Board of Supervisors
pursuant to this section.
   (L)   Private streets (vehicular rights-of-way not dedicated for public
use), either new or existing, shall not be approved, nor shall platting or
improvements for lots abutting private streets be approved, unless established
in strict conformance with the following requirements.
      (1)   No private street shall be approved that provides frontage for more
than a total of two abutting lots.
      (2)   Lots fronting on a private street shall have access to a public
access road via the private street.
      (3)   There is no maximum length for private streets. However, a distance
of 300 lineal feet must be made mud-free from the point of intersection with a
public access road. In addition, the apron where the private street leaves the
public access road must be a minimum of 30 feet wide, of adequate base
material, consisting of two to three inches of No. 57 crushed limestone or
gravel. If the Township Roadmaster deems that an underdrain is necessary
underneath the private street, a 30-foot drainage pipe will also be required.
      (4)   Private streets shall not receive maintenance, repair, snow removal
or related services from the township.
      (5)   Covenants that guarantee maintenance and unimpeded access via
private streets shall be provided as a condition prerequisite to approval of
private streets.
      (6)   At a minimum, the following criteria shall be mandatory for all
private streets.
         (a)   Minimum right-of-way width shall be 50 feet.
         (b)   Minimum and maximum grades shall be as specified by township
standards.
         (c)   The minimum width of the cartway subbase shall be 16 feet. The
placement of the cartway subbase shall be distributed equally on both sides of
the centerline of the street right-of-way.
(2003 Code, § 146-21)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996; Ord. 2-2001, passed 6-4-
2001)
§ 152.084  STREET DESIGN.
   (A)   Street classification. Three functional classifications are hereby
established for the streets and roads in the township.
      (1)   Arterial. This classification includes highways which provide
intracounty or intermunicipal traffic of substantial volumes where the average
trip lengths are usually five miles or greater. Generally, these highways
should accommodate operating speeds of 35 to 55 mph.
      (2)   Collector. This classification is intended to include those
highways which connect local access highways to arterial highways. They may
serve intracounty and intramunicipal traffic. They may serve as traffic
corridors connecting residential areas with industrial, shopping and other
service. They may penetrate residential areas. Generally, these highways will
accommodate operating speeds of 25 to 35 mph.
      (3)   Local access. This classification is intended to include streets
and roads that provide direct access to abutting land and connections to higher
classes of roadways. Traffic volumes will be low and travel distances generally
short. These streets and roads should be designed for operating speeds of 25
mph or under.
   (B)   Right-of-way widths.
      (1)   Minimum widths for each type of public street shall be as follows:
 
Type of Street Right-of-Way Width (feet) Cartway Width (feet)
Arterial       80                        24
Collector      60                        24
Local access   50                        20
 
      (2)   Where a proposed subdivision abuts or contains an existing public
street or road having a right-of-way width less than would be required if said
street or road were created under this chapter, sufficient additional width for
right-of-way shall be provided and dedicated to meet the foregoing standards.
   (C)   Additional right-of-way and cartway widths. Additional right-of-way
and cartway widths may be required by the Township Board of Supervisors to
promote public safety and convenience when special conditions require it and to
provide parking space in areas of intensive use.
   (D)   Cul-de-sac streets.
      (1)   Cul-de-sac streets, whether permanent or temporary, shall be
provided at the closed end with a minimum turning radius of 50 feet. Cartways
shall have a minimum width of 40 feet.
      (2)   Unless future extension is clearly impractical or undesirable, the
turnaround right-of-way shall be placed adjacent to a property line, and a
right-of-way of the same width as the street shall be carried to the property
line in such a way as to permit future extension of the street into the
adjoining tract. At such time as such a street is extended, the overage created
by the turnaround outside the boundaries of the extended street shall revert in
ownership to the property owners fronting on the cul-de-sac turnaround.
      (3)   Permanent cul-de-sac streets shall be kept to a minimum.
   (E)   Street alignment. Minimum horizontal sight distance measured four feet
above grade shall be 300 feet for collector and arterial streets and 100 feet
for local access streets.
   (F)   Street grades.
      (1)   The minimum grade on all streets shall be 0.5%.
      (2)   The maximum grade on collector or arterial streets shall be 7% and
on local access streets 10%.
   (G)   Street intersections.
      (1)   Local streets shall not intersect with collector or arterial
streets on the same side at intervals of less than 800 feet as measured from
centerline to centerline.
      (2)   Multiple intersections involving the junction of more than two
streets shall be avoided. Where this proves impossible, such intersections
shall be designed with extreme care for both pedestrian and vehicular safety.
      (3)   Streets shall be all laid out to intersect as nearly as possible at
right angles. Local streets shall not intersect collector or arterial streets
at an angle of less than 75 degrees. The intersection of two local streets
shall not be at an angle of less than 60 degrees.
      (4)   Minimum curve radii at the intersection of two local streets shall
be at least 20 feet; and minimum curve radii at an intersection of a local
street and a collector or arterial street shall be at least 25 feet.
      (5)   There shall be provided and maintained at all intersections clear
sight triangles of 75 feet in all directions measured along the centerline from
the point of intersection. Nothing which obstructs the vision of a motorist
shall be permitted in this area.
   (H)   Pavement design.
      (1)   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation specifications. All
components of the pavement structure shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation specifications.
      (2)   Minimum requirements. The following shall be considered to be
minimum standards for street construction in the township:
                                  Depth of Material (inches)
Type of Pavement Type of Material Local Access Streets Collector and Streets
                                                       Arterial Streets
                                       Depth of Material (inches)
Type of Pavement   Type of Material                         Collector and
                                       Local Access Streets Streets Arterial
                                                            Streets
Flexible pavements  
   Surface      ID-2 wearing course 1-1/2                1-1/2
   Base         Bituminous concrete 4                    6
   Subbase      Granular material   6                    6
   OR            
   Surface      ID-2 wearing course 3                    3
                   Crushed aggregate
   Base         (regular or dense   6                    10
                   grade)
   Subbase      Granular material   6                    9
   OR            
   Surface      ID-2 wearing course 3                    3
   Base         Modified stone      8                    10
                   aggregate
   Subbase      Granular material   6                    9
Rigid pavement     Plain cement        6                    6
                   concrete subbase
 
   (I)   Alleys and driveways.
      (1)   Alleys are prohibited in residential developments.
      (2)   Driveways serving properties located adjacent to an intersection
shall be offset from the intersection of the curbline a distance not less than
the required setback dimension.
      (3)   All driveways shall be constructed so as to not impair drainage
within the right-of-way, alter the stability of the improved area or change the
drainage of adjacent areas.
      (4)   Where a drainage ditch or swale exists, the permittee shall install
a drainage pipe of at least 15 inches in diameter.
      (5)   The side slopes for driveway embankments within the right-of-way
shall not be steeper than ten to one.
      (6)   Driveway material shall be such that it will not run onto any areas
of the right-of-way.
      (7)   If sight distance is a problem, left turns by exiting vehicles may
be prohibited.
      (8)   There will be no permit issued where safety is to be compromised.
      (9)   The following site distance requirements must be met for all lots
within the subdivision plan:
Table 1
Safe Sight Distance for Passenger Cars and Single-Unit Trucks Exiting from
Driveways onto Two-Lane Roads
Posted Speed (mph) Safe Sight Distance - Left*  Safe Sight Distance - Right*
                   (feet)                       (feet)
Table 1
Safe Sight Distance for Passenger Cars and Single-Unit Trucks Exiting from
Driveways onto Two-Lane Roads
Posted Speed (mph) Safe Sight Distance - Left*  Safe Sight Distance - Right*
                   (feet)                       (feet)
25                 250                          195
35                 440                          350
45                 635                          570
55                 845                          875
Note:
* Measured from a vehicle 10 feet back of the pavement edge.
 
(2003 Code, § 146-22)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.085  CURBS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Curbs.
      (1)   Curbs shall be provided on all streets and parking compounds
located within multi-family and apartment building developments. Curbs shall
also be required on new streets in subdivisions or land developments in which
the average lot width of interior lots at the required building setback line is
200 feet or less. Curbs may also be required in any subdivision in which the
lot areas or lot widths exceed the above minimum, when the centerline street
grade of any street exceeds 3%. In such cases, curbs or other drainage controls
shall be installed to properly control surface drainage and protect the streets
from erosion. The requirement of the curbs may be waived at the discretion of
the Township Board of Supervisors.
      (2)   Curbs may be either the vertical type or rolled curb and gutter
type. Rolled curb and gutter shall not be used on collector streets. The
transition from one type of curb to another shall occur only at street
intersections.
      (3)   All vertical curbs shall be constructed of concrete with expansion
joints every 20 feet and shall follow Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
Standards and Specifications Form 408 (latest edition), where applicable.
   (B)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be provided on all streets and parking compounds
located within multi-family and apartment building developments. Sidewalks
shall also be required on new streets in subdivisions or land developments in
which average lot width of interior lots at the required building setback line
is 200 feet or less. The requirement of sidewalks may be waived at the
discretion of the Township Board of Supervisors.
      (2)   Minimum widths for sidewalks along each type of public street shall
be four feet and shall follow Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
specifications, where applicable.
(2003 Code, § 146-23)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.086  STORMWATER DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Lots shall be laid out and graded to provide positive drainage away
from buildings. The Township Board of Supervisors may require a grading and
drainage plan for individual lots indicating a buildable area within each lot,
complying with the setback requirements, for which positive drainage is
assured.
   (B)   No person, corporation or other entity shall block, impede the flow
of, alter, construct any structure or deposit any material or thing, or commit
any act which will affect normal or flood flow in any communal stream or
watercourse without having obtained prior approval from the Department of
Environmental Protection.
   (C)   Where a subdivision or land development is traversed by a natural
watercourse, there shall be provided a drainage easement or right-of-way
conforming substantially with the line of such watercourse and of such width as
will be adequate to preserve natural drainage.
   (D)   The subdivider or developer, and each person, corporation or other
entity which makes any surface changes, shall be required to:
      (1)   Collect on-site surface runoff and dispose of it to the point of
discharge into the common natural watercourse of the drainage area; and
      (2)   Design, construct and/or install such drainage structures and
facilities as are necessary to prevent erosion damage to the subdivision or
land development, adjacent property and downstream property. Such structures
and facilities shall satisfactorily convey such surface waters to the nearest
practical street, storm drain, detention pond or natural watercourse.
   (E)   All storm drainage facilities shall be adequately designed for the
anticipated runoff when the area is fully developed, using criteria or other
methods approved by the Township Engineer. Storm drainage facilities shall
comply with, but are not limited to, the following.
      (1)   Storm sewers shall be located in the street right-of-way or in
designated drainage easements.
      (2)   All pipe culverts and related installations used in the
construction of storm sewers shall be in accordance with standards and
specifications of the township, county or state, as designated and approved by
the governing body.
      (3)   Manholes or inlets will generally be required at changes in
alignment and grade.
      (4)   At no time will roof drains or foundation drains be allowed to be
connected to a sanitary sewer system.
      (5)   Any springs encountered during construction shall be piped and
connected to the storm sewer system or extended to a natural watercourse as may
be approved by the Township Engineer.
      (6)   Concrete headwall and splash aprons shall be constructed at the
outfall of all storm sewers. Where watercourses are piped and filled, concrete
headwalls and splash aprons shall be constructed at both ends of the pipe.
      (7)   Whenever construction stops or concentrates the natural flow of
surface drainage in such a way as to affect adjoining properties, written
approval must be obtained from the adjoining property owners. Where storm
drainage is piped onto adjoining properties other than natural watercourses,
written permission, a release of damages and right-of-way must be obtained from
the adjoining property owners before the storm sewers are taken over by the
township. Approval of plans by the township does not authorize or sanction
drainage affecting adjoining properties.
      (8)   All bridges and culverts shall be designed to support expected
loads and to carry expected flows and shall meet the current specifications and
standards of the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
      (9)   A complete drainage plan of the subdivision shall be submitted,
including all necessary storm sewers and appurtenances, the design of which is
based on a ten-year storm frequency, except in those areas where, in the
judgment of the Township Engineer or governing body, the likelihood of
exceptional damage resulting from stormwater is such that additional design
criteria is required. The drainage plan shall show the method of drainage of
adjacent and contiguous territory and the method of disposal of all stormwater
collected. The drainage plan shall be accompanied by design calculations.
      (10)   The storm drainage system shall be provided as necessary to:
         (a)   Discharge stormwater runoff into common natural watercourses;
         (b)   Adequately drain all low points along streets;
         (c)   Intercept street stormwater runoff at intervals related to the
extent and grade of the area drained;
         (d)   Provide positive drainage away from sewage facilities;
         (e)   Handle existing off-site runoff through the subdivision; and
         (f)   Ensure safe and proper disposal of stormwater where open
watercourses are planned, through adequate safety, erosion and aesthetic
measures.
      (11)   Stormwater management shall meet all state, county and local
standards.
(2003 Code, § 146-24)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.087  DEVELOPMENT ON PRIVATE STREETS DISCOURAGED.
   (A)   It is the policy of the township that all subdivided lands shall have
immediate access to a public street. Because of unique property configuration
and location, the township recognizes the need for limited exceptions to the
foregoing general policy.
   (B)   No subdivision will be approved on a private street or road if more
than two lots already front on such street or road or if, after subdivision,
more than two lots will front on such private street or road.
   (C)   Private streets, when approved, shall be established consistent with §
152.083(L) of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 146-25)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996; Ord. 2-2001, passed 6-4-
2001)
§ 152.088  NATURAL CONDITIONS AND EROSION.
   (A)   In wooded areas or where other natural conditions exist in such a
manner that then-presence adds to the desirability of a subdivision, the
governing body shall require that the subdivider preserve as much of the
original vegetation and natural conditions as is economically feasible.
   (B)   All development and earthmoving activities subject to applicable law
under the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, 25 Pa. Code Ch.
102, Erosion Control, shall be complied with.
      (1)   The developer shall notify the County Conservation District
immediately upon making application for a building permit involving an
earthmoving activity that affects five or more acres of land.
      (2)   The township shall not issue a building permit for a development
where it has been determined that the earthmoving activities require a permit
(or verification that no permit is required) from the Department of
Environmental Protection, pursuant to 25 Pa. Code §§ 102.41 and 102.42 relating
to permit requirements of 25 Pa. Code Ch. 102, Erosion Control.
   (C)   In cases where the cross slope exceeds 10% as shown on the grading
plan, sod or seed shall be required to retain soil and prevent damage to
finished street or lot grades. In all cases where the developer removes the
sod, he or she shall immediately upon completion of grading (weather
permitting), reseed such areas with common farm grass. In cases where the home
builder creates side terraces, they shall immediately upon completion of
grading be seeded with perennial rye grass or better.
(2003 Code, § 146-26)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.089  GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No developer shall proceed with the construction of any utilities or
improvements or make connection to any existing township facility or utility
system without proper inspection by an authorized official or representative
thereof. Drawings and specifications shall be provided in sufficient detail to
show the form, construction and method of installation of the following and
shall accompany or otherwise be a part of the subdivision plan:
      (1)   Streets, gutters and culverts;
      (2)   Storm sewers and surface drainage facilities;
      (3)   Water system;
      (4)   Sanitary sewers and septic tanks; and
      (5)   Survey monuments.
   (B)   No person shall dig or make any cuts or changes whatsoever in the
cartway, gutters or rights-of-way of any township, county or state road without
first obtaining required approvals and/or permits.
   (C)   No person shall connect to any water line, storm or sanitary sewer
without obtaining a permit and paying the proper connection charge.
   (D)   Grade stakes shall be set and cut sheets prepared and a copy furnished
to the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer and Township Engineer before
any work is started.
   (E)   The developer shall notify the Township Engineer at least 24 hours
prior to his or her intention to proceed with the construction or installation
of said streets and improvements or any other work related to the improvements.
(2003 Code, § 146-27)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.100  INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following improvements shall be installed by the subdivider. The final
major subdivision plan shall not be approved until final detailed design of the
improvements is approved and the improvements are installed or security to the
township is provided.
(2003 Code, § 146-28)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.101  STREETS.
   Streets shall be brought to the grades and dimensions drawn on plans,
profiles and cross-sections submitted by the subdivider. The subdivider must
install the required utilities and provide, where necessary, adequate
subsurface drainage for the streets. The streets shall be designed and
constructed to the standards set forth in §§
152.083 and
152.084 of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 146-29)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.102  CURBS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Curbs and sidewalks shall be provided in accordance with the standards set
forth in §
152.085 of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 146-30)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.103  SEWERS.
   (A)   Private sewer systems. When a complete private sanitary sewer system
using a treatment plant is to be provided, a statement shall be submitted to
the Township Board of Supervisors from the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection certifying that a permit has been issued by the
appropriate agency approving the proposed facilities. Adequate security for the
maintenance of such plant shall be furnished to the township.
   (B)   On-lot sewage disposal. In subdivisions where public sewers are not
available and a community sewage system has not been approved in writing by the
Township Sewage Enforcement Officer and/or the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection and agreed to by the Township Board of Supervisors,
on-lot sewage disposal systems shall be required, and a statement shall be
submitted to the Township Board of Supervisors that the Township Sewage
Enforcement Officer has issued a permit approving the system. This applies to
minor as well as major subdivisions.
(2003 Code, § 146-31)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.104  WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Each lot in a subdivision shall be capable of being provided with an
individual water supply system. This applies to minor as well as major
subdivisions.
   (B)   If water is to be provided by means other than by private wells owned
and maintained by the individual owners of lots within the subdivision or
development, applicants shall present evidence to the Township Planning
Commission that the subdivision or development is to be supplied by a
certificated public utility, a bona fide cooperative association of co-owners
or by a municipal corporation, authority or utility, or that the multi-user
system meets the minimum standards required by the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection for “public” water systems.
(2003 Code, § 146-32)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.105  STORM DRAINAGE.
   A storm drainage system shall be provided in accordance with the standards
as set forth in §
152.086 of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 146-33)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.106  UTILITIES.
   (A)   Easements for utilities shall have a minimum width of 15 feet.
   (B)   To the fullest extent possible, easements for public utilities shall
be centered on or adjacent to rear or side lot lines.
   (C)   (1)   Telephone, electric, television cable and such other utilities
shall be installed underground and shall be provided within the street right-
of-way or easements to be dedicated for such utilities, and in accordance with
plans approved by the Township Board of Supervisors and the applicable utility
company.
      (2)   Underground installation of the utility distribution and service
lines shall be completed prior to street paving and gutter, curbing and
sidewalk installation.
(2003 Code, § 146-34)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.107  OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Street name signs conforming to township specifications shall be
provided and installed by the subdivider or developer at all street
intersections.
   (B)   Other improvements to promote public safety and health shall be as
required by the Township Board of Supervisors as a condition of approval.
(2003 Code, § 146-35)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.108  TIME LIMITS.
   All improvements shall be installed according to a time schedule which shall
be approved by the Township Board of Supervisors.
(2003 Code, § 146-36)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.109  INSPECTION.
   At the time each improvement is to be installed, and upon its completion,
the subdivider shall notify the Township Board of Supervisors so that adequate
inspections can be made. The inspection will be made by the Township Engineer.
All costs of undertaking the inspection will be borne by the subdivider.
(2003 Code, § 146-37)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.110  GUARANTEES.
   (A)   The applicant shall agree in writing in a form provided by the
township that he or she will construct or install and maintain until dedication
all of the improvements required herein or required as a condition of approval
of the final plan in accordance with the governing specifications and within
the specified time limits.
   (B)   As a condition for approval of a final plan, the applicant shall
deposit with the township financial security in an amount sufficient to cover
the costs of the required improvements in accordance with § 509 of the
Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. § 10509. In cases where development is
projected over a period of years, the Township Board of Supervisors may
authorize submission of the final plan by sections or stages of development,
subject to such requirements or guarantees as to improvements in future
sections or stages of development as it finds essential for the protection of
any finally approved section of the development.
   (C)   Release from improvement bond: the security for improvements deposited
as aforesaid may be released in accordance with § 509 of the Municipalities
Planning Code.
   (D)   If the subdivider or developer does not satisfactorily construct or
install all of the improvements included within the agreement referred to in
division (A) above, the Township Board of Supervisors shall institute
appropriate legal or equitable proceedings to enforce the bond or other
security referred to in division (B) above, or if no bond or other security is
enforceable, or if the proceeds thereof are insufficient to pay the cost of
completing the construction or installation of such improvements or the cost of
making repairs or corrections thereto, to collect the same from the subdivider
or developer. The Township Board of Supervisors, at its option, may also
proceed to complete such improvements or make repairs and corrections thereto
prior to receiving the cost thereof from the surety on the bond, from the other
security or from the subdivider or developer. All funds recovered from the
surety, from other security or from the subdivider or developer shall be used
solely for such improvements and not for any other purpose.
(2003 Code, § 146-38)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.125  FEES.
   Fees may be charged to the applicant for subdivision approval based upon a
schedule approved from time to time by resolution of the Township Board of
Supervisors. Such schedule may include reasonable and necessary charges by
professional consultants and/or engineers for review and report thereon to the
Township Board of Supervisors, as well as actual expenses to be incurred by the
township in the satisfactory performance of the review process.
(2003 Code, § 146-39)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.126  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No subdivision, as herein defined, of any lot, tract or parcel of land
shall be effected, and no street, alley, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water
main or other facilities in connection therewith, shall be laid out,
constructed, opened or dedicated for public use or travel, or for the common
use of occupants of buildings abutting or to abut thereon, except in strict
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No lot in any subdivision may be sold, and no permit to erect, alter
or repair any building upon land in a subdivision may be issued, and no
building may be erected in a subdivision, unless and until a subdivision plan
has been approved and recorded, and until the improvements required by the
Township Board of Supervisors in connection therewith have either been
constructed or guaranteed as herein provided in §
152.110.
(2003 Code, § 146-40)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.127  APPEALS.
   Decisions rendered and procedures followed in the administration of this
chapter may be appealed to the Court of Common Pleas of the county, as provided
by the provisions of 53 P.S. §§ 11001-A to 11006-A of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code.
(2003 Code, § 146-41)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.128  INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICTS.
   (A)   Interpretation. In interpreting and applying the provisions of this
chapter, they shall be held to be minimum requirements for the promotion of
public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare.
   (B)   Conflict with public and private provisions.
      (1)   Public provisions. Where any provision of this chapter imposed
restrictions different from those imposed by any other provision of this
chapter, or any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of law,
whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher standards, shall
control.
      (2)   Private provisions. This chapter is not intended to abrogate any
easement, covenant or any other private agreement or restriction; provided that
where the provisions of this chapter are more restrictive or impose higher
standards or regulations than such easement, covenant or other private
agreement or restriction, the requirements of this chapter shall govern. Where
the provisions of the easement, covenant or private agreement or restriction
impose duties and obligations more restrictive, or higher standards than the
requirements of these regulations, or the determinations of the Township Board
of Supervisors in approving a subdivision or in enforcing this chapter, and
such private provisions are not inconsistent with this chapter or
determinations thereunder, then such private provisions shall be operative and
supplemental to these regulations and determinations made thereunder.
(2003 Code, § 146-42)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.129  MODIFICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter will result in unreasonable hardship, the Township
Board of Supervisors may make such reasonable modification thereof in
accordance with modern and evolving principles of site planning and land
development which are not contrary to the public interest and so that the
spirit of this chapter shall be observed and substantial justice done.
   (B)   Application for any modification shall be submitted in writing by the
applicant at the time the preliminary plan is filed with the township. The
application shall state fully the ground and all facts relied upon by the
applicant.
   (C)   Wherever a modification is requested by the applicant, the Township
Board of Supervisors shall refer the matter to the Township Planning Commission
for its review. The Township Planning Commission shall study the request, make
findings, record the findings in its minutes and submit the findings to the
Township Board of Supervisors. Such review process will not count in the time
restriction of §§
152.045 through
152.050 of this chapter.
   (D)   Reconsideration: any subdivider aggrieved by a finding, decision or
recommendation of the Township Board of Supervisors may request and receive
opportunity to appear, present additional relevant information and request
reconsideration of the original finding, decision or recommendation.
   (E)   Records.
      (1)   The township shall keep a record of its findings, decisions and
recommendations relative to all subdivision plans filed with it for review.
      (2)   All such records shall be public records.
(2003 Code, § 146-43)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.130  AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended from time to time by the Township Board of
Supervisors in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code (53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.), as amended.
(2003 Code, § 146-45)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.131  TOWNSHIP LIABILITY.
   The approval of a subdivision and/or land development plan, or of any
improvement installed, shall not constitute a representation, guarantee or
warranty of any kind or nature by the township or any official, employee or
appointee thereof, of the safety of any land, improvement, property or use from
any cause whatsoever, and shall create no liability upon, or a cause of action
against, the township or such official, employee or appointee for any damage
that may result pursuant thereto.
(2003 Code, § 146-46)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 152.145  SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Greene Township Mobile Home Park
Ordinance”.
(2003 Code, § 146-47)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.146  INTENT.
   Because of special problems related to mobile home parks that are not
necessarily associated with other residential developments, it is necessary to
provide for a separate standard relating to their construction so as to:
   (A)   Promote the safety and health of such parks and of other nearby
residential developments or structures; and
   (B)   Encourage economical and orderly development of such communities and
other nearby areas.
(2003 Code, § 146-48)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.147  MOBILE HOME PARK SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   No mobile home park shall be developed or constructed within the township on
less than 20 contiguous acres of land.
(2003 Code, § 146-49)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.148  MOBILE HOME LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Mobile home lots within the park shall have an average gross area of
6,000 square feet.
   (B)   The total number of lots in a park shall not exceed an average density
of six per acre.
   (C)   Each mobile home lot shall be improved to provide an adequate
foundation for the placement of the mobile home, thereby securing the
superstructure against uplift, sliding or rotation.
   (D)   The longitudinal gradient and cross slope of any mobile home pad (area
under the home) shall not exceed 5%, except for terracing at the periphery, and
the minimum slope in any direction shall be 1%.
   (E)   Site drainage requirements.
      (1)   The ground surface in all parts of every park shall be graded and
equipped to drain all surface water in a safe, efficient manner.
      (2)   Surface water collectors and other bodies of standing water capable
of breeding mosquitoes and other insects shall be eliminated or controlled in a
manner approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
   (F)   Each mobile home shall be located not less than 30 feet from the front
lot line of the park, nor less than 20 feet from the side and rear lot lines of
the park.
(2003 Code, § 146-50)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.149  MOBILE HOME PARK STREET REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements. A safe and convenient vehicular access shall be
provided from abutting public streets or roads.
   (B)   Access. The entrance road, or area, connecting the park with a public
street or road shall have a minimum pavement width of 34 feet.
   (C)   Internal streets. Surfaced roadways shall be of adequate width to
accommodate anticipated traffic, and, in any case, shall meet the following
minimum requirements.
      (1)   Where parking is permitted on both sides, a minimum width of 34
feet will be required.
      (2)   A minimum road width of 28 feet will be required where parking is
limited to one side.
      (3)   A minimum road width of 22 feet will be required where off-street
parking is provided.
      (4)   Dead-end streets shall be provided at the closed end with an
adequate turn-around.
   (D)   Required illumination of park streets. All parks shall be furnished
with lighting units so spaced, and equipped with luminaries placed at such
mounting heights, as will provide average levels of illumination for the safe
movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night.
   (E)   Street construction and design standards. All streets shall be
surfaced in accordance with the following requirements. Grades of all streets
shall be sufficient to ensure adequate surface drainage, but shall be not more
than 8%. Short runs with a maximum grade of 15% may be permitted, provided
traffic safety is assured by appropriate surfacing and adequate leveling areas.
   (F)   Individual walks. All mobile home lots shall be connected to common
walks, or to streets, or to driveways or parking spaces connecting to a street.
(2003 Code, § 146-51)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.150  BUFFER YARDS AND SCREENING.
   (A)   All mobile home parks located adjacent to industrial or commercial
land uses shall be provided with a buffer yard of not less than 50 feet in
depth as well as a screen fence or planting. If a mobile home park is located
adjacent to single-family residential uses, the above-mentioned buffer yard
shall not be less than 150 feet in depth.
   (B)   Screen planting shall be provided along all property lines of the
park.
(2003 Code, § 146-52)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.151  RECREATION AREA.
   A common, usable recreation area and/or free (open) areas shall be provided
and maintained for the benefit of the mobile home park residents. The amount of
such areas provided shall constitute at least 6% of the park area, but in no
case shall be less than 10,000 square feet.
(2003 Code, § 146-53)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.152  OFF-STREET PARKING.
   There shall be two off-street parking spaces, each not less than nine feet
wide and 20 feet long, for each mobile home space in the mobile home park.
(2003 Code, § 146-54)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.153  ENCLOSURES.
   An enclosure of compatible design and material, commonly called “skirting”,
shall be erected around the entire base of each mobile home. Such enclosure
shall provide sufficient ventilation to inhibit decay and deterioration of the
structure.
(2003 Code, § 146-55)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.154  WATER.
   (A)   Water supply.
      (1)   The water supply shall be capable of supplying a minimum of 150
gallons per day per mobile home.
      (2)   The well or suction line of the water supply system shall be
located and constructed in such a manner that neither underground nor surface
contamination will reach the water supply from any source.
      (3)   No well casings, pumps, pumping machinery or suction pipes shall be
placed in any pit, room or space extending below ground level, nor in any room
or space above ground which is walled in or otherwise enclosed, unless such
rooms, whether above or below ground, have free drainage by gravity to the
surface of the ground.
      (4)   Water supply treatment, if necessary, shall be in accordance with
the requirements of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
   (B)   Water storage facilities. All water storage reservoirs shall be
covered, watertight and constructed of impervious material. Overflows and vents
of such reservoirs shall be effectively screened. Manholes shall be constructed
with overlapping covers, so as to prevent the entrance of contaminated
material. Reservoir overflow pipes shall discharge through an acceptable air
gap.
   (C)   Water distribution system.
      (1)   All water piping, fixtures and other equipment shall be constructed
and maintained in accordance with state and local regulations.
      (2)   The water piping system shall not be connected with nonpotable
questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the hazards of
backflow or backsiphonage.
      (3)   The water system shall be so designed and maintained as to provide
pressure of not less than 20 pounds per square inch, under normal operating
conditions, at service buildings and other locations requiring potable water
supply.
   (D)   Individual water-riser pipes and connections.
      (1)   Individual water-riser pipes shall be located within the confined
area of the mobile home stand.
      (2)   The water-riser pipe shall have a minimum inside diameter of one-
half inch and terminate at least four inches above the ground surface. The
water outlet shall be provided with a cap when a mobile home does not occupy
the lot.
      (3)   Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent freezing of service
lines, valves and riser pipe and to protect risers from heaving and thawing
actions of ground during freezing weather. Surface drainage shall be diverted
from the location of the riser pipe.
      (4)   A shut-off valve shall be provided near the water-riser pipe on
each mobile home lot. Underground stop-and-waste valves are prohibited unless
their type of manufacture and their method of installation are approved.
(2003 Code, § 146-56)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.155  SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   General requirements. An adequate and safe sewage system shall be
provided in all parks for conveying and disposing of sewage from mobile homes,
service buildings and other accessory facilities. Such system shall be designed
constructed and maintained in accordance with the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection or local health regulations.
   (B)   Individual sewer connections.
      (1)   Each mobile home lot shall be provided with at least a four-inch-
diameter sewer riser pipe. The sewer riser pipe shall be located within the
confined area of the mobile home stand.
      (2)   The sewer connection shall have a nominal inside diameter of not
less than four inches, and the slope of any portion thereof shall be sufficient
to allow proper flow. All joints shall be watertight.
      (3)   Materials used for sewer connections shall be semirigid, corrosive-
resistant, nonabsorbent and durable. The inner surface shall be smooth.
      (4)   Provision shall be made for plugging the sewer riser pipe when a
mobile home does not occupy the lot. Surface drainage shall be diverted away
from the riser. The rim of the riser pipe shall extend at least one-half inch
above ground elevation.
   (C)   Sewer line. All sewer lines shall be located in trenches of sufficient
depth to be free of breakage from traffic or other movements; shall be
constructed of materials approved by the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection; and shall have watertight joints.
   (D)   Sewage treatment and/or discharge. Where the sewer lines of the mobile
home park are not connected to a public sewer, all proposed sewage disposal
facilities shall be approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection prior to construction.
(2003 Code, § 146-57)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.156  ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   General requirements. Every park shall contain an electrical wiring
system consisting of wiring, fixtures, equipment and appurtenances which shall
be installed and maintained in accordance with local electric power company’s
specifications regulating such systems.
   (B)   Power distribution lines.
      (1)   Main power lines must be located underground in accordance with
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission order of July 8, 1970, ID. 99.
      (2)   All direct burial conductors or cable shall be buried and shall be
insulated and specially designed in accordance with the local power company
specifications or electrical code.
   (C)   Individual electrical connections. Each mobile home lot shall be
provided with an approved disconnecting device and overcurrent protective
equipment. The minimum service per outlet shall be 120/240 volts AC, 100
amperes.
   (D)   Required grounding. All exposed non-current-carrying metal parts of
mobile homes and all other equipment shall be grounded by means of an approved
grounding conductor run with branch circuit conductors or other approved method
of grounded metallic wiring. The neutral conductor shall not be used as an
equipment ground for mobile homes or other equipment.
(2003 Code, § 146-58)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.157  REFUSE HANDLING.
   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the mobile home park shall
be so conducted as to create no health hazards or air pollution and shall
comply with the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection regulations
governing mobile home parks.
(2003 Code, § 146-59)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.158  INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insect and
rodent harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and other measures to
control insects and rodents shall conform with the requirements of the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection regulations governing
mobile home parks.
(2003 Code, § 146-60)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.159  ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   Developers of proposed mobile home park(s) shall submit final plans for
approval of the Township Board of Supervisors, together with an application fee
as set from time to time by resolution of the Board of Supervisors. The plans
shall be drawn in ink on 22 inch by 36 inch sheets of linen or Mylar and shall
be drawn to scale showing the location of the boundary lines of the proposed
mobile home park, all lot lines, the location, profiles and construction of all
streets, curbs and sidewalks, the location of all utility lines and easements,
and the location of all sanitary sewer lines and disposal systems. The plans
shall be submitted to the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer in six
copies, and they will be considered by the Board of Supervisors of the
township, and reviewed by and commented on by the Township Engineer and the
Township Solicitor within 45 days from the date of receipt. The Board of
Supervisors shall render its decision and communicate the same to the applicant
(s) not later than 90 days after receipt of the final plans and the
application. If the final plans are approved, a permit will be issued by the
Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer upon the posting of a performance
bond by the applicant, as and if required by the Board of Supervisors. Mobile
home parks previously approved or in existence upon the effective date of this
subchapter, shall be required to meet only the standards of the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection and all other minimum standards
prescribed herein shall be applicable only to those parks which are
constructed, altered or expanded after the effective date hereof.
(2003 Code, § 146-61)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
§ 152.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership or corporation who or which has violated the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon being found liable therefor in a civil
enforcement proceeding commenced by the township, through the Township Code
Enforcement Officer, pay a judgment of not more than $500, plus all court
costs, including reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the township as a
result thereof. No judgment shall commence or be imposed, levied or be payable
until the date of the determination of a violation by the District Justice. If
the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the township may
enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable rules of civil procedure. Each
day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation, unless
the District Justice, determining that there has been a violation, further
determines that there was a good-faith basis for the person, partnership or
corporation violating the chapter to have believed that there was no such
violation, in which event there shall be deemed to have been only one such
violation until the fifth day following the date of the determination of a
violation by the District Justice, and thereafter each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   (B)   The Court of Common Pleas of the county, upon petition, may grant an
order of stay, upon cause shown, tolling the per diem judgment pending a final
adjudication of the violation and judgment.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed or interpreted to
grant to any person or entity other than the township, through the Code
Enforcement Officer, the right to commence any action for enforcement pursuant
to this section.
(2003 Code, § 146-44)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 7-5-1996)
CHAPTER 153:  ZONING
Section
Titles
   
153.001   Long title
   
153.002   Short title
Purpose and Objectives
   
153.015   Purpose of zoning
   
153.016   Community development objectives
Definitions and Word Usage
   
153.030   Interpretation; word usage
   
153.031   Definitions
Establishment of Districts
   
153.045   Zoning districts
   
153.046   Zoning Map
   
153.047   Interpretation of district boundaries
General Provisions
   
153.060   Use of property
   
153.061   Restrictions
A-1 Agricultural District
   
153.075   Statement of purpose and use summary
   
153.076   Conditional use provisions
   
153.077   Special exception provisions
   
153.078   Lot, area and dimensional requirements
N-C Neighborhood Commercial Overlay District
   
153.090   Statement of purpose and use summary
   
153.091   General provisions
   
153.092   Parking and loading
   
153.093   Overlay district use option
   
153.094   The table of minimum dimensional and site design standards
R-1 Suburban Residential District
   
153.105   Statement of purpose and use summary
   
153.106   Conditional use provisions
   
153.107   Special exception provisions
   
153.108   Lot, area and dimensional requirements
R-2 General Residential District
   
153.120   Statement of purpose and use summary
   
153.121   Conditional use provisions
   
153.122   Special exception provisions
   
153.123   Lot, area and dimensional requirements
C-1 Light Commercial District
   
153.135   Statement of purpose and use summary
   
153.136   Conditional use provisions
   
153.137   Special exception provisions
   
153.138   Lot, area and dimensional requirements
C-2 Highway Commercial District
   
153.150   Statement of purpose and use summary
   
153.151   Conditional use provisions
   
153.152   Special exception provisions
   
153.153   Lot, area and dimensional requirements
I Industrial District
   
153.165   Statement of purpose and use summary
   
153.166   Conditional use provisions
   
153.167   Special exception provisions
   
153.168   Lot, area and dimensional requirements
Sign Requirements
   
153.180   Authority
   
153.181   Exclusions
   
153.182   Permitted signs in A-1, R-1 and R-2 Districts
   
153.183   Permitted signs in C-1, C-2 and I districts
   
153.184   Signs in shopping centers and integrated business and industrial
areas
   
153.185   Portable or mobile signs
   
153.186   Business location signs
   
153.187   Billboards
   
153.188   General standards
   
153.189   Permit requirements
Parking and Loading Requirements
   
153.200   Permit procedure
   
153.201   General requirements
   
153.202   Schedule of minimum requirements for off-street parking
   
153.203   Schedule of requirements for off-street loading
   
153.204   Standards for off-street parking and loading areas
Supplementary Regulations
   
153.215   General application
   
153.216   Additional dwellings and structures
   
153.217   Area and yard requirements
   
153.218   Driveway regulations
   
153.219   Environmental protection
   
153.220   Essential services
   
153.221   Height regulations
   
153.222   Performance standards
   
153.223   Storage and screening
   
153.224   Single-unit mobile home installation
   
153.225   Floodplain zoning regulations
   
153.226   Swimming pools
   
153.227   Roadside stands
   
153.228   Residential agricultural uses
Nonconforming Uses
   
153.240   Continuation
   
153.241   Repair or restoration of unsafe structures
   
153.242   Alterations
   
153.243   Restoration
   
153.244   Extension
   
153.245   Changes
   
153.246   Abandonment
   
153.247   District changes
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.260   Zoning Officer
   
153.261   Zoning permits and occupancy permits
   
153.262   Conditional use permit
   
153.263   Fees
   
153.264   Zoning Hearing Board
   
153.265   Amendments
   
153.266   Interpretation; purpose; conflict
   
153.267   Remedies
   
153.268   Municipal liability
Gas and Oil
   
153.280   Purpose
   
153.281   Definitions
   
153.282   Zoning classification
   
153.283   Applicability
   
153.284   Conditional use permit requirement
   
153.285   Pre-application conferences
   
153.286   Conditional use permit application
   
153.287   Design and installation
 
   
153.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Recycling and material salvage access road/aisle layout
TITLES
§ 153.001  LONG TITLE.
   This chapter is “an ordinance of the Township of Greene, Beaver County,
Pennsylvania, amending all prior ordinances dealing with and regulating and
restricting the height, number of stories and size of buildings and other
structures, their construction, alteration, extension and all facilities and
services in and about such buildings and structures, the percentage of lot that
may be occupied, the size of yards, courts and other open spaces, the density
of population and the location and use of buildings, structures, and land for
trade, industry, residence or other purposes; establishing and maintaining
building lines and setback building lines upon any or all public roads and
highways; establishing for such purposes districts, and defining the boundaries
thereof; providing for appointment of a Zoning Hearing Board and setting forth
the duties and functions of said Board; providing for the appointment of a
Zoning Officer; and for the administration and enforcement of this ordinance
and imposing fines and penalties for violation.”
(2003 Code, § 170-1)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.002  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Zoning Ordinance of the
Township of Greene”, and the Zoning Map shall be known and may be cited as the
“Greene Township Zoning Map”. Said Zoning Map is on file in the township
offices.
(2003 Code, § 170-2)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 153.015  PURPOSE OF ZONING.
   This chapter has been developed for the purpose of lessening congestion on
roads and highways; to secure safety from fire, panic and other danger; to
promote health, morals and the general welfare; to provide adequate light and
air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue congestion of
population; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewage, schools, parks and other requirements and facilities; to provide for a
reasonable mix of land uses and a variety of dwelling types; to preserve scenic
and historic values, prime agricultural land, natural areas, aquifers and
floodplains; to accommodate reasonable overall community growth; and to
facilitate emergency management operations, airports and national defense
facilities.
(2003 Code, § 170-3)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.016  COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES.
   This chapter has been developed to assist in furthering the long-range
community development objectives of the township as outlined in the current
township Comprehensive Plan. Specifically, the local community development
objectives relate to the following elements:
   (A)   Conservation of natural resources and environmental qualities. To
provide for the preservation, protection, management and enhancement of the
township’s natural resources and environmental qualities for present and future
generations through:
      (1)   Resource conservation;
      (2)   Discouraging adverse use of land;
      (3)   Protecting watercourses;
      (4)   Protecting water quality;
      (5)   Minimizing pollution of all types;
      (6)   Retention of natural quality; and
      (7)   Protection of wildlife.
   (B)   Housing. To encourage and promote the provision of a wide variety of
decent, safe and sanitary housing to meet the needs of all township residents
compatible with the limitations afforded by the environment, transportation
network and community facilities and services by:
      (1)   Encouraging variation in housing;
      (2)   Protecting the quality and livability of existing residential
areas; and
      (3)   Encouraging neighborhood design for people rather than for
automobiles.
   (C)   Land use. To create the best possible living environment by
establishing a harmonious land use pattern by:
      (1)   Separating living, commercial and industrial land uses;
      (2)   Creating a cohesive relationship between land uses and natural
features;
      (3)   Locating public buildings and services for maximum accessibility;
      (4)   Guiding development to prevent premature use of undeveloped areas;
and
      (5)   Encouraging the evolution of cohesive development areas by
discouraging scattered or strip development.
   (D)   Community facilities and services. To provide facilities and services
necessary to meet the needs of the community, compatible with the natural and
human-made environment by:
      (1)   Guiding future development; and
      (2)   Encouraging installation of utilities in a modern acceptable
manner.
   (E)   Transportation. To provide a road system that maximizes the efficient,
safe and convenient movement of goods and people while minimizing adverse
impacts on the natural and human-made environment by:
      (1)   Reducing traffic hazards;
      (2)   Making advance provisions for proposed or anticipated highway
improvements;
      (3)   Supporting the development and use of appropriate regional mass
transportation; and
      (4)   Encouraging the reduction of on-street parking.
   (F)   The local economy. To encourage opportunities for economic growth and
development in the township compatible with the community’s natural and human-
made environment by:
      (1)   Preservation of agricultural activities;
      (2)   Providing for appropriate neighborhood commercial uses;
      (3)   Provision for appropriate industrial uses and light industries; and
      (4)   Creating a cohesive relationship between the pattern of land uses
and natural features of the land.
(2003 Code, § 170-4)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
DEFINITIONS AND WORD USAGE
§ 153.030  INTERPRETATION; WORD USAGE.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words shall be
interpreted or defined as follows.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future.
   (B)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural
shall include the singular.
   (C)   The word “person” includes a corporation as well as an individual.
   (D)   The word “lot” includes the word “plot” or “parcel”.
   (E)   The term “shall” is always mandatory.
   (F)   The word “used” or “occupied” as applied to any land or building shall
be construed to include the words “intended, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied”.
   (G)   The word “building” includes the word “structure”.
   (H)   The word “erected” shall include the word “constructed”.
   (I)   The word “moved” shall include the word “relocated”.
(2003 Code, § 170-5)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.031  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. For purposes of this chapter, ACCESSORY
BUILDINGS shall include, but not be limited to, the following, which are
subordinate to the principal buildings on the same lot:
      (1)   In all residential zones:
         (a)   Children’s playhouse, picnic shelter, greenhouse
(noncommercial), garage, carport, garden house or storage building for domestic
storage;
         (b)   Swimming pool, ornamental pool, tennis court, basketball court
or similar private recreational facility;
         (c)   Storage of camping, sports and similar equipment, owned or
leased for noncommercial purposes, for the use of the residents of the
premises; and
         (d)   Home gardening.
      (2)   In commercial zones:
         (a)   Storage of merchandise and goods normally carried in stock in
conjunction with the principal use on the same parcel or lot of ground; and
         (b)   Storage of goods used in, or produced by, manufacturing
activities on the same parcel or lot of ground.
      (3)   In all zones:
         (a)   Required off-street motor vehicle parking areas and loading and
unloading areas; and
         (b)   Fences and ornamental walls and landscape features.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use that is subordinate and incidental to the main use or
uses on the same lot or premises. Said uses shall not include nonconforming
uses under the terms of this chapter.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion-picture machines, projectors or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as one of its business purposes,
offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter or
photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassette or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations which depict or describe specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designated for
use in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale or rental of material depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and still be
categorized as ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE. Such other business
purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial establishment from being
categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its
business purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration of the
specified materials which depict or describe specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in the state of nudity;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; and
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   ADULT DAY CARE. A service offered to adults with supervisory needs as an
accessory to assisted living or nursing facilities.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration
for the purpose of providing patrons with closed-circuit television
transmissions, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the description of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities, and has a sign
visible from the public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this
adult-type of photographic reproductions; and
      (2)   Offers any single sleeping room for rent three or more times in one
calendar day.
   ADULT MOTION-PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual
activities.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall auditorium, stage or similar
commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state
of nudity or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   AGRICULTURE. Any use of land or structures for farming, dairying, pasturage,
horticulture, floriculture, arboriculture or animal or poultry husbandry, as
well as the retail sale of horse tack, and feed, grain and other produce.
Accessory structures permitted in conjunction with an agricultural use may
include barns, stables, corn cribs, silos and other similar structures that are
clearly related to an agricultural operation. Accessory activities may include
farm machinery and equipment repair conducted by on-site residents.
   ALLEY. A service way at least 20 feet wide, providing a secondary public
means of access to abutting properties.
   ALTERATION or ADDITION (STRUCTURAL OR USE CHANGE). Any change in the
supporting members of a building such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders
or foundations, or by extending on a side, front or rear, or by increasing in
height, or the moving from one location to another, or any change in use.
   ANCILLARY RESIDENTIAL. A residential use that is subordinate to, and
associated with, a primary light commercial use.
   ANTENNA HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the base of the antenna
support structure at grade to the highest point of the structure. If the
support structure is on a sloped grade, then the average between the highest
and lowest grades shall be used in calculating the ANTENNA HEIGHT.
   ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any pole, telescoping mast, tower, tripod or any
other structure that supports a device used in the transmitting or receiving of
radio frequency energy.
   ANTIQUE MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, but not a reproduction thereof,
manufactured more than 25 years prior to the current year which has been
maintained in or restored to a condition which is substantially in conformance
with manufacturer specifications.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multi-family structure, which is
designed for use as a single housekeeping unit, and which contains a functional
kitchen, bath and toilet facilities, permanently installed.
   APPLICANT. A landowner or developer who files an application, as required by
the township, for development, including the heirs, successors and assigns
thereof.
   AREA. Area of a lot or site shall be calculated from dimensions derived by
horizontal projection of the site.
   AREA, BUILDING. The total of areas taken on a horizontal plane at the main
grade level of a building or structure exclusive of uncovered porches, terraces
and steps.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any premises used for the retail sale of motor
fuel and lubricants, and incidental services such as lubrication, and the sale,
installation or minor repair of tires, batteries or other automobile
accessories; but not including major repair work such as motor replacement,
body fender repair or spray painting.
   AUTOMOTIVE RECYCLING. The use of more than 100 square feet of the area of
any lot for the storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, including scrap
material from the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of automobiles or
other vehicles or machinery of parts thereof.
   AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR. Engine maintenance, repair or reconditioning, collision
repair, including straightening and repainting, replacement of parts and
incidental services.
   BASEMENT or CELLAR. A portion of a building partly or completely below
grade. It shall be considered a building story if more than 50% of its clear
height is above the average level of the adjoining ground.
   BED AND BREAKFAST and/or TOURIST HOME. The offering of overnight
accommodations and food service for transient guests for compensation within
the confines of a detached single-family dwelling structure when conducted
subsidiary to normal single-family residential use.
   BILLBOARD. Structure, building wall or other outdoor surface used to display
lettered, pictorial, sculptured or other matter which directs attention to any
product, announcement, commodity or service offered only elsewhere than on the
premises.
   BOARDINGHOUSE. Any dwelling in which more than three persons either
individually or as families are housed or lodged for hire with or without
meals. A rooming house or a furnished room house shall be deemed a
BOARDINGHOUSE.
   BORE HOLES. Structures and appurtenant facilities to permit the introduction
from the surface to underground mining operations, or the removal from
underground mining operations to the surface, of electrical power, water, rock
dust for safety purposes, communicating lines, compressed air and other gases.
(Also see COAL MINING ADJUNCT FACILITY and VENTILATING SHAFTS.)
   BUFFER AREA. A strip of land which is planted and maintained in shrubs,
bushes, trees, grass or other landscaping material and within which no
structure is permitted except a wall or fence.
   BUILDING. An independent and detached structure having a roof supported by
columns or walls, or resting on its own foundation, including, but not limited
to, mobile homes, garages, greenhouses and other accessory buildings, and
utilized for housing, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or
activity sites.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average elevation
of the finish grade to the highest point of the roof.
   BUILDING LINE. An imaginary line located a fixed distance from the front
line of the lot. (Refer to YARD, FRONT.)
   BUSINESS LOCATION SIGN. A structure for the purpose of, and limited to,
indicating the general location of a business site that is not contiguous to or
visible from an arterial highway. Said signs shall be limited to the name of
the business and a directional arrow.
   BUSINESS SERVICE. Any business activity which renders service primarily to
other commercial or industrial enterprises.
   BUSINESS SERVICES. A commercial establishment providing services and/or
goods to individuals and businesses.
   CAMPER. A vehicular portable structure to be mounted on a chassis or wheels
and towed or constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled vehicle, for
use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation, and vacation commonly known
as travel trailers, pickup coaches, motor homes or camping trailers.
   CAMPGROUND. A tract or tracts of land, or any portions thereof, used for the
purpose of providing sites and/or lots for the temporary use of trailers,
campers, recreational vehicles or tents, as hereinafter defined, for camping
purposes with or without a fee being charged for the leasing, renting or
occupancy of such space.
   CAMPING AND RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT. Any licensed or unlicensed trailer or
other vehicle designed or used for temporary living or sleeping purposes,
regardless of whether the wheels are attached or unattached or a permanent or
semipermanent foundation is constructed underneath, or any structure of a
permanent or semipermanent nature that is not connected to utilities. CAMPING
AND RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT shall include travel trailers, pickup coaches,
motorized home and boat trailers and shall be defined as follows.
      (1)   BOAT TRAILER. A trailer designed to haul boats.
      (2)   MOTORIZED HOME. A motorized vehicle with sufficient equipment to
render it suitable for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses. This unit must also be licensed and inspected.
      (3)   PICKUP COACH. A structure designed primarily to be mounted on a
pickup or truck chassis with sufficient equipment to render it suitable for use
as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation uses.
      (4)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure having an overall
length of 40 feet or less and an overall width of eight feet or less built on a
chassis designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational
and vacation purposes, permanently identified as a TRAVEL TRAILER by the
manufacturer of the trailer and, when equipped for the road, must be licensed.
   CAMPING SITE. A parcel of land in an organized camp or campground for the
placement of a single trailer and/or tent and the exclusive use of its
occupants.
   CARTWAY. The portion of a road which is paved, graded or improved for travel
by vehicles.
   CELL SITE. A tract or parcel of land that contains the cellular
communication antenna, its support structure, accessory building(s) and
parking, and may include other uses associated with, and ancillary to, cellular
communication transmission.
   CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA/TOWER. A structure and necessary auxiliary
components for use by a private business organization, to send and receive
electronic or analogue signals as an integral component of a telecommunication
system, to provide services that are paid for directly by the recipients
thereof.
   CLASSIC MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, but not a reproduction thereof,
manufactured at least 15 years prior to the current year which has been
maintained in or restored to a condition which is substantially in conformity
with manufacturer specifications and appearance.
   CLINIC. Any establishment where human patients are examined and treated by
doctors or dentists, but not hospitalized overnight.
   CLUB. An establishment operated for social, athletic, recreational or
educational purposes but open only to members and not the general public.
   COAL MINE CONVEYER. A mechanical contrivance utilizing belt, chair or chute
type devices to transport products, overland or underground, from coal mining
operations via owned or leased land holdings or acquired rights-of-way.
   COAL MINE FACILITIES, UNDERGROUND. Structures and installations necessary to
the operation of an underground coal mine which shall include slopes, shafts or
portals for the primary purpose of gaining access from the surface to an
underground coal mine by persons or equipment to mine and remove coal, coal
preparation and cleaning plants and related equipment, ponds and treatment
facilities, coal refuse disposal areas, silos for storage of coal, access
roads, aboveground repair personnel areas and structures and transport
facilities.
   COAL MINE, UNDERGROUND. All underground areas within a continuous barrier of
undisturbed coal from which such coal is extracted.
   COAL MINING ADJUNCT FACILITY. A support facility, not a coal mining
facility, required for and used only in connection with an underground coal
mine which is to:
      (1)   Supply air or power to the underground coal mine;
      (2)   Ventilate air or gas from the underground coal mine, which shall
include fans and fans buildings; and
      (3)   Remove water from the underground coal mine.
   COAL TIPPLE AND CLEANING PLANT. A coal mining facility utilized for bringing
coal and related substances from an underground coal mine to the surface for
the storing, processing, classifying and transporting of coal.
   COMMERCIAL (BUSINESS). Engaging in a business, enterprise, activity or other
undertaking related to or connected with trade or commerce in general (excludes
“home occupation”).
   COMMISSION, COUNTY PLANNING. Beaver County Planning Commission.
   COMMISSION, PLANNING. The legally appointed Planning Commission of Greene
Township, Beaver County, Pennsylvania.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use of land to be permitted or denied by the governing
body (following public hearing) after study and recommendations by the Planning
Commission, pursuant to express standards and criteria set forth in the
chapter.
   CONTRACTOR’S PLANT AND STORAGE. An area of land and any structures thereon
used for a building contractor’s office, supply yard and service facility.
   CONVERSION APARTMENT. A suite of rooms, consisting of at least one private
bedroom, one additional habitable room, one separate and private bathroom and
separate and private sanitary cooking facilities, designed or intended for
occupancy by one family, which is established in a portion of a building
originally used or designed for use by a single-family unit.
   DAY-CARE CENTER. A facility in which child day-care services are provided
for seven or more school age, preschool or infant children in an institutional
related structure suitable for such functions.
   DAY-CARE/FAMILY HOME. Any family residence other than a child’s own home or
the home of a child’s relative, operated for profit or not for profit, in which
child day care is provided at any one time to four, five or six school age
children (the day the child initially enters the first grade of a public or
private school system to 12 years of age), preschoolers (approximately three
years of age to initial school entry at the first grade level of a public or
private school system) or to infants and toddlers (from birth to approximately
three years of age) who are not relatives of the caregiver.
   DENSITY. The area of a lot or group of lots computed exclusive of any
portion of the right-of-way of any road, divided by the number of families
housed on the lot or group of lots.
   DEVELOPER. A landowner or agent or tenant thereof, who causes to be made a
subdivision of land or construction and/or development on said land.
   DEVELOPMENT. A step or stage in growth or advancement; result of developing;
a thing that is developed.
   DISTRICT, ZONING. A section of the municipality for which uniform
regulations governing the use, height, area and intensity of use of buildings
and land and open spaces about buildings are herein established.
   DRIVEWAY. A private accessway to a parking area, garage or structure.
   DUMP. A lot or land or part thereof used primarily for the disposal,
abandonment, dumping, burial, burning or any other means and for whatever
purpose, of garbage, sewage, trash, refuse, junk, discarded machinery, vehicles
or parts thereof, or waste material of any kind (excludes private or public
sewage disposal and permitted municipal sanitary landfills).
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof providing complete housekeeping
facilities for one family unit.
      (1)   DWELLING, DUPLEX. A detached or separate building designed for or
occupied exclusively by two families living independently of each other with
separate entrances and facilities.
      (2)   DWELLING, MULTI- OR MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A structure containing three
or more separate dwelling units for families living independently of each other
which may provide joint services and/or facilities but separate housekeeping,
sanitary and cooking facilities. Such structures may be referred to as
apartment, garden apartment, townhouse or row house.
      (3)   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached or separate building designed
for or occupied exclusively as a residence for one family.
      (4)   DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof providing complete
housekeeping facilities for one individual or one family.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. A school, including a public school, parochial
school, private school, college, university and a private nursery school or
preschool, having regular sessions, with regularly employed instructors, which
teaches those subjects that are fundamental and essential in elementary,
secondary or higher education under the supervision of the commonwealth or a
lawfully constituted ecclesiastical governing body, or a corporation meeting
the requirements of the commonwealth.
   EMPLOYEE. Any and all persons, including independent contractors, who work
in or at or render any service directly related to the operation of a sexually
oriented business.
   ENGINEER. A professional engineer licensed as such in the commonwealth.
   EQUIPMENT REPAIR, MINOR. Incidental repairs, replacement of parts and
servicing of small appliances and minor household equipment such as motors,
lawn equipment and chainsaws.
   ERECTED. Includes built, constructed, reconstructed, moved upon or any
physical operations on the land required for development or building
activities. Excavation, fill, drainage and the like shall be considered part of
the ERECTION.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, which includes engaging in one or
more specified sexual activities.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its business purposes for a
fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities, municipal departments or commissions, including buildings,
necessary for furnishing adequate services for public health, safety or general
welfare.
   EXCAVATION. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other similar
material is dug into, cut, quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated
or disturbed and any conditions resulting therefrom.
   FAMILY. One or more persons who live together in a single housekeeping unit
and maintain a common household, as distinguished from a group occupying a
boarding house. A FAMILY may consist of a single person or of two or more
persons, whether or not related by blood, marriage or adoption. For purposes of
this chapter, the term FAMILY shall not include group residential facilities,
day-care/family homes, day-care centers or institutional facilities.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building determined by dimensions measured between exterior faces of walls as
in a single-family dwelling or by dimensions measured between common interior
separating walls as in duplex, apartments and townhouses (excludes cellar or
basement floor areas, roofed porches, roofed terraces and accessory buildings
whether attached or separate).
   FRONTAGE. The front boundary line of a lot facing a street. The front of a
corner lot shall be considered on the street that parallels the long dimension
of a block; on the street of higher classification with respect to use; or on
the basis of the orientation of a majority of the other lots in the immediate
vicinity.
   GARAGE.
      (1)   A PRIVATE GARAGE is an accessory building with area commonly used
for housing motor driven vehicles, the property of and for the use of the
occupants of the lot on which the garage is located.
      (2)   A PUBLIC GARAGE is any garage other than a private garage as
defined herein, available to clients, operated for gain, and which is used for
storage, repair, rental, lubricating, washing and servicing or equipping of
motor vehicles.
   GARDEN (APARTMENT) DWELLING. A multi-family residential building, not
exceeding three stories in height, in which units are arranged side to side,
back to back or one above another, which may have either private external
entrances or common hall access, and which may have private exterior yard area
for each unit.
   GARDEN CENTER. A retail commercial sales establishment for the sale of
plants, garden supplies and related items. For purposes of this chapter, said
establishments shall not include the sale or service of machinery, tractors or
mowing equipment in excess of 20 horsepower.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Board of Township Supervisors of the Township of Greene,
Beaver County, Pennsylvania.
   GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITIES. Any federal, state or local governmental agency.
   GRADING PLAN. A plan prepared by a registered professional engineer showing
final grade contours at vertical intervals of ten feet, or greater detail for
slopes of 5% or less.
   GROUP RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. An establishment that provides room and board in
a family environment to persons who receive supervised care limited to health,
social, rehabilitative or housing services. Such facilities may include child
and adult services for individuals not in need of hospitalization or
incarceration, but who because of age, convalescence, infirmity, disability or
related circumstances require such care. GROUP RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES shall
include boarding homes for children, residential child-care facilities,
maternity homes, personal care homes for adults and similar uses licensed by
the Pennsylvania Department of Public Welfare, provided the scope of all such
operations shall be in conformance with the regulations of this chapter. GROUP
RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES shall not include institutional facilities, child day-
care centers, day-care/family homes and similar uses.
   HOLIDAY. New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Jr.’s Birthday, Presidents Day,
Good Friday, Memorial Day, Flag Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day,
Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Eve and Christmas Day.
   HOME GARDENING. The cultivation of herbs, fruits, flowers or vegetables on a
piece of ground adjoining the dwelling for use of the residents therein.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any use customarily conducted entirely within a dwelling or
in a building accessory thereto and carried on by the inhabitants residing
therein, providing that the use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use
of the dwelling for dwelling purposes, the exterior of the principal structure
is designed and constructed to maintain the appearance of a residential
dwelling, and no goods are publicly displayed on the premises other than signs
provided herein; including, but not limited to, the following occupations: the
professional practice of architecture, law, engineering, surveying, musician
teacher, accountant, notary public, mechanical/equipment/small appliance
repair, craft occupations including woodworking, construction, cooking, baking,
sewing, artists, beauticians, and barbers, excluding stables or kennels; and
does not permit the employment of more than two persons living on the premises.
   HOSPITAL. Any premises, other than a mental health establishment operated
for profit, having an organized medical staff and providing equipment and
services primarily for inpatient care for two or more individuals who require
definitive diagnosis and/or treatment for illness, injury or other disability
or during or after pregnancy, and which also regularly makes available at least
clinical laboratory services, diagnostic x-ray services and definitive clinical
treatment services. The term shall include such premises providing either
diagnosis or treatment, or both, for specific illnesses or conditions.
   HOTEL. A facility offering transient lodging accommodations to the general
public with access to individual rooms from the interior of the building, and
providing services such as restaurants, meeting rooms, entertainment,
recreational facilities and living quarters for a resident manager or
proprietor.
   INSTITUTIONAL FACILITY. An establishment that provides room and board to
persons who are residents by virtue of receiving supervised specialized
services limited to health, social and/or rehabilitative services provided by a
governmental agency, their licensed or certified agents or any other
responsible social service corporation. Hospitals, mental health establishments
and nursing homes shall be considered INSTITUTIONAL FACILITIES. INSTITUTIONAL
FACILITIES shall not include day-care/family homes, day-care centers or group
residential facilities.
   INTEGRATED BUSINESS CENTER. A multi-unit business development site
characterized by coordinated site and structural design, utility provisions,
parking facilities and related amenities.
   JUNK. Any discarded material or article and shall include, but not be
limited to, scrap metal, abandoned or junked motor vehicles or vehicle parts,
machinery or machinery parts, papers, glass and related items, containers, or
partially dismantled structures or parts thereof. It shall also include a
partially dismantled motor vehicle not bearing current registration plates and
which is not in the process of ongoing and immediate repair. It shall not
include garbage or hazardous or toxic waste material.
   KENNEL. Any structure, pen or area set aside for the breeding, boarding,
show, grooming or keeping of dogs, cats or similar domestic animals. For
purposes of this chapter, the keeping of five or more such animals for economic
gain shall be deemed a COMMERCIAL KENNEL.
   LANDFILL.
      (1)   A facility that is designed, operated and maintained for the
disposal of nonhazardous refuse and waste, not including disposal of demolition
waste, sludge from sewage treatment plants or water supply treatment plants or
materials that are classified as hazardous and/or that have the characteristics
of toxicity, reactivity, ignitability or corrosivity to the extent that they
may be deemed hazardous.
      (2)   When used in reference to coal mining an area used and operated
solely for the deposit of waste materials resulting from a coal mining
operation, but shall not include an embankment, or impoundment, to contain,
divert or store water, except necessary sedimentation ponds accessory to the
LANDFILL. The types of waste materials deposited at landfill sites and the
handling, treatment, storage and any other activity with respect to said
materials shall be in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local
statutes, regulations and enforcement orders.
   LANDOWNER. The legal or beneficial owner or owners of land, including the
holder of an option or contract to purchase (whether or not such option or
contract is subject to any condition); a lessee if he or she is authorized
under the lease to exercise the rights of the landowner; or other persons
having a proprietary interest in land.
   LOADING SPACE. A space within the main building or on the same lot therewith
providing for the standing, loading or unloading of vehicles.
   LOT. A tract or parcel of land held in single or separate ownership, that is
described by reference to a recorded plat or by metes or bounds, and is
intended as a unit for transfer of ownership, use, improvement, dedication or
for development.
   LOT AREA. The horizontal surface area within the lines of the lot.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot, abutting two or more streets at their intersection, on
which the building line for all streets must be observed.
   LOT COVERAGE. The ratio of ground area covered by principal and accessory
structures to the total ground area of the lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The line contiguous with the street right-of-way line.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The line generally parallel to the front lot line, which
defines the rear of the lot.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line which is not a front lot line or a rear lot
line.
   LOT WIDTH. The total horizontal distance across the lot, between the side
lot lines, measured at the building line.
   MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL, LIGHT. The processing, handling or fabrication
of materials and products where no processes are involved which will produce
noise, vibration, air pollution, fire hazard, noxious emission, high traffic
volumes or other factors which will disturb or endanger neighboring properties.
   MATERIAL SALVAGE YARD. Any lot, site, parcel, building or structure or part
thereof, used for the storage, collection, processing, purchase, sale, salvage
or disposal of any scrap, waste, reclaimable material or debris, whether or not
stored, for sale or in the process of being dismantled, destroyed, processed,
salvaged, stored, baled, disposed, or other use or disposition including, but
not limited to: unregistered, inoperable vehicles; tires; vehicle parts;
equipment; paper; rugs; metal; glass; household appliances; machinery; and
building materials.
   MENTAL HEALTH ESTABLISHMENT. Any premises or part thereof, private or
public, for the care of individuals who require care because of mental illness,
mental retardation or inebriety but shall not be deemed to include the private
home of a person who is rendering such care to a relative.
   MINE DISPOSAL AREAS. Areas used for the deposit of mine waste.
   MINI-WAREHOUSE OR SELF-STORAGE UNIT. A building or group of buildings in a
controlled access and fenced compound that contains various sizes of
individual, compartmentalized and controlled access stalls and/or lockers
leased to the general public for a specified period of time for the purpose of
storing personal property. The facility may include within the secured area
spaces for the storage of recreational vehicles, boats and similar items.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable single-family dwelling structure designed and
intended for permanent occupancy, with a minimum body width of eight feet and a
minimum body length of 32 feet, built on a chassis for towing on its own
running gear, contained in one unit, or in two units designed to be joined into
one integral unit capable of later being separated for repeated towing, which
arrives at a site complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, and constructed for use without
attachment to a permanent foundation other than being secured to appropriate
piers, tie-downs or similar approved anchoring devices and structures.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any contiguous parcel or tract of land under single
ownership, used or intended to be used for the placement of two or more mobile
homes for nontransient use, together with the required improvements and
facilities upon the land, whether or not consideration or rental is required
for the use of the parcels or facilities thereon.
   MODULAR HOME. A factory fabricated transportable building unit, other than a
mobile home, designed to be used independently or incorporated with similar
units into a modular structure on a permanent foundation at a permanent
building site.
   MOTEL. A facility offering transient lodging accommodations to the general
public with a majority of all rooms having direct access to the outside without
the necessity of passing through the main lobby of the building and providing
services such as restaurants, meeting rooms, entertainment, recreational
facilities and living quarters for a resident manager or proprietor.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. A building designed for, and occupied exclusively as, a
residence for two or more families living independently of each other,
including houses separate except for common adjoining walls.
   NO-IMPACT HOME-BASED BUSINESS. A business or commercial activity
administered or conducted as an accessory use which is clearly secondary to the
use as a residential dwelling and which involves no customer, client or patient
traffic, whether vehicular or pedestrian, pickup, delivery or removal functions
to or from the premises, in excess of those normal associated with residential
use. The business or commercial activity must satisfy the following
requirements.
      (1)   The business activity shall be compatible with the residential use
of the property and surrounding residential uses.
      (2)   The business shall employ no employees other than family members
residing in the dwelling.
      (3)   There shall be no display or sale of retail goods and no
stockpiling or inventory of a substantial nature.
      (4)   There shall be no outside appearance of a business use, including,
but not limited to, parking, signs or lights.
      (5)   The business activity may not use any equipment or process which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical or electronic
interference, including interference with radio or television reception, which
is detectable in the neighborhood.
      (6)   The business activity may not generate any solid waste or sewage
discharge, in volume or type, which is not normally associated with residential
use in the neighborhood.
      (7)   The business activity shall be conducted only within the dwelling
and may not occupy more than 25% of the habitable floor area.
      (8)   The business may not involve any illegal activity.
      (9)   For the purposes of this chapter, an occupation conducted within
the home that does not fit the definition of NO-IMPACT HOME-BASED BUSINESS
shall be defined to be a “home occupation”.
   NONBUSINESS USES. Service or charitable activities conducted on a voluntary
or non-profit basis by individuals, or public or service groups and
organizations.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A structure or part of a structure
manifestly not designed to comply with the applicable use or extent of use
thereto, such as minimum setback, minimum yard, maximum height, maximum lot
coverage and parking and loading requirements, where such structure lawfully
existed prior to enactment of this chapter or amendment thereto. Such
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES include, but are not limited to, nonconforming signs.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot, the area or dimension of which was lawful prior to
the adoption of this chapter or any amendment thereto, but which fails to
conform to the requirements of the zoning district in which it is located, such
as minimum lot area and minimum lot width requirements, by reason of such
adoption or amendments.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use, whether of land or of a structure, that does not
comply with the applicable use provisions in this chapter or any amendment
thereto, where such use was lawfully in existence prior to enactment of this
chapter or amendment thereto.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity
or displays specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities may be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus,
male genitals, female genitals or female breast.
   OCCUPANCY PERMIT. A permit signed by the Zoning Officer setting forth that a
building, structure or parcel of land is in compliance with the chapter and may
lawfully be occupied or employed for specified uses.
   OFFICE. A facility in which services, clerical work, professional duties and
similar functions are carried out.
   OLDER ADULT DAILY HOME LIVING FACILITY. A family residence other than that
of a facility client, operated either for profit or as non-profit, in which
supervised day-care services are provided for up to, but not more than, eight
adults not in need of hospitalization or incarceration, but who because of age,
infirmity or related circumstances require such services. Each facility shall
be licensed and inspected by the Pennsylvania Department of Aging under 6 Pa.
Code Ch. 11.
   OLDER ADULT DAILY LIVING CENTER. A facility in which supervised day-care
services, as defined under the definition OLDER ADULT DAILY HOME LIVING
FACILITY above, are provided for eight or more clients in an institutional
related structure suitable for such functions.
   OVERLAY ZONE. A zoning district that encompasses parts or all of one or more
underlying zoning districts and that imposes additional or alternative
requirements to those required by the underlying zoning district.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
   PENNSYLVANIA PLANNING CODE. Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code (53
P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.) and amendments of same as may be adopted from time to
time.
See 53 P.S. §§ 10501 et seq.
   PERMITTED USE. A use by right which is specifically authorized in a
particular zoning district.
   PERMITTEE and/or LICENSEE. A person in whose name a permit and/or license to
operate a sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual
listed as an applicant on the application for a permit and/or license.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, municipality, counties, authority, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or
any other private or public entity.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaged in providing services
involving the care of a person or his or her personal goods or apparel.
   PLANNED (UNIT) RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. Development of a tract of land for
primarily residential purposes under single ownership or control; the
development of which is unique and of a substantially different character than
that of the surrounding area. Such development shall be based on a plan that
allows for flexibility of design not available under standard zoning district
requirements.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Greene Township, Beaver County, Pennsylvania,
Planning Commission.
   PLOT. A tract or parcel of land. See definition for LOT.
   PORTAL, COAL MINING. A coal mining facility utilized for the access and
egress of humans, equipment and materials in underground coal mine operations.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The major or dominant use of a lot or land parcel.
   PRIVATE CLUB AND/OR LODGE. An organization, including fraternal clubs,
lodges, social clubs and recreational clubs, catering exclusively to members
and their guests; or premises and buildings for recreation or athletic purposes
which are not conducted primarily for gain, provided that any vending stands,
merchandising or commercial activities are conducted only as required generally
for the membership of such club. A sexual encounter center and sexually
oriented business which are regulated under §
153.166(C) are specifically excluded from the definition of PRIVATE CLUB AND/OR
LODGE.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. An office or business conducted by an individual, group
or association dealing with medicine, law, accounting, real estate,
architecture, engineering, finance or related services.
   PUBLIC. Includes any use activity owned and/or operated by federal, state,
county or local governmental units.
   RECREATION.
      (1)   MUNICIPAL RECREATION. Developed or undeveloped open spaces and/or
structures and facilities which are provided by a governmental body for public
use for the purposes of play, amusement or relaxation. Such uses may include
sports facilities, parks, assembly buildings, passive areas, gardens and
related amenities and activities.
      (2)   RECREATION, COMMERCIAL INDOOR. Indoor facilities for leisure-time
activities that are provided as a business pursuit, including facilities open
to the public and those requiring membership; including, but not limited to,
indoor theaters, lodges, fraternal organizations, bowling alleys, indoor
skating facilities and similar uses and activities.
      (3)   RECREATION, COMMERCIAL OUTDOOR. Outdoor facilities for leisure-time
activities that are provided as a business pursuit, including outdoor
facilities open to the public and those requiring membership; including, but
not limited to, swimming pools, tennis courts, riding stables, drive-in
theaters, golf courses and similar uses and activities.
      (4)   RECREATION, PRIVATE. Developed or undeveloped open spaces and/or
structures and facilities which are provided by individuals or private
organizations for the use of specified individuals or groups of individuals
sharing common relationships or associations for the purposes of play,
amusement or relaxation. Such uses may include sports facilities, parks,
assembly buildings, passive areas, gardens and related amenities and
activities.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle primarily designed and utilized as temporary
living quarters for temporary camping, recreational camping or travel use,
whether self-propelled or mounted on or drawn by another vehicle, and including
travel trailers, recreational trailers, camping trailers, truck campers, motor
homes and similar types of vehicles. It shall also include house trailers used
for such proposes. The term shall not mean or include a mobile home,
manufactured home or seasonal dwelling.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN. An establishment where refreshments, meals or prepared
foods may be obtained by the public, where customers thereof customarily arrive
at the premises via motor vehicle, and where only a portion of the persons
served consume the food or drink served to them within the main building on the
premises. This definition shall include, inter alia, such enterprises as drive-
in ice cream or custard stands, hot or cold drink or sandwich establishments
and the like. Where more than 25% of the gross business of any establishment is
covered under this definition, such establishment shall be considered a DRIVE-
IN RESTAURANT for purposes of this chapter.
   RESTAURANT, FULL SERVICE. A restaurant, tea room or similar establishment
where customers purchase and consume food or drink on site.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land reserved for use as a street, alley, interior walk, or
other public purpose and dedicated for public use. For purposes of this
chapter, public right-of-way lines shall prevail over private parcel lines that
are designated as falling within the public right-of-way. When a lot abuts a
right-of-way of a public thoroughfare or alley, all applicable lot area and
front, side and rear lot requirements shall be computed from the public right-
of-way line.
   ROADSIDE STANDS. Stands offering for sale agricultural products grown on the
premises.
   ROW HOUSE (TOWNHOUSE). A multi-family dwelling structure, consisting of at
least three single-family dwelling units that are attached side by side by
unpierced party walls.
   SCREEN (BUFFER) PLANTING. An arrangement of fencing, walls or vegetative
material of sufficient height and density to conceal from view of property
owners in adjoining residential districts the structures and uses on the
premises on which the screen or buffer planting is located.
   SEMINUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps and devices.
   SERVICE (FILLING) STATION. A building, buildings, premises or portions
thereof, which are used for the sale of gasoline or other fuel for motor
vehicles, as well as minor automobile repair and servicing.
   SETBACK. The minimum distance that a structure can be located from a right-
of-way or property line or another structure, thereby creating a required open
space on a lot.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business, commercial enterprise or adult club,
whether or not for profit, that, as one of its primary business purposes,
offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the same or opposite sex; and
      (2)   Activities between persons of the same or opposite sex when one or
more of the persons is in a state of nudity or seminude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult club, adult motel, adult motion-picture theater,
adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio or sexual encounter center.
   SHOPPING CENTER and/or PLANNED SHOPPING AREA. A combination of retail
commercial uses on a common contiguous site, designed as a unit, with adequate
off-street free parking area, and usually consisting of a series of one-story
buildings or an arcade flanked by shops.
   SIGNS. Considered as any writing (including letter, word or numeral);
pictorial representation (including illustration or decoration); emblem
(including device, symbol, trademark, banner or pennant); or any other figure
of similar character which is a structure or any part thereof, or is attached
to, painted on, or in any other manner represented on a building or other
structure and is used to announce, direct attention to, or advertise. The term
SIGN shall not apply to a religious symbol, void of lettering, when applied to
a place of worship.
   SITE PLAN. A plan, to scale, showing uses and structures proposed for a
parcel of land that includes lot lines, streets, building sites, buildings,
open space and other information.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION. The permission or approval for a land use activity
expressly granted by the Zoning Hearing Board, after formal application, in
situations where provision therefor is made by the terms of this chapter.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. The male genitals in a state of sexual arousal
and/or the vulva or more intimate parts of the female genitals.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) above.
   STABLE, COMMERCIAL. An establishment housing horses for hire by the general
public, for boarding horses and for other activities normally related to the
foregoing.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or, if there is no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STREET. A public or private way that affords the principal vehicular or
pedestrian means of on-grade access to abutting properties. A STREET may be
designated as a highway, thoroughfare, alley, parkway, boulevard, road, avenue,
lane, drive, place or other appropriate name.
   STREET CLASSIFICATIONS. The following street classifications shall apply to
all streets in the township.
      (1)   ARTERIALS. Carry major movements of traffic within or through the
community.
      (2)   COLLECTORS. Carry the internal traffic movements within the
township and connect developed areas with the arterial system. The collector
system simultaneously provides abutting property with road access and
accommodates local internal traffic movements.
      (3)   EXPRESSWAY. Limited access freeways that carry through traffic
between major urban centers and to and from points outside of a region with no
local interference.
      (4)   LOCAL. Provide access to immediately adjacent land but normally
carry a small portion of the total vehicle miles traveled daily.
      (5)   PRIVATE. Any vehicular way that is not dedicated as a public
street.
   STREET LINE. The line defining the edge of the legal width of a dedicated
street right-of-way.
   STRUCTURE. Any human-made object having an ascertainable stationary location
on or in land or water, whether or not affixed to the land. STRUCTURES include
buildings, sheds and signs.
   SUPPLY YARD. A commercial establishment storing or offering for sale
building supplies, coal, heavy equipment, feed and grain, and similar goods.
SUPPLY YARDS shall not include the wrecking, salvaging, dismantling or storage
of automobiles and similar vehicles.
   TENT. A portable lodging unit usually made out of skins, canvas, plastic or
strong cloth stretched and usually sustained by poles, and is dependent upon
separate toilet and lavatory facilities.
   TOURIST. One who makes a journey, especially for pleasure.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Greene.
   TRACT. A lot, or contiguous group of lots in single ownership or under
single control, and usually considered a unit for purposes of development.
   TRUCK TERMINAL. A facility designed to accommodate the service and storage
of trucks and which may also provide warehousing activities.
   USE. The purpose of the activity for which the land or building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained. The
term PERMITTED USE or USE BY RIGHT or its equivalent shall not be deemed to
include any nonconforming use; except that such permission shall not supersede
any deed restriction, covenant or agreement restricting the use of land, nor
any master deed, bylaw or other document applicable to a common interest
ownership community.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the literal provisions of this chapter which the
Zoning Hearing Board is permitted to grant when strict enforcement of said
provisions would cause undue hardship owing to circumstances unique to the
individual property on which the VARIANCE is sought.
   VEHICLE SALES AND SERVICES. Facilities for the sale and service of vehicles;
includes used car and truck dealers, factory authorized car and truck dealers,
mobile home dealers, self-propelled or towed recreational vehicle dealers, farm
or construction equipment dealers, or any similar automotive related dealers.
   VENTILATING SHAFTS. A coal mine adjunct operation consisting of a structure
and appurtenant facilities to permit the introduction and removal of air and
other gases from underground coal mines.
   VETERINARY CLINIC. An establishment that provides for the treatment and
prevention of diseases and injuries in domestic animals together with related
boarding of said animals.
   WAREHOUSE, MINI. A building or portion thereof designed and used for storing
personal property of an individual or family separate from their residential
site. This shall not include the storage of any merchandise, stock, furnishings
or vehicles of a business or commercial activity of any kind.
   WASTE RECYCLING CENTER. A separation, collection and processing operation
for handling and recycling of nonhazardous materials, including functions and
activities related thereto, consistent with §
153.166(B) of this chapter and all applicable federal and state statutes,
regulations and directives.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with a principal structure, open, unoccupied
and unobstructed by structures, except as may be otherwise provided in this
chapter.
      (1)   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot,
unoccupied other than by steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lamp posts and
similar improvements, the depth of which is the least distance between the
front lot at the right-of-way line and the building line.
      (2)   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot
between the rear of the principal building and the rear lot line, unoccupied
other than by steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lamp posts and similar
improvements.
      (3)   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the principal structure and the side lot
line, extending from the front yard, or from the front line where no front yard
is required, to the rear yard. The width of the required SIDE YARD is measured
horizontally, at 90 degrees with the side lot line, from the nearest part of
the principal building.
   ZONING HEARING BOARD. The Board appointed by the Township Supervisors and
assigned the duties of judging various appeals and variance requests of persons
aggrieved by the interpretation of this chapter, and further, assigned to
consider the qualification of special exceptions under the terms and conditions
specified in this chapter.
   ZONING MAP. The official zoning map or maps of the township which are part
of this chapter, together with all amendments subsequently adopted. Said maps
are on file in the township offices.
   ZONING OFFICER. The individual (or individuals) duly appointed as the Code
Enforcement Officer by the Township Board of Supervisors to be the
administrator of the provisions contained in this chapter.
   ZONING PERMIT. A statement signed by the Zoning Officer indicating that the
application for permission to construct or alter is approved and in accordance
with the requirements and terms of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 170-6)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 2-98, passed 8-4-1998;
Ord. 3-98, passed 10-6-1998; Ord. 3-99, passed 11-11-1999; Ord. 1-2003, passed
6-3-2003; Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 1-2009, passed 1-22-2009; Ord. 2-
2009, passed 2-1-2010; Ord. 1-2011, passed 3-7-2011; Ord. 7-2016, passed 9-6-
2016; Ord. 8-2016, passed 9-6-2016)
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS
§ 153.045  ZONING DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of applying the provisions of this chapter, the township is
hereby classified and divided into the following zoning districts:
 
A-1 Agricultural District
R-1 Suburban Residential District
R-2 General Residential District
C-1 Light Commercial District
C-2 Highway Commercial District
I   Industrial District
 
(2003 Code, § 170-7)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.046  ZONING MAP.
   The location of the boundaries of the established zoning districts are shown
on the Zoning Map adopted by the Board of Supervisors, on file in the office of
the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer. Said Zoning Map together with
amendments and all explanatory matter thereon shall be deemed to accompany, be,
and is hereby made a part of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 170-8)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 1-2005, passed 9-12-
2005)
§ 153.047  INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   District boundaries shall be determined as follows.
   (A)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streets, highways, street lines, highway right-of-way lines or
streams, such centerlines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
   (B)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot
lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
   (C)   Where district boundaries approximately follow a railroad, such
boundaries shall be deemed to be located in the center of such railroad right-
of-way.
   (D)   Where the boundary of a district follows a stream or other body of
water abutting another municipality, the boundary shall be deemed to be the
limits of jurisdiction of the township unless otherwise indicated.
   (E)   Where streets, property lines or other physical boundaries and
delineations are not applicable, boundaries shall be determined by the scale
shown on the original Zoning Map on file in the office of the Township
Administrative Secretary/Treasurer.
   (F)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Zoning Map, or in other circumstances not
covered in this section, the Zoning Hearing Board shall interpret the district
boundary.
   (G)   When a district boundary line divides a lot held in single and
separate ownership at the effective date of this chapter, the regulations which
apply to the use in a less restricted district shall extend over the portion of
the lot in the more restricted district, a distance of not more than 100 feet
beyond the district boundary line.
(2003 Code, § 170-9)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.060  USE OF PROPERTY.
   Following the effective date of this chapter, no building or land shall be
used or occupied and no building or part thereof shall be erected, moved or
altered unless in conformity with the regulations specified for the zoning
district in which it is located, or applicable special regulations.
(2003 Code, § 170-10)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.061  RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Following the effective date of this chapter, no building shall
hereafter be erected or altered to exceed the height, to accommodate a greater
number of families, to occupy a greater percentage of lot area, or to have
narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards or side yards than are specified in
this chapter for the zoning district in which such building is located.
   (B)   No part of a yard or other open space required about any building for
the purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be included
as a part of a yard or other open space similarly required for another
building.
(2003 Code, § 170-11)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 153.075  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND USE SUMMARY.
   (A)   Purpose. The Agricultural District is established to provide for
agrarian, low-density residential and related land uses.
   (B)   Use summary.
      (1)   A-1 uses permitted by right.
         (a)   Agriculture;
         (b)   Cemeteries;
         (c)   Churches/educational institutions;
         (d)   Commercial greenhouses/nurseries;
         (e)   Commercial kennels;
         (f)   Commercial stables;
         (g)   Garden centers;
         (h)   Municipal buildings/fire stations;
         (i)   Municipal recreation;
         (j)   No-impact home-based business;
         (k)   Single-family detached dwellings;
         (l)   Single mobile homes; *
         (m)   Veterinary clinics; and
         (n)   Campgrounds.
            1.   Permits.
               a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or
maintain a campground within the township without first having secured a permit
from the township.
               b.   Application for such permit shall be provided by the
Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer upon request. Following the
approval of the Township Supervisors, a permit shall be issued by the
Administrative Secretary/Treasurer.
               c.   The campground permit fee shall be set by the Board of
Supervisors per camping site, such permit to be renewed annually at a fee to be
set by the Board of Supervisors.
               d.   The permit shall be valid only for the campground for which
the application is made.
               e.   The permit may be transferred provided the transferee
campground is in compliance with all provisions of this division (B)(1)(n) and
upon the payment of a transfer fee to be set by the Board of Supervisors
annually.
               f.   In the event the issuance of a permit is authorized by the
Supervisors for the establishment of a campground in accordance with the
provisions of this division (B)(1)(n), or in the case of a presently existing
campground, no change or alteration shall be made to same unless application
therefore shall be made to the Supervisors as in the case of the original
establishment of a campground and a permit is thereupon authorized to be
granted for such change or alteration by the Supervisors.
               g.   The Supervisors may revoke, suspend or refuse to renew a
permit at such time as there is evidence of noncompliance with this division
(B)(1)(n).
            2.   Plan. Application for a campground permit shall be accompanied
by a site plan (four copies) for the proposed campground. Such site plan shall
include the location and identification of all streets and roads, parking
areas, individual camping site identification, utility services and location of
all utility shut-off points, buildings, recreational areas and other
facilities. The plan shall be drawn at an appropriate scale as to provide ease
of review, but at no less than one inch equals 100 feet.
            3.   Standards.
               a.   Lot size and setbacks. A campground shall occupy a lot size
of not less than ten acres. No camping site shall be located within 35 feet of
a commonwealth road or public right-of-way, or within 50 feet of a township
road, or within 50 feet of any property line, or within 300 feet of a non-
affiliated residence.
               b.   Camping sites. Individual camping sites shall contain a
minimum of 1,500 square feet with a minimum width of 30 feet. Each camping site
shall provide a clear, level, water and mud free pad for accommodating
trailers, campers and one vehicle.
               c.   Common area parking. Parking may be provided within the
campground. Campground parking areas shall be maintained in a clean, mud/dust
free and well-drained condition.
               d.   Streets and roads. Each camping site shall front upon an
approved street or road.
                  i.   One-way streets and roads with camping site parking
shall have an improved surface of no less than 16 feet.
                  ii.   Two-way streets and roads with camping site parking
shall have an improved surface of no less than 32 feet.
                  iii.   One-way streets and roads with on-street parking on
one side shall have an improved surface of no less than 20 feet, and 28 feet
for parking on both sides.
                  iv.   Two-way streets and roads with on-street parking shall
have an improved surface of no less than 28 feet for one side parking, and 36
feet for both side parking.
                  v.   Streets and roads shall be graded to provide positive
drainage from the road surface. Drains and culverts shall be provided as
necessary to maintain proper drainage.
                  vi.   Streets and roads shall be all-weather constructed to
have an improved surface of at least six inches of crushed, compacted aggregate
and built to be mud-free year round.
                  vii.   Recreational vehicles or trailers with a pulling hitch
shall have an eight-foot setback from any street or road.
               e.   Emergency ingress and egress to all camping sites shall be
maintained at all times.
               f.   Common facilities shall be well illuminated from dusk to
dawn with the lighting directed downward and away from all adjoining
properties.
            4.   Compliance with other regulations.
               a.   All campgrounds shall comply with the Rules and Regulations
of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of Health, as set forth in
Article 413, Chapter 4, “Regulations for Control of Sanitation in Organized
Camps and Campgrounds” adopted April 25, 1968, as amended.
               b.   Violation of the above regulations shall constitute a
violation of this division (B)(1)(n) and such violator shall be subject to
penalties as described in §
153.999.
               c.   All campgrounds must comply with the township floodplain
regulations and successive revisions and amendments thereto, as codified in
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances.
               d.   All campgrounds with 50 or more camping sites must have at
a minimum a 10,000 gallon water storage tank for every 50 camping sites
accessible in case of fire emergency.
               e.   If permitted within the campground, all pets must comply
with laws established by the commonwealth regarding care, control and health.
            5.   Additional requirements. In addition to compliance with the
standards set forth in this division (B)(1)(n), the township may impose
additional requirements as deemed reasonably necessary to protect the health,
safety, morals and general welfare of the public. Such additional requirements
shall be included in the plan for the campground and shall be complied with
prior to issuance or renewal of a permit.
            6.   Campgrounds in existence at time of adoption of this division
(B)(1)(n).
               a.   Any person operating a campground at the time of adoption
of this division (B)(1)(n) shall make application for a permit, including a
plan of the existing campground.
               b.   The Supervisors shall examine the plan to determine which
violations of this division (B)(1)(n), if any, necessitate immediate
correction, and proof of such correction shall be required prior to issuance of
a permit.
               c.   Any person operating a campground at the time of adoption
of this division (B)(1)(n) shall within one year submit a plan for his or her
campground complying with the requirements of this division (B)(1)(n) and shall
within two years of this date of this division (B)(1)(n), comply to the
requirements and standards herein.
            7.   Variances. Upon receipt of evidence that compliance, with the
entirety of the requirements and standards of this division (B)(1)(n), would
render undue hardship, the Supervisors may grant a variance to those specific
requirements and standards provided that such variance does not violate the
intent of this division (B)(1)(n) and/or endanger the health, safety, morals or
general welfare of the public.
            8.   Inspections. At the request of the Board of Supervisors, the
Township Engineer or duly authorized officer of the township shall make a
thorough inspection of all campgrounds located with the township. The officer
shall thereupon make a report to the Board at its next public meeting on the
health and sanitary conditions found in each campground. It shall be a
condition of any campground permit to allow inspection of said campground by
township.
            9.   Exclusions.
               a.   Primitive camps, defined as unimproved, limited access with
non-delineated camping sites, shall be limited to use to three nights during 21
consecutive days. These camping sites are excluded from the provisions of this
division (B)(1)(n).
               b.   Campgrounds associated with festivals, fairs and similar
events with durations of ten days or less are exempt from the provisions of
this division (B)(1)(n). Use of camping sites and placement of campers and
recreational vehicles shall not exceed ten consecutive days in a 60-day period.
            10.   Office and signage.
               a.   Each campground shall have an office in which shall be kept
copies of all records pertaining to the management and supervision of the
campground. Such records shall be available for inspection by the authorized
officers of the township. The permit from the township shall be on display in a
conspicuous place on the premises at all times.
               b.   Each campground shall have identifying signage at all entry
points and directional signage to the campground office. The campground office
shall have a lighted office sign not less than two feet by four feet.
               c.   Each campground shall provide an on-premises detailed map
of the general grounds, camping site lots, buildings, identified roadways and
utility emergency shutoffs on permanent outdoor display in proximity to the
office.
            11.   Register. It shall be the duty of the property owner or his
or her agent to keep a register of the “head of the family” accommodated in the
campground, his or her regular home address and the number and description of
his or her automobiles or other vehicles. Said register shall be open at all
times to the inspection by any authorized official of the township. The owner
or his or her agent shall prescribe rules and regulations for the management of
the campground and make adequate provision for the enforcement of such rules.
            12.   Water and sanitary conditions. Water supplies and sanitary
sewage disposal must be approved by the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection (DEP) and the township’s Sewage Enforcement Officer
(SEO) as appropriate to contain raw sewage discharge.
            13.   Buffer areas and common open spaces.
               a.   There shall be planted a buffer yard of at least 50 feet
along the side and rear yards that shall contain plantings of at least four
feet in height when planted, to provide a visual buffer. A minimum of two rows
of evergreen trees or large evergreen shrubs of two different species shall be
planted in staggered rows on 15-foot centers to produce the desired visual
barricade. The intent of the buffer yard is to provide a visual barrier and
screen adjoining existing or future residential development from direct view of
the campground and unfiltered headlight beams from campground traffic and
parking. Immediate replacement of dead trees or shrubs shall be required.
               b.   The campground shall provide not less than 20% of the total
land area for common open space purposes. Common space shall be so located as
to be free of traffic hazards and should, where topography permits, be
centrally located and easily accessible to all campers. Common space shall not
include roadways and parking areas.
            14.   Regulations for storage and use of recreational vehicles.
               a.   No more than two recreational vehicles may be stored or
maintained outside of an enclosed structure on any lot in the township except
in approved and properly permitted campgrounds. For purposes of this division
(B)(1)(n), contiguous lots owned by the same persons shall be considered one
lot. For purposes of this division (B)(1)(n)14., enclosed structure includes a
structure with a roof only.
               b.   No recreational vehicle which is not registered, licensed
and inspected in accordance with the requirements of the laws of the
commonwealth or in accordance with the requirements of the laws of the state of
residence of the owner, shall be stored or maintained outside of an enclosed
structure on any premises except for purposes of sale or repairs which are not
to exceed 60 consecutive days in a 120-day period. This excludes permanent
campgrounds with a recreational vehicle used for office purposes.
               c.   No recreational vehicle which is not registered, licensed
and inspected, in accordance with the requirements of the laws of the state or
in accordance with the requirements of the laws of the state of residence of
the owner, shall be used or occupied for living quarters or residential
purposes, whether temporary or permanent.
               d.   No structural additions shall be constructed onto or
attached to a recreational vehicle and no recreational vehicle shall be
physically attached to or become a part of any other building.
               e.   No recreational vehicle shall be used as a dwelling, for
residential use or for living quarters, whether permanent or temporary, except
under the following circumstances:
                  i.   In an approved and properly permitted campground;
                  ii.   Where located adjacent to a dwelling which provides
occupants of the recreational vehicle with sewage, water and utility services
provided that they are used as temporary living quarters for periods of time
not exceeding 30 consecutive days and 90 cumulative days in any calendar year;
and
                  iii.   Where otherwise permitted and not located adjacent to
an existing dwelling on the same lot or in a campground, for temporary living
quarters for a period of time not exceeding 30 consecutive days and 90
cumulative days in any calendar year, providing the recreational vehicle is
connected to a sewage system as required by and in accordance with the
applicable regulations of the township and the Department of Environmental
Protection (DEP) pursuant to a properly issued permit, providing the sewage
disposal system shall be maintained in accordance with said regulations, and
providing there is adequate provision for potable water supply on the property.
      (2)   A-1 conditional uses.
         (a)   Cellular communications antenna/tower;
         (b)   Day-care center;
         (c)   Day-care, family;
         (d)   Funeral home;
         (e)   Group residential facility;
         (f)   Institutional facility; and
         (g)   Mobile home park.
      (3)   A-1 conditional uses.
         (a)   Older adult daily home living facility;
         (b)   Older adult daily living center;
         (c)   Planned industrial district;
         (d)   Planned unit residential;
         (e)   Recreation, private and commercial/indoor and outdoor;
         (f)   Storage unit facilities; and
         (g)   Underground coal mine.
      (4)   A-1 special exceptions.
         (a)   Bed-and-breakfast;
         (b)   Conversion apartments; and
         (c)   Home occupation other than a no-impact home-based business.
(2003 Code, § 170-12)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 2-98, passed 8-4-1998;
Ord. 3-98, passed 10-6-1998; Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 1-2009, passed
1-22-2009; Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-2010; Ord. 8-2016, passed 9-6-2016)
Editor’s note:
   *Subject to criteria specified in §§
153.215 through
153.228, Supplementary Regulations.
§ 153.076  CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS.
   The following conditional uses may be authorized by the Township Supervisors
pursuant to the standards and criteria specified herewith.
   (A)   Day-care/family day-care homes.
      (1)   All activities shall be conducted in a private detached single-
family residence.
      (2)   Activities shall be limited to functions normally associated with
the part-time tending of children and shall not include overnight lodging.
      (3)   Activities shall be conducted within a home atmosphere that is void
of any special facilities or appurtenances other than secure play areas and/or
apparatus that are deemed to be normal single-family accessory uses within the
immediate neighborhood.
      (4)   Safe off-street pickup and dropoff areas shall be provided at the
site.
      (5)   Outdoor play areas shall be fenced to control access to adjacent
properties and vehicular ways. No portion of the outside play areas shall be
less than 30 feet from a neighboring dwelling without the owner’s written
consent. Outdoor play shall be limited to the hours between 6:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m., prevailing local time.
      (6)   A minimum of 100 square feet of usable outdoor play space and 20
square feet of usable indoor space shall be provided for each child present at
the facility, including resident children.
      (7)   Day-care services shall be limited to a total of six children at
any one time for the following categories of clientele (a mix of categories
shall be permitted).
         (a)   Infants and toddlers. There shall be no more than four infants
and/or toddlers in a family day-care home at any one time, including relatives
of the caregivers. (Note: for purposes of these requirements, “relative” shall
be deemed to be a child, stepchild, grandchild, brother, sister, half-brother,
half-sister, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, stepbrother or stepsister.)
         (b)   Preschoolers. At no time shall the number of children in care
exceed six, excluding relatives of the caregiver. (Note: for purposes of these
requirements, “relative” shall be deemed to be a child, stepchild, grandchild,
brother, sister, half-brother, half-sister, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew,
stepbrother or stepsister.)
         (c)   School age children. At no time shall the number of children in
care exceed six children, excluding relatives of the caregiver. (Note: for
purposes of these requirements, “relative” shall be deemed to be a child,
stepchild, grandchild, brother, sister, half-brother, half-sister, aunt, uncle,
niece, nephew, stepbrother or stepsister.)
      (8)   Day-care/family day-care homes shall comply with the then current
editions of the IBC (International Building Code) National Fire Prevention Code
and the IBC (, National Building Code and with the Pennsylvania Fire and Panic
Act and regulations promulgated pursuant to that Act (see 35 P.S. §§ 1221 et
seq.).
      (9)   All rules, requirements and guidelines promulgated in the Day Care
Service For Children Regulations Family Day Care Homes, Chapter II, § 8c of the
Pennsylvania Department of Public Welfare Social Services Manual, effective
June 13, 1981, and any amendments subsequent thereto, shall be strictly
observed. All required state licenses and certifications shall be obtained as
conditions precedent to granting of required township zoning and occupancy
permits.
   (B)   Day-care center.
      (1)   Day-care centers shall be located only in commercial, public or
semipublic institutional buildings, such as schools, churches, governmental or
similar structures that meet all requirements specified by the Pennsylvania
Department of Public Welfare for such activities. Day-care centers shall not be
conducted in conjunction with single-family residential dwellings. When
conducted on multi-family premises, all day-care center operators shall be
completely separate and distinct from residential uses.
      (2)   Activities shall be limited to functions normally associated with
part-time tending of children and shall not include overnight or drop-in care.
      (3)   Operational hours shall be limited to the hours between 6:00 a.m.
and 9:00 p.m., prevailing local time.
      (4)   Day-care centers shall comply with the then current editions of the
IBC National Fire Prevention Code and the IBC National Building Code and with
the Pennsylvania Fire and Panic Act and regulations promulgated pursuant to
that Act.
      (5)   All rules, requirements and guidelines promulgated in the
Regulations For Child Day Care Centers, Chapter II, § 8A of the Department of
Public Welfare Social Services Manual, effective April 2, 1978, and any
amendments subsequent thereto, shall be strictly observed. All required state
licenses and certifications shall be obtained as conditions precedent to
granting of required township zoning and occupancy permits.
   (C)   Recreation/private and commercial, indoor and outdoor.
      (1)   No use activities shall be permitted or conducted in any required
front, side or rear setback area.
      (2)   No use activities shall be permitted or conducted within 100 feet
of any adjoining R-1 or R-2 Residential District.
      (3)   All lot boundaries abutting any adjoining R-1 or R-2 District shall
be enclosed by a landscaped buffer that meets the requirements set forth in §§
153.215 through
153.228 of this chapter.
      (4)   Fencing may be required in cases where deemed necessary by the
Township Supervisors or the developer for purposes of safety, security or
design. The installation, material and design of the fencing shall be subject
to recommendations and final approval of the Board of Supervisors.
      (5)   Loud speakers and similar sound amplification devices for
entertainment purposes shall not exceed the noise levels for steady-state noise
as specified in §§
153.215 through
153.228 of this chapter.
      (6)   All lighting shall be designed and utilized in a manner that is
compatible with residential uses within viewing distance of the site.
      (7)   Provisions shall be made for the safety and welfare of individuals
and property both on-site and off-site, consistent with the projected use.
   (D)   Mobile home park. Mobile home park development and operation shall be
subject to the requirements of §§
152.145 through
152.159 of this code of ordinances, as amended.
   (E)   Funeral home.
      (1)   Parking and cortege formation in conjunction with funeral home
operations shall be accommodated on site.
      (2)   Ingress and egress of traffic shall be coordinated with local
traffic movements and volumes in a manner that will preclude safety hazards.
      (3)   Advertisement and location signing shall be limited to one sign not
exceeding 12 square feet in area.
      (4)   On-site activity shall be screened from abutting properties with
aesthetically acceptable fencing or dense evergreen plant materials providing a
continuous opaque visual barrier.
   (F)   Group residential facility.
      (1)   The services shall be provided in a family environment as opposed
to an institutional structure or setting.
      (2)   The group residential facility shall not include business or
professional offices (other than incidental offices), business activities,
fraternal or social clubs, hospitals, clinics or other such activities.
      (3)   The number of residents in any single group residential facility
shall be limited to no more than eight persons, including client residents,
staff and family of staff. Clients shall be limited to no more than six
ambulatory persons.
      (4)   Supervision shall be provided by responsible and appropriately
qualified adults on duty, on the premises on a 24-hour-a-day basis. A minimum
of one such adult shall be in residence at the facility and on duty at all
times.
      (5)   Lot, yard and all other dimensional requirements of the zoning
district in which the facility is located shall be met. Each lot shall include
a minimum of 1,600 square feet of exterior open space which is maintained and
suitable for passive and/or active recreational use.
      (6)   In addition to normal residential parking requirements, parking
facilities shall be provided at the rate of one off-street space for every two
resident clients.
      (7)   A group residential facility shall be located not less than 2,500
lineal feet from any other group residential facility.
      (8)   A group residential facility shall comply with the then current
editions of the IBC National Fire Prevention Code and the IBC National Building
Code and with the Pennsylvania Fire and Panic Act and regulations promulgated
pursuant to that Act (see 35 P.S. §§ 1221 et seq.). Prior to issuing of a
zoning permit, the facility shall be inspected by a representative of the local
fire department to ascertain structure layout, fire escapes and other related
information.
      (9)   Sanitary facilities, consisting of a sink, water closet, and tub or
shower shall be provided at a ratio of one each for every four inhabitants of
the facility.
      (10)   A dining area shall be provided which is of sufficient size to
accommodate all clients and residents at a single seating.
      (11)   A minimum of 72 square feet of contiguous sleeping and personal
area shall be provided for each client. Said area, for purposes of this
requirement, shall be computed exclusive of common use areas such as
circulation areas, storage areas, dining areas, kitchen and food preparation
areas, gamerooms and related recreation or instruction areas and other common
use spaces.
      (12)   A license or certification shall be obtained from the
commonwealth, Department of Labor and Industry, Department of Public Welfare
and any other state or county agency having jurisdiction, prior to the issuance
of a certificate of occupancy. In the event that an appropriate licensing or
certifying agency does not exist, the applicant shall demonstrate to the
Township Supervisors that the proposal for establishing such a facility
satisfies a demonstrated need and will be conducted in a responsible manner
without detriment to surrounding properties.
      (13)   The sponsor shall file annually with the Township Administrative
Secretary/Treasurer and the Zoning Officer information certifying that the
facility continues to adequately meet the conditions of the original approval.
Changes of sponsorship or of any conditions of original approval shall
constitute a new use and the full conditional use procedure for obtaining a new
use shall be exercised.
      (14)   In considering a request for establishment of a group residential
facility under the provisions for conditional uses in the township, the
Planning Commission may recommend, and the Township Supervisors may attach, any
reasonable conditions and safeguards beyond those expressed in this chapter and
other applicable codes duly enacted.
      (15)   Documentation shall be submitted which certifies approval of
sewage disposal provisions by the Sewage Enforcement Officer, and certification
shall be provided from competent sources that adequate water supply is
available.
   (G)   Planned unit residential.
      (1)   Application process. The application process for approval of
planned unit residential development as a conditional use shall be consistent
with Pennsylvania Act 170, 1988, as amended, (see 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.) and
shall consist of the following steps.
         (a)   An application for tentative approval shall be filed by or on
behalf of the landowner.
         (b)   All planning matters shall be determined by the Township
Supervisors.
         (c)   Within 60 days following conclusion of the first public hearing,
an official written communication shall be transmitted to the landowner which
either:
            1.   Grants tentative approval;
            2.   Grants approval, subject to conditions; or
            3.   Denies approval.
         (d)   Tentative approval shall not qualify a plat for recording nor
authorize the issuance of any permits.
         (e)   Following tentative approval, an application for final approval
may be submitted for the entire development site or incremental parts thereof.
         (f)   Public hearings on applications for final approval shall not be
required, provided the application is in compliance with the tentative plan
previously given approval.
         (g)   The Township Supervisors shall act on the application for final
approval within 45 days of filing.
      (2)   Contents of application.
         (a)   The application for tentative approval shall include the
following:
            1.   A location map of the site at a scale no smaller than one inch
equals 100 feet, showing boundaries, road systems and land uses within one-half
mile of the site perimeter;
            2.   A site plan of the project which shall define the location of
proposed uses; state the acreage by proposed use; show density of dwelling
units; include street system plans for traffic and vehicular parking; include
plans for sewage disposal systems, stormwater and other utilities; delineate
the location of recreation facilities, open spaces and site amenities; and show
proposed lot lines and plat designs; and
            3.   Additional documentation shall include the following:
               a.   The form of organization proposed to own and maintain
common facilities and open space;
               b.   The substance of covenants, grants of easements or other
restrictions to be imposed; and
               c.   A written statement by the landowner setting forth the
reasons why, in his or her opinion, a planned residential development would be
in the public interest.
         (b)   Application elements cited in divisions (G)(2)(a)1. and (G)(2)
(a)2. above shall be prepared by a registered landscape architect, architect or
civil engineer.
      (3)   Applications for final approval. Applications for final approval
shall include any drawings, specifications, covenants, easements, performance
bonds and other such requirements as may be specified by local officials at the
time of tentative application approval.
      (4)   Requirements. The following requirements shall govern the approval
and development of all planned unit residential developments in the township.
         (a)   The minimum land area for a planned residential development
shall be ten contiguous acres.
         (b)   The developer shall provide within the planned development a
sanitary sewage disposal system which shall be of sufficient size and design to
collect and dispose of all sewage from all present and probable development in
the planned development, and shall be constructed and maintained in conformity
with the statutes and regulations of the State Department of Environmental
Protection and all local regulations.
         (c)   The developer shall provide within the planned development a
storm drainage system which shall be sufficient to dispose of all predictable
surface water runoff within the development.
         (d)   Water service shall be supplied to each structure and facility
to be erected in the development. Water shall be supplied by a certified public
utility, a bona fide association of lot owners, or by a municipal corporation,
authority or utility.
      (5)   Permitted uses. A building may be erected or used, and a lot may be
used or occupied, for any of the following purposes:
         (a)   Single-family detached dwelling;
         (b)   Townhouse units;
         (c)   Apartment buildings not to exceed three stories in height nor to
exceed 12 dwelling units per structure;
         (d)   Public or private park or recreation which may include golf
courses, swimming pools, tennis courts, ski slope, toboggan run, ice skating
rink and similar uses approved by the Township Supervisors;
         (e)   Schools; and
         (f)   Church, parsonage or convent.
      (6)   Percentages of land area. Within a planned residential development,
the following percentages of the total land area shall be devoted to the
specified uses listed herewith:
         (a)   A maximum of 80% for residential use; land devoted to
residential use shall be deemed to include dwelling structures and buildings
accessory thereto, streets, alleys, parking areas, private open spaces that
abut and service residences or groups of residences; and
         (b)   A minimum of 20% for open air recreational uses and other usable
open space but it shall not include usable open space which is available for
use by the general public. USABLE OPEN SPACE shall be defined as an open area
designed and developed for use by the occupants of the development for
recreation, communal courts, gardens or household service activities. This
space shall be effectively separated from automobile traffic and parking and
readily accessible; space devoted to streets and parking shall not be included.
      (7)   Residential density. Residential density shall not exceed four
dwelling units per gross acre of land within the development.
         (a)   There shall be no minimum lot size, setbacks, percentage of lot
coverage or lot width, except as otherwise required below.
         (b)   Every single-family dwelling shall have access to a public
street, court, walkway or other area dedicated to public use.
         (c)   No structure or group of related structures shall be erected
within 50 feet of any other structure or group of structures.
         (d)   There shall be a yard setback of at least 50 feet along the
perimeter of each planned residential development tract and adjacent to all
adjoining roads.
         (e)   No structure shall exceed three stories in height.
         (f)   There shall be no continuous structure of townhouses containing
more than four dwelling units.
      (8)   Open spaces between structures. Open spaces between structures,
including those spaces being used as public or private recreational areas,
shall be protected by adequate covenants running with the land or by
conveyances or dedications.
      (9)   Organization or trust. In cases where the township will not be
accepting dedications of streets, recreation areas or open spaces, the
landowner shall provide for an organization or trust for ownership and
maintenance. In the event of default, the township may assume control and the
resulting costs may be assessed against the properties that have right of
enjoyment of these spaces and facilities as specified by applicable state
statutes (Act 170-1988; see 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.).
      (10)   Roads, alleys and parking areas. The dimensions and construction
of roads, alleys and parking areas within the development, whether or not
dedication to the township is contemplated, shall conform with all applicable
township ordinances and regulations.
      (11)   General landscaping plan. A general landscaping plan shall be
required at the time of the original submission to be followed by a detailed
landscaping plan prior to final approvals. Existing trees and natural amenities
of all types shall be preserved where feasible. A grading plan and erosion and
sedimentation plan shall be provided prior to any construction or site
development activity. All manufactured slopes shall be planted or protected
from erosion and shall be of a character to blend with surrounding terrain.
      (12)   Layouts. Layout of parking areas, service areas, entrances, exits,
yards, courts and landscaping, and control of signs, lighting, noise and other
potentially adverse influences shall be established in a manner that will
protect residential character within the project site area and in any adjoining
area. Parking areas shall be landscaped, paved and visually screened from
adjacent structures through the use of planting, grade changes or similar
appropriate means approved by the Planning Commission.
      (13)   Internal streets. All internal streets shall be oriented and
designed in a manner that will discourage use by through traffic.
      (14)   Pedestrian and bicycle circulation system . A pedestrian and
bicycle circulation system shall be established to serve all elements within
the development. The pedestrian and bicycle circulation system shall be
reasonably segregated from vehicular traffic to provide separation of vehicular
and pedestrian movement.
      (15)   Utilities. All utilities, including telephone, television cable
and electrical systems, shall be installed underground; provided, however,
appurtenances to these systems which require on-grade installation must be
effectively screened.
   (H)   Institutional facility.
      (1)   The application shall include and be supported by documents, maps,
plans and other materials that contain the following information and such other
related data as may be specified by the Township Planning Commission and/or
Supervisors:
         (a)   Name and address of the owner and/or applicant and a statement
that the applicant, if not the owner, has the permission of the owner to make
application and act as agent for the owner;
         (b)   Legal description, street address, and other identifying data
concerning the site;
         (c)   A description of the precise nature of the proposed use and its
operating characteristics, and measures proposed to make the use compatible
with other properties in the vicinity. This data shall include a complete
description of proposed supervision procedures and policies;
         (d)   A dossier on the organization and all principals involved in any
manner with the control, establishment and operation of the facility for which
the application is being made, including organizational structure, financial
status, experience, qualifications, references and any pertinent documentation
deemed necessary by township officials to evaluate the application;
         (e)   A site plan showing proposed development of the site, including
topography, building locations, parking, traffic circulation, usable open
space, landscaped area and utilities and drainage features;
         (f)   Preliminary building plans and elevations sufficient to indicate
the dimensions, general appearance, scale, and interior plan of all buildings;
and
         (g)   Such additional material as may be prescribed or that the
applicant may submit pertinent to the application and to the findings
prerequisite to the issuance of a conditional use permit.
      (2)   All uses in conjunction with a conditional use permit issued by the
Township Supervisors pursuant to this division (H) shall comply with the
following:
         (a)   Compliance with any and all local, state, county and federal
laws and regulations relating to the approval, development and operation of the
facility; and
         (b)   The correction within the time specified of any violation by the
facility owner or operator of any local, county, state or federal law,
regulation, rule or enforcement order or any condition to any permit, license
or authorization of authority issued in connection with the facility.
      (3)   The applicant shall obtain, as required, from each appropriate
local, county, state and federal regulatory agency or authority, a permit
issued in accordance with all applicable regulations for the proposed use. In
the event any required permits have not been issued at the time Township zoning
approval is requested, the zoning approval shall be expressly conditioned on
the grant of necessary permits. At the time of making application to such
local, county, federal or state authorities, the applicant shall file with the
Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer, a copy of each state or federal
application with supporting documentation for the proposed use.
      (4)   All facilities shall be served by public water facilities as
provided by a duly constituted water authority consistent with all rules and
regulations thereof.
      (5)   In the absence of public sanitary sewerage facilities, a central
private sewage disposal processing plant shall be established to serve all
planned site requirements. Plans for said facility shall be approved by the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection prior to conditional use
approval under the terms of this chapter.
      (6)   The site shall be a minimum of five contiguous acres and shall meet
all requirements specified in §
153.078 of this chapter.
      (7)   Institutional facilities shall comply with the then current
editions of the IBC National Fire Prevention Code and the IBC National Building
Code and with the Pennsylvania Fire and Panic Act and regulations promulgated
pursuant to that Act.
   (I)   Planned industrial district.
      (1)   A conditional use permit may be granted for planned industrial
developments within the A-1 Agricultural District subject to the requirements
of this section and the procedures specified in §
153.262 of this chapter.
      (2)   Applications for a conditional use permit shall include the
following data:
         (a)   A survey drawn to scale prepared by a licensed professional land
surveyor, registered in the commonwealth, showing the exact size, shape and
dimensions of the site proposed for development;
         (b)   The exact size and location of all existing buildings and
structures on the lot;
         (c)   The proposed size and location of structures or buildings
proposed to be erected, moved, repaired or altered;
         (d)   All adjacent streets with traffic flow patterns;
         (e)   A written description of the proposed scope of the projected
activity, including the estimated maximum number of shifts, employees and
employment per shift of all use activities;
         (f)   A description of all proposed fuels to be used for heating and
in business processes;
         (g)   Plans of all utility supply and service components prepared by a
registered civil engineer;
         (h)   Proposed parking facilities including the size, arrangement and
number of parking stalls, placement of lighting standards, landscape treatments
and paving details;
         (i)   A circulation plan for all vehicles, including ingress and
egress drives for all off-street parking and loading areas both front and rear,
to ensure the prevention of blockage of vehicles entering and leaving the site,
to provide for clear lines of vision and to illustrate buffering and general
aesthetic provisions;
         (j)   Preliminary architectural and engineering sketches showing plan
levels, elevations and other necessary information related to water runoff
control, slope, contours, type of building construction and the like;
         (k)   Delineation of areas to be utilized for the exterior storage of
materials and type of architectural screen to be provided; and
         (l)   Such other information as may be required by the Board of
Supervisors, the Planning Commission or
Chapter 152, Subdivision and Land Development.
      (3)   The following land area, density and locational requirements shall
be strictly applied to all planned industrial districts authorized as
conditional uses.
         (a)   The minimum land area for a planned industrial district site
shall be ten contiguous acres.
         (b)   The maximum land area for a planned industrial district site
shall be 25 contiguous acres.
         (c)   No planned industrial district perimeter boundary shall be
located within two lineal miles of the nearest perimeter boundary of any other
planned industrial district established or approved as a conditional use in the
A-1 Agricultural District.
         (d)   All planned industrial districts shall be sited adjacent to, and
with direct highway access on, either U.S. Route 30, State Route 168 or State
Route 151. No traffic shall traverse a township right-of-way, or a private road
which is not an integral component of a planned industrial site, for ingress,
egress or circulation purposes.
      (4)   Uses permitted in this district shall be limited to the following:
         (a)   Business, professional and sales offices;
         (b)   Food processing, storage, packaging and distribution, exclusive
of holding pens, slaughterhouses or related activities or processes such as
rendering that are not consistent with the intent and the purposes for which
this district is established;
         (c)   Public works and administrative buildings and utility
substations and maintenance depots;
         (d)   Light manufacturing and processing, as defined in §
153.031 of this chapter, and research and testing laboratories subject to the
following:
            1.   No activities shall be permitted that involve automotive
recycling and material salvage yards nor the storage, handling, testing,
processing or other use of waste materials, sludge or byproducts thereof that
have the potential to cause illness, death or pose substantial threats to the
environment when stored, transported, treated, handled or disposed of;
            2.   Waste materials that shall not be utilized include, but are
not limited to, garbage, refuse, sludge and other discarded materials,
including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous material resulting from
residential, municipal, commercial, industrial, institutional, mining or
agricultural operations and from community activities, or any combination of
the above;
            3.   All activities, storage and other aspects of these uses shall
take place within enclosed structures, except for ancillary parking and
loading, unless otherwise authorized by the conditional use approval granted
for the specified use; and
            4.   Such other factors and criteria as the Planning Commission
and/or Township Supervisors deem necessary to protect the public health,
safety, general welfare and intent of this chapter.
         (e)   Printing, engraving and publishing;
         (f)   Restaurants;
         (g)   Transportation depots and terminals; and
         (h)   Warehousing and storage.
      (5)   The following design, development and aesthetic standards and
provisions shall be required.
         (a)   Uses and buildings shall be planned and organized to achieve a
unified and harmonious development of the total site area.
         (b)   Structures shall not exceed a maximum height of three stories or
40 feet.
         (c)   The ratio of gross coverage of structures to the total available
site area, shall not exceed 0.35.
         (d)   Minimum front setback of structures from public road rights-of-
way shall be 75 feet.
         (e)   Minimum side and rear setbacks of structures along the perimeter
of the property shall be 50 feet.
         (f)   Minimum setbacks of structures for internal lots within the
development (lots not adjacent to public rights-of-way or adjoining properties)
shall be as follows:
            1.   Front setback: 40 feet;
            2.   Side setback: 20 feet; and
            3.   Rear setback: 25 feet.
         (g)   No parking or loading areas shall be permitted within 50 feet of
any public right-of-way nor within 30 feet of any other site boundary.
         (h)   Parking shall be provided as required by the applicable sections
of §§
153.200 through
153.204 of this chapter. One or more parking lots may be designed to serve a
multiple number of activity sites so long as none of the requirements of this
chapter are violated. The aggregate of all available spaces shall equal the sum
required to serve all proposed uses. Owners or tenants of lots shall not permit
their employees, tenants or visitors to park on public streets. All areas used
for driveways, loading, service, parking or vehicular storage shall be surfaced
with paved surface subject to standards specified by the Township Engineer as
appropriate.
         (i)   No loading dock shall be constructed facing on any public street
or highway unless such loading dock and every part thereof is at least 75 feet
from the right-of-way line of the street or highway on which such loading dock
fronts and such loading dock is concealed by use of landscaping and earthen
barriers. Truck and trailer maneuvering shall be confined to the property.
Loading and parking areas shall be screened by landscaped earthen barriers or
planting.
         (j)   Streets within the development shall be constructed in
accordance with the prevailing specifications for local street construction in
the township as set forth in
Chapter 152, Subdivision and Land Development.
         (k)   Signs shall conform to the requirements specified in §
153.184 of this chapter. No flashing, animated or portable signs will be
permitted and no building sign shall project above the roofline of the
building.
         (l)   All utilities shall be located underground. Fire hydrants, where
required, and street lighting shall be provided by the developer and properly
located consistent with local standards as enumerated by providing agencies
controlling jurisdictional authority or prevailing industry standards.
         (m)   Storm drainage and facilities shall meet all requirements of §
152.086 of
Chapter 152, Subdivision and Land Development, and other applicable state and
township requirements.
         (n)   All ground areas of the site not covered by buildings, paved
parking, interior roadways and service areas shall be landscaped. Front yard
areas shall be landscaped with lawn and/or other plant materials such as trees
and shrubs. Side and rear yards and all slopes shall be covered by grass,
ground cover or other appropriate plant materials. Paved areas and roadways
shall be limited to portions of the site required for efficient operation of
permitted business activities. In no instance shall paving cover more than 25%
of the gross site area.
         (o)   Sight buffers consisting of plant materials or other appropriate
treatments shall be established and maintained along a site perimeter when
deemed necessary by the Board of Township Supervisors to protect the
environmental quality and/or aesthetic and monetary values of residential
properties that are adjacent to or in reasonably close proximity to the
development site. Natural vegetation or existing topographical conditions may
be utilized, if approved by the Supervisors as adequate, to achieve the
purposes of a buffer. Planting, walls, fencing or other treatments incorporated
in buffer corridors, as required and approved by the Board of Supervisors,
shall be sufficient to provide year-long visual screening from residential
uses. Buffers shall be established consistent with the following minimum
standards.
            1.   The required buffer strip shall be established along the
property perimeter in a manner best suited to achieve its screening purpose.
Plant materials, other than lawn and ground covers not exceeding 18 inches
above grade level, shall not be located within four feet of a highway right-of-
way line.
            2.   The required buffer shall have a height adequate to achieve
its purpose. Plant materials shall consist of dense evergreen plants of a kind
and used in a manner so as to provide a continuous opaque screen within 36
months after planting. The Township Supervisors shall require new planting or
alternative screening if an opaque buffer is not achieved within said period.
            3.   Initial planting shall consist of evergreen plant materials
such as white pine, red pine, Austrian pine or other conifers with a similar
growth rate.
            4.   Trees shall have a minimum initial height of five feet when
planted.
            5.   Plant materials shall be spaced at a minimum distance of ten
feet on center in a double line or otherwise located in a manner and density
that a complete screening purpose is achieved within 36 months.
         (p)   Walls, fences and similar structures may be used alone or in
conjunction with plant materials to create a required buffer strip if approved
by the Township Supervisors pursuant to the following standards and criteria.
            1.   Structures shall be sited and erected consistent with all
provisions of this chapter.
            2.   Structures shall be aesthetically compatible with adjacent
residential and related uses in terms of material, styling and color.
            3.   No advertising shall be permitted in conjunction with said
structures.
         (q)   Outdoor storage areas shall be permitted only in areas that do
not front on a public highway and shall be permitted only if areas are enclosed
or screened by walls, planting or other barriers providing year-round visual
screening.
         (r)   Development may be constructed in phases.
         (s)   Development shall be constructed consistent with an approved
master plan of the total contiguous site holdings of the developer. Subsequent
stages of development shall constitute economically sound and aesthetically
compatible units of expansion with respect to the subject site as well as to
surrounding areas of the community.
         (t)   All contemplated structures and uses shall be designed to ensure
compatibility with the character of perimeter areas and the community in
general. Development plans for all projected immediate and long-range
construction and the improvement of existing structures shall be reviewed by
the Planning Commission and approved by the Board of Supervisors to ensure
compatibility and harmonious integration with surrounding development and the
general vicinity.
         (u)   Site plan design and requirements.
            1.   The site plan must present a unified design consisting of an
organized arrangement of buildings, service facilities, parking and circulation
systems. Buildings shall be sited in conformity and harmony with neighboring
sites. The elevation, orientation and setback of the proposed buildings shall
not detract from the view or appearance of adjacent buildings.
            2.   Harmony with the existing topography is required. The exterior
of buildings shall be treated as an overall design concept. Colors, materials
and finishes shall be coordinated on all exterior elevations of the building to
achieve design continuity. No exterior walls or roofs may be faced with exposed
corrugated or sheet metal. Architectural metal wall panels with an exterior
face of extruded aluminum, stainless sheet, porcelain enameled metal,
galvanized, bonderized steel sheet or anodized aluminum may be used.
            3.   All mechanical equipment if visible outside of a building
shall be screened from view. Roof mounted mechanical equipment that projects
vertically more than 24 inches above the roof or roof parapet, when viewed from
street level, shall be screened by an enclosure.
         (v)   Lighting fixtures shall be designed for area illumination and
utilize shielded or screened lamps designed to control glare. Floodlighting
shall be used only for wall washing and sign illumination. All wiring for site
lighting will be installed underground. Lighting fixtures should be compatible
and harmonious throughout and should be in keeping with the design and function
of the building.
         (w)   Water supply, sewage disposal and site drainage plans shall be
prepared by a civil engineer. All waste disposal shall be in compliance with
US/EPA and PADEP requirements and certified accordingly. All utility lines
shall be placed underground.
      (6)   Performance guarantees: the developer shall provide easements,
covenants and other necessary arrangements and furnish performance bonds and
assurances, as determined necessary by the Township Solicitor to reasonably
assure performance in accordance with the plan, and to protect the public
interest in the event of abandonment prior to completion.
   (J)   Underground coal mine.
      (1)   A conditional use permit may be granted for underground coal mining
within the A-1 Agricultural District subject to the requirements of this
section and the procedures specified in §
153.262 of this chapter.
      (2)   A conditional use permit shall be granted for underground mining
operations only after the applicant has obtained, from each appropriate state
and federal regulatory agency or authority, a permit issued in accordance with
all applicable state and federal laws and regulations for the proposed use. In
the event such permits have not been issued at the time township’s zoning
approval is requested, the applicant’s zoning approval shall be expressly
conditioned on the granting of necessary permits as required by the appropriate
state and federal agencies or authorities. At the time of making application to
such federal or state agencies, the applicant shall file with the Township
Administrative Secretary/Treasurer a copy of each state or federal application
with supporting documentation for the proposed use. The applicant shall also
provide the township with a written irrevocable acknowledgment that, as a
condition to the continued validity of any permit issued by the township, the
owner or operator will continue to maintain, after issuance, a valid permit
pursuant to all local, state and federal laws and regulations, rules,
enforcement orders and conditions.
      (3)   The following regulations shall govern the application process,
development and use of coal mining portals and associated operations.
         (a)   Conditional use authorizations in A-1 and I-1 Districts: said
authorizations in these zoning districts shall be limited to mine portals and
associated operations for the primary purpose of gaining access from the
surface to an underground mine. These regulations shall be applied as the
primary basis for evaluating applications for persons or equipment.
         (b)   The lot area for a mining portal shall be a minimum of 25 acres.
         (c)   All structures, operational activities and parking areas that
are visible from any structure or adjacent parcels used for residential and
related purposes shall be screened in accordance with the requirements of
division (J)(4)(i) below.
         (d)   Applications for conditional use approval shall include:
            1.   A description of plans for transporting materials, products
and equipment for the facility and provisions and assurances for the repair of
any damages to road systems which may occur due to the proposed construction
and subsequent operational activities;
            2.   A site plan drawn at an appropriate scale, showing all
structures, parking, traffic circulation, landscaping, buffers, security
features and other development elements;
            3.   An architectural plan drawn at an appropriate scale showing
structural files and related architectural features of all contemplated
structures;
            4.   Water supply, sewage disposal and site drainage plans prepared
by a civil engineer;
            5.   A written description of the proposed scope of operations,
including the estimated maximum number of shifts, employees and employment per
shift;
            6.   A description of activity levels to include existing or
proposed machinery, processes and products; specifications for the mechanisms
and techniques used, or proposed to be used, in restricting the possible
emission of any dangerous and objectionable elements; measurements of the
amounts of rates of emission of any dangerous and objectionable elements; and
the means to be employed to monitor all such operations;
            7.   Any additional pertinent data as may be required by the Zoning
Officer, Planning Commission and Board of Township Supervisors; and
            8.   All state and municipal code requirements shall be met
consistent with the primary use of the site and associated structures.
      (4)   The following shall govern the development and use of adjunct
mining facilities such as bore holes and ventilating shafts required for, and
used in conjunction with, underground coal mining operations to supply air and
power, ventilate air or gas or remove water from coal mines. These regulations
and requirements shall be applied as the primary basis for evaluating
applications for conditional use adjunct facility authorizations in A-1 and I-
1 Districts:
         (a)   A description of the character, timing and duration of the
proposed operation, including plans showing the location of the site, all
access routes from the public roads, area and extent of the proposed activity;
         (b)   The location and identity of ownership of all structures and
land uses that may be affected by the proposed operation and measures that will
be taken to protect all structures and land uses from adverse impacts from the
proposed use;
         (c)   The plans for restoring and reclaiming the areas following
discontinuance of the underground mining;
         (d)   A description of plans for the transportation of materials and
equipment to construct the facility and measures that will be taken to protect
adjacent property and maintain all roads within the township that are used to
transport materials and equipment and to repair any damages to the roads which
may occur as a result;
         (e)   A description of how the proposed use and facility will meet all
applicable local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning
construction standards, sanitation, water supply and fire protection;
         (f)   A site plan of the proposed facility showing all structures,
facilities accessways, fencing and screening provisions;
         (g)   The lot for a bore hole shall not be less than one-half acre and
such bore hole shall not be located within 50 feet of any property line;
         (h)   Every ventilating shaft, including all structures intended to
supply air or power to underground coal mines, shall be constructed and
landscaped in a manner appropriate to the district in which it is located. Open
areas shall be covered with an appropriate vegetative material and properly
maintained;
         (i)   Fencing; buffer strip.
            1.   All uses shall be completely enclosed by a metal fence not
less than six feet high, with the top portion above the height of six feet
(above ground level) to be constructed of barbed wire or other material, with
the entire fence being constructed in such a manner so as to prevent the entry
onto the portion of the premises on which the use is situate by unauthorized
persons, domestic animals or livestock.
            2.   For each use that is visible from any structure used for
residential, cultural, social, educational, recreational, religious or similar
purposes, there shall be a buffer strip of land planted and maintained for
screening purposes. The required screen shall have a height adequate to achieve
its purpose. Plant materials used for screening shall consist of dense
evergreen plants. They shall be of a kind, or used in such a manner, so as to
provide a continuous opaque screen within 12 months after commencement of
operations in the area to be screened. The Board of Township Supervisors shall
require that either new planting or alternative screening be provided if after
12 months the plant materials do not provide an opaque screen.
         (j)   No person shall cause or permit any steady-state sound to
emanate from a property utilized for adjunct mining operations which exceeds
the levels set forth below. Standards shall apply and sound measurements shall
be taken within 25 feet of any building, located in any district (except the I-
1 District) which is used primarily for human habitation, sleeping, cultural,
social, educational, recreational, religious or similar activities. Suitable
baffles shall be utilized to protect the adjacent properties from noise of
exhaust fans consistent with the following requirements:
            1.   Maximum noise level at property line, 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.:
75 dBA; and
            2.   Maximum noise level at property line, 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.:
70 dBA.
         (k)   The applicant shall have acquired sufficient legal or equitable
interest in the real property in which the site of the adjunct coal mining
facility is located to provide a basis for seeking the use permits.
   (K)   Older adult daily home living facility.
      (1)   The services shall be provided in a family environment as opposed
to an institutional structure or setting.
      (2)   No facility shall include business or professional offices,
business activities, fraternal or social clubs, child care, hospitals, clinics
or other such activities.
      (3)   The number of clients in any single facility shall be limited to no
more than eight clients.
      (4)   Supervision shall be provided by responsible and appropriately
qualified adults on duty on the premises at all times.
      (5)   No facility shall be located less than 2,500 lineal feet from any
other group residential facility, child day-care facility or older adult daily
living facility.
      (6)   In addition to normal residential requirements, sufficient off-
street parking and dropoff/pickup areas shall be provided to accommodate all
traffic associated with the facility.
      (7)   Obstruction-free accessways for emergency vehicles and services
shall be provided.
      (8)   Signs shall be limited to identification boards, emblems or similar
devices not to exceed four square feet in total area.
      (9)   All lighting shall be compatible with the standards and generally
accepted uses prevailing in the immediate residential vicinity.
      (10)   A minimum of 500 square feet of usable indoor space shall be
provided for use of facility clients and a minimum of 800 square feet of
appropriate outdoor space shall be provided for passive recreation purposes.
All lot, area and dimensional requirements of the zoning district shall apply
to this use.
      (11)   All facilities shall comply with the current editions of the IBC
National Fire Prevention Code and the CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code
and with the Pennsylvania Fire and Panic Act and regulations promulgated
pursuant to that Act. Prior to issuing of a zoning permit, the facility shall
be inspected by a representative of the local fire department to ascertain
structure layout, fire escapes and other related information for use in
emergency situations.
      (12)   A license or certification shall be obtained from the Pennsylvania
Department of Aging under 6 Pa. Code Ch. 11, and other state or county agencies
having jurisdiction, prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      (13)   The applicant shall demonstrate to the Township Supervisors that
the proposal for establishing such a facility satisfies a demonstrated need and
will be conducted in a responsible manner without detriment to the surrounding
properties. Further, the application shall be accompanied by an outline of
services to be rendered to clients, including daily activity schedules,
provisions for nutritionally balanced lunches and snacks, social interaction,
health monitoring and other anticipated functions.
      (14)   Operations of the facility shall be limited to day-care and shall
not include overnight accommodations for clients.
      (15)   The sponsor shall file annually with the Township Administrative
Secretary/Treasurer and the Zoning Officer information certifying that the
facility continues to adequately meet the conditions of the original approval.
Changes of sponsorship or of any conditions of original approval shall
constitute a new use and the full conditional use procedure for obtaining a new
use shall be exercised.
      (16)   In considering a request for establishment of a facility under the
provisions for conditional uses in the township, the Planning Commission may
recommend, and the Township Supervisors may attach, any reasonable conditions
and safeguards beyond those expressed in this chapter and other applicable
codes duly enacted.
      (17)   Documentation shall be submitted which certifies approval of
sewage disposal provisions by the Sewage Enforcement Officer, and certification
shall be provided from competent sources that adequate water supply is
available.
   (L)   Older adult daily living center.
      (1)   Older adult daily living centers shall be located only in
commercial, public or semipublic institutional buildings, such as schools,
churches, governmental or similar structures that meet all requirements
specified by the Pennsylvania Department of Aging for such activities. Centers
shall not be conducted in conjunction with single-family residential dwellings.
When conducted on multi-family premises, all operations shall be completely
separate and distinct from residential uses.
      (2)   Activities and functions shall be limited to those within the scope
of the use as defined in this chapter and the criteria cited hereinbelow.
      (3)   Centers shall be limited to and conducted as specified by the
standards and criteria enumerated by divisions (K)(4), (K)(6), (K)(7), (K)(11),
(K)(12), (K)(13), (K)(14), (K)(15), (K)(16) and (K)(17) above.
      (4)   All lot, area and dimensional requirements of the zoning district
shall apply to this use.
   (M)   Cellular communications antenna/tower.
      (1)   The application for conditional use shall include a development and
operation plan. The following information, and all other data deemed
appropriate and necessary to demonstrate that the intent and purposes of this
chapter will be achieved, shall be included:
         (a)   A description of the character, timing and duration of the
proposed construction, operation and use of the facility, including maps and
plans showing the location of the site, all access routes from public roads,
and the regional area to be influenced by the proposed activity and use;
         (b)   The location and identity of ownership of all structures and
land uses that may reasonably be deemed to be affected by the proposed facility
and operation, and measure that will be taken to protect all structures,
inhabitants and land uses from adverse impacts from the proposed use;
         (c)   A description of plans for transportation of materials and
equipment to construct the facility and provisions and assurances for the
repair of any damages that may occur to road systems or property due to the
proposed construction and subsequent activities;
         (d)   When applicable, the applicant shall have obtained from each
appropriate state and federal regulatory agency or authority a permit issued in
accordance with all applicable state and federal laws, directives and
regulations for the proposed use;
         (e)   Complete plans of the proposed tower and all auxiliary
structures and support facilities, including assurances, certified by qualified
licensed engineers and/or architects, as to the integrity and safety of
proposed site structures. The Township Supervisors may require independent
studies and reviews of all such assurances. These shall be prepared by
qualified professionals acceptable to both the developer and the governing
body. The cost of all such studies and reviews shall be borne by the applicant
in cases where issues develop over the need for, or the adequacy of, safety and
compliance with this chapter;
         (f)   A site plan of the proposed facility showing all structures,
facilities, accessways, fencing and screening provisions;
         (g)   Water supply, sewage disposal and site drainage plans prepared
by a civil engineer; and
         (h)   A description of how the proposed use and facility will meet all
applicable local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning
construction standards, sanitation and sewage disposal, water supply and fire
protection.
      (2)   The minimum site area for the facility shall be four contiguous
acres.
      (3)   All structures shall be set back from site property lines a
distance equal to or greater than their total height above ground level,
notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   There shall be a building setback of at least 100 feet along the
perimeter of the development tract and adjacent to all adjoining roads.
      (5)   The site, including all structures, shall be constructed and
landscaped in a manner appropriate to the district in which it is located. Open
areas shall be covered with an appropriate vegetative material and properly
maintained.
      (6)   Suitable landscape screening or buffers shall be developed, if
deemed necessary by the governing body of the township, to minimize visibility
of outside storage or ground level operational functions if said activities are
readily visible from adjoining properties used for residential purposes. Where
required, a screen or buffer shall have a height adequate to achieve its
purpose. Plant materials used for screening shall consist of dense evergreen
plants. They shall be of a kind or used in such a manner so as to provide a
continuous opaque screen within 24 months after commencement of operations in
the area to be screened. The governing body shall require that either new
planting or alternative screening be provided if, after 24 months, the plant
materials do not provide an opaque screen.
      (7)   All uses shall be completely enclosed by a metal fence not less
than six feet high, with the top portion above the height of six feet (above
ground level) to be constructed of barbed wire or other material. The entire
fence shall be constructed in a manner to prevent the entry onto the portion of
the premises on which the use is situated by unauthorized persons, domestic
animals or livestock.
      (8)   Provisions for all vehicular ingress and egress in conjunction with
the site shall be approved by affected property owners and state and township
officials to ensure public safety and the maintenance of unhindered and
efficient traffic movements on adjacent road systems.
      (9)   All applicable parking, sign and other requirements of this chapter
shall apply and must be documented as part of applications submitted for
conditional use approvals.
      (10)   The applicant shall provide the written opinion of a qualified
professional certifying the current cost of the dismantling and removal of the
tower and associated facilities. The township, at its option, may secure the
opinion of another professional to verify the accuracy of the figures
submitted, and the applicant shall bear the cost of obtaining such opinion.
         (a)   As a condition of the issuance of the permit, applicant shall
agree to dismantle and remove the tower and associated facilities promptly
should its use ever be abandoned.
         (b)   The issuance of a permit for the erection of a tower shall be
conditioned on the applicant’s posting of a surety bond guaranteeing the
dismantling and removal of the tower should its use ever be abandoned. The
amount of the bond shall be equal to 120% of the cost of removal of the tower.
The amount of the bond shall be adjusted annually in accordance with the
Consumer Price Index as published by the U.S. Department of Labor.
      (11)   No building permits shall be issued until after final approval of
the application and the final approval and recording of the subdivision site
plan.
   (N)   Mini-warehouse and self-storage units.
      (1)   The minimum site area required shall be two acres.
      (2)   The site shall have frontage on and direct vehicular access to an
arterial or collector street as defined in §
152.015 of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicular access to the site shall be limited to one two-way or two
one-way driveways from each arterial or collector street on which the site has
frontage.
      (4)   All interior driveways shall be paved with an asphalt or similar
surface sufficient for the loads the driveways are expected to bear.
      (5)   Parking shall be provided in accordance with the following:
         (a)   Two spaces for manager’s quarters, if any;
         (b)   One space for each 25 storage units, which spaces shall be
located near the manager’s quarters or office to be used by prospective
customers; and
         (c)   One space for each ten storage units equally distributed
throughout the storage area to be used by the customers.
      (6)   The perimeter of the site shall be fenced with minimum eight-foot-
high chain link fence with self-latching gate. If an outside storage area is
proposed, the fence around the outside storage area shall be supplemented with
screening material that creates a visual barrier that is at least 80% opaque.
      (7)   Maximum building height shall be 20 feet.
      (8)   Maximum length of any storage building shall be 200 feet.
      (9)   The minimum distance between storage buildings shall be 20 feet.
      (10)   Maximum lot coverage by all buildings shall be 60%.
      (11)   Office space may be provided which shall not exceed 5% of the
total area devoted to storage.
      (12)   Storage units shall not be equipped with water or sanitary sewer
service.
      (13)   No business activity other than rental of storage units shall be
conducted on the premises.
      (14)   Operations shall be regulated so that nuisances such as visual
blight, glare, noise, blowing debris or dust shall not be created.
      (15)   Exterior finishes of the storage units shall be compatible with
the character of development on the adjoining properties.
      (16)   No sign shall be on the buildings or on their rooftops.
      (17)   Both the landlord and the tenants shall be responsible for
prevention of the storage of hazardous materials or substances in the storage
buildings.
(2003 Code, § 170-13)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 1-98, passed 3-3-1998;
Ord. 2-98, passed 8-4-1998; Ord. 3-98, passed 10-6-1998; Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-
7-2004; Ord. 1-2009, passed 1-22-2009)
§ 153.077  SPECIAL EXCEPTION PROVISIONS.
   The following special exceptions may be authorized by the Zoning Hearing
Board pursuant to the standards and criteria specified herewith.
   (A)   Conversion apartment.
      (1)   Each living unit shall contain a minimum of 400 square feet of
gross floor area.
      (2)   Each living unit shall contain not less than one private bedroom
and one additional habitable room in addition to separate and private kitchen
and bathroom facilities.
      (3)   The Chief of the Township Fire Department, or designated agent
thereof, shall inspect the premises to evaluate access, fire hazard potential,
fire escape provisions, structural layout and adequacy of smoke and fire alarm
devices.
      (4)   A maximum of two dwelling units shall be permitted in any single
structure.
      (5)   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each living
unit.
      (6)   On-lot sewage disposal systems shall be inspected and certified by
the Sewage Enforcement Officer as capable of meeting the demands of the
additional dwelling unit.
   (B)   Bed-and-breakfast/tourist home.
      (1)   All rooms and related facilities provided for transient guests
shall be normal integral components of the principal dwelling unit. The owner
of the facility must reside
      (2)   No facilities, such as cooking accommodations or similar amenities,
other than those provided for the normal use of the principal dwelling unit,
shall be provided for transient guests.
      (3)   No more than three guest sleeping rooms shall be available or
utilized concurrently for transient guests in any facility.
      (4)   The size of each individual guest sleeping room utilized for
transient guests shall be a minimum of 100 square feet.
      (5)   Maximum occupancy shall not exceed eight guests.
      (6)   Service of meals shall be limited to overnight transient guests.
      (7)   Off-street parking spaces, as specified in §§
153.200 through
153.204 of this chapter, shall be provided to the rear of the front building
line and shall not be sited within any required front yard setback areas.
      (8)   Signs shall be limited as specified in §§
153.180 through
153.189 of this chapter.
      (9)   Only normal residential yard and structure lighting appropriate for
residential purposes shall be permitted.
      (10)   As part of the special exception process, the Chief of the
Township Fire Department, or the designated agent thereof, shall inspect the
premises to evaluate access and structural layout. No certificate of occupancy
shall be issued prior to an inspection by such authority. The owner shall make
the premises available for reinspection by township authorities at any
reasonable time.
      (11)   Only members of the family in residence at the premises shall be
engaged in the conduct of the bed-and-breakfast establishment.
      (12)   Overnight guests shall not occupy the facility for more than three
consecutive nights in a 30-day period.
   (C)   Home occupation.
      (1)   The home occupation shall be carried on wholly within the principal
or accessory structures.
      (2)   No more than 25% of the gross floor area of the principal dwelling
used shall be devoted to the conduct of the home occupation.
      (3)   Articles not related to the permitted business shall not be sold on
the premises.
      (4)   Exterior signs other than those permitted in §
153.182(A)(3) of this chapter shall not be permitted.
      (5)   Objectionable noise, vibration, smoke, dust, electrical
disturbance, odors, heat or glare shall not be produced. The use shall comply
with the performance standards of §
153.222 of this chapter.
      (6)   The use shall not significantly intensify vehicular or pedestrian
traffic, which is normal for the residences in the neighborhood.
      (7)   The use shall not require internal or external alternations or
construction features which are not customary to a dwelling or which change the
fire rating of a structure.
      (8)   There shall be no use of materials or equipment except that of
similar power and type normally used in a residential dwelling for domestic or
household products.
      (9)   The use shall not significantly cause an increase in the use of
water, sewage, garbage, public safety or any other municipal services beyond
that which is normal for the residences in the neighborhood.
      (10)   The use shall not cause a negative impact on lot values in the
immediate neighborhood.
      (11)   The home occupation shall not involve the use of commercial
vehicles for regular delivery of materials to or from the premises.
      (12)   The following uses shall not be considered home occupations and
shall be restricted to the Zoning Districts in which they are specifically
authorized as permitted uses, uses by conditional use or uses by special
exception, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Beauty shops or barber shops containing more than one chair;
         (b)   Clinics, hospitals or nursing homes;
         (c)   Kennels, veterinary offices and clinics;
         (d)   Mortuaries;
         (e)   Private clubs;
         (f)   Private instruction to more than three students at a time;
         (g)   Restaurants or tearooms;
         (h)   Stables;
         (i)   Tourist or boarding homes;
         (j)   Vehicle or equipment rental, repair or sales;
         (k)   Automotive repair and inspection garages, as defined by this
chapter;
         (l)   Licensed day care centers;
         (m)   Butchers; and
         (n)   Nail and tanning salons.
   (D)   Vehicle service and inspection station.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this division (D) is to provide for the
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the township, through zoning for
the reasonable development of land. Accordingly, it is necessary and
appropriate to adopt reasonable requirements for special exceptions so that
such uses are undertaken in a manner that is economically remunerative,
preserves the character of the zoning district, encourages beneficial and
compatible land uses and that minimizes the potential impact on the residents
of the township.
      (2)   Definitions. The foregoing definition shall apply to this section
only.
         VEHICLE SERVICE AND INSPECTION STATION. A service station limited to
routine maintenance of automobiles, vans and light-duty trucks and state
inspection services.
      (3)   Zoning classification.
         (a)   A vehicle service and inspection station shall be permitted as a
special exception within the Agricultural (A-1) District only by the process of
submitting a special exception application.
         (b)   The applicant shall have the duty and the burden to prove
compliance with the specific conditions set forth herein and by way of this
division (D). Applicant shall bear the burden of persuasion to demonstrate that
the proposed special exception will not have detrimental effects on the health,
safety and welfare of township residents relative to any additional conditions.
         (c)   The proposed special exception: will be harmonious with and in
accordance with the general objectives or with any specific objective of the
township’s Comprehensive Plan; will be designed, constructed, operated and
maintained in a commercially reasonable manner so as to be harmonious and
appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity; will not be hazardous to existing neighboring uses; will be
served adequately by essential facilities and services such as streets,
drainage structures, refuse disposal, water and sewer; or the persons or
agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to
adequately provide any such services; will not involve uses, activities,
processes, materials, equipment and conditions of operation that will be
detrimental to any persons, property or the general welfare by reason of
excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke, fumes, glare or odors; will have
vehicular approaches to the property which shall be designed so as not to
create undue interference with traffic on surrounding public thoroughfares;
will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural, scenic or
historic feature of significant importance.
      (4)   Applicability. This division (D) applies to all vehicle service and
inspection stations that will be constructed or operated after the effective
date of this division (D) in the A-1 District. No vehicle service and
inspection stations nor any work in preparation thereof in the A-1 District
shall be commenced within the boundaries of the township unless and until the
owner or operator makes special exception application in conformity with this
division (D).
      (5)   Special exception permit requirement.
         (a)   No vehicle service and inspection station nor any addition
thereto shall be constructed or located within the A-1 District of the township
unless a special exception approval has been issued by the township’s Zoning
Hearing Board to the owner or operator approving the construction or
preparation of the site for a vehicle service and inspection station.
         (b)   The permit application, or amended permit application, shall be
accompanied by a fee in the amount of $300 which may, from time to time, be
amended by resolution. The applicant shall promptly pay any additional fees or
costs incurred by the township that exceed this fee as allowable under the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code.
         (c)   Any modification to an existing and permitted vehicle service
and inspection station that materially alters the size, location or accessory
equipment or structures, shall require a modification of the permit under this
division (D).
      (6)   Special exception permit application.
         (a)   The applicant shall provide to the township’s Zoning Officer at
the time of application:
            1.   A narrative describing an overview of the project including
the number of acres to be involved, location, type and description of equipment
and structures to be involved;
            2.   A location map of the site showing the approximate location of
buildings, structures, parking areas, all permanent improvements to the site
and any post construction surface disturbance in relation to natural and other
surroundings. Included in this map shall be an area within the development site
for the location and parking of vehicles and equipment;
            3.   A detailed description of the hours of operation, number of
employees and types of services to be provided;
            4.   A narrative and map describing the manner and routes for the
transportation and delivery of equipment, machinery and other materials used in
the operation of the vehicle service and inspection station as well as
appropriate site distances for entry and exist routes; and
            5.   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan, in conformance
with the requirements of the County Conservation District, must be submitted
along with obtaining a grading and excavating permit from the township and a
stormwater best management practices agreement between the applicant and the
township in accordance with township ordinances.
         (b)   Within 30 business days after receipt of a permit application
and the required fee, the township will determine whether the application is
complete and adequate and advise the applicant accordingly.
         (c)   If the application is complete, the Township Zoning Hearing
Board shall schedule a public hearing in accordance with the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code and shall, following hearing, render a decision on
the application in accordance with this division (D).
         (d)   If the application is incomplete and/or inadequate, the
Township’s Zoning Officer will promptly notify the applicant of the missing or
inadequate material, in no event longer than 30 days from submittal of the
application, and, upon receiving said material, the Administrative Secretary/
Treasurer shall schedule a Zoning Hearing Board hearing in accordance with the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code and shall, following hearing, render
a decision on the application in accordance with this division (D).
      (7)   Installation and operation.
         (a)   The site must contain a minimum of three acres.
         (b)   Parking areas must be provided for a maximum of six total
customer and employee vehicles. There shall be no overnight parking in the
parking area.
         (c)   Hours of operation are limited to Monday through Friday 8:00
a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
         (d)   The garage shall be setback a minimum of 300 feet from side and
rear lot lines. If no oil separator system is installed in the floor drain
system, a holding tank with alarm must be installed for capturing the floor
drains and records kept for the periodic emptying.
         (e)   No more than one nonresident (of the property) employee shall be
employed at any given time.
         (f)   There shall be no exterior storage of parts and no visible
exterior storage of used vehicle fluids. All such enclosed storage shall be
equipped with secondary spill protection.
         (g)   At no time shall customer, employee or delivery vehicles be
parked unattended on and township right-of-way.
         (h)   The Township Zoning Officer shall inspect the premises prior to
the special use hearing and report to the Zoning Hearing Board. Thereafter the
Zoning Officer shall inspect annually in order for the applicant to maintain
its special exception permit. The applicant shall pay the approved fee for this
annual inspection, which shall be set annually in the township’s fee
resolution.
         (i)   The special exception permit is non-transferrable. Subsequent
owner must apply for special exception approval to continue the operation as a
vehicle service and inspection station.
         (j)   The sewage disposal for any restroom facilities required by law
must be approved by the Sewage Enforcement Officer.
         (k)   Lighting: lighting at the site, either temporary or permanent,
shall be directed downward and inward toward the activity, to the extent
practicable, so as to minimize the glare on public roads and nearby buildings
within 300 feet of the vehicle service and inspection station.
         (k)   Noise: refer to §
153.222(C) for compliance standards.
         (l)   Dust and air pollution.
            1.   Vehicle service and inspection stations shall not create dust
or pollute the air in violation of the Clean Air Act or any other local, state
or federal regulation regarding air cleanliness or nuisances.
            2.   Applicants, owners and operators shall take the necessary
safeguards to ensure appropriate dust control measures are in place.
            3.   The emissions of dust, smoke, refuse matter, odor, gas, fumes
or similar substances or conditions which can endanger the health, safety or
general welfare or which can cause any soiling or staining of persons or
property at any point beyond the property line of the use creating the emission
is prohibited. Dust control measures shall be used to stabilize soil from wind
erosion and to reduce dust generated from site activities.
            4.   Applicants, owners or operators shall take all necessary
precautions to minimize odors during the hours of operation of the vehicle
service and inspection station. If odors resulting from the use or odors
emanating from the site result in nuisance complaints being lodged by township
residents, the owner or operator shall meet with the township and any affected
residents to implement, where warranted and required by the township, effective
odor control measures.
(2003 Code, § 170-14)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 2-99, passed 9-7-1999;
Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-2003; Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-2010; Ord. 01-2013,
passed 2-4-2013)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.078  LOT, AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall apply in A-1 Agricultural Districts.
Lot, Area and Dimensional Requirements
A-1 Agricultural Districts
                             Minimum
         Minimum   Minimum   Front      Minimum    Minimum    Maximum  Maximum
Use      Lot Area  Lot Width Setback    Side Yard  Rear Yard  Building Lot
Category (acres)   (feet)    (feet from (feet)     (feet)     Height   Coverage
                             right-of-                        (feet)
                             way)
Lot, Area and Dimensional Requirements
A-1 Agricultural Districts
                                Minimum
                        Minimum Front                         Maximum
               Minimum  Lot     Setback   Minimum   Minimum   Building Maximum
Use Category   Lot Area Width   (feet     Side Yard Rear Yard Height   Lot
               (acres)  (feet)  from      (feet)    (feet)    (feet)   Coverage
                                right-of-
                                way)
Permitted uses
Agriculture    10       120     **        60        60        NA       NA
Cellular       Refer to §
communications 153.076(M)
antenna/tower
Cemeteries     NA       NA      60        20        20        35       NA
Churches/      2        150     60        40        40        35       35%
educational
Commercial     2        150     60        60        40        35       40%
greenhouse
Commercial     2        150     60        60        40        35       40%
kennel
Commercial     2        150     60        60        40        35       40%
stables
Garden centers 2        150     60        60        40        35       40%
Municipal
building/fire  2        150     60        40        40        35       NA
station
Municipal      NA       NA      50        20        40        35       NA
recreation
No-impact
home-based
business
Single-family  *        120     **        20        30        35       NA
Single mobile  *        120     **        20        30        35       NA
home
Veterinary     2        150     60        60        40        35       40%
clinic
Conditional uses
Day-care       2        150     60        40        40        35       NA
center
Day-care,      #        #       #         #         #         #        #
family
Funeral home   2        150
Group          #        #
residential
Institutional  5        150     60        40        40        35       NA
facility
                        Refer to
Mobile home    20       Chapter 152, §§
park                    152.145 through
                        152.159
Older adult
daily home     Refer to §
living         153.076(K)
facility
Older adult    Refer to §
daily living   153.076(L)
center
Planned        Refer to §
industrial     153.076(I)
district
Planned unit   10       Refer to §
residential             153.076(G)
Recreation/
community,     2        150     60        60        60        35       NA
private
Underground
coal mining
   Mine     25       200     100       100       100       NA       NA
facility
   Adjunct  0.5      120     60        40        40        35       NA
facility
Special exceptions
Bed-and-       #        #       #         #         #         #        #
breakfast
Conversion     2        #       #         #         #         #        #
apartments
Home
occupation
other than a
no-impact
home-based
business
Vehicle
service and
inspection
station
Notes:
NA: Not applicable
*  1 acre with public sewer or approved community treatment systems; 2 acres
with on-lot disposal systems
**  Local streets: 40 feet;
    Collector streets: 50 feet; and
    Arterial streets:  60 feet
#  Standard for principle use shall apply
 
(2003 Code, § 170-15)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 1-98, passed 3-3-1998;
Ord. 2-98, passed 8-4-1998; Ord. 3-98, passed 10-6-1998; Ord. 2-99, passed 9-7-
1999; Ord. 1-2009, passed 1-22-2009; Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-2010; Ord. 01-
2013, passed 2-4-2013)
N-C NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 153.090  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND USE SUMMARY.
   (A)   The N-C Neighborhood Commercial Overlay District is established to
provide locations for general business and related activities for the use and
convenience of area and district consumers at a scale which is in concert with
the existing residential and nonresidential development in the area.
Regulations for this district are intended to generate commercial activities
and associated supporting amenities, to encourage and sustain such functions,
to strengthen the local economic base, to effectuate safe and efficient traffic
circulation and to provide necessary parking facilities.
   (B)   (1)   Generally. The basic requirements of the A-1 Agricultural
District shall be subject to additional standards and regulations of this
subchapter. These additional standards and regulations are intended to
supplement, not repeal, abrogate, impair or replace any existing ordinances or
provisions that relate to zoning or building construction within the township.
      (2)   N-C uses permitted by right.
         (a)   Specialty retail including, but not limited to, the sale of
antiques, sporting goods, electronics, gifts or books;
         (b)   Personal service establishments including, but not limited to,
barber and beauty shops, dance studios, financial consultants, dry cleaning and
similar uses;
         (c)   Administrative office (general);
         (d)   Offices for professional services including, but not limited to,
physicians, lawyers, architects and similar professionals; and offices
incidental to uses permitted in the district;
         (e)   Eating establishments, not to include drive-in or drive-through
uses;
         (f)   Automotive service stations;
         (g)   Commercial service businesses, whether service is provided on
site or away from site;
         (h)   Municipal Building/fire station; and
         (i)   Hotels and motels.
            1.   Permits and plan.
               a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or
maintain a hotel or motel within the township without first having secured a
permit from the township.
               b.   Application for such permit shall be provided by the
Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer upon request. Following the
approval of the Township Supervisors, a building permit shall be issued by the
Administrative Secretary/Treasurer.
               c.   Application for hotel and motel permit shall be accompanied
by a site plan (four copies) for the proposed development. Such site plan shall
include the location and identification of all streets and roads, utility
services and location of all utility shut off points, buildings, building
setbacks, parking areas, buffers and plantings, stormwater drainage, enclosed
rubbish storage area, outdoor lighting, signage, other facilities and shall be
in compliance with 16 Pa. Code Ch. 44. The site plan shall be drawn at an
appropriate scale as to provide ease of review, but at no less than one inch
equals 100 feet.
               d.   Proof must be presented that all plans for the construction
of buildings and facilities have been approved pursuant to the township’s
Building Code (the UCC) by the township’s current state certified building
inspector.
               e.   Proof must be presented that the water and sanitary sewage
facilities have been approved by the Pennsylvania DEP and the Township Sewage
Enforcement Officer (SEO).
               f.   An occupancy permit shall be obtained from the township’s
current state certified building inspector after final inspection and a copy
provided to the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer before the hotel/
motel facility can be utilized and inhabited.
            2.   Standards.
               a.   Lot size and setbacks.
Maximum building coverage                  20%
Maximum impervious surface area            50%
Minimum aggregate width of side yards      80 feet
Minimum depth of front and rear yard       100 feet
Minimum lot area                           2 acres for each principal permitted
                                           building
Minimum lot width at street line           150 feet
Minimum lot width at the building line     150 feet
Minimum width of each individual side yard 40 feet
Minimum yard abutting the street on a      100 feet
corner lot
 
               b.   Building height. No hotel or motel shall exceed three
stories or 35 feet in height.
               c.   Parking. On-site parking must be provided at a minimum of
one space per room and/or suite, one space per restaurant table, and one space
per employee per shift on a paved and well drained lot and must be in
compliance with 16 Pa. Code Ch. 44, Universal Accessibility Standards.
               d.   Special design and development requirements.
                  i.   Access. Any lot area used for off-street parking or for
the storage or movement of motor vehicles shall, except for the necessary
accessway, be separated from the street or highway by a raised curb, planting
strip, wall or other suitable barrier against un-channeled motor vehicle
entrance or exit. The layout of any such parking lot or area shall be designed
in such a manner as to prohibit vehicles from backing out onto the street, and
the capacity and arrangement of the lot shall be adequate for all related uses
and sufficient to prevent the back-up of vehicles on a street while awaiting
entry on the lot.
                  ii.   Outdoor lighting. All driveways, parking areas and
vehicle maneuvering areas shall be adequately illuminated, and all exterior or
outdoor lighting shall be arranged in such a manner so as to protect adjoining
property and traffic from any glare of hazardous interference of any kind. All
such lighting shall be equipped with glare-shielding devices and not be more
than 20 feet high.
                  iii.   Rubbish. All trash and rubbish storage areas shall be
screened from public view and from view of any surrounding uses. The screening
of such storage areas shall be shown on the plan. The proposed methods for
storing and removing trash and rubbish shall be noted on plans submitted for
approval.
            3.   Compliance with other regulations.
               a.   All hotels and motels must comply with the township
floodplain management regulations (see
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances) and successive revisions and amendments
to the ordinance.
               b.   All hotels and motels must comply with 16 Pa. Code Ch. 44,
Universal Accessibility Standards.
               c.   The owner and operator of the facility shall be responsible
for the conduct and safety of the employees, customers, visitors and guests and
shall be available to respond to inquiries and promptly resolve any issues
caused by the employees, customers, visitors and guests.
            4.   Buffer areas. There shall be planted a buffer area of at least
50 feet along the side and rear yards that shall contain plantings of at least
four feet in height when planted, to provide a visual buffer. A minimum of two
rows of evergreen trees or large evergreen shrubs of two different species
shall be planted in staggered rows on 15-foot centers to produce the desired
visual barricade. The intent of the buffer yard is to provide a visual barrier
and screen adjoining existing or future residential development from direct
view of the hotel or motel and from unfiltered headlight beams from guest
traffic and parking. Immediate replacement of dead trees or shrubs shall be
required.
(2003 Code, § 170-15.1)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-
2010; Ord. 7-2016, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 153.091  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Overlay zoning district boundaries shall be identified on the Official
Zoning Map which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this chapter.
   (B)   The boundaries of the overlay property boundary line districts are,
unless otherwise indicated, either the centerlines of existing cartways,
alleys, railroad rights-of-way, stream channels of the overlay property
boundary lines or such lines extended, or lines parallel thereto as shown on
the Zoning Map. Where figures are shown on the Zoning Map between a street and
a district boundary line, they indicate that the district boundary line runs
parallel to the street line at a distance therefrom equivalent to the number of
feet so indicated. Where no figures are shown and no other definite boundaries
are indicated on the Zoning Map, then scaled distances shall be used in
accordance with the scale shown on the Zoning Map.
   (C)   Determination as to whether a property is situated within the
designated N-C Neighborhood Commercial Overlay District shall be made by the
Zoning Officer.
   (D)   Uses listed as permitted on land situated within the designated N-
C Neighborhood Commercial Overlay District shall be reviewed in compliance with
the land development provisions of the township’s Subdivision and Land
Development Chapter (Chapter 152).
   (E)   Uses listed as permitted on land situated within the designated N-
C Neighborhood Commercial Overlay District shall be developed in conformance
with the minimum dimensional and site design standards chart in §
153.094.
(2003 Code, § 170-15.2)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-
2010)
§ 153.092  PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking and loading shall be in accordance with §§
153.200 through
153.204.
(2003 Code, § 170-15.3)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-
2010)
§ 153.093  OVERLAY DISTRICT USE OPTION.
   (A)   Applicability. All parcels, whether developed or undeveloped
previously recorded or created through the subdivision review and approval
process, as outlined in the township Subdivision and Land Development Chapter
(Chapter 152), which are situated in whole or in part in the State Route 30 and
State Route 168 Overlay Zoning Districts shall be developed in conformance with
the provisions of division (B) below, where the property owner chooses to
develop a land use listed in §
153.090 in the State Route 30 and State Route 168 Overlay Zoning Districts.
   (B)   Review and approval procedures.
      (1)   A property owner/developer who chooses to develop land situated in
one of the State Route 30 and State Route 168 Overlay Zoning Districts shall
submit to the Township Zoning Officer at least three copies of a development
narrative and all information required by this section. Said development
narrative shall be accompanied by the following information:
         (a)   Name, address and telephone number of the owner of the property
proposed for development;
         (b)   Parcel identification number, size of parcel and parcel
dimensions;
         (c)   Abutting road rights-of-way and intended location of primary
access;
         (d)   Use or uses proposed to be developed;
         (e)   Location of closest public utilities to subject parcel;
         (f)   Planning objectives to be achieved with the proposed
development; and
         (g)   Area identified as a public right-of-way on the official map
adopted by the township.
      (2)   Prior to formal submission of a land development plan application,
the owner/developer shall attend an informal session with the Township Zoning
Officer, select members of the Planning Commission, Township Sewage Enforcement
Officer, representatives of the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation and
other parties as deemed appropriate by the township. At this work session the
requirements of the land development review and approval process, dimensional
and site design standards enumerated in this subchapter, owner/developer
responsibilities as outlined in this subchapter shall be discussed.
      (3)   Formal submission of a land development plan application for land
situated in the State Route 30 and State Route 168 Overlay Zoning Districts
shall be in conformance with the provisions of the township Subdivision and
Land Development Chapter,
Chapter 152, as amended. All required information, including application and
fees, shall be submitted a minimum of 28 days prior to the next regularly
scheduled Planning Commission meeting. Incomplete or otherwise deficient land
development applications shall be returned to the applicant.
      (4)   The final land development plan recommended for approval by the
Township Planning Commission shall be in compliance with all provisions of the
applicable sections of this subchapter, specifically applicable sections of
this chapter generally, and all provisions of the township Subdivision and Land
Development Chapter (
Chapter 152), where applicable, including all referenced tables, charts and
appendices. Any request for a deviation, revision, deletion or addition to the
specific provisions identified herein shall be treated as a variance to this
chapter and shall be referred to the Township Zoning Hearing Board for public
hearing as per the provision of §
153.264.
      (5)   Where a request for a modification of the design standards for
required public improvements on a land development plan is made, the procedure
for recommendation and approval of such modification shall conform to the
provisions of §
152.129 of this code of ordinances, as amended.
(2003 Code, § 170-15.4)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-
2010)
§ 153.094  THE TABLE OF MINIMUM DIMENSIONAL AND SITE DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The table of minimum dimensional and site design standards is as follows:
State Route 30 and Route 168 Overlay Zoning Districts Table of Minimum
Dimensional and Site Design Standards
Primary Access Public Access Road
State Route 30 and Route 168 Overlay Zoning Districts Table of Minimum
Dimensional and Site Design Standards
Primary Access                                                      Public
                                                                    Access Road
Interior landscaping                                                 
                                                                    10-foot
   Abutting access road                                          landscaped
                                                                    strip
   Building area                                                 No minimum
   Building height (feet)                                        35
Lighting
                                                                    Cutoff
                                                                    luminaries
   Parking lot                                                   - 20-foot
                                                                    maximum
                                                                    height
Minimum building setbacks
   Building setback from Route 30 and Route 168 (feet)           60
   Edge of paved surface to property line (side and rear yards)  10
(feet)
   Maximum lot coverage                                          60%
   Rear setback from rear property line (feet)                   15
   Side yard setback (feet)                                      20
Minimum lot area (acres)                                            2
Minimum lot width (feet)                                            120
 
(2003 Code, § 170-15.5)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-
2010)
R-1 SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.105  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND USE SUMMARY.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The R-1 Suburban Residential District is
established to provide for the development and maintenance of single-family
residential neighborhoods together with activities that are compatible and
normally associated with residential neighborhoods.
   (B)   Use summary.
      (1)   R-1 uses permitted by right.
         (a)   Municipal building and facilities/fire station;
         (b)   No-impact home-based business; and
         (c)   Single-family detached dwellings.
      (2)   R-1 conditional uses.
         (a)   Churches, educational facility;
         (b)   Older adult daily home living facility;
         (c)   Older adult daily living center; and
         (d)   Specialized animal raising.
      (3)   R-1 special exceptions.
         (a)   Conversion apartments; and
         (b)   Day-care/family and center.
(2003 Code, § 170-16)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 3-98, passed 10-6-
1998; Ord. 2-99, passed 9-7-1999; Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-2010)
§ 153.106  CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS.
   The following conditional uses may be authorized by the Township Supervisors
pursuant to the standards and criteria specified herewith.
   (A)   Specialized animal raising.
      (1)   Farm animals of a type indigenous to the vicinity may be kept in
conjunction with residential use, provided that the property contains a minimum
of two contiguous acres of land.
      (2)   Animals may be kept only for noncommercial purposes: for 4H
projects, food production, and/or recreational use of the resident family.
      (3)   Stock shall be limited to one animal per acre. Fowl and small
mammals shall be limited to numbers consistent with acceptable normal practices
and the exclusive noncommercial use of the resident family.
      (4)   Stock shelters shall be set back a minimum distance of 100 feet
from property lines adjacent to residential properties.
      (5)   Except for pasture areas, all feeding, care and maintenance
facilities shall be set back a minimum distance of 100 feet from property
lines.
      (6)   No manure, debris or other by-products or supplies associated with
the animal keeping shall be permitted to accumulate or to be stored in a manner
that results in runoff, odor or other nuisances that cause legitimate offense
to adjacent residential properties.
   (B)   Church, educational facility.
      (1)   Structural conditions, sanitation, entrances and exits, fire
control and other appropriate elements must be certified for compliance with
applicable local, state and federal requirements.
      (2)   Structures shall be compatible with the residential character of
the vicinity in which they will be located.
      (3)   All structures shall be situated on the site in such a manner that
they meet the minimum area and yard requirements specified in §
153.108.
      (4)   Ingress and egress for all site access and off-street parking shall
be situated in a manner to minimize interference with through traffic movements
on adjacent street rights-of-way.
   (C)   Older adult daily home living facility. Older adult daily home living
facility, subject to the standards and criteria of §
153.076(K) of this chapter.
   (D)   Older adult living center. Older adult living center, subject to the
standards and criteria of §
153.076(L) of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 170-17)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 3-98, passed 10-6-
1998)
§ 153.107  SPECIAL EXCEPTION PROVISIONS.
   The following special exceptions may be authorized by the Zoning Hearing
Board, pursuant to the standards and criteria specified herewith:
   (A)   Day-care/family, subject to the standards and criteria of §
153.076(A) of this chapter;
   (B)   Day-care/center, subject to the standards and criteria of §
153.076(B) of this chapter; and
   (C)   Conversion apartment, subject to the standards and criteria of §
153.077(A) of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 170-18)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 2-99, passed 9-7-1999)
§ 153.108  LOT, AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall apply in R-1 Suburban Residential
Districts.
Lot, Area and Dimensional Requirements
R-1 Suburban Residential Districts
                             Minimum
         Minimum   Minimum   Front      Minimum    Minimum    Maximum  Maximum
Use      Lot Area  Lot Width Setback    Side Yard  Rear Yard  Building Lot
Category (acres)   (feet)    (feet from (feet)     (feet)     Height   Coverage
                             right-of-                        (feet)
                             way)
Lot, Area and Dimensional Requirements
R-1 Suburban Residential Districts
                                Minimum
                                Front                         Maximum
Use         Minimum   Minimum   Setback   Minimum   Minimum   Building Maximum
Category    Lot Area  Lot Width (feet     Side Yard Rear Yard Height   Lot
            (acres)   (feet)    from      (feet)    (feet)    (feet)   Coverage
                                right-of-
                                way)
Permitted uses
Municipal
building/   2         150       60        40        40        35       NA
fire
station
No-impact
home-based
business
Single-     *         120       **        20        30        35       NA
family
Conditional uses
Church/     2         150       60        40        40        35       35%
educational
Older adult
daily home  Refer to §
living      153.076(K)
facility
Older adult
daily       Refer to §
living      153.076(L)
center
Specialized                     Refer to §
animal      2         120       153.106(A)
raising
Special exceptions
Conversion  #         #         #         #         #         #        #
apartments
Day-care    2         150       60        40        40        35       35%
center
Day-care,   #         #         #         #         #         #        #
family
Notes:
NA: Not applicable
*  1 acre with public sewer or approved community treatment systems; 2 acres
with on-lot disposal systems
**  Local streets: 40 feet;
    Collector streets: 50 feet; and
    Arterial streets:  60 feet
#  Standard for principle use shall apply
 
(2003 Code, § 170-19)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 3-98, passed 10-6-
1998; Ord. 2-99, passed 9-7-1999; Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-2010)
R-2 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.120  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND USE SUMMARY.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The R-2 Residential District is established to
provide for a mix of single- and multi-family residential dwelling units in
areas of the municipality that are appropriate for blending of land uses
commensurate with existing development patterns and intercommunity access
facilities.
   (B)   Use summary.
      (1)   R-2 uses permitted by right.
         (a)   Duplex housing;
         (b)   Municipal uses;
         (c)   No-impact home-based business; and
         (d)   Single-family residential.
      (2)   R-2 conditional uses.
         (a)   Multi-family housing;
         (b)   Older adult daily home living facility; and
         (c)   Older adult daily living center.
(2003 Code, § 170-20)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 3-98, passed 10-6-
1998; Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-2010)
§ 153.121  CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS.
   The following conditional uses may be authorized by the Township Supervisors
pursuant to the standards and criteria specified herewith:
   (A)   Multi-family housing, to include apartments, garden apartments or row
houses (townhouses);
      (1)   Multi-family dwellings in an R-2 District shall meet the following
minimum standards.
         (a)   All multi-family dwellings shall be provided with public or
PADEP approved private central sewage disposal systems. No on-lot disposal
shall be authorized.
         (b)   The following minimum lot size requirements shall apply: 34,000
square feet for first dwelling unit, and 22,000 square feet for each additional
dwelling unit on the site.
         (c)   All lots shall have a minimum width at the building line of 150
feet. The building line shall be a minimum of 60 feet from the street right-of-
way.
      (2)   The following design standards shall apply.
         (a)   No row house (townhouse) shall exceed three stories in height.
         (b)   No row house (townhouse) structure shall contain more than four
dwelling units.
         (c)   No row house (townhouse) structure shall be more than 120 feet
in length.
         (d)   No apartment structure shall exceed three stories in height.
         (e)   At least three off-street parking spaces shall be provided for
each dwelling unit and such space shall be within 150 feet of any commonly used
entranceway for such dwelling units.
         (f)   Buildings shall be so designed as to avoid monotonous patterns
of construction, or repetitive spaces or modules between buildings.
         (g)   No structure shall be erected within 25 feet of another
structure.
      (3)   Municipal sewage facilities shall be utilized where available. An
approved (PADEP) sanitary sewage disposal system of sufficient size and design
to adequately serve the maximum designed capacity of the proposed residential
units in the development shall be provided in the absence of an approved
municipal sewage system.
      (4)   Municipal water systems shall be utilized where available. An
approved (PADEP) water system shall be provided to serve the maximum designed
capacity of the proposed residential units in the absence of public water
supply.
      (5)   All multi-family dwelling unit development shall be subject to
preliminary site plan review and approval in accordance with the following
application requirements:
         (a)   Overall development plans showing:
            1.   Kind, location, occupancy capacity of structures and uses;
            2.   General floor plan of building;
            3.   Location and identification of open space, streets and all
other means for pedestrian and vehicular circulation, parks, recreational areas
and other nonbuilding sites;
            4.   Provisions for automobile parking and loading;
            5.   General landscape plan;
            6.   General location and nature of public and private utilities
and community facilities and services; and
            7.   Plan for collection and drainage of stormwater.
   (B)   Older adult daily home living facility, subject to the standards and
criteria of §
153.076(K) of this chapter; and
   (C)   Older adult daily living center, subject to the standards and criteria
of §
153.076(L) of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 170-21)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 3-98, passed 10-6-
1998)
§ 153.122  SPECIAL EXCEPTION PROVISIONS.
   No special exceptions are authorized within the R-2 Multi-Family District.
(2003 Code, § 170-22)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.123  LOT, AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
Lot, Area and Dimensional Requirements
R-2 General Residential Districts
                             Minimum
         Minimum   Minimum   Front      Minimum    Minimum    Maximum  Maximum
Use      Lot Area  Lot Width Setback    Side Yard  Rear Yard  Building Lot
Category (acres)   (feet)    (feet from (feet)     (feet)     Height   Coverage
                             right-of-                        (feet)
                             way)
Lot, Area and Dimensional Requirements
R-2 General Residential Districts
                              Minimum
                              Front                           Maximum
Use       Minimum   Minimum   Setback   Minimum    Minimum    Building Maximum
Category  Lot Area  Lot Width (feet     Side Yard  Rear Yard  Height   Lot
          (acres)   (feet)    from      (feet)     (feet)     (feet)   Coverage
                              right-of-
                              way)
Permitted uses
Single-   *         120       **        20         30         35       NA
family
Duplex    ***       150       **        20         30         35       NA
Municipal
building/ 2         150       60        40         40         35       NA
fire
station
No-impact
home-
based
business
Conditional uses
Multi-
family    ¶        150       60        40         40         35       35%
housing
Older
adult
daily     Refer to §
home      153.076(K)
living
facility
Older
adult     Refer to §
daily     153.076(K)
living
center
Notes:
NA: Not applicable
*    1 acre with public sewer or approved community treatment systems; 2 acres
with on-lot disposal systems
**  Local streets: 40 feet;
      Collector streets: 50 feet; and
      Arterial streets:  60 feet
*** 1-1/2 acres with public sewer or approved community treatment systems;
note: duplex units shall not be permitted
      with on-lot disposal systems
¶    See §
153.121(A)
 
(2003 Code, § 170-23)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 3-98, passed 10-6-
1998; Ord. 2-99, passed 9-7-1999; Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-2010)
C-1 LIGHT COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.135  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND USE SUMMARY.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The C-1 Light Commercial District is established
to provide locations for general business and related activities for the use
and convenience of area and district consumers. Regulations for this district
are intended to generate commercial activities and associated supporting
amenities, to encourage and sustain such functions, to strengthen the local
economic base, to effectuate safe and efficient traffic circulation and to
provide necessary parking facilities.
   (B)   Use summary.
      (1)   C-1 uses permitted by right.
         (a)   Bank and related financial services;
         (b)   Clinic;
         (c)   Funeral home;
         (d)   Municipal buildings and facilities, including recreation;
         (e)   Offices: business, professional, sales;
         (f)   Personal and professional services;
         (g)   Recreation, commercial indoor/including private clubs;
         (h)   Restaurants (not drive-in);
         (i)   Retail sale and service; and
         (j)   Hotels and motels (see §
153.090(B)(2)(i)).
      (2)   C-1 conditional uses.
         (a)   Day-care center;
         (b)   Mini-warehouse and self-storage units; and
         (c)   Older adult daily living center.
      (3)   C-1 special exceptions.
         (a)   Ancillary residential;
         (b)   Car wash and automobile service station; and
         (c)   Drive-in restaurant.
(2003 Code, § 170-24)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 3-98, passed 10-6-
1998; Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 7-2016, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 153.136  CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS.
   The following conditional uses are authorized within the C-1 Light
Commercial District:
   (A)   Older adult daily living center, subject to the standards and criteria
of §
153.076(L) of this chapter;
   (B)   Day-care center, subject to the standards and criteria of §
153.076(B) of this chapter; and
   (C)   Mini-warehouse and self-storage units, subject to the standards and
criteria of §
153.076(N) of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 170-25)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 3-98, passed 10-6-
1998; Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 153.137  SPECIAL EXCEPTION PROVISIONS.
   The following special exceptions may be authorized by the Zoning Hearing
Board pursuant to the standards and criteria specified herewith.
   (A)   Ancillary residential.
      (1)   Residential use ancillary to commercial establishments shall be
limited to one dwelling unit per commercial unit.
      (2)   Occupancy of the dwelling unit shall be limited to a person or
persons directly associated and involved with the business through ownership or
employment on an on-going basis
      (3)   All such dwelling units shall be situated within the primary
related commercial structure.
      (4)   The dwelling unit shall meet the following minimum requirements:
         (a)   Minimum area: 400 square feet;
         (b)   Each unit shall contain not less than one private bedroom and
one additional habitable room in addition to private bath, sanitation and
cooking facilities, all of which shall be segregated and independent of the
primary commercial use;
         (c)   Fire and safety provisions shall be adequate to meet all
applicable local and state requirements; and
         (d)   In the absence of public sewerage facilities, certification
shall be obtained from the appropriate local authority that on-site sewage
disposal facilities are adequate to serve the anticipated demands of the
projected use.
   (B)   Car wash and automobile service station.
      (1)   Off-street parking, holding and circulation areas shall be arranged
so as not to cause blockage of any means of ingress and egress and to assure
that the traffic flow on adjacent public thoroughfares is not endangered or
impeded in any way.
      (2)   Means of ingress and egress shall be established and clearly
marked. Where both an automobile laundry and an auto service facility are in
joint operation, separate means of ingress and egress shall be required for
each facility.
      (3)   If additional acceleration or deceleration lanes are deemed
necessary by the township or the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, the
developer shall be responsible for providing the necessary right-of-way and the
cost of constructing such facilities.
   (C)   Drive-in restaurant.
      (1)   Points of vehicular ingress and egress shall be clearly delineated.
The angle and siting of driveway intersections with adjacent thoroughfares
shall be based upon safe traffic movements and shall be approved only following
a positive report from the Township Engineer.
      (2)   A fence or wall of at least 36 inches in height shall be erected
along all abutting properties. Said fence or wall shall be protected from
potential damage from vehicles by means of properly installed freeway-type
metal bumper guards or equal protective measures approved by the Township
Supervisors.
      (3)   Provisions shall be established and maintained on a continuing
basis to control and eliminate litter on, and adjacent to, the site.
(2003 Code, § 170-26)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.138  LOT, AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall apply in C-1 Light Commercial Districts.
Lot, Area and Dimensional Requirements
C-1 Light Commercial Districts
                             Minimum
         Minimum   Minimum   Front      Minimum    Minimum    Maximum  Maximum
Use      Lot Area  Lot Width Setback    Side Yard  Rear Yard  Building Lot
Category (acres)   (feet)    (feet from (feet)     (feet)     Height   Coverage
                             right-of-                        (feet)
                             way)
Lot, Area and Dimensional Requirements
C-1 Light Commercial Districts
                                Minimum
                                Front                         Maximum
             Minimum  Minimum   Setback   Minimum   Minimum   Building Maximum
Use Category Lot Area Lot Width (feet     Side Yard Rear Yard Height   Lot
             (acres)  (feet)    from      (feet)    (feet)    (feet)   Coverage
                                right-of-
                                way)
Permitted uses
Banks -      1        120       35        15        15        40       60%
related
Clinic       1        120       35        15        15        40       60%
Funeral home 1        120       35        15        15        40       60%
Hotels/
motels
Municipal    1        120       35        15        15        40       60%
facilities
Office       1        120       35        15        15        40       60%
Personal/
professional 1        120       35        15        15        40       60%
services
Recreation -
commercial   1        120       35        15        15        40       60%
indoor
Restaurant   1        120       35        15        15        40       60%
Retail -
sales/       1        120       35        15        15        40       60%
service
Conditional uses
Older adult  Refer to §
daily living 153.076(L)
center
Special exceptions
Ancillary    #        #         #         #         #         #        #
residential
Car wash/    2        120       35        15        15        40       40%
auto service
Drive-in     2        120       35        15        15        40       40%
Notes:
*    All lots shall have a minimum of 2 acres if not serviced by an approved
public or community sewage system
#    Standards for principal use shall apply
 
(2003 Code, § 170-27)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 3-98, passed 10-6-
1998)
C-2 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.150  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND USE SUMMARY.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The C-2 Highway Commercial District is designed
to provide sites for both light commercial and heavy commercial activities
along major highway corridors to serve local and transient patrons.
   (B)   Use summary.
      (1)   C-2 uses permitted by right.
         (a)   All uses by right in the C-1;
         (b)   District automotive sales, service, rental;
         (c)   Building materials sales retail and wholesale;
         (d)   Car wash;
         (e)   Distributing and beverage bottling;
         (f)   Garden centers, commercial greenhouses, equipment sales;
         (g)   Light manufacturing and fabrication;
         (h)   Packaging and delivery service;
         (i)   Printing and publishing;
         (j)   Restaurant drive-in;
         (k)   Shops, custom work and repair;
         (l)   Truck terminals, freight handling;
         (m)   Warehousing and storage;
         (n)   Wholesale distribution;
         (o)   Veterinary clinics; and
         (p)   Hotels and motels (see §
153.090(B)(2)(i)).
      (2)   C-2 conditional uses.
         (a)   Institutional facility;
         (b)   Mini-warehouses and self-storage units;
         (c)   Recreation, private and commercial/indoor and outdoor;
         (d)   Integrated business area; and
         (e)   Retail shopping centers.
      (3)   C-2 special exceptions. No uses are authorized for special
exception.
(2003 Code, § 170-28)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-
2004; Ord. 7-2016, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 153.151  CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS.
   The following conditional uses may be authorized by the Township Supervisors
pursuant to the standards and criteria specified herewith.
   (A)   Integrated business area. Integrated business sites consisting of a
combination of permitted uses in the C-2 District by right on a common
contiguous site and designed as a unit may be permitted subject to the
following minimum requirements.
      (1)   Sites shall be a minimum of five acres.
      (2)   Structures shall be set back at least 100 feet from the road right-
of-way.
      (3)   Structures shall be a minimum of 50 feet from all adjacent property
lines.
      (4)   All site roads shall be constructed to meet or exceed the following
standards:
         (a)   An eight-inch-thick subbase;
         (b)   A six-inch-thick bituminous concrete base course;
         (c)   A two-inch-thick bituminous wearing course LD-2 shall be
constructed on the prepared base course; and
         (d)   Site road cartways shall be at least 30 feet in width and
properly drained.
      (5)   A site plan, prepared by an architect or civil engineer registered
in the commonwealth shall be submitted which contains the following
information:
         (a)   A survey drawn to scale prepared by a licensed professional land
surveyor, registered in the commonwealth, showing the exact size, shape and
dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
         (b)   The exact size and location of all existing buildings and
structures on the lot and the structure or building proposed to be erected,
moved, repaired or altered;
         (c)   All adjacent streets with traffic flow patterns;
         (d)   A circulation plan for all vehicles, including provisions for
ingress and egress drives for all off-street parking and loading areas;
         (e)   Preliminary architectural and engineering sketches showing plan
elevations and other necessary information related to water runoff control,
contours, type of building construction and other related existing and proposed
site features;
         (f)   A detailed site drainage plan showing on-site facilities and
provisions for handling runoff beyond the site; and
         (g)   A plan showing water supply and sewerage facilities consistent
with requirements of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
      (6)   Off-street loading, parking and signs shall be provided and
developed consistent with the requirements of §§
153.180 through
153.189 and
153.200 through
153.204 of this chapter. The following area and bulk requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Site size: 217,800 square feet (five acres);
         (b)   Site width: 150 feet minimum;
         (c)   Site coverage: 40% maximum;
         (d)   Distance between buildings: 30 feet minimum;
         (e)   Building setback line: 100 feet minimum;
         (f)   Side yards: 50 feet minimum;
         (g)   Rear yards: 50 feet minimum;
         (h)   Paved areas: 60% maximum; and
         (i)   Building height: 40 feet.
   (B)   Institutional facility. Institutional facility, subject to the
standards and criteria of §
153.076(H) of this chapter.
   (C)   Recreation, private and commercial/indoor and outdoor. Recreation,
private and commercial/indoor and outdoor, subject to the standards and
criteria of §
153.076(C) of this chapter.
   (D)   Retail shopping center. A combination of retail commercial and service
uses situated on a common site and designed as an integral retail center.
      (1)   The proposed site shall not be less than five acres in size, meet
Act 537 (see 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.) and all local sewerage requirements, be
under single ownership or control and shall be developed as a single entity.
Permitted uses shall be limited to those uses specified for C-1 Districts under
the provisions of this chapter for use by right and special exception.
      (2)   Off-street loading, parking and signs shall be provided and
developed consistent with the requirements of §§
153.180 through
153.189 and
153.200 through
153.204 of this chapter.
      (3)   The following area and bulk requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Site size: 217,800 square feet (five acres);
         (b)   Site width: 150 feet minimum;
         (c)   Site coverage: 40% maximum;
         (d)   Distance between buildings: 30 feet minimum;
         (e)   Building setback line: 100 feet minimum;
         (f)   Side yards: 50 square feet minimum;
         (g)   Rear yards: 50 feet minimum;
         (h)   Paved areas: 60% maximum; and
         (i)   Building height: 40 feet.
      (4)   A site plan, prepared by a licensed architect or civil engineer
registered in the commonwealth shall be submitted as part of the application
for conditional use for review by the Planning Commission and the Township
Supervisors. The site plan shall include:
         (a)   A survey drawn to scale prepared by a licensed professional land
surveyor, registered in the commonwealth, showing the exact size, shape and
dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
         (b)   The exact size and location of all existing buildings and
structures on the lot;
         (c)   The exact size and location on the lot of the structure or
building proposed to be erected, moved, repaired or altered;
         (d)   All adjacent streets or alleys with traffic flow patterns;
         (e)   The proposed parking facilities including the size, arrangement
and number of parking stalls and placement of lighting standards;
         (f)   The circulation plan for all vehicles and ingress and egress
drives for all off-street parking and loading areas both front and rear, to
ensure the prevention of blockage of vehicles entering and leaving the site and
to provide for clean lines of vision;
         (g)   Preliminary architectural and engineering sketches showing plan
levels, elevations and other necessary information related to water runoff
control, slope, contours, type of building construction and the like;
         (h)   Areas to be utilized for the exterior storage of materials and
type of architectural screen to be provided; and
         (i)   Such other information as may be required by the Board of
Supervisors, the Planning Commission and
Chapter 152, Subdivision and Land Development.
   (E)   Mini-warehouse and self-storage units. Mini-warehouse and self-storage
units, subject to the standards and criteria of §
153.076(N) of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 170-29)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 1-2003, passed 6-3-
2003; Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 153.152  SPECIAL EXCEPTION PROVISIONS.
   No uses are specified for approval as special exceptions in the C-2 Highway
Commercial District.
(2003 Code, § 170-30)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.153  LOT, AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall apply in C-2 Highway Commercial Districts.
Lot, Area and Dimensional Requirements
C-2 Highway Commercial Districts
                             Minimum
         Minimum   Minimum   Front      Minimum    Minimum    Maximum  Maximum
Use      Lot Area  Lot Width Setback    Side Yard  Rear Yard  Building Lot
Category (acres)   (feet)    (feet from (feet)     (feet)     Height   Coverage
                             right-of-                        (feet)
                             way)
Lot, Area and Dimensional Requirements
C-2 Highway Commercial Districts
                               Minimum
                       Minimum Front                         Maximum
              Minimum  Lot     Setback   Minimum   Minimum   Building Maximum
Use Category  Lot Area Width   (feet     Side Yard Rear Yard Height   Lot
              (acres)  (feet)  from      (feet)    (feet)    (feet)   Coverage
                               right-of-
                               way)
Permitted uses
Automotive    1        150     50        25        25        40       50%
Building      1        150     50        25        25        40       50%
materials
C-1 uses by   1        120     50        25        25        40       50%
right
Car wash      1        150     50        25        25        40       50%
Distributing/ 1        150     50        25        25        40       50%
bottling
Drive-in      1        120     50        25        25        40       50%
Garden center 1        150     50        25        25        40       50%
Hotels/motels
Light         1        120     50        25        25        40       50%
manufacturing
Mini-         1        150     50        25        25        40       60%
warehouse
Packaging/    1        120     50        25        25        40       50%
delivery
Printing/     1        120     50        25        25        40       50%
publishing
Shops/custom  1        120     50        25        25        40       50%
work
Truck         1        150     50        25        25        40       50%
terminal
Veterinary    Refer to lot, area and dimensional requirements for this use in
clinic        A-1 District
Warehousing/  1        150     50        25        25        40       60%
storage
Wholesale     1        150     50        25        25        40       50%
distribution
Conditional uses
Institutional 5        150     60        40        40        35       NA
facility
Integrated    5        150     100       50        50        40       40%
business
Recreation    2        150     60        60        60        35       NA
Shopping      5        150     100       50        50        40       40%
center
Notes:
NA Not applicable
*    All lots shall have a minimum of 2 acres if not serviced by an approved
public or community sewage system
 
(2003 Code, § 170-31)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.165  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND USE SUMMARY.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The I Industrial District is established to
provide for both heavy commercial and industrial oriented land use activities.
Regulations are designed to permit uses of this nature consistent with the
viability of the activity and the maintenance of the quality of adjacent land
use districts.
   (B)   Use summary.
      (1)   I uses permitted by right.
         (a)   All uses by right in the C-2 District;
         (b)   Barge docking and repair operations;
         (c)   Mini-warehouse and self-storage units; and
         (d)   Hotels and motels (see §
153.090(B)(2)(i)).
      (2)   I conditional uses.
         (a)   Landfills;
         (b)   Waste recycling centers;
         (c)   Underground coal mine;
         (d)   Automotive recycling and material salvage yards; and
         (e)   Sexually oriented business.
      (3)   I special exceptions.
         (a)   Integrated business area; and
         (b)   Junkyards.
(2003 Code, § 170-32)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 3-94, passed 6-7-1994;
Ord. 2-98, passed 8-4-1998; Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 1-2009, passed
1-22-2009; Ord. 1-2011, passed 3-7-2011; Ord. 7-2016, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 153.166  CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS.
   The following conditional uses may be authorized by the Township Supervisors
pursuant to the standards and criteria specified herewith.
   (A)   Landfills.
      (1)   All activities conducted in association with, and as a part of, any
landfill shall be in accordance with all applicable federal and state statutes,
rules and regulations.
      (2)   The applicant shall have obtained, from appropriate state and
federal regulatory agencies or authorities, permits issued in accordance with
all applicable laws and regulations for the proposed use. In the event such
permits have not been issued at the time township conditional use approval is
requested, the applicant’s zoning approval shall be expressly conditioned on
the granting of necessary permits as required by the above agencies or
authorities. At the time of making application to such authorities, the
applicant shall file with the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer a
copy of each state or federal application with supporting documentation for the
proposed use.
      (3)   Materials transported to, processed, handled and stored at the
landfill shall be limited to nonhazardous refuse and waste, including solid,
liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous material, resulting from operation of
residential, municipal, institutional, commercial or industrial establishments.
No materials that are classified as hazardous and/or that have the
characteristics of toxicity, reactivity, ignitability or corrosivity to the
extent that they may be deemed hazardous shall be transported to, processed,
handled or stored at the landfill.
      (4)   A site plan shall be included in the landfill application that
delineates site ingress and egress, use areas within the site, phasing of use
areas, location of all structures, and location and description of all required
screening and fencing.
      (5)   No landfill shall be established on a site containing less than 75
contiguous acres.
      (6)   The applicant shall include plans for transportation of materials
to the site. Said plans shall delineate access routes, provisions for traffic
control and procedures to minimize littering and overflow problems along access
routes contiguous to the site. Measures that will be taken to maintain all
township roads used for primary site access shall be specified.
      (7)   Bonds in amounts specified by the Board of Township Supervisors
shall be posted by the applicant to repair any damages to roads that may result
from the landfill operation.
      (8)   The applicant shall outline procedures to be employed to provide
for antipollution and nuisance control, the protection of area-wide water
supplies and other applicable concerns related to the health and safety of
adjacent residential areas.
      (9)   For each site that is adjacent to, or considered by the Planning
Commission and Board of Supervisors to be visibly or environmentally
detrimental to the use of any structure for residential habitation, cultural,
social, educational, recreational, religious or similarly related purpose in
any district, there must be preserved a strip of land for screening purposes on
any side of the tract of land on which the residential or related use is
situated. The preserved strip shall be a minimum of 100 feet in width. The
required screen shall have a height adequate to achieve its purpose. Plant
materials used for screening shall consist of dense evergreen plants. They
shall be of a kind, or used in such a manner, so as to provide a continuous
opaque screen within 24 months after commencement of operations in the area to
be screened. The Board of Township Supervisors shall require that either new
planting or alternative screening be provided if, after 24 months, the plant
materials do not provide an opaque screen.
      (10)   All active use areas shall be completely enclosed by a metal fence
not less than six feet high with the entire fence being constructed in such a
manner so as to prevent the entry by unauthorized persons onto the portion of
the premises on which the use is situated.
      (11)   Parking in association with the facility shall be accommodated on-
site.
      (12)   Site access points shall be designed to preclude the stacking of
entering vehicles onto any adjacent public right-of-way or onto adjacent or
nearby land parcels that are not under ownership or lease and not a contiguous
part of the disposal facility.
      (13)   The Board of Township Supervisors, as part of the conditional use
review process, may consider the nature of the material to be processed at a
facility and may determine that the facility may constitute an unacceptable
risk to the general health, safety and public welfare of the residents of the
township. Any costs incurred by the township in making said determinations and
preparing comments for the Department of Environmental Protection in connection
with allowable materials or siting criteria shall be reimbursed by the
applicant.
   (B)   Waste recycling center.
      (1)   Waste recycling and related handling activities shall be restricted
to nonhazardous materials and all activities and functions shall be in
accordance with applicable federal, state, county and township rules,
regulations and directives.
      (2)   No recycling activities and functions shall be established on a
site containing less than five contiguous acres.
      (3)   All facilities shall have a chain link fence at least six feet high
around all activity areas and said areas shall be secured during nonbusiness
hours.
      (4)   The perimeter of any site that borders a public highway or an
adjacent A-1, R-1 or R-2 Zoning District shall be screened and landscaped
consistent with the applicable requirements of §§
153.215 through
153.228.
      (5)   Site access points shall be designed to preclude the stacking of
entering vehicles onto any adjacent public right-of-way.
      (6)   All parking in association with on-site activities shall be
accommodated on-site.
      (7)   All materials brought to the site shall be processed and shipped
from the site in an expedient manner, consistent with commonly accepted
recycling procedures and practices. No extended term storage or keeping of
materials shall be permitted in conjunction with recycling centers.
      (8)   The applicant for the conditional use permit shall be responsible
for correcting any litter problems that occur within one-half mile of the
recycling center that are attributable to the center and related operations.
Failure to correct said problem shall be cause for revocation of the
conditional use permit.
   (C)   Sexually oriented business regulations.
      (1)   Operation. The operation of or cause to operate a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which maintains on the premises one or
more viewing rooms for live performances, film or videocassette or other video
or other image production or reproduction which depicts specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following
requirements.
         (a)   The application for a permit to operate a sexually oriented
business shall be accompanied by a floor plan and plot plan diagram of the
premises showing a plan thereof specifying the location of one or more
manager’s stations, the location of all viewing rooms, partitions and doors and
the location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of
the premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may
not exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the
place at which the permit will be conspicuously posted if granted. A
professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architects
blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to
the north or to some designated street or object and should be drawn to a
designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all interior areas of the premises to an accuracy of
plus or minus six inches. The Zoning Officer may waive the foregoing diagram
for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously
submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been
altered since it was prepared.
         (b)   The application should be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
         (c)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the Zoning Officer or his or
her designee.
         (d)   It is the duty of the owners and operators of the premises to
ensure that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s
station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
         (e)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every
area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose,
excluding rest rooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction or viewing
equipment. If the premises has two or more managers’ stations designated, then
the interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is
an unobstructed view from at least one of the manager’s stations of each area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. The
view required in this division (C)(1)(e) must be by direct line of sight from
the managers’ station. The interior of the premises shall be configured in such
a manner that there is an unobstructed view from a managers’ station of every
area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose,
excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction or viewing
equipment. If the premises has two or more managers’ stations designated, then
the interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is
an unobstructed view from at least one of the manager’s stations of each area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. The
view required in this division (C)(1)(e) must be by direct line of sight from
the managers’ station.
         (f)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operators and it shall
also be the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises to ensure
that the view area specified in division (C)(1)(e) above remains unobstructed
by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times
and to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in
the application filed pursuant to division (C)(1)(a) above.
         (g)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time. No connections or openings to an adjoining viewing room shall be
permitted.
         (h)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures
of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than one footcandle as measured
at the floor level.
         (i)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operators and it shall
also be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure
that the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any
patron is present in the premises.
      (2)   Violation. A person having a duty under division (C)(1)(e) above is
guilty of a violation of this section if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill
that duty.
      (3)   Exemptions. It is a defense to prosecution under this division (E)
(3) and division (C)(1)(e) above that a person appearing in a state of nudity
did so in a modeling class operated:
         (a)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the commonwealth or a
college, junior college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
         (c)   In a structure:
            1.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure
and no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
            2.   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must
enroll at least three days in advance of the class; and
            3.   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any
one time.
      (4)   Injunction. A person who operates or causes to be operated a
sexually oriented business without a valid permit or in violation of this
chapter is subject to an action in equity or suit for injunction as well as
citations for violations of this chapter.
      (5)   Lot, area and dimensional requirements. The lot, area and
dimensional requirements set forth for the I Industrial District in §
153.168 shall be amended in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
      (6)   Permit requirements.
         (a)   Any person who operates a sexually oriented business without a
valid permit issued by the township is guilty of a violation of this chapter.
         (b)   The applicant must comply with the provisions of this chapter
and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with the law
by the Zoning Officer.
         (c)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business
is an individual, he or she must sign the application for a permit as
applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
other than an individual, each individual who has 10% or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a
corporation is listed as owner of a sexually oriented business or as the entity
which wishes to operate such a business, each individual having a direct or
indirect interest of 10% or greater in the corporation must sign the
application for a permit as applicant.
         (d)   The fact that a person possesses other types of township permits
does not exempt the person from the requirement of obtaining a sexually
oriented business permit.
      (7)   Issuance of permit.
         (a)   The Township Zoning Officer shall approve the issuance of a
permit to an applicant within 30 days after receipt of an application unless he
or she finds one or more of the following to be true.
            1.   The proposed adult business does not conform to the township
ordinance.
            2.   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
            3.   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse is overdue in his or her
payment to the township of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against him
or her or imposed upon him or her in relation to a sexually oriented business.
            4.   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the permit or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form.
            5.   An applicant is residing with a person who had been denied a
permit by the township to operate a sexually oriented business within the
preceding 12 months or residing with a person whose license to operate a
sexually oriented business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months.
            6.   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business
have been reviewed and have been disapproved by the Zoning Officer as not being
in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
            7.   The permit fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
            8.   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of
or is not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
            9.   An individual applicant or any individual holding a direct or
indirect interest of more than 10% of a corporate applicant or any of the
officers and directors of a corporate applicant, if the applicant is a
corporation; or any of the partners, including limited partners, if the
applicant is a partnership; or the manager or other person in charge of the
operation of the applicant’s business, has or have been convicted of an offense
involving sexual misconduct within the commonwealth including, but not limited
to, prostitution, obscenity and possession of child pornography, or convicted
of any offense in any jurisdiction other than the commonwealth that would have
constituted an offense involving sexual misconduct if committed within the
commonwealth. In order for approval to be denied pursuant to this division (C)
(7)(a)9., the person or persons’ convictions or release in connection with the
sexual misconduct offense must have occurred within two years of the date of
application in the event of a misdemeanor and within five years of the date of
application in the event of a felony.
         (b)   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date and the address of
the sexually oriented business. The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may
be easily read at any time.
         (c)   The Zoning Officer shall complete his or her certification that
the premises are in compliance or not in compliance within 20 days of receipt
of the application. The certification shall be promptly presented to the
applicant.
      (8)   Fees. The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit will
be established by resolution by the township.
      (9)   Inspection. A permittee shall permit representatives of the police,
Fire Chief, Zoning Officer or other township departments or agencies to inspect
the premises of a sexually oriented business, for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with the law, at any time that the sexually oriented business is
occupied or open for business.
      (10)   Expiration of permit.
         (a)   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and
may be renewed only by making application as provided in division (C)(5)(a)
above. Application for renewal should be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date,
the pendency of the application will not prevent the expiration of the permit.
         (b)   If the Township Zoning Officer denies renewal of a license, the
applicant shall not be issued a permit for one year from the date of denial,
except that after 90 days have elapsed since the date of denial, the applicant
may be granted a permit if the Zoning Officer finds that the basis for denial
of the renewal permit has been corrected or abated.
      (11)   Suspension of permit. The Zoning Officer shall suspend a permit
for a period not to exceed 30 days if he or she determines that a permittee or
employee of a permittee has:
         (a)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this
chapter;
         (b)   Engaged in excessive use of alcoholic beverages while on the
premises;
         (c)   Refused to allow an inspection of the premises as authorized by
this chapter;
         (d)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the premises; and
         (e)   Failed to staff managers’ stations and/or maintain viewing rooms
as set forth in division (C)(1)(e) above.
      (12)   Revocation of permit.
         (a)   The Zoning Officer shall revoke a permit if a cause of
suspension set forth in division (C)(11) above occurs and the permit has been
suspended within the preceding 12 months.
         (b)   The Zoning Officer shall revoke a permit if he or she determines
that:
            1.   A permittee or any of the persons specified in division (C)(7)
(a)9. above is or has been convicted of the offenses specified in division (C)
(7)(a)9. above;
            2.   A permittee gave false or misleading information in the
material submitted to the township during the application process;
            3.   A permittee or an employee of a permittee has knowingly
allowed possession, use or sale of controlled substances on the premises;
            4.   A permittee or an employee of a permittee has knowingly
allowed prostitution on the premises;
            5.   A permittee or an employee of a permittee knowingly operated
the sexually oriented business during a period of time when the permittee’s
permit was suspended;
            6.   A permittee or an employee of a permittee has knowingly
allowed any specific sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted
premises; and
            7.   A permittee is delinquent in payment to the township or state
of any taxes or fees related to his or her businesses.
         (c)   When the Zoning Officer revokes a permit, the revocation shall
continue for one year and the permittee shall not be issued a sexually oriented
business permit for one year from the date the revocation became effective,
except that if the revocation is pursuant to division (C)(12)(b)1. above, the
revocation shall be effective for two years in the event of a misdemeanor or
five years in the case of a felony.
      (13)   Transfer of permit. A permittee shall not transfer his or her
permit to another person. A permittee shall not operate a sexually oriented
business under the authority of a permit at any place other than the address
designated in the application.
   (D)   Sexually oriented business operations.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. It is the purpose of this division (D) to
regulate sexually oriented businesses to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens of the township and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the continued deleterious location and concentration of
sexually oriented business within the township. The provisions of this chapter
have neither the purposes nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on
the content of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material.
      (2)   Classification. Sexually oriented businesses are classified as
follows:
         (a)   Adult arcades;
         (b)   Adult bookstores or adult video stores;
         (c)   Adult cabarets;
         (d)   Adult motels;
         (e)   Adult motion-picture theaters;
         (f)   Adult theater;
         (g)   Escort agencies;
         (h)   Nude model studios; and
         (i)   Sexual encounter centers.
      (3)   Location and operation of sexually oriented business.
         (a)   A person is guilty of a violation of this division (D) if he or
she operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business outside of
the district in which a sexually oriented business is a permitted use. No
sexually oriented business shall be located outside a district in which a
sexually oriented business is a permitted use. Sexually oriented businesses, as
defined herein, shall be permitted in the I Industrial Zoning District of the
township as a conditional use.
         (b)   No person may operate or cause to be operated a sexually
oriented business within 1,000 feet of:
            1.   A church;
            2.   A public or private pre-elementary, elementary or secondary
school;
            3.   A public library;
            4.   A child-care facility or nursery school;
            5.   A public park;
            6.   A nursing home;
            7.   A sanitarium;
            8.   A retirement or convalescent home;
            9.   A group home;
            10.   A personal care home;
            11.   An establishment which is licensed to and does sell alcoholic
beverages;
            12.   Other sexually oriented businesses;
            13.   A residential boundary (A-1, R-1 or R-2 Zoning District); and
            14.   Property boundary of residential dwelling.
         (c)   A person is guilty of a violation of this chapter if he or she
causes or permits the operation, establishment or maintenance of more than one
sexually oriented business in the same building, structure or portion thereof.
         (d)   For the purpose of division (D)(3)(b) above, measurement shall
be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or
objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part
of the premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises listed in division (D)(3)(b)1. to division (D)(3)
(b)14. above.
         (e)   For purposes of division (D)(3)(b)12. above, the distance
between any two sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight
line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closed
exterior wall of the structure in which each business is located.
         (f)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming
use is not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the
grant or renewal of the sexually oriented business permit, to those premises
listed in division (D)(3)(b)1. to division (D)(3)(b)14. above within 1,000 feet
of the sexually oriented business. This provision applies only to the renewal
of a valid permit and does not apply when an application for a permit is
submitted after a permit has expired or has been revoked.
         (g)   All activities pertaining to sexually oriented businesses shall
be conducted entirely within the confines of the building. No theater which
shows adult-related films shall project the film outside the confines of a
building. No music or sound emitting from the business shall be audible to
normal human hearing at any time at any exterior property line of the business.
         (h)   The following hours of operation shall be adhered to by all
sexually oriented businesses:
            1.   No sexually oriented business shall be open from 2:00 a.m. to
11:00 a.m. daily; and
            2.   No sexually oriented business shall be open on Sunday and
holidays except that a sexually oriented business open on Saturday may remain
open until 2:00 a.m. on Sunday morning.
         (i)   The maximum gross floor area of any building which is utilized
for an adult-related business shall be 2,500 square feet.
         (j)   No exterior sign which advertises any adult-related business
shall include any lewd or obscene work or any figure, picture or painting which
utilizes sexually explicit graphics. Other regulations pertaining to commercial
signs in this chapter shall also be adhered to.
         (k)   To ensure that the regulations of this section are adhered to by
the applicant, the following information shall be provided with the application
for a conditional use.
            1.   A site survey of the property and building proposed for the
sexually oriented business and a survey illustrating the distance to the
location, size and type of all buildings and uses within 2,500 feet of the
building proposed for the business. Also, the zoning district classification
within 2,500 feet of the property and building proposed for the business shall
be illustrated on the site survey. The survey shall be prepared and sealed by a
surveyor licensed by the state and shall be at a scale no less than one inch to
100 feet. The survey shall indicate the scale, date drawn, north point, tax
parcel number of all parcels illustrated, the names of any roads or highways
illustrated and shall be on paper measuring no less than 24 inches by 36
inches. Fifteen copies of the survey shall be submitted with the application.
            2.   The above-referenced site survey shall indicate the proposed
parking layout, landscaping, lighting, sign location, building location and any
other exterior improvements.
         (l)   In addition to a conditional use permit, a site plan shall be
required for the development of the site. Requirements for the site plan are in
Chapter 152, Subdivision and Land Development, and this chapter.
         (m)   Alcoholic beverages shall not be permitted on the premises of a
sexually oriented business.
   (E)   Underground coal mine. Subject to the standards and criteria of §
153.076(J) of this chapter.
   (F)   Automotive recycling and material salvage yards.
      (1)   The minimum lot area shall be five acres.
      (2)   Application for site plan approval shall be made in accordance with
requirements of
Chapter 152, Subdivision and Land Development of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles, junk, salvage or other materials shall be stored in piles
not exceeding eight feet in height.
      (4)   Vehicles, junk, salvage or other materials shall not be stored on
slopes in excess of 5%, within a 100-year floodplain, within a wetland area nor
within 150 feet of a stream or body of water.
      (5)   A minimum of two points of entry/exit to the automotive recycling
or material salvage yard shall be provided to a public street. The proposed
layout of the automotive recycling or material salvage yard, including points
of access, access aisles and access drives, shall be indicated on the site plan
submitted with the application and shall comply with Figure RD-01, Appendix A.
Access roads shall provide the primary access to and within the site. At a
minimum, an access road shall be constructed around the perimeter of the site
and shall have a minimum separation on the interior of the automotive recycling
or material salvage yard as set forth on automotive recycling or material
salvage yard.
      (6)   The manner of storage of vehicles, junk or other materials shall be
arranged in such a fashion that there shall be a minimum separation of 25 feet
between the rows of vehicles, junk, salvage or other materials separated by an
access aisle and a minimum separation of 40 feet between rows of vehicles,
junk, salvage or other materials separated by an access road. No row of
vehicles, junk, salvage or other materials shall exceed a length of 250 feet or
a width of 50 feet. No access aisle or access road shall have a dead end. Each
access aisle shall be connected on each end to an access road. The access
aisles and access roads shall be laid out and maintained in such a manner that
fire and emergency equipment and vehicles will have adequate room to turn and
move about. See Figure RD-01,
Appendix A.
      (7)   For the purpose of this section, access aisles shall be a minimum
width of 16 feet. They shall be excavated to a depth of six inches below
finished grade and shall have a crown of no less than one-half inch per foot.
PennDOT Type 4 geo-textile shall be placed on the subgrade. A minimum of six
inches of PennDOT No 2A aggregate shall be placed. Care should be taken that
the construction equipment creates no ruts in the subgrade. The course
aggregate shall be graded to have a crown of no less than one-half inch per
foot, after which the course aggregate shall be compacted using a vibratory
roller to 90% modified proctor. See Figure RD-02, Appendix A. For the purposes
of this section, access roads shall have a minimum width of 20 feet.
      (8)   No vehicles, junk, salvage or other materials, buildings or yard
operating equipment shall be stored or accumulated, nor any structure located,
within 60 feet of the right-of-way line of any public street, road or highway.
      (9)   No vehicles, junk, salvage or other materials, buildings or yard
operating equipment shall be located within 500 feet or a residential dwelling,
church or school on adjoining properties or adjoining residential zoning
district boundary.
      (10)   The site shall be maintained as so not to constitute a public or
private nuisance or a menace to public health and safety. The site shall be
designed and laid out to prohibit the accumulation of stagnant water. The site
shall not cause any offensive or noxious sounds, dust or odors, nor cause the
breeding or harboring of rats, flies, mosquitoes or other vermin. The Board of
Supervisors may impose restrictions on access to the facility, storage of
vehicles or materials on the premises, hours of operation and other such
matters as it deems necessary to ensure that there is no adverse impact upon
the residential function of the district or upon adjacent properties.
      (11)   No garbage, organic waste, petroleum products, batteries, coolant,
hydraulic fluids or hazardous waste shall be stored, buried or disposed of on
the site. Tires shall not be stored or stockpiled on site. Before a vehicle is
placed in the automotive recycling or material salvage yard, the operator of
the automotive recycling or material salvage yard shall remove all gas tanks,
batteries, oil, oil filters, coolant and hydraulic fluid, refrigerants and
tires. The removal, recycling and disposal of all refrigerants shall be in
accordance with the rules and regulations of the Pennsylvania DEP. The
operator/owner of the automotive recycling or material salvage yard shall at
all times keep written records available on site for their inspection by the
Code Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer for review. Records shall include
the date the vehicle, identified by its vehicle identification number, entered
the automotive recycling or material salvage yard. All gas tanks, batteries,
oil, coolant, hydraulic fluids and tires shall be removed from the automotive
recycling or material salvage yard every 30 days. Removal shall be in
accordance with the rules and regulations of the Pennsylvania DEP. Records
shall include the date and methodology of disposal.
      (12)   No open burning or incineration of the disposal of materials or
fluids on site shall be permitted.
      (13)   All shredding and crushing machines used in the automotive
recycling or material salvage yard shall not emit any dust, and the noise from
these machines shall not exceed 60 decibels as measured at the property lines
of the property on which the automotive recycling or material salvage yard is
located.
      (14)   The site shall be enclosed by a metal chain link fence not less
than eight feet in height supported on steel posts with solid vinyl slats and a
self-latching gate. The fence shall be placed no closer than the required
setback line established under division (F)(8) above. There shall be a minimum
ten-foot separation between the fence and interior access road(s). No storage
outside of the fenced area is permitted. The fence shall be supplemented with
screening material, which creates a visual barrier established under §
153.076(I)(5)(o).
      (15)   Parking and lighting shall be in accordance with the provisions of
§§
153.200 through
153.204.
      (16)   The automotive recycling or material salvage yard shall be graded
so that storm drainage and facilities shall meet all requirements of §
152.086 and other applicable state and township requirements.
      (17)   The owner(s) and operator(s) of automotive recycling and material
salvage yard yards shall incorporate best management practices as outlined in
the Pennsylvania Handbook of Best Management Practices for Developing Areas to
minimize negative impacts of erosion, siltation and surface water and
groundwater contamination.
      (18)   Automotive recycling and material salvage yards may not operate
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday nor at any
time on Sunday, except to remove any wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from any
public street or highway.
      (19)   Every automotive recycling and material salvage yard, as well as
any junkyard in operation as of the effective date of this division (F), shall
be subject to inspection and regulation as herein provided. Upon request, the
Code Enforcement Officer or the Zoning Officer may at any reasonable time enter
upon the premises for the purpose of inspection. The premises shall also be
accessible for inspection by federal, state or county officials upon request.
      (20)   Junkyards in operation as of the effective date of this division
(F) as well as automotive recycling or material salvage yards shall obtain a
license therefore from the Board of Supervisors. Said license(s) shall be
renewed annually upon payment of a license fee as established from time to time
by resolution of the Board of Supervisors and subject to inspection by the Code
Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer to determine continuous compliance with
applicable standards. All licenses shall be issued for a term of one year,
beginning April 1 and ending March 31 of the following year.
(2003 Code, § 170-33)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 2-98, passed 8-4-1998;
Ord. 1-2009, passed 1-22-2009; Ord. 1-2011, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 153.167  SPECIAL EXCEPTION PROVISIONS.
   The following special exceptions may be authorized by the Zoning Hearing
Board pursuant to the standards and criteria specified herewith:
   (A)   Integrated business area, subject to the standards and criteria of §
153.151(A); and
   (B)   Junkyards, subject to the standards and criteria of
Chapter 111, Junkyards, as amended.
(2003 Code, § 170-34)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.168  LOT, AREA AND DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall apply in I Industrial Districts.
Lot, Area and Dimensional Requirements
I Industrial Districts
                             Minimum
         Minimum   Minimum   Front      Minimum    Minimum    Maximum  Maximum
Use      Lot Area  Lot Width Setback    Side Yard  Rear Yard  Building Lot
Category (acres)   (feet)    (feet from (feet)     (feet)     Height   Coverage
                             right-of-                        (feet)
                             way)
Lot, Area and Dimensional Requirements
I Industrial Districts
                               Minimum
                       Minimum Front                         Maximum
              Minimum  Lot     Setback   Minimum   Minimum   Building Maximum
Use Category  Lot Area Width   (feet     Side Yard Rear Yard Height   Lot
              (acres)  (feet)  from      (feet)    (feet)    (feet)   Coverage
                               right-of-
                               way)
Permitted uses
Barge/docking 5        150     75        50        50        40       NA
repair
C-2 uses by   1        150     75        50        50        40       50%
right
Hotels/motels
Conditional uses
Automotive
recycling and 5        -       60        -         -         -        -
salvage yards
Landfill      75       500     250       250       250       40       NA
Waste         5        250     150       150       150       40       NA
recycling
Underground
coal mining
   Adjunct 0.5      120     60        40        40        35       NA
facility
   Mine    25       200     100       100       100       NA       NA
facility
Special exceptions
Integrated    5        150     75        50        50        40       NA
industry
Junkyards     50       150     60        60        60        35       NA
Notes:
NA Not applicable
*    All lots shall have a minimum of 2 acres if not serviced by an approved
public or community sewage system
 
(2003 Code, § 170-35)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 3-94, passed 6-7-1994;
Ord. 2-98, passed 8-4-1998; Ord. 1-2009, passed 1-22-2009)
SIGN REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.180  AUTHORITY.
   Signs may be erected and maintained only when in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter and any and all other ordinances and regulations
of this township which may be applicable.
(2003 Code, § 170-36)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.181  EXCLUSIONS.
   The following signs shall be permitted in all districts and shall not be
subject to the provisions of this subchapter unless otherwise specifically
cited herein:
   (A)   Signs of a duly constituted local, state or federal governmental body,
including traffic or similar safety and regulatory devices, legal notices,
railway warning signals, memorial signs or tablets. (Note: no zoning permit
required.);
   (B)   Small signs with a surface area not exceeding three square feet,
displayed for the direction or convenience of the public which identify
landmarks, parking areas, convenience facilities and similar features. (Note:
No zoning permit required.); and
   (C)   One temporary nonlighted sign on a construction site, not exceeding an
area of 32 square feet, denoting engineer, architect, contractor or funding
agencies and related information regarding the development. (Note: No zoning
permit required.)
(2003 Code, § 170-37)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.182  PERMITTED SIGNS IN A-1, R-1 AND R-2 DISTRICTS.
   In the A-1, R-1 and R-2 Districts, the following requirements shall apply.
   (A)   The following signs shall be permitted:
      (1)   One permanent identification sign for each dwelling unit, which may
cite the name of the occupant, address and other distinguishing features of the
structure or property. Such signs shall not exceed three square feet in area.
(Note: no zoning permit required.);
      (2)   One temporary nonlighted real estate sign pertaining to the sale,
lease, hire or rental of property on which the sign is displayed, not to exceed
six square feet in area. (Note: no zoning permit required.);
      (3)   One announcement sign designating a bed-and-breakfast, professional
uses, group residential facilities, day-care or home occupations, provided all
such signs shall be limited to four square feet in area;
      (4)   One permanent announcement sign erected by churches, schools,
hospitals, funeral homes, cemeteries, municipal facilities, business activities
or similar permitted uses, which may include any appropriate message, provided
that the area of such sign shall not exceed 24 square feet in area;
      (5)   Temporary signs advertising a garage sale, political campaign,
street fair or other temporary activity, or a temporary sign directing persons
to the location of such activity. Signs shall not be placed sooner than 30 days
prior to, and shall be removed within seven days of, termination of the
activity. Signs shall not exceed 12 square feet in area. (Note: no zoning
permit required.);
      (6)   Signs relating to the sale of farm products produced on the
premises in A-1 Districts and temporary signs relating to the sale of
agricultural products produced on the premises in residential districts. Such
signs shall be displayed only when seasonal sales are taking place and removed
when not applicable. Said signs shall not exceed 12 square feet in area. (Note:
no zoning permit required.); and
      (7)   Signs for private and commercial recreation in A-1 Districts shall
be established in accordance with the following requirements.
         (a)   Signs shall be limited to the immediate site.
         (b)   Signs shall relate only to the activities at the immediate site.
         (c)   There shall be no more than two signs at each business site.
         (d)   Individual signs shall not exceed 20 square feet in area.
         (e)   Signs mounted or painted on a wall, canopy or other portion of a
principal site structure shall not protrude more than 18 inches beyond the wall
on which said signs are mounted.
   (B)   Signs in all A and R Districts shall be located a minimum distance of
four feet from the street or road right-of-way if no sidewalk exists, and two
feet from the inside edge of the walk, if such a walk exists.
   (C)   The bottommost part of a sign shall not be more than two feet above
ground level, except signs attached to a building. No sign shall project above
a roof or be mounted on a building above the eave line of a roof or extend
above a public sidewalk.
(2003 Code, § 170-38)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.183  PERMITTED SIGNS IN C-1, C-2 AND I DISTRICTS.
   In the commercial and industrial districts, the following requirements shall
apply.
   (A)   The following signs shall be permitted:
      (1)   Temporary signs not exceeding six square feet in area advertising
the sale or rental or development of property. (No zoning permit required.);
and
      (2)   Signs advertising business conducted or services, material or
equipment for sale on the premises.
   (B)   Business signs shall have an aggregate area not greater than one and
one-half square feet for each foot of width of the principal building on the
premises.
      (1)   Individual signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in area.
      (2)   Signs shall be located a minimum distance of ten feet from the
street right-of-way line.
      (3)   No sign shall be mounted on a building above the eave line of a
roof, or extend above a public sidewalk or vehicular right-of-way.
(2003 Code, § 170-39)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.184  SIGNS IN SHOPPING CENTERS AND INTEGRATED BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL
AREAS.
   Business signs established for shopping centers and integrated business and
industrial areas shall meet the following criteria.
   (A)   Total combined maximum area of all free-standing pole signs and/or
ground signs:
      (1)   For facilities with highway frontage of between 150 lineal feet and
250 lineal feet the following requirements shall apply:
 
Frontage (linear feet) Maximum Sign Area (square feet)
150—200              300
201—500              400
 
      (2)   Five hundred square feet maximum at facilities with highway
frontage in excess of 250 lineal feet.
   (B)   Signs per unit of use, affixed to the subject premises, within the
site shall be limited to one square foot of sign area per lineal foot of
frontage, up to a maximum of 100 square feet of sign area.
   (C)   Signs shall be located a minimum distance of 25 feet from the public
street right-of-way line.
   (D)   No sign shall be set closer than 50 feet of a rear or side property
line.
(2003 Code, § 170-40)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.185  PORTABLE OR MOBILE SIGNS.
   Portable or mobile signs and other similar advertising displays for special
sales, announcements and related purposes shall be subject to the following
provisions.
   (A)   Display area of temporary signs shall not exceed 32 square feet. Said
area may be in addition to maximum areas specified in this subchapter.
   (B)   No portion of the sign or its supporting structure shall occupy a
public right-of-way.
   (C)   Permits for the placement of such signs shall be issued for a maximum
of 90 consecutive days and may be renewed no more than one time during any
consecutive 365-day period.
(2003 Code, § 170-41)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.186  BUSINESS LOCATION SIGNS.
   Signs erected to announce the general location of business sites that are
not contiguous to nor visible from designated arterial routes shall be subject
to the following.
   (A)   Location and siting shall be subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Signs shall be permitted only in the A-1, C-1, C-2 and I Zoning
Districts.
      (2)   Signs shall be limited to locations adjacent to U.S. Route 30 and
Pennsylvania Routes 168 and 151.
      (3)   Written approval of landowners shall be required prior to erection
of the sign on any property.
      (4)   Signs shall not be erected within a highway right-of-way.
      (5)   Signs shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from all right-of-way
lines.
      (6)   Signs shall not be permitted within 50 feet of a road intersection.
      (7)   Signs shall not be erected within 100 feet of any existing
residence or the boundary of R-1 or R-2 Zoning Districts.
      (8)   Signs shall not obscure traffic sight lines or highway traffic
control signs and signals.
      (9)   A minimum distance of 100 feet shall be maintained between business
directional sign installations.
      (10)   The density (spacing) of business directional signs shall not
exceed three signs within any given 1,000 lineal feet of highway right-of-way.
      (11)   Signs should not exceed a height of eight feet above the average
cartway surface elevation of the adjacent roadway directly opposite from the
mounting sight.
   (B)   Sign format shall be subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   No sign shall be artificially illuminated or contain motion
animation devices.
      (2)   Signs shall have a reflectorized white legend and border on a
reflectorized green background or a black legend on a reflectorized white
background.
      (3)   Not more than three business names shall be included on each sign.
      (4)   Sign sizes shall be limited to the following criteria.
         (a)   Single line destination sign shall be 72 inches by 12 inches.
         (b)   Double line designation sign shall be 72 inches by 24 inches.
         (c)   Triple line designation sign shall be 72 inches by 36 inches.
(2003 Code, § 170-42)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 3-99, passed 11-11-
1999)
§ 153.187  BILLBOARDS.
   Business signs shall be permitted only when in conjunction with a business
or industry located on the immediate premises, except for billboards.
Billboards may be permitted as a conditional use when approved by the Board of
Supervisors after submission, review and recommendation by the Planning
Commission and further provided the following requirements are met.
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   Billboards shall not be erected within 50 feet of the right-of-way
line of a public road.
      (2)   Billboards shall be limited to A-1 Agricultural; C-2 Highway
Commercial; I Industrial; and C-1 Neighborhood Commercial Overlay.
      (3)   Billboards shall not be erected within 100 feet of the boundary
line of any R-1 or R-2 District or within 200 feet of the property line of any
public or private school or church property.
   (B)   Size and height.
      (1)   Billboards shall have a maximum allowable cross surface area of 300
square feet per sign face. An advertising sign may have a maximum of two sign
faces per billboard structure. As used in this section, SIGN FACE shall mean
the entire area within a single continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme
limits of writing, representation, emblem or any figure or similar character
together with any frame or other material, excluding necessary supports or
uprights upon which such sign is placed. For signs utilizing individual letters
or figures or characters mounted directly on a wall or a structure, the sign
face shall be the entire area within a single continuous perimeter enclosing
the extreme limits of the writing, representation or other communication
material.
      (2)   The billboard’s surface area shall not exceed 20 feet in total
height or 40 feet in total length.
      (3)   Billboard structures shall be limited to a maximum height or 40
feet above the curb of the roadway from which it is intended to be viewed.
   (C)   Construction methods. Billboards shall be constructed in accordance
with applicable provisions of the township code of ordinances. In addition
thereto:
      (1)   A billboard shall be independently supported and have vertical
supports of metal that are galvanized or otherwise treated to prevent rust and
corrosion or of some other durable material that is protected from
deterioration;
      (2)   Vertical supports shall be capable of enabling the entire sign face
to be able to withstand a minimum 80 mph wind load;
      (3)   All grading shall be in accordance with the township ordinances;
      (4)   No bare cuts are permitted on a hillside;
      (5)   All cuts or fills must be permanently seeded or planted.
      (6)   A billboard with display lighting shall be constructed so that it
does not glare upon adjoining property and shall not exceed a maximum
footcandle of 1.5 upon the adjoining property;
      (7)   No billboard or display lighting shall move, flash or emit noise.
No display lighting shall cause distraction, confusion, nuisance or hazard to
traffic, aircraft or other properties;
      (8)   The minimum front, side or rear yard requirements applying to a
principal use as set forth within a zoning district in which the billboard is
to be located shall apply to each structure;
      (9)   No billboard shall be erected in such a manner as to block the view
from the road or street of any existing business sign, logo sign, residential
or nonresidential structure;
      (10)   No billboard shall be constructed within the clear sight triangle
of the public street or road on which it is situated and shall not in any case
obstruct or impede traffic safety;
      (11)   The density (spacing) of billboard placement, regardless of the
size of individual installations, shall not exceed two billboards per each
lineal mile of public right-of-way; and
      (12)   Billboards may not be mounted on the roof, wall or other part of a
building or any other structure.
   (D)   Maintenance.
      (1)   The aesthetic quality of billboards shall be maintained at all
times.
      (2)   Every three years the owner of a billboard shall have a structural
inspection made of each such sign by a qualified state registered engineer or
architect and shall provide to the township a written certificate and report
from the engineer or architect certifying that each advertising sign is
structurally sound.
      (3)   Billboards found to be in violation of this or any other township
ordinance shall be brought into compliance therewith or removed within 30 days
upon written notification by the township.
      (4)   Billboards using removable paper or other materials shall be
maintained in such condition as to eliminate loose or frayed material
protruding or hanging from the structure.
   (E)   Permits. No billboard shall be erected without first obtaining a
permit from the township and any other approvals, including but not limited to
the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation. Applications for permits shall
be issued in the name of all owners of the real estate on which the billboard
is erected and the owner of the sign.
   (F)   Presently existing advertising signs.
      (1)   No billboard existing in the township as of the effective date of
this chapter shall be expanded in any manner except as may be otherwise
provided in this section.
      (2)   In the event a presently existing billboard is removed and a
replacement sign is erected in its place, said replacement sign must be built
in complete conformity with this section.
      (3)   Permits for the placement of such signs shall be issued for a
maximum of 90 consecutive days and may be renewed no more than one time during
any consecutive 365-day period.
(2003 Code, § 170-43)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 3-99, passed 11-11-
1999; Ord. 2-2011, passed 3-7-2011)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.188  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall apply to signs in all zoning districts of the
township.
   (A)   No sign shall be located or constructed to obstruct or interfere with
any traffic control signal, sign, device or intersection sight triangle.
   (B)   All signs shall be constructed of durable materials; shall be kept in
good condition and repair; and shall not be permitted to become unsightly or
dilapidated.
   (C)   No sign shall be permitted that is deemed to constitute a hazard of
any kind.
   (D)   Signs shall not be attached to utility poles except when authorized
for public purposes by the pole owner.
   (E)   A sign shall be removed within 30 days when the circumstances that led
to its erection no longer apply or if safety violations occur. Circumstances
that dictate sign removal shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The creation of a safety hazard;
      (2)   Dilapidation;
      (3)   Vacancy or termination of the subject business for more than 90
days;
      (4)   Legal transfer of ownership of a property that involves a change of
name or business activity;
      (5)   The completion of an event, business transaction or other activity
for which the sign was originally installed; and
      (6)   Any illegality under the provisions of this chapter or regulation
of a duly constituted governmental authority.
(2003 Code, § 170-44)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 3-99, passed 11-11-
1999)
§ 153.189  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A zoning permit shall be required for the erection of signs under this
chapter, except that no permit shall be required for the following exclusions:
      (1)   Signs specified under §
153.181 of this chapter.
      (2)   Signs specified under §
153.182(A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(5) and (A)(6) of this chapter.
      (3)   Signs specified under §
153.183(A)(1) of this chapter.
   (B)   Each application for a permit shall be accompanied by a drawing to
scale showing the proposed sign, the size, general characteristics, method of
illumination, the exact location of the sign in relation to the lot and
structure involved and other data as may be required by the Zoning Officer.
   (C)   A fee shall accompany each application for a permit. Such fees shall
be established by resolution of the Township Board of Supervisors.
(2003 Code, § 170-45)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 3-99, passed 11-11-
1999)
PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.200  PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   An application for a zoning permit for a new or enlarged building,
structure, or use shall include therewith a plot plan, drawn to scale and fully
dimensioned, showing off-street parking and loading facilities to be provided
in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 170-46)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.201  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   At the time of the erection of any main building or structure, or when
any such building or structure is enlarged or increased in capacity, or when
any private or public facility use permitted under this chapter is established,
permanent off-street parking and loading spaces shall be provided as specified
herein.
   (B)   Required parking spaces shall be located on the same lot as the use
for which it is provided. An adjacent lot that is guaranteed for the use of
off-street parking during the life of the use for which the parking is provided
may be permitted, provided that guarantees in legal form are acceptable to the
Township Supervisors on the advice of the Township Solicitor.
   (C)   Where more than one use occupies a given lot, building or structure,
off-street parking equal to the sum of that required for each use shall be
required.
   (D)   No parking area, space or lot shall be located within a public right-
of-way.
(2003 Code, § 170-47)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.202  SCHEDULE OF MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking facilities shall be provided in the various zoning
districts as specified herewith.
   (A)   For each dwelling unit there shall be provided a minimum of two
parking spaces. This requirement shall apply to all housing categories
including single, duplex, multi- and conversion units.
   (B)   Home occupations shall provide a minimum of two off-street parking
spaces. In no instance shall on-street parking be authorized in conjunction
with a home occupation. Parking requirements for home occupations shall be in
addition to the requirement specified above for dwelling units.
   (C)   Educational and religious uses shall provide off-street parking as
follows:
      (1)   Educational.
         (a)   Primary, elementary or middle school: one and one-half spaces
for each classroom; and
         (b)   High school, institution of higher learning or private school:
one space for each five students, based on design capacity of the facility.
      (2)   Stadium or similar places of assembly. One space for each four
seats; and
      (3)   Churches. One off-street parking space for each four seats in the
sanctuary or other main assembly area of the church, whichever is greater in
size.
   (D)   Funeral homes shall provide parking at the rate of one parking space
for each 80 square feet of gross floor area, plus one space for each employee
at maximum work levels and one space for each vehicle utilized at the site for
business purposes.
   (E)   Group residential facilities shall provide parking at the rate of one
parking space for each two clients in addition to the requirements specified in
division (A) above.
   (F)   Hospitals, institutional facilities and related uses shall provide
parking at the rate of one parking space for every three beds plus one space
for every two employees.
   (G)   Manufacturing and industrial functions, shops for custom and repair
work, building material sales, contractors plant and supply yards, warehousing
and storage, transportation terminals and related heavy commercial activities
shall provide parking on the basis of one parking space for each employee. In
computing the number of employees, those on maximum shift shall be counted. A
miniwarehouse shall provide three spaces plus one space for each multiple of
ten storage cubicles.
   (H)   Bed-and-breakfast and tourist homes shall provide parking at the rate
of one parking space for each separate sleeping unit in addition to the
requirements specified in division (A) above.
   (I)   Offices.
      (1)   Offices, banks and similar businesses shall provide parking at the
rate of one space for every 250 square feet of net floor area.
      (2)   Medical, dental and related personal care offices and clinics shall
provide parking at the rate of one space for each two employees plus four
spaces for each doctor or practitioner.
   (J)   Public, private, noncommercial and commercial recreation and all
municipal facilities shall provide off-street parking on the basis of one
parking space for each three occupants or clients as determined by the maximum
lawful capacity of any such facility or, if not applicable, by the estimated
maximum capacity of the facility.
   (K)   Automotive service stations and facilities shall provide parking at
the rate of one space for each 200 square feet of floor or site area devoted to
repair or service facilities in addition to area required for normal vehicle
storage.
   (L)   Retail and service business, sales and similar commercial land uses
shall provide parking at the rate of one space for each 100 square feet of net
floor area plus one space for each employee.
   (M)   Restaurants.
      (1)   Restaurants shall provide parking at the rate of one space for
every three seats.
      (2)   Drive-in facilities, refreshment stands and similar uses shall
provide parking at the rate of one space for each 100 square feet of floor
area.
   (N)   For any use not specified above, the Township Supervisors, after
recommendation by the Planning Commission, shall determine the parking
requirement for the proposed use, and the amount of parking thus determined
shall be the off-street parking requirement.
(2003 Code, § 170-48)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.203  SCHEDULE OF REQUIREMENTS FOR OFF-STREET LOADING.
   In any district, in connection with a building, or building group or part
thereof, that is to be occupied by commercial, public, industrial or other uses
that rely on delivery or distribution of materials or merchandise, there shall
be provided and maintained on the same lot with such buildings, off-street
loading berths in accordance with the following standards:
Uses Floor Area (total square feet) Minimum Required Off-Street Loading Berths
Uses                     Floor Area (total square   Minimum Required Off-Street
                         feet)                      Loading Berths
Retail and service       Under 3,500                0
commercial               Over 3,500                 1
Schools                  -                          1
                         Over 10,000                2
Warehousing, storage,    Under 10,000               1
industrial               For each additional 20,000 1 additional
                         or fraction thereof
Wholesale commercial and Under 10,000               1
institutional
 
(2003 Code, § 170-49)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.204  STANDARDS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING AREAS.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   When determination of the required number of off-street spaces for
parking or loading results in a fractional space, any fraction of one-half or
more shall be interpreted as a whole space.
      (2)   In no case shall the public right-of-way be used for loading or
unloading of material or for meeting a required parking facility.
      (3)   Loading and unloading facilities and parking lots shall be designed
so that vehicles are not required to back onto the street right-of-way.
      (4)   Nonresidential parking areas, parking accessways, driveways and
loading areas shall be sited at a minimum distance of ten feet from all
property lines. Where commercial or industrial land uses abut residential
districts, no such vehicular areas shall be closer than 25 feet to an adjacent
residential parcel.
      (5)   All lighting used to illuminate off-street loading and parking
areas shall be designed so that light is reflected away from adjoining premises
and public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Off-street parking standards.
      (1)   A required off-street parking space for an individual auto shall be
a minimum dimension of nine feet wide by 20 feet long. Maneuvering and cross
aisles shall be 20 feet wide for 90 degrees parking. Aisle width for angle
parking may be decreased in proportion to the parking angle, but no aisle may
be less than 12 feet in width.
      (2)   Driveways may be included as meeting the requirement for parking
spaces for single-family and two-family dwellings.
      (3)   Whenever possible, nonresidential parking areas and lots shall be
level, except for necessary drainage purposes. If parking spaces are provided
in areas which exceed 5% slope, all such spaces shall be parallel to the
contour lines of the area.
      (4)   All off-street parking areas shall be graded for proper drainage
and, except for single-family use, if for five vehicles or more, shall be
surfaced so as to provide a durable and dustless surface. Areas intended for
less than five vehicles shall be covered with gravel, cinders or other
appropriate material in commercial and industrial districts.
      (5)   Parking spaces for other than single-family use shall be clearly
delineated by painted lines or markers for lots accommodating five or more
spaces.
      (6)   Stalls shall be provided with bumper guards or wheel stops when
necessary for safety or protection to adjacent structures or landscaped areas.
      (7)   Surface drainage shall be connected to the existing or proposed
storm drainage system.
   (C)   Off-street loading standards.
      (1)   Off-street loading and unloading space(s) with driveway access from
a street or highway, in conformance with Pennsylvania Department of
Transportation standards for driveways, shall be provided on each lot as
required in §
153.203.
      (2)   Each loading and unloading space:
         (a)   Shall be at least 14 feet wide, 60 feet long and shall have at
least a 15-foot vertical clearance; and
         (b)   Shall have off-street maneuvering area sufficient for the
intended use.
(2003 Code, § 170-50)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 153.215  GENERAL APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be subject to such exceptions,
additions or modifications as herein provided by the following supplementary
regulations.
(2003 Code, § 170-51)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.216  ADDITIONAL DWELLINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided elsewhere in this chapter, no lot
shall have more than one principal dwelling structure.
   (B)   Where a lot is used for a permitted commercial purpose, more than one
principal commercial structure may be located upon the lot, but only when such
structures conform to all land use, lot coverage and yard requirements for the
district in which it is located.
   (C)   One additional single-family mobile home dwelling unit to be occupied
by a relative, may be permitted in an A-1 District, provided a minimum site of
two acres is delineated for each dwelling unit situated on the property.
   (D)   The Zoning Officer may grant a permit for a period not to exceed six
months, renewable once, for the temporary placement of a mobile home, travel
trailer or motorized home to be used for living or housekeeping purposes under
the following circumstances:
      (1)   The mobile home, travel trailer or motorized home is placed on a
parcel that contains a single-family dwelling that was tendered uninhabitable
by fire, storm, explosion or act of God, and the applicant for the permit had
been occupying the single-family dwelling as his or her primary residence at
the time of the adversity;
      (2)   The single-family dwelling is in the process of repair or
reconstruction at the time the permit is requested, or will be under repair or
reconstruction within a reasonable period of time thereafter; and
      (3)   The temporary living unit is equipped with adequate provisions for
sanitation and is properly anchored to withstand normal weather conditions.
   (E)   Temporary structures used in conjunction with construction work shall
be permitted only during the period that construction work is in progress.
Permits for temporary structures shall be issued for a maximum period of six
months.
(2003 Code, § 170-52)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.217  AREA AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. Notwithstanding the limitations imposed by any other
provisions of the chapter, the Board of Supervisors may permit erection of a
dwelling on any lot of record (in a district where permitted by this chapter)
separately owned, or under contract of sale, and containing at the time of the
passage of this chapter an area or width smaller than that required for a
single-family dwelling.
   (B)   Side and rear yard. No structure, whether attached to the principal
structures or not, including porches, garages, carports, balconies or platforms
above normal grade level, shall project into any minimum side or rear yard.
   (C)   Front yard.
      (1)   No structures whether attached to the principal structures or not,
including garages, carports or balconies above normal grade level, shall
project into any minimum front yard.
      (2)   Video satellite dish installations shall be established to the rear
of the front building line, and no portion of the unit or its mounting shall be
situated within any required minimum side or rear lot setback areas. No portion
of the unit or its mounting shall be attached in any manner to another
structure or building.
   (D)   Lots having frontage on more than one street. Lots having frontage on
more than one street shall provide the required building setback on every
street.
(2003 Code, § 170-53)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.218  DRIVEWAY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Driveways shall be designed in such a manner that would prevent the
driveway material and associated stormwater from entering onto a public road.
   (B)   Residential driveways must be a minimum of five feet from property
lines, subject to the right of adjoining property owners to enter joint
driveway agreements, unless otherwise specified by the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Driveways for commercial and industrial uses shall have a minimum
width of 20 feet unless specified otherwise by applicable regulations and must
be a minimum of ten feet from property lines.
   (D)   Access drives to and from off-street parking, loading and vehicle
service areas along public rights-of-way shall consist of well defined
entrances and exits.
(2003 Code, § 170-54)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.219  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION.
   (A)   No excavation that has an obvious or identified potential of creating
adverse environmental circumstances, such as erosion, slip-slide areas,
subsidence, significant watercourse changes, air or water pollution or similar
conditions, shall be undertaken until a zoning permit has been issued by the
Zoning Officer.
   (B)   The applicant for a permit to proceed with excavation shall obtain all
permits and authorizations required by local and any other county, state and
federal governmental agencies having jurisdiction over such matters, prior to
approval of a zoning permit by local authorities.
   (C)   Normal agricultural activities, commonly and routinely engaged in by
farm and residential residents in the municipality, shall not be considered
excavations and shall not require permits.
   (D)   No cut or fill grade shall exceed a slope of three to one (3:1) or 33-
1/3%. This provision shall apply to all cuts and fills exceeding 100 square
feet in exposed surface area including cuts or fills on land naturally
exceeding 3:1 in slope.
   (E)   All lands steeper than ten to one (10:1) slope, from which structures
or natural cover have been removed or otherwise destroyed, shall be
appropriately graded and seeded within a reasonable time of such clearance
activity. The phrase “a reasonable time” shall be interpreted to be within two
weeks during the growing season and shall be rigidly applied to construction
activities in order to accomplish the intent of keeping erosion to an absolute
minimum.
   (F)   No cutting, filling or other disturbing of land and natural vegetation
is permissible within 50 feet of the centerline of natural drainage course
except as permitted by action of the Zoning Hearing Board. In such cases, the
Board may grant permission provided special precautions are taken to ensure
against continuing erosion or other circumstances which may be harmful to the
immediate watercourse or in any way pollute the stream. All such action shall
be in accordance with PADEP rules and regulations.
   (G)   All earth moving activity shall comply with the erosion and
sedimentation control amendment to the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Law of 1937,
P.L. 1987 and P.L. 177 (see 35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq.), all requirements of the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and other applicable
federal, state, county or local agency or authority having enforcement
jurisdiction.
(2003 Code, § 170-55)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
Cross-reference:
   Excavations and openings, see §§
90.01 through
90.05
§ 153.220  ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   Essential services as defined in this chapter shall be permitted as special
exceptions in all zoning districts, subject to restrictions approved by the
Zoning Hearing Board with respect to use, design, yard area, setback and
height. The Board shall consider the impact of the use, activity, or structure
involved, on adjacent land uses in terms of safety, potential for property
devaluation and related factors.
(2003 Code, § 170-56)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.221  HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Measurement of height shall be the vertical height from the average
elevation of finished grade at the front of the structure to:
      (1)   In case of flat-roof or domed structures: highest point of coping;
      (2)   In case of mansard-roof structures: deck line of roof; and
      (3)   In case of gable or hipped roof: average height to top of roof.
   (B)   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to flagpoles,
church spires, belfries, domes or similar projections not used for human
occupancy, nor to chimneys, ventilations, skylights, water tanks, public
utility facilities, bulkheads, silos, antennas and other necessary mechanical
and operational apparatus usually carried above the roof level.
(2003 Code, § 170-57)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.222  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. All land use activities shall comply with the requirements
of this section. The township may require evaluation by a qualified consultant,
whose cost for services shall be borne by the applicant, in cases where issues
develop over the need for, or the adequacy of, compliance.
   (B)   Fire prevention. Fire prevention and fire control equipment acceptable
to standards of the Board of Fire Underwriters or other appropriate regulatory
agency shall be readily available where any activity involves the handling of
flammable or explosive materials.
   (C)   Steady-state noise emanated from stationary equipment. Steady-state
noise emanating from stationary equipment or sources, which will persist during
indefinite or periodic intervals of time over a period of more than seven
consecutive days onto adjacent real properties or to a receiving property
within any district within the township, shall not exceed the maximum noise
levels prescribed in this section.
      (1)   Measurement.
         (a)   No person shall cause or permit any steady-state sound to
emanate from a source property which exceeds the levels set forth in division
(C)(2) below when measured at the following locations:
            1.   Within 25 feet of any receiving building located in any
district; or
            2.   At any point along the boundary line between the source
property and the receiving property in the A-1, R-1 and R-2 Districts.
         (b)   Sound measurements shall be made at six feet above ground level.
      (2)   Maximum permissible noise levels. Maximum permissible noise levels
are:
         (a)   Daytime (7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.): 75 dBA; and
         (b)   Nighttime (10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.): 70 dBA.
      (3)   Measurements. Sound measurements made to determine compliance with
the conditions and standards of this section shall be made using a sound level
meter which conforms to Type 1 or Type 2 as specified in ANSI Specifications
SI, 4-1971.
   (D)   Odor. No malodorous gas or matter that is discernible on any adjoining
lot or property shall be permitted except for normal farm operations carried on
in the A-1 District.
   (E)   Air pollution. No pollution of air by fly ash, dust, smoke, vapors or
any substance that is harmful to health, animals, vegetation or other property
shall be permitted.
   (F)   Erosion. No erosion by wind or water that will carry objectionable
substances onto neighboring properties shall be permitted.
   (G)   Water pollution. Water pollution in violation of any standards
established by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection shall
not be permitted.
(2003 Code, § 170-58)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.223  STORAGE AND SCREENING.
   (A)   No lot or premises may be used as a storage area or dump for garbage,
junk automobiles, appliances or storage or collection of any other
miscellaneous items except as provided for in appropriate subchapters of this
chapter or other applicable township statutes.
   (B)   No more than two vehicles or other units of motorized equipment that
are disabled, from which the wheels or engine have been removed, or which are
not in operating condition or do not have a current motor vehicle license and/
or inspection sticker attached, shall be placed, parked or stored for a period
exceeding 90 days, in any district; nor shall any owner or occupant of the
property in any district permit said property to be used for the parking or
storage of such vehicles or equipment. The foregoing shall not prohibit the
rental of space in a private or public garage, repairs in a permitted garage in
a commercial district, or storage of vehicles in a junkyard. This regulation is
not meant to apply to operable classic or antique motor vehicles, farm
tractors, racers and other vehicles not requiring state inspection.
   (C)   Any material stored outside an enclosed structure being used for
commercial or industrial purposes, as an incidental part of the primary
operation, shall be screened by opaque ornamental fencing, walls or evergreen
plant material in order to minimize visibility if the storage area is readily
visible from adjoining properties zoned R-1 or R-2. Materials shall not be
deemed to include operable vehicles. In addition, bulk fuel storage shall be no
closer than 200 feet to an existing dwelling, school, hospital or related
residential use.
   (D)   Where required, a screen or buffer shall have a height adequate to
achieve its purpose. Plant materials used for screening shall consist of dense
evergreen plants. They shall be of a kind, or used in such a manner, so as to
provide a continuous opaque screen within 24 months after commencement of
operations in the area to be screened. The governing body shall require that
either new planting or alternative screening be provided if, after 24 months,
the plant materials do not provide an opaque screen.
   (E)   Mobile recreational vehicles, such as travel trailers, pickup coaches
and motorized homes parked or stored in agricultural or residential districts
may be used by family members or visitors at the on-site residence for
temporary camping for periods not to exceed 90 consecutive days.
(2003 Code, § 170-59)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
Cross-reference:
   Junkyards and Junk Dealers, see
Chapter 111
§ 153.224  SINGLE-UNIT MOBILE HOME INSTALLATION.
   Individual mobile homes, not a part of a mobile home park, that are
installed where permitted on private land as single-family residential
dwellings shall comply with all regulations for conventional dwelling houses
with respect to size, setback and side lines of the district in which it will
be sited, and shall meet the following additional requirements.
   (A)   The mobile home shall be installed to conform with all front yard,
side yard and rear yard setback lines applicable to housing in the district.
   (B)   The mobile home shall be installed upon, and securely fastened to, a
frost-free basement, permanent footer or comparable stable and secure base as
approved by the Township Supervisors.
   (C)   An enclosure (skirting) of compatible design and material shall be
erected around the entire base of any mobile home installation when the base
(as required in division (B) above) does not completely enclose open spaces
between the bottom of the mobile home structure and the ground level below said
structure. Said enclosures shall provide for sufficient ventilation to inhibit
decay and deterioration of the structure and to deter habitation by vermin.
   (D)   The owner shall provide a potable water supply and shall provide a
sewage disposal system which meets all standards of the Pennsylvania Department
of Environmental Protection.
(2003 Code, § 170-60)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.225  FLOODPLAIN ZONING REGULATIONS.
   All development within flood prone areas of the township shall conform to
applicable requirements of the current floodplain regulations of the township.
(2003 Code, § 170-61)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.226  SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Every swimming pool, not including farm ponds, that has a below-ground
depth of 24 inches or more, and every swimming pool that has a height of three
feet or more at its highest point above ground, must comply with the side, rear
and front yard setback requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Every swimming pool that is permanent in nature (all inground swimming
pools, pools installed partially or completely below ground level and a wooden
and/or metal frame exterior with a plastic liner or other liner as is
customarily used in the industry that is not normally taken down during the
winter months) must be enclosed with a fence of a height no less than four feet
above ground level, and said fence must completely enclose said pool. Gates
must have an appropriate lock installed thereon to deter unauthorized entrance.
   (C)   Above ground pools with decks utilizing a step gate combination or a
step or stairway to gain access to said pool must have a gate across the steps
equipped with a workable lock, or if the steps or stairway is retractable, the
same must be attached to a lock that is secured when the same are retracted.
   (D)   Aboveground nondecked pools four feet or more in height are exempt
from the requirements of divisions (B) and (C) above; however, all means of
access and egress such as ladders, steps, ramps, platforms, embankments or
similar facilities shall be removed or secured when the pool is unattended by
responsible individuals.
(2003 Code, § 170-62)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.227  ROADSIDE STANDS.
   Roadside stands for the sale of produce and related farm products produced
on site in A-1 Districts shall conform to the following minimum standards.
   (A)   Structures shall be a minimum distance of 15 feet from the highway
right-of-way line.
   (B)   An off-street parking area must be provided for patrons.
   (C)   All parking areas shall be a minimum of ten feet from the highway
cartway.
(2003 Code, § 170-63)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.228  RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL USES.
   (A)   Home gardening is a permitted accessory use in all A-1, R-1 and R-
2 Districts.
   (B)   Temporary roadside stands for the seasonal sale of locally grown
agricultural products in R-1 and R-2 Districts are permitted but must be set
back at least 30 feet from the cartway.
   (C)   All stands must be removed when seasonal use is terminated.
   (D)   At least two off-street parking spaces must be provided in addition to
those required under regulations for residential parking and shall be a minimum
of ten feet from the highway cartway.
(2003 Code, § 170-64)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 153.240  CONTINUATION.
   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, a nonconforming lot,
nonconforming building or structure or nonconforming use may be continued even
though it does not conform with the provisions of these regulations for the
district in which it is located.
(2003 Code, § 170-65)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.241  REPAIR OR RESTORATION OF UNSAFE STRUCTURES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the strengthening or restoring to a
safe condition of any portion of a building or structure declared unsafe by a
proper authority.
(2003 Code, § 170-66)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.242  ALTERATIONS.
   A nonconforming building or structure may be altered, improved or
reconstructed, provided the work does not make the structure any more
nonconforming in any respect.
(2003 Code, § 170-67)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.243  RESTORATION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the reconstruction, repairing,
rebuilding and continued use of any nonconforming building or structure damaged
by fire, collapse, explosion or act of God, provided reconstruction or repair
is commenced within one year from the date of occurrence of the damage.
(2003 Code, § 170-68)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.244  EXTENSION.
   (A)  A nonconforming use may be extended as a special exception subject to
the following.
      (1)   The extension becomes an attached part of the main structure and
does not utilize any additional or adjoining land area other than the original
parcel.
      (2)   The extension does not violate any lot, area, dimensional, off-
street loading or parking requirements, or any other requirements of this
chapter in the district in which the nonconforming use is located, or in any
way extend the degree of dimensional nonconformance of any structure or
building.
      (3)   The extension is for the purpose of expanding the same
classification of nonconforming use in existence at the time of chapter
adoption.
   (B)   Extension of a lawful use to any portion of a nonconforming building
or structure that existed prior to the enactment of the chapter shall not be
deemed an extension of such nonconforming use.
(2003 Code, § 170-69)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.245  CHANGES.
   No nonconforming use shall be changed to another nonconforming use, except
that a nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use of equal
or more restrictive classification upon application to, and approval by, the
Zoning Hearing Board. The Zoning Hearing Board may impose reasonable conditions
to assure that any such change will not adversely affect the public interest.
(2003 Code, § 170-70)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.246  ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   A nonconforming use of a building or land that has been abandoned or
discontinued shall not thereafter be returned to a nonconforming use.
   (B)   A nonconforming use shall be considered abandoned as follows:
      (1)   When the intent of the owner to discontinue the use is apparent;
      (2)   When the characteristic equipment and furnishings of the
nonconforming use have been removed from the premises and have not been
replaced by similar equipment within 90 days, unless other facts or
circumstances show a clear intention to resume the nonconforming use;
      (3)   When a nonconforming use has been discontinued for a period of 12
months;
      (4)   When it has been replaced by a conforming use; and
      (5)   When it has been changed to another use under permit from the
Zoning Hearing Board.
(2003 Code, § 170-71)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.247  DISTRICT CHANGES.
   Whenever the boundaries of a district shall be changed so as to transfer an
area from one district to another district of a different classification, the
foregoing provisions shall apply to any nonconforming use conditions created
therein.
(2003 Code, § 170-72)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.260  ZONING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Zoning Officer shall administer and enforce this chapter,
including the receiving of applications, the inspection of premises and the
issuing of zoning permits. No zoning permit shall be issued by said Officer
except where the provisions of this subchapter have been complied with. The
Zoning Officer shall meet the qualifications established by the township. The
duties of the Zoning Officer shall include but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Receive applications required by this chapter;
      (2)   Inspect premises;
      (3)   Issue zoning permits; and
      (4)   Maintain records of all official duties.
   (B)   All permits issued by the Zoning Officer shall be in accordance with
the literal provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The Zoning Officer shall be appointed by the Board of Supervisors of
the township and shall not hold any elective office in the township.
(2003 Code, § 170-73)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.261  ZONING PERMITS AND OCCUPANCY PERMITS.
   (A)   No building or structure, including mobile homes, shall be erected,
added to, or structurally altered until a permit therefor has been issued by
the Zoning Officer. All applications for zoning permits shall be in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter, and unless upon written order of the
Zoning Hearing Board, no such zoning permit shall be issued for any building
where said construction, addition or alteration for use thereof would be in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter. Remodeling or improvement
of an existing building that does not alter the basic structure, create
additional lot area coverage or change the use of the parcel or building is
exempt from this specific requirement. A zoning permit shall be required prior
to any of the following:
      (1)   The erection, construction or structural alteration of any
building, structure, dwelling or portion thereof;
      (2)   The moving of a structure into a district or from one place in the
district to another;
      (3)   The change in use of structure or land;
      (4)   The change or extension of a nonconforming use or structure; and
      (5)   The operation of or cause to operate a sexually oriented business.
   (B)   There shall be submitted with all applications for zoning permits, two
copies of a layout or plot plan drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions of
the lot to be built upon, the exact size, location and height of the building
on the lot and accessory buildings to be erected, and other such information as
may be deemed necessary by the Zoning Officer to determine and provide for the
enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   No permit shall be required for the following:
      (1)   Minor repairs or maintenance;
      (2)   Nonstructural remodeling as specified in division (A) above; and
      (3)   No permit shall be required for a residential accessory structure
that has up to and including 150 square feet of floor area. Said accessory
structures may be erected and maintained within 15 feet of a rear or side lot
line to the rear of the front building line.
   (D)   Zoning permits issued for the purpose of permitting construction,
reconstruction, alterations, repairs, use or the like, shall automatically
expire 12 months from the date of issue. Prior to the continuance of the
activity, use or change for which the original permit was used, a new zoning
permit must be obtained. If however, due to the extent and size of the subject
project, it is impossible for the applicant to complete said process prior to
the expiration of 12 months, or because of an act of nature, no new permit must
be obtained. However, the applicant must advise the Zoning Officer of said
expiration and the reason for failure to complete within the specified time. In
the event said applicant fails to notify the Zoning Officer, the permit shall
immediately expire and no further activity may take place unless a new permit
is obtained.
   (E)   A copy of the permit shall be posted on the premises for public
inspection during the prosecution of the work.
   (F)   Upon completion of the authorized new construction, alteration,
remodeling, change of use of building or land under the provisions of a zoning
permit, such building or land shall not be occupied until an occupancy permit
has been issued by the Zoning Officer. Written request to the Zoning Officer
shall be processed within one week of receipt of the request of the proposed
use provided the use is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter and
other effective and applicable ordinances. The Zoning Officer’s refusal to
issue an occupancy permit shall include a written statement to the applicant
containing reasons for such denial. No premises, structure or the like shall be
used until such time as an occupancy permit has been granted.
   (G)   Occupancy permits are required for the following:
      (1)   Occupancy of a new building;
      (2)   Occupancy and use of a building hereafter moved or altered so as to
require a zoning permit;
      (3)   Change in the use of an existing building other than to a use of
the same type;
      (4)   Occupancy and use of vacant land;
      (5)   Change in the use of land except to another use of the same type;
      (6)   Any change in use of a nonconforming use; and
      (7)   Occupancy permits shall be required for both initial and continued
occupancy and/or use.
   (H)   Occupancy permits shall state that the building or the proposed use of
a building or land complies with all applicable provisions of this chapter and
authorizes use of the building and/or land so long as such building and use is
in full conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   No occupancy permit shall be issued until such time as the applicant
has applied for the same, paid the application fee which shall be included as
part of the zoning permit fee, and the premises have been inspected by the
Zoning Officer or his or her delegate and, thereafter, a determination has been
made that the premises are in compliance with this chapter.
   (J)   No occupancy permit shall be granted until the subject project has
been completed and the Zoning Officer has determined the same to be fit for the
use intended by the applicant; except that:
      (1)   If the applicant desires to make use of the premises or project
prior to its completion, the same is strictly prohibited until such time as an
application has been made for an interim occupancy permit and all rules and
regulations pertaining thereto have been determined by the Zoning Officer to
have been met; and
      (2)   If the project has not been completed and a partial use or
occupation of the premises is desired by the applicant, the applicant must
first make application to the Zoning Officer for an interim occupancy permit,
pay a fee equal to the amount of the original cost of the permit, and
thereafter, once the same has been examined by the Zoning Officer and has been
determined by him or her to be fit for the limited or partial use intended,
said applicant may use and/or occupy the premises; however, nothing contained
in this provision shall be interpreted or used as an excuse or viewed as a
waiver of any of the other terms contained hereinabove pertaining to the
completion of the original project.
   (K)   No-impact home-based business permits.
      (1)   Application. A no-impact home-based business shall obtain a permit
therefor from the Zoning Officer. Said permit shall be renewed annually upon
payment of a permit fee as established from time to time by resolution of the
Board of Supervisors and subject to inspection by the Zoning Officer to
determine continuous compliance with applicable standards. All permits shall be
issued for a term of one year, beginning April 1 and ending March 31 of the
following year.
      (2)   Scope. In cases where the Zoning Officer considers the application
not within the scope of the no-impact home-based business criteria, the
application will be denied. The Zoning Officer will make a decision and notify
the applicant in writing within 30 calendar days of the date of application is
received.
      (3)   Voiding of permit. The Zoning Officer may void any no-impact home-
based business permit for noncompliance with the criteria set forth in this
chapter. Revocation may take place at any time prior to the expiration of the
permit. If the permit is revoked or it is not renewed, it becomes null and
void, and said use shall be terminated.
      (4)   Inspection. Applicants shall permit a reasonable inspection of the
premises by the Zoning Officer to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (L)   Home occupation permits.
      (1)   Application. A request for a home occupation permit shall be
applied for on a form provided by the township at the same time as the
application for a special exception use and shall be accompanied the prevailing
filing fee established by resolution by the Township Board of Supervisors. Such
permit will be issued by the Zoning Officer within 45 days after the special
exception use is approved by the Zoning Hearing Board.
      (2)   Scope. In cases where the Zoning Officer considers the application
not within the scope of the home occupation criteria approved by the Zoning
Hearing Board, the application will be denied. The Zoning Officer will make a
decision and notify the applicant in writing within 45 calendar days of the
decision of the Zoning Hearing Board.
      (3)   Voiding of permit. The Zoning Officer may void any home occupation
permit for noncompliance with the criteria set forth in this chapter.
Revocation may take place at any time prior to the expiration date of the
permit. If the permit is revoked or is not renewed, it becomes null and void,
and said use shall be terminated.
      (4)   Renewal. Home occupation may be renewed annually provided there has
not been any violation of the provisions of this chapter. Requests for renewals
shall be submitted to the Zoning Officer in writing accompanied by the
prevailing renewal fee, as established by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors, one month prior to expiration of the permit. All permits shall be
issued for a term of one year, beginning April 1 and ending March 31 of the
following year.
      (5)   Inspection. Applicants shall permit a reasonable inspection of the
premises by the Zoning Officer to determine compliance with this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 170-74)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 3-98, passed 10-6-
1998; Ord. 1-2004, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 2-2009, passed 2-1-2010)
§ 153.262  CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   An application for a zoning permit for a conditional use shall be filed with
the Zoning Officer, and it shall:
   (A)   Identify and describe the property, its location and the present use;
   (B)   Reasonably describe present improvements and any intended additions
and changes;
   (C)   Disclose the conditional use for which the application is being made;
and show how the property, as it may be improved, meets the standards and
criteria required;
   (D)   Upon receipt of such application for conditional use, the Zoning
Officer shall forthwith refer the same to the attention of the Township
Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall arrange a date, time and
place for a meeting with the applicant for the conditional use. Said meeting
shall be held within 45 days of filing of the application with the Zoning
Officer. The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation on the application
to the Township Supervisors within 60 days of the original filing of the
application with the Zoning Officer;
   (E)   The Township Supervisors may authorize conditional uses pursuant to
express standards and criteria specified in this chapter for said uses and may
attach such additional conditions and safeguards as it may deem necessary;
   (F)   The Township Supervisors shall hold a public hearing, pursuant to
public notice, on the conditional use, within 75 days of the date of filing of
the application with the Zoning Officer and shall issue a decision within 90
days of the date of application; and
   (G)   The Zoning Officer shall be under a duty of issuance of a permit or
order indicating the action of the Township Supervisors as a result of the
hearing on the application, and shall notify the applicant.
(2003 Code, § 170-75)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.263  FEES.
   (A)   The Township Supervisors shall determine and adopt a schedule of fees,
charges and expenses, as well as the collection procedure for permits,
variances, special exceptions, conditional uses, amendments and other matters
pertaining to this chapter. Said schedule of fees shall be posted in the office
of the Township Administrative Secretary/Treasurer.
   (B)   The Township Supervisors shall be empowered to reevaluate the fee
schedule from time to time and make adjustments as deemed appropriate. Any such
alterations shall not be considered an amendment to this chapter and may be
adopted by resolution of the Township Supervisors at any legally advertised
public meeting.
   (C)   Application for permits, approvals and other related matters
pertaining to this chapter shall be accompanied by the designated fee and such
other documentation specified by this chapter or considered necessary by the
appropriate reviewing authorities or agencies.
(2003 Code, § 170-76)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.264  ZONING HEARING BOARD.
   (A)   Creation, appointment and organization. The membership of the Zoning
Hearing Board shall consist of three residents of the municipality appointed by
the governing body. Members of the Board may receive compensation for the
performance of their duties, as may be fixed by the governing body, but in no
case shall the rates of compensation exceed that paid to the governing body.
Their terms of office shall be three years and shall be so fixed that the terms
of office of one member shall expire each year. The Zoning Hearing Board shall
promptly notify the governing body of any vacancies that occur. Appointments to
fill vacancies shall be only for the unexpired portion of the term. Members of
the Zoning Hearing Board shall hold no other office in the municipality.
   (B)   Alternate members. The governing body may appoint one to three
residents of the municipality to serve as alternate members of the Zoning
Hearing Board. Their terms shall be three years. Any alternate may participate
in any proceeding or discussion of the Board but shall not be entitled to vote
as a member of the Board, nor be compensated, unless designated by the
Chairperson of the Board as a voting alternate member pursuant to § 906 of the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code (Act 247, 1968, as amended by Act
170, 1988, 53 P.S. § 10906). Alternate members may hold no other office in the
municipality.
   (C)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Zoning Hearing Board shall hear and decide appeals from any
order, requirements, decision or determination made by the Zoning Officer in
the administration of this chapter.
      (2)   The Zoning Hearing Board shall hear and decide all matters referred
to or upon which it is required to pass under this chapter and other applicable
laws of the commonwealth.
      (3)   The Zoning Hearing Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged by the appellant that the Zoning Officer has failed to follow
prescribed procedures or has misinterpreted or misapplied any provision of a
valid ordinance or map or any valid rule or regulation governing the action of
the Zoning Officer.
      (4)   The Zoning Hearing Board shall hear challenges to the validity of a
zoning ordinance or map. In all such challenges, the Board shall decide all
contested questions and shall make findings on all relevant issues of fact
which shall become part of the record on appeal to the court.
      (5)   The Zoning Hearing Board shall hear requests for variances where it
is alleged that the provisions of this chapter inflict unnecessary hardship
upon the applicant. The Board may by rule prescribe the form of application and
may require preliminary application to the Zoning Officer. The Board may grant
a variance provided the following findings are made where relevant in a given
case:
         (a)   There are unique physical circumstances or conditions, peculiar
to the particular property, and that the unnecessary hardship is due to such
conditions;
         (b)   Because of such physical circumstances or conditions, there is
no possibility that the property can be developed in strict conformity with the
provisions of this chapter and that the authorization of a variance is
therefore necessary to enable the reasonable use of the property;
         (c)   Such unnecessary hardship has not been created by the appellant;
         (d)   The variance, if authorized, will not alter the essential
character of the neighborhood or district in which the property is located, nor
substantially or permanently impair the appropriate use or development of
adjacent property, nor be detrimental to the public welfare; and
         (e)   The variance will represent the minimum variance that will
afford relief.
      (6)   The Zoning Hearing Board may authorize special exceptions where the
governing body in this chapter has made provision for such procedures pursuant
to express standards and criteria. The Board may attach such additional
conditions and safeguards as it may deem necessary.
   (D)   Procedure. The procedure of the Zoning Hearing Board shall be governed
by the provisions of applicable laws of the commonwealth, and such rules, not
inconsistent therewith, as the Board may adopt. In general, the procedure for
appeal from action of the Zoning Officer shall be as follows.
      (1)   Any appeal from the requirements of this chapter shall be taken by
filing with the officer, from whom the appeal is taken, and with the Zoning
Hearing Board, a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The officer
from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all of the
documentary material constituting the record upon which the action appealed was
taken.
      (2)   The appellant shall, at the time of filing his or her appeal, pay
to the township a fee as determined by the governing body to defray, or help
defray, the required advertising costs.
      (3)   Each case as provided for under this chapter shall be heard and/or
tried on its merits at a public hearing. All hearings shall be conducted in
accordance with the requirements of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code (see 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.), as amended, with respect to such
proceedings. Notice of such hearing shall be given by publishing in a newspaper
of general circulation in the township in accordance with applicable law.
Written notice shall be given to the applicant, the Zoning Officer and such
other persons as the Township Supervisors shall designate by ordinance. The
Board shall give the notices required by law to all parties in interest, and it
may adjourn any hearing for the purpose of giving such further notice.
      (4)   In addition, written notice of said hearings shall be conspicuously
posted on the affected tract of land at least one week prior to the hearing.
Also, the Board shall give written notice of all variance hearings to all
property owners within 250 feet of the subject property at least one week prior
to the hearing.
      (5)   Hearings shall be held within 60 days from the date of the
applicant’s request, unless an extension of time has been agreed to in writing
by the applicant.
      (6)   The Planning Commission shall furnish all pertinent narrative
material, maps, charts and other data relative to the problem for reference by
all concerned. The Board may adjourn any hearing for the purpose of reviewing
such data as may be pertinent to the problem and request interpretations of
said data by a representative of the Planning Commission.
      (7)   The Board shall decide each case within 45 days after the last
hearing or as otherwise specified by appropriate statute. A copy of the final
decision or finding shall be delivered to the applicant personally or mailed to
him or her not later than the day following its date. Notice thereof shall be
given to all parties in interest. The Board’s decision shall be immediately
filed in its office and be a public record. In the exercise of its functions
upon such appeals or upon exceptions, the Board may in conformity with law,
reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or modify the order requirement, decision
or determination appealed from, or make such order requirement, decision or
determination as it determines.
      (8)   A copy of the final decision or, where no decision is called for,
the findings, shall be delivered to the applicant personally or mailed to him
or her not later than the day following its date. To all other persons who have
filed their name and address with the Board not later than the last day of the
hearing, the Board shall provide by mail or otherwise, brief notice of the
decision or findings and a statement of the place at which the full decision or
findings may be examined.
(2003 Code, § 170-77)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.265  AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the public necessity, convenience or general welfare
indicates, the governing body may, by ordinance in accordance with applicable
laws of the commonwealth, amend, supplement or change the regulations,
restrictions, boundaries or classifications of buildings, structures and land,
as the same are established by this chapter, or may hereafter be made a part
thereof.
      (1)   Before voting on the enactment of an amendment, the governing body
shall hold a public hearing thereon, pursuant to public notice. In addition, if
the proposed amendment involves a Zoning Map change, notice of said public
hearing shall be conspicuously posted by the municipality at points deemed
sufficient by the municipality along the perimeter of the tract to notify
potentially interested citizens. The affected tract or area shall be posted at
least one week prior to the date of the hearing.
      (2)   In case of an amendment other than that prepared by the Planning
Commission, the governing body shall submit each such amendment to the Planning
Commission at least 30 days prior to the hearing on such proposed amendment to
provide the Planning Commission an opportunity to submit recommendations.
      (3)   If, after any public hearing held upon an amendment, the proposed
amendment is changed substantially, or is revised, to include land previously
not affected by it, the governing body shall hold another public hearing,
pursuant to public notice, before proceeding to vote on the amendment.
      (4)   At least 30 days prior to the public hearing on the amendment by
the governing body, the municipality shall submit the proposed amendment to the
County Planning Commission for recommendations.
      (5)   Within 30 days after enactment, a copy of the amendment to this
chapter shall be forwarded to the County Planning Commission.
   (B)   Applications of petitions for any change or amendments to existing
zoning districts shall be made to the Planning Commission and shall be
accompanied with a fee as determined by the governing body, payable to the
Township of Greene, and shall be deposited in the General Fund. This fee is for
the purpose of defraying the costs of preparing the necessary plats, maps,
data, legislation and notices and all official publications required by the
township and shall not be refundable even though the application is disapproved
by the governing body.
   (C)   The Township Supervisors may from time to time, on their own motion or
petition, after public notice and hearing, amend the regulations and districts
herein established, but no amendment shall become effective unless the same
shall have first been submitted to the Township and County Planning Commissions
for review, and said Commissions shall have been allowed a period of at least
30 days for consideration and report.
   (D)   A landowner who desires to challenge on substantive grounds the
validity of this chapter or Zoning Map or any provision thereof, that prohibits
or restricts the use or development of land in which he or she has an interest,
may submit a curative amendment to the Township Supervisors in accordance with
provisions of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code (see 53 P.S. §§
10101 et seq.).
      (1)   The governing body shall commence a hearing thereon within 60 days
of the request. The curative amendment and challenge shall be referred to the
township and County Planning Commissions for review and comment and notice of
the hearing thereon shall be given as provided for in this chapter.
      (2)   If the Township Supervisors do not accept a landowner’s curative
amendment brought in accordance with this division (D) and a court subsequently
rules that the challenge has merit, the court’s decision shall not result in a
declaration of invalidity for this entire chapter and Zoning Map, but only for
those provisions which specifically relate to the landowner’s curative
amendment and challenge.
      (3)   The governing body may determine that a validity challenge has
merit and may accept a landowner’s curative amendment, with or without
revision, or may adopt an alternative amendment that will cure the challenged
defects. The governing body shall consider the curative amendments, plans and
explanatory material submitted by the landowner and shall also consider:
         (a)   The impact of the proposal upon roads, sewer facilities, water
supplies, schools and other public service facilities;
         (b)   If the proposal is for a residential use, the impact of the
proposal upon regional housing needs and the effectiveness of the proposal in
providing housing units of a type actually available to, and affordable by,
classes of persons otherwise unlawfully excluded by the challenged provisions
of this chapter or Zoning Map;
         (c)   The suitability of the site for the intensity of use proposed by
the site’s soils, slopes, woodlands, wetlands, floodplains, aquifers, natural
resources and other natural features;
         (d)   The impact of the proposed use on the site’s soils, slopes,
woodlands, wetlands, floodplains, natural resources and natural features, the
degree to which these are protected or destroyed, the tolerance of the
resources to development and any adverse environmental impacts; and
         (e)   The impact of the proposal on the preservation of agriculture
and other land uses which are essential to public health and welfare.
   (E)   If the Township Supervisors determine that this chapter or any portion
thereof is substantially invalid, they may initiate a municipal curative
amendment in accordance with the provisions of the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code.
      (1)   Declare by formal action the chapter or portions thereof
substantively invalid and propose to prepare a curative amendment to overcome
such invalidity. Within 30 days following such declaration and proposal the
governing body shall:
         (a)   By resolution make specific findings setting forth the declared
invalidity of the chapter; and
         (b)   Begin to prepare and consider a curative amendment to the
chapter to correct the declared invalidity.
      (2)   Within 180 days from the date of the declaration and proposal,
enact a curative amendment to validate, or reaffirm the validity of, the
chapter.
   (F)   Zoning amendments shall not be enacted unless notice of proposed
enactment is given. The notices shall include the time and place of the meeting
at which passage will be considered, and a reference to a place within the
township where copies of the proposed ordinance or amendment may be examined
either without charge or for a charge not greater than the cost thereof. The
governing body shall publish the proposed ordinance or amendment once in one
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality not more than 60 days nor
less than seven days prior to passage. Publication of the proposed ordinance or
amendment shall include either the full text thereof or the title and a brief
summary, prepared by the Municipal Solicitor and setting forth all the
provisions in reasonable detail. If the full text is not included:
      (1)   A copy thereof shall be supplied to a newspaper of general
circulation in the township at the time the public notice is published;
      (2)   An attested copy of the proposed chapter shall be filed in the
Beaver County Law Library; and
      (3)   In the event substantial changes are made in the proposed
amendment, before voting upon enactment, the governing body shall, at least ten
days prior to enactment, readvertise, in one newspaper of general circulation
in the township, a brief summary setting forth all the provisions in reasonable
detail together with a summary of the amendments.
(2003 Code, § 170-78)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.266  INTERPRETATION; PURPOSE; CONFLICT.
   The interpretation and application of the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the health, safety,
morals and general welfare. The chapter is not intended to interfere with or
abrogate or annul other rules, regulations or ordinances of the township;
provided that where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of
building or premises, or upon the height of a building, or requires larger open
spaces than are imposed by other such rules, regulations or ordinances, the
provision of this chapter shall prevail.
(2003 Code, § 170-79)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.267  REMEDIES.
   In case any structure or land is or is proposed to be erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, converted, maintained and/or used in violation of this
chapter, or any regulations made pursuant thereto, the Township Supervisors, in
addition to specifically authorizing the Zoning Officer to obtain enforcement
and in addition to other remedies, may institute in the name of the
municipality by itself or through the Zoning Officer any appropriate action or
proceeding to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate such building, structure,
land or use or to prevent in or about such premises any act, conduct, business
or use constituting a violation.
(2003 Code, § 170-80)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 153.268  MUNICIPAL LIABILITY.
   The granting of a zoning permit for the erection and/or use of a building or
lot shall not constitute a representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind or
nature by the municipality, or an official or employee thereof, of the safety
of any structure, use or other proposed plan for any cause whatsoever, and
shall create no liability upon or a cause of action against any such public
official or employee for any damage that may result pursuant thereto.
(2003 Code, § 170-81)  (Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993)
OIL AND GAS
§ 153.280  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the health, safety and
welfare of the residents of the township, through zoning and flood plain
management provisions, for the reasonable development of land for oil and gas
drilling while providing adequate health, safety and general welfare
protections of the township's residents. Oil and gas exploration, drilling and
extraction operations involve activities that are economically important and
will impact the township. Accordingly, it is necessary and appropriate to adopt
reasonable requirements for oil and gas resource development so that these
resources can be obtained in a manner that is economically remunerative,
preserves the character of all zoning districts, encourages beneficial and
compatible land uses and that minimizes the potential impact on the residents
of the township.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 2-6-2012)
§ 153.281  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT.  Any person, owner, operator, partnership, company, corporation
and its subcontractors and agents who has an interest in real estate for the
purpose of exploring or drilling for, producing, or transporting oil or gas.
   BUILDING.  An occupied structure with walls and roof within which persons
live or customarily work. The term shall not include a barn, shed or other
storage building.
   COLLECTOR STREET.  A public street or road which, in addition to providing
access to abutting lots, intercepts other collector streets or state roads and
provides a route for carrying volumes of local traffic to community facilities
and arterial streets.
   COMPRESSOR.  A device used alone or in series to raise the pressure of
natural gas and/or byproducts to create a pressure differential to move or
compress a liquid, vapor or gas.
   COMPRESSOR STATION.  A facility designed and constructed to compress natural
gas and/or oil that originates from a single well site or a collection of such
well sites, operating as a midstream facility for delivery of gas and/or oil to
a transmission pipeline, distribution pipeline, processing plant or underground
storage field, including one or more natural gas and/or oil compressors,
associated buildings, pipes, valves, tanks and other equipment.
   DEPARTMENT.  The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
   DERRICK.  Any portable framework, tower mast and/or structure which is
required or used in connection with drilling or re-working a well for the
production of oil or gas.
   DRILLING.  Any digging or boring of a new well or re-working of an existing
well to explore, develop or produce oil, gas or other hydrocarbons or to inject
gas, water or any other fluids or substances into the earth.
   DRILLING EQUIPMENT.  The derrick, all parts and appurtenances to such
structure and every piece of apparatus, machinery or equipment used, erected or
maintained in connection with oil and gas drilling, as defined herein.
   DRILLING PAD.  The area of surface operations surrounding the surface
location of a well or wells extending only to the heel of the pad. Such area
shall not include an access road to the drilling pad.
   EFFECTIVE DATE.  The date upon which this subchapter is approved by the
Township Board of Supervisors.
   HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (FRACKING).  The process of injecting water, customized
fracking fluid, steam, or gas into an oil or gas well under pressure to break
apart rock layers in order to release gas and improve recovery of gas.
   LOCAL STREET.  A public street or road designed to provide access to
abutting lots and to discourage through traffic.
   NATURAL GAS PROCESSING FACILITY.  A facility that is not a compressor
station that receives natural gas and associated hydrocarbons from a gathering
line system serving one or more well sites that compresses, condenses,
pressurizes or otherwise treats natural gas and which removes water and water
vapor and/or separates materials such as ethane, propane, butane and other
constituents or similar naturally occurring substances from natural gas to
allow such natural gas to be of such quality as is required or appropriate for
transmission or distribution to commercial markets, including, but not limited
to: cooling facilities, storage tanks and related equipment and facilities.
   OIL AND GAS.  Crude oil, natural gas, methane gas, coal bed methane gas,
propane, butane and/or any other constituents or similar substances that are
produced by drilling an oil or gas well of any depth into, through and below
the surface of the earth.
   OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT or DEVELOPMENT.  The well site preparation,
construction, drilling, redrilling, hydraulic fracturing, and/or site
restoration associated with an oil or gas well of any depth; water and other
fluid storage, impoundment and transportation used for such activities; and the
installation and use of all associated equipment, including tanks, meters, and
other equipment and structures whether permanent or temporary; and the site
preparation, construction, installation, maintenance and repair of oil and gas
pipelines and associated equipment and other equipment and activities
associated with the exploration for, production and transportation of oil and
gas. This definition does not include gathering, transmission and distribution
pipelines or compressor stations or natural gas processing plants or facilities
performing the equivalent functions.
   OIL AND GAS DRILLING.  The removal of oil and gas resources from the ground
by means of drilling, as defined herein, in accordance with a valid permit
issued by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PA DEP)
under the provisions of the PA Oil and Gas Act (58 P.S. §§ 601.101 to 601.605),
as now or hereafter amended.
   OIL AND GAS DRILLING DEEP WELL.  Oil and gas drilling, as defined herein,
drilled to depths deeper than the base of the Elk Sandstone or its
stratigraphic equivalent for the sole purpose of exploring the Marcellus Shale.
   OIL AND GAS DRILLING SHALLOW WELL.  Oil and gas drilling, as defined herein,
drilled to depths shallower than the base of the Elk Sandstone or its
stratigraphic equivalent and any well site that proposes drilling of a single
well for no more than seven consecutive days total in any calendar year.
   OIL AND GAS DRILLING SUBSURFACE FACILITIES.  Activities performed under the
surface of the ground that are part of the operation of oil and gas drilling,
as defined herein, located on properties within the unit for a particular well
site, but that are not included in the well site, including, but not limited
to: horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing zones, underground gathering
and transmission pipelines established in accordance with Public Utility
Commission (PUC) guidelines, water distribution lines and similar underground
facilities incidental to oil and gas drilling.
   OIL or GAS WELL or WELL HEAD.  A pierced or bored hole drilled or being
drilled in the ground for the purpose of, or to be used for, producing,
extracting or injecting gas, oil, petroleum or another liquid related to oil or
gas production or storage including the structure that is placed over the
opening upon completion of drilling and that is maintained during production.
   OPERATOR.  Any person, partnership, company or corporation and its
subcontractors and agents who have an interest in real estate for the purpose
of exploring or drilling for, producing or transporting oil or gas.
   OWNER.  A person, who owns, manages, leases, controls or possesses an oil or
gas well site.
   PROTECTED STRUCTURE.  Any occupied residence, business, school, church or
public building located within 1,000 feet of an oil or gas well, as defined
herein, that may be adversely affected by noise generated from the drilling or
hydraulic fracturing at the well site, as defined herein, excluding any
structure owned by an oil or gas lessor who has signed a lease with the
operator granting surface rights to drill the subject well or whose owner or
occupants have signed a waiver relieving the operator from complying with the
noise abatement provisions of this subchapter.
   STORAGE WELL.  A well used for and in connection with the underground
storage of natural gas, including injection into or withdrawal from an
underground storage reservoir for monitoring or observation of reservoir
pressure.
   TOWNSHIP.  Township of Greene.
   TOWNSHIP STAFF.  Township of Greene Board of Supervisors, or other
designated agent of the township.
   WATER IMPOUNDMENT.  An open, earthen receptacle in the ground intended to
store fresh water or wastewater to supply one or more oil and gas drilling well
sites.
   WELL SITE.  All of the area occupied by the drilling equipment, as defined
herein, and all surface facilities, structures, water and other fluid storage
impoundments and storage tanks and associated equipment including tanks, meters
and other permanent or temporary structures and equipment incidental to oil and
gas drilling, as defined herein, including facilities and equipment necessary
for site exploration, preparation, site construction, drilling, hydraulic
fracturing, site restoration, production and operation of the well upon
completion of drilling.
   WORKOVER OPERATIONS.  The work performed in a well after its completion in
an effort to secure production where there has been none, restore production
that has ceased, or increase production.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 2-6-2012)
§ 153.282  ZONING CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   An oil or gas well site, or a compressor station, or a natural gas
processing facility, or any similar facilities performing the equivalent
functions shall be permitted as a conditional use within the Agricultural (A-
l), Light Commercial (C-l), Highway Commercial (C-2) And Industrial (I) Zoning
Districts only by the process of submitting a conditional use application.
   (B)   The Applicant shall have the duty and the burden to prove compliance
with the specific conditions set forth herein and by way of this subchapter.
Applicant shall bear the burden of persuasion to demonstrate that the proposed
conditional use will not have detrimental effects on the health, safety and
welfare of township residents relative to any additional conditions.
   (C)   The proposed conditional use will be harmonious with and in accordance
with the general objectives or with any specific objective of the township's
comprehensive plan; will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained in
a commercially reasonable manner so as to be harmonious and appropriate in
appearance with the existing or intended character of the general vicinity;
will not be hazardous to existing neighboring uses; will be served adequately
by essential facilities and services such as highways, streets, police and fire
protection, drainage structures, refuse disposal, water and sewer, and schools;
or the persons or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed
use shall be able to adequately provide any such services; will not involve
uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and conditions of operation
that will be detrimental to any persons, property, or the general welfare by
reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke, fumes, glare or odors;
will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be designed so as
not to create undue interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares; will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural,
scenic, or historic feature of significant importance.
   (D)   A zoning permit shall not be required for oil and gas drilling
subsurface facilities which are authorized as a permitted use by right in all
zoning districts. Permits for crossing or disturbance of any state or township
street shall be required.
   (E)   Conditional use approval shall be required for each well site;
however, if multiple well heads are proposed to be located at the well site,
separate approval is not required for each well head if the original
conditional use application indicates that multiple well heads are proposed.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 2-6-2012)
§ 153.283  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to all oil or gas well sites, compressor
stations, and natural gas processing facilities that will be permitted or
constructed after the effective date of the subchapter. No oil or gas well or
exploration of same of any type or nature shall be dug or drilled, nor shall
any work in preparation therefore be commenced within the boundaries of
township unless and until the owner or operator of such operation makes
conditional use application in conformity with this subchapter.
   (B)   Oil or gas well sites, compressor stations, and natural gas processing
facilities that were permitted or constructed prior to the adoption of this
ordinance shall not be required to meet the requirements of this subchapter;
provided that any modification to an existing or permitted oil or gas well site
that occurs after the effective date of this ordinance and materially alters
the size, type, location, number of wells and other accessory equipment or
structures, or any physical modifications to an existing compressor station or
natural gas processing facility shall require compliance with and approval
under this subchapter.
   (C)   Certain federal and/or state laws or regulations preempt oil and gas
ordinance requirements that conflict with same. The township acknowledges that
it is pre-empted from regulating the operational methods of the oil and gas
industry and may only regulate land uses in accordance with Pennsylvania law.
   (D)   All activities conducted in association with, and as a part of oil or
gas well sites shall be in accordance with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Oil
and Gas Act (Act 1984-223), as amended, and any other applicable federal,
state, county and local laws.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 2-6-2012)
§ 153.284  CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No oil or gas well site, compressor station, or natural gas processing
facility or any addition thereto shall be constructed or located within the
township unless a conditional use approval has been issued by the township to
the owner or operator approving the construction or preparation of the site for
oil or gas development or construction of natural gas compressor stations or
natural gas processing facilities.
   (B)   The permit application, or amended permit application, shall be
accompanied by a fee in the amount of $1,000 which may, from time to time, be
amended by resolution. The applicant shall promptly pay any additional fees or
costs incurred by the township that exceed this fee as allowable under the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code.
   (C)   Any modification to an existing and permitted oil or gas well site
that materially alters the size, location, number of wells or accessory
equipment or structures, or any modification to an existing compressor station
or natural gas processing facility shall require a modification of the permit
under this subchapter. Like-kind replacements shall not require a permit
modification.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 2-6-2012)
§ 153.285  PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCES.
   (A)   Purpose.  Before submitting a conditional use application the
applicant is strongly encouraged to meet with the township staff to determine
the requirements of and the procedural steps and timing of the application. The
intent of this process is for the applicant to obtain necessary information and
guidance from the township staff before entering into any commitments or
incurring substantial expenses with regard to the site and plan preparation. In
addition, a preliminary determination will be made regarding the need for land
development plan review by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Process. A pre-application conference is voluntary on the part of the
applicant and shall not be deemed the beginning of the time period for review
as prescribed by law. The pre-application conferences are intended for the
benefit of the applicant in order to address the required permit submittals and
are advisory only, and shall not bind the township to approve any application
for a permit or to act within any time limit relative to the date of such
conference.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 2-6-2012)
§ 153.286  CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The applicant shall provide to the township at the time of
application:
      (1)   A narrative describing an overview of the project including the
number of acres to be involved, the number of wells to be drilled, location,
number and description of equipment and structures to be involved.
      (2)   A narrative describing an overview of the project as it relates to
compressor stations or natural gas processing facilities, if applicable.
      (3)   The address of the oil or gas well site, compressor station or
natural gas processing facility as determined by the township or county for
information of emergency responders. A 9-1-1 address or GPS coordinates should
be assigned to the location.
      (4)   The contact information of the individual or individuals
responsible for the operation and activities at the oil or gas well site shall
be provided to the township and all appropriate emergency responders. Such
information shall include a phone number where such individual or individuals
can be contacted 24 hours per day, 365 days a year. Annually, or upon any
change of relevant circumstances, the applicant shall update such information
and provide it to the township and all appropriate emergency responders.
      (5)   A location map of the oil or gas well site showing the approximate
location of derricks, drilling rigs, well heads, water impoundments equipment
and structures and all permanent improvements to the site and any post
construction surface disturbance in relation to natural and other surroundings.
Included in this map shall be an area within the development site for the
location and parking of vehicles and equipment used in the transportation of
personnel and/or development and use of the site. Such location shall be
configured to allow the normal flow of traffic on local streets shall be
undisturbed.
      (6)   A location map of any proposed compressor stations or natural gas
processing facilities including any equipment and structures and all permanent
improvements to the site.
      (7)   A narrative and map describing the manner and routes for the
transportation and delivery of equipment, machinery, water, chemicals and other
materials used in the siting, exploration, drilling, construction, development,
maintenance and operation of the oil or gas well site.
      (8)   A certification or evidence satisfactory to the township that,
prior to the commencement of any activity at the oil or gas well site, the
applicant shall have accepted and complied with any applicable bonding and
permitting requirements and shall have entered into a roadway maintenance
agreement with the township, in a form acceptable to the Township Solicitor,
regarding the maintenance and repair of the township streets that are to be
used by vehicles for site exploration, construction, drilling activities and
site operations. A road bond if necessary and in an amount determined by the
Township Engineer shall be posted by the applicant prior to commencement of any
oil or gas development activities. Compliance with posted weight limits must be
maintained.
         (a)    The operator shall show the proposed township routes of all
vehicles to be utilized for hauling and the estimated weights of those
vehicles. The operator shall show evidence of compliance with designated weight
limits on township roads, unless a bond and a maintenance agreement has been
entered into to assure road damage repair. The operator shall design the
hauling routes for the oil and gas development operation to minimize the use of
and impact upon township roads wherever feasible.
         (b)   The operator shall show evidence satisfactory to the Township
Engineer that intersections along proposed hauling routes provide a sufficient
turning radius for vehicles to be utilized for hauling, such that all turns can
be safely made without damage to vehicles, sidewalks or curbs.
         (c)   The Township Engineer shall review the proposed routes provided
by the operator, and reasonably determine whether preventive measures, such as
shoring of bridges or putting protective mats over utility lines, should be
taken to prevent damage to township roads, bridges or utilities. If such
preventive measures are recommended, the operator shall install such protective
measures as directed by the Township Engineer prior to beginning operations.
      (9)   A description of, and commitment to maintain, safeguards that shall
be taken by the applicant to ensure that township streets utilized by the
applicant shall remain free of dirt, mud and debris resulting from site
development activities; and the applicant's assurance that such streets will be
promptly swept or cleaned if dirt, mud and debris occur as a result of
applicant's usage.
      (10)   Verification that a copy of the operation's preparedness,
prevention and contingency plan (PPCP), as established by the appropriate state
and /or federal regulatory agency, has been provided to the township and all
emergency responders.
      (11)   Emergency responders are to be held harmless and indemnified by
the applicant when acting in accordance with the PPCP or emergency response
plan. The applicant is responsible to reimburse all costs associated with
emergency responders.
      (12)   A statement that the applicant, upon changes occurring to the
operation's preparedness, prevention and contingency plan, will provide to the
township and all appropriate emergency responders the dated revised copy of the
preparedness, prevention and contingency plan while drilling activities are
taking place at the oil or gas well site.
      (13)   Assurance that, at least 30 days prior to drilling and annually
thereafter if requested by the township, the applicant shall provide an
appropriate site orientation and training course of the preparedness,
prevention and contingency plan for all appropriate emergency responders. The
cost and expense of the orientation and training shall be sole responsibility
of the applicant. The applicant shall not be required to hold more than one
site orientation and training course annually under this section.
      (14)   A copy of the documents submitted to the department, or other
applicable regulatory agencies or if none, a narrative describing any
environmental impacts of the proposed development on the site and surrounding
land and measures proposed to protect or mitigate such impacts.
      (15)   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan, in conformance with
the requirements of the Beaver County Conservation District, must be submitted
along with obtaining a grading and excavating permit from the township as well
as the execution of a stormwater best management practices agreement between
the applicant and the township in accordance with township ordinances.
      (16)   Recorded easements must be supplied for any gathering,
transmission and distribution pipelines serving the site or proposed to serve
the site.
      (17)   Proposed rehabilitation/reclamation plan for the site (excluding
compressor stations and/or processing facilities) containing the following
information:
         (a)   An engineering drawing showing ownership, existing and future
topography, streams, existing roads, buildings, boundaries, and metes and
bounds description of the tract.
         (b)   A drawing showing the location and/or proposed relocation of
land, trees, buildings, structures, public roads, streams, drainage facilities
and utility lines on the tract or adjacent tracts as may require protection,
repairs, clearance, demolition, restoration, either during or following
completion of the operations proposed.
         (c)   A plan for reuse of the land after completion of the operations
which shall permit the carrying out of the purpose of this chapter and
appropriately provide for any rehabilitation, restoration, reclamation,
reforestation or other correction work deemed necessary and commercially
reasonable.
   (B)   Within 30 business days after receipt of a permit application and the
required fee, the township will determine whether the application is complete
and adequate and advise the applicant accordingly.
   (C)   If the application is complete, the township shall schedule a
conditional use hearing in accordance with the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code and shall, following hearing, render a decision on the
application in accordance with this subchapter.
   (D)   If the application is incomplete and/or inadequate the township will
promptly notify the applicant of the missing or inadequate material, in no
event longer than 30 days from submittal of the application, and, upon
receiving said material, shall schedule a conditional use hearing in accordance
with the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code and shall, following
hearing, render a decision on the application in accordance with this
subchapter.
   (E)   All Commonwealth and federal requirements associated with oil and gas
well development must be followed at all times and, upon request, permits
associated with those requirements shall be supplied to the township.
Conditional use approval shall be indefinitely conditioned upon the applicant
maintaining valid Commonwealth and federal operating permits. Applicant shall
immediately notify the township of the suspension, modification or revocation
of any such permits.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 2-6-2012)
§ 153.287  DESIGN AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Access.
      (1)   No oil or gas well site shall have access solely through a private
road. Whenever possible, access roads to the oil or gas well site should be
from a local or collector street. There shall be adequate area on the
development site for staging trucks waiting to make deliveries or service to
the site that does not unreasonably disrupt the normal flow of traffic on the
public street.
      (2)   Accepted professional and/or PennDOT standards pertaining to
minimum traffic sight distances for all access points shall be followed.
      (3)   The access road to the well site shall be required to be improved
and maintained before entering township or state roads in such a manner that no
excess water, sediment or debris will be carried onto any public streets or
roadways.
      (4)   Any newly established private easements/roadways constructed on the
parcel containing the well site shall be located at least 25 fee from any
property line unless consent is obtained from the adjoining property owner.
Existing easements/roadways shall be exempt from the requirement to obtain
consent from adjoining property owner, provided however that the township may
permit a permanent easement/roadway to be located closer than 25 feet from any
property line upon showing by the applicant that the location of such easement/
roadway cannot be constructed as required due to topographical or environmental
constraints.
      (5)   Approved compliance with the Commonwealth's ESCGP-1 permitting
process shall satisfy the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Structure height.
      (1)   Permanent structures associated with an oil and gas well site, both
principal and accessory, shall comply with the respective height regulations
for the Agricultural (A-l), Light Commercial (C-l), Highway Commercial (C-2)
And Industrial (I) Zoning Districts in which the oil or gas well site is
located.
      (2)   Permanent structures associated with compressor stations or natural
gas processing facilities shall comply with the respective height regulations
for the Agricultural (A-l), Light Commercial (C-l), Highway Commercial (C-2)
and Industrial (I) Zoning Districts in which same are located.
      (3)   There shall be an exemption to the height restrictions contained in
this section for the temporary placement of drilling rigs, drying tanks, and
other accessory uses necessary for the actual drilling or redrilling of an oil
or gas well.
         (a)   The duration of such exemption shall not exceed the actual time
period of active drilling or redrilling of an oil or gas well.
         (b)   The time period of such drilling and exemption shall not exceed
six months unless extended in writing as necessary and reasonable upon request
of the applicant.
         (c)   The operator shall give the township prior written notice of the
beginning date for its exercise of the exemption.
   (C)   Setbacks. To be measured from the well head as a center point.
      (1)   Drilling equipment shall be located a minimum setback distance of
200 feet from any building not related to the development.
      (2)   The drilling pad for the oil or gas well site shall comply with all
setback and buffer requirements of the respective Agricultural (A-l), Light
Commercial (C-l), Highway Commercial (C-2) And Industrial (I) Zoning Districts
in which the oil or gas well site is located.
      (3)   Compressor stations and natural gas processing facilities shall
comply with all respective setback and buffer requirements of the Agricultural
(A-l), Light Commercial (C-l), Highway Commercial (C-2) And Industrial (I)
Zoning Districts in which they are located.
      (4)   Exemption from the standards established in this subsection may be
granted by the township upon a showing by the applicant that it is not feasible
to meet the setback requirements from surface tract property lines and that
adequate safeguards have or will be provided to justify the exemption.
      (5)   Drilling pads, compressor stations and natural gas processing
facilities shall be set back 500 feet from buildings or sites registered or
eligible for registration on the National Register of Historic Places or the
Pennsylvania Register of Historic Places.
      (6)   Well heads shall be set back 200 feet from any existing water
wells.
      (7)   Drilling pads, compressor stations and natural gas processing
facilities shall be set back 200 feet from all property boundaries, property
lines, properties designated as landfills, properties containing hazardous
substances, public streets or private streets not servicing the site.
      (8)   If there is a reasonable likelihood of disturbance to endangered
species or crucial habitations, sufficient setbacks shall be met to ensure the
preservation of threatened or endangered species or crucial habitations such
that there shall be minimal to no habitat disturbance as determined by the
Department of Conservation and Natural Resources.
   (D)   Fencing, signage, screening.
      (1)   Security fencing shall not be required at oil or gas well sites
during the initial drilling, or redrilling operations, as long as manned 24-
hour on-site supervision and security are being provided.
      (2)   Upon completion of drilling or redrilling, security fencing
consisting of a permanent chain link fence shall be promptly installed at the
oil or gas well site to secure well heads, storage tanks, separation
facilities, water or liquid impoundment areas, and other mechanical and
production equipment and structures on the oil or gas well site. Fencing is not
required as long as 24-hour on-site supervision and security are being
provided.
      (3)   Security fencing shall be constructed in accordance with existing
zoning ordinance provisions.
      (4)   Warning signs shall be placed on the fencing surrounding the oil or
gas well site providing notice of the potential dangers and the contact
information in the event of an emergency.
      (5)   In construction of oil or gas well sites the natural surroundings
should be considered and measures taken to preserve existing trees and other
native vegetation to promote and utilize natural screening.
      (6)   Water impoundments containing wastewater shall be fenced and
covered with protective bird netting to ensure the safety of animal and bird
species.
   (E)   Lighting.
      (1)   Lighting at the oil or gas well site, or other facilities
associated with oil and gas drilling development, either temporary or
permanent, shall be directed downward and inward toward the activity, to the
extent practicable, so as to minimize the glare on public roads and nearby
buildings within 300 feet of the oil or gas well development.
      (2)   Lighting at a compressor stations or a natural gas processing
facilities shall, when practicable, be limited to security lighting.
   (F)   Noise.  Township recognizes and acknowledges that oil and gas
development is accompanied by inherent noise. However, the operator shall take
the following steps to minimize, to the extent practicable, the noise resulting
from the development:
      (1)   Prior to the conditional use application submittal, the operator
shall establish a continuous 72-hour ambient noise level at the nearest
protected structure property line or 100 feet from the nearest protected
structure (as measured to the closest exterior point of the building),
whichever is closer to the protected structure. The sound level meter used in
conducting any evaluation shall meet the American National Standard Institute's
standard for sound meters or an instrument and the associated recording and
analyzing equipment which will provide equivalent data.
      (2)   The operator shall provide documentation of any established, 72-
hour evaluation, relied upon to establish an ambient noise level to the
Township's Zoning Officer within three business days of such a request from the
Zoning Officer and at the conditional use hearing.
      (3)   If it is determined that any residents, regardless of their status
of residing or working in a protected structure may be adversely affected by
the noise at the site, township may require that noise abatement measures be
implemented including, but not limited to, the erection of sound walls around
the site.
      (4)   If a complaint is received by the township from any person, whether
a resident or otherwise using the protected structure as defined herein for any
lawful purpose, regarding noise generated during drilling or hydraulic
fracturing activities, the operator shall, within 24 hours of receipt of the
complaint from the Township, continuously monitor for a 48-hour period at a
point which is the closer to the complainant's building of:
         (a)   The complainant's protected structure property line nearest to
the wellsite or equipment generating the noise; or
         (b)   One hundred feet from the protected structure.
      (5)   If the operator engages in any noise testing as required by this
subchapter, it will provide preliminary data to the township no later than ten
business days following completion of the noise testing. Once the monitoring is
complete, operator will meet with township representatives and affected
residents to discuss whether additional abatement measures are warranted.
   (G)   Prohibitions and precautions.
      (1)   No drilling shall be allowed in the floodway designated as such in
the flood insurance study (FIS) and shown on the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) maps.
      (2)   Oil and gas drilling in the 100-year floodplain is discouraged but
may be permitted by the township in its sole discretion if the following
provisions are met.
         (a)   The applicant must provide conclusive documentation that no
other location allows access to the oil or gas deposit other then a location
within the floodplain.
         (b)   An adequate emergency evacuation plan shall have been produced
by the applicant and filed with the township.
         (c)   No storage of chemicals shall be permitted within the
floodplain. An exemption from this requirement may be granted by the township
if the applicant can show that such storage will not potentially cause any harm
to property, persons or the environment in the case of a 100-year flood; and
further provides security to the township assuring the applicant's ability to
remedy any damage or injury that may occur.
         (d)   Only necessary and needed structures will be permitted within
the floodplain.
         (e)   All structures within the flood zone shall be designed to
withstand a 100-year storm event.
         (f)   An engineer registered in Pennsylvania and qualified to present
such documentation that structures will not cause additional flooding on
adjacent, upstream and/or downstream properties shall provide such
documentation to the township.
      (3)   (a)   Oil and gas operations shall not create dust or pollute the
air in violation of the Clean Air Act or any other local, state or federal
regulation regarding air cleanliness or nuisances. Owners  and operators shall
take the necessary safeguards to ensure appropriate dust control measures are
in place. Exhaust from any internal combustion engine or compressor used in
connection with the drilling of any well or for use on any production equipment
or used in development shall not be discharged into the open air unless
equipped with (i) an exhaust muffler or (ii) an exhaust box. The exhaust
muffler or exhaust box shall be constructed of non-combustible materials
designed and installed to suppress noise and disruptive vibrations. Moreover,
all such equipment with an exhaust muffler or exhaust box shall be maintained
in good operating condition according to manufacturer's specifications.
         (b)   The emissions of dust, smoke, refuse matter, odor, gas, fumes or
similar substances or conditions which can endanger the health, safety or
general welfare or which can cause any soiling or staining of persons or
property at any point beyond the property line of the use creating the emission
is prohibited. Dust control measures shall be used to stabilize soil from wind
erosion and to reduce dust generated from drilling or site activities,
including:
            1.   Stabilize exposed soils using vegetation, mulching, spray-on
adhesives, calcium chloride, sprinkling, and stone and gravel layering.
            2.   Stabilize unpaved haul roads, parking and staging areas within
the site.
            3.   Minimize the impact of dust by anticipating the direction of
prevailing winds.
            4.   Direct construction and commercial vehicle traffic to
stabilized roadways within the site.
            5.   Pave, vegetate, or chemically stabilize access points where
unpaved traffic surfaces adjoin paved public streets.
            6.   Provide for wet suppression or chemical stabilization of
exposed soils.
            7.   Provide for rapid clean-up of sediments deposited on paved
roads.
            8.   Furnish vehicle wash down areas.
            9.   Reduce speed to 15 mph or less and reduce trips on unpaved
roads on site.
            10.   Implement dust control measures for material stockpiles.
            11.   Stabilize abandoned construction/staging areas on site using
vegetation or chemical stabilization methods.
      (4)   A dust control plan shall be submitted with the site plan,
demonstrating compliance with this subdivision.
      (5)   A worker, agent, contractor or employee connected with an oil or
gas operation shall be prohibited from residing and living on the site for more
than two consecutive weeks at a time during active drilling operations. Once
active drilling has ceased no person shall be permitted to reside on the site.
      (6)   Water impoundments shall only be permitted on sites approved for
deep well drilling and only on the same site serviced by said impoundment.
Sediment and hydraulic fracturing wastewater may be disposed of only in
approved landfill sites and shall not be disposed of on the same site as the
oil and gas development unless treated and approved for disposal by the
department and/or the EPA. All water impoundments must be completely enclosed
with fencing in accordance with township standards. Proposed water impoundments
must be included in the conditional use application for review and approval by
the township.
      (7)   Owners or operators shall take all necessary precautions to
minimize odors during the drilling or hydraulic fracturing process. If odors
resulting from the drilling or hydraulic fracturing process or odors emanating
from the well sites result in nuisance complaints being lodged by township
residents, the owner or operator shall meet with the township and any affected
residents to implement, where warranted and required by the township, effective
odor control measures.
      (8)   Owners or operators shall take all necessary precautions to ensure
the safety of persons in areas established for road crossing and/or adjacent to
roadways, i.e. persons waiting for public or school transportation, crosswalks,
etc. Where necessary and permitted, during periods of anticipated heavy or
frequent truck traffic associated with the development, owners or operators
will provide flagmen to ensure the safety of children at or near schools or
school bus stops and include adequate signs and/or other warning measures for
truck traffic and vehicular traffic. In the alternative, owners or operators,
with the township's consent and agreement, will reimburse the township to
provide such required safety measures. Operator will coordinate its efforts
with the school district so as to minimize heavy truck traffic during the hours
when school buses are picking up or dropping off children.
      (9)   Owners or operators shall not clear brush or trees by way of
burning and shall chip, grind or remove all tree stumps and limbs from
properties it clears for development purposes unless done so in conformity with
township ordinances.
      (10)   Any workover operations, as defined herein, shall be subject to
all applicable criteria of this subchapter. Workover operations shall not
commence until the operator provides written notice to the Township Zoning
Officer at least 60 days in advance. The Township Zoning Officer may authorize
the workover operations provided all conditions attached to the original
conditional use approval for the well site and all applicable criteria of this
subchapter are met. The Zoning Officer has the discretion to refer the
operator's request to the Board of Supervisors for an amended conditional use
approval. The Board of Supervisors may conduct a public hearing and may refer
the request to the Township Planning Commission before acting on an amendment
to the original conditional use application.
      (11)   Prior to commencement of drilling activities at the site, the
operator, township, representatives of the school district and public safety
officials may hold a safety conference to address any of the requirements set
forth in this subchapter.
      (12)   Hours of construction during site grading, preparation of
installation of roads, drilling pads, water impoundments, noise barriers and
related facilities shall be 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. There is no limit on hours
of operation during active drilling and fracking as long as compliance with the
other provisions of this subchapter is maintained.
      (13)   The township may require the operator to conduct an informational
meeting for residents within 1,000 feet of the well site at least 30 days prior
to beginning construction on the site. Information to be provided to the
residents should include a survey of the well site, a general description of
the proposed facilities, the equipment to be used during site development,
explanation of drilling and "fracking" and contact information for the operator
and the site supervisor.
      (14)   There shall be no seismic testing unless specifically requested by
the owner or operator and approved by the township.
      (15)   If a spill, fire or other reportable violation of any federal,
state or local law occurs at the drill site or in the township by operator or
its subcontractors, operator will notify the township immediately, in all
circumstances not later than 24 hours after the incident occurred or, if the
incident is ongoing, not later than 24 hours after it began.
      (16)   Coal bed methane and conventional oil and gas well drilling and
completion activities, i.e. those wells drilled to depths shallower than the
base of the Elk Sandstone or its stratigraphic equivalent, and such oil and gas
wells that are planned to involve drilling of a single well on a well site for
no more than seven consecutive days total in any calendar year can request a
waiver from the township from any condition set forth herein, if in the sole
discretion of the township, the conditions are not necessary to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the residents.
(Ord. 3-2011, passed 2-6-2012)
§ 153.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership or corporation, who or which has violated or
permitted the violation of the provisions of this chapter, shall, upon being
found liable therefor in a civil enforcement proceeding commenced by the
township, pay a judgment of not more than $500 plus all court costs, including
reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the township as a result thereof. No
judgment shall commence or be imposed, levied or payable until the date of the
determination of violation by the District Justice. If the defendant neither
pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the township may enforce the judgment
pursuant to the applicable rules of civil procedure. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation, unless the District Justice
determining that there has been a violation further determines that there was a
good faith basis for the person, partnership or corporation violating the
chapter to have believed that there was no such violation, in which event there
shall be deemed to have been only one such violation until the fifth day
following the date of the determination of a violation by the District Justice,
and thereafter each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation. All judgments, costs and reasonable attorney’s fees collected for
the violation of this chapter shall be paid over to the township.
(2003 Code, § 170-82)
   (B)   Any person who violates or permits a violation of §
153.075(B)(1)(n) upon being found liable therefore in a civil enforcement
proceeding before a Magisterial District Judge, shall pay to the township a
fine of not more than $500, plus all court costs, including, but not limited
to, reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the township on account of such
violation. No penalty or cost shall be imposed until the date the determination
of the violation by the Magisterial District Judge becomes final. If the
defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the township may
enforce the judgment as provided by law. Each day a violation exists after
final judgment shall constitute a separate offense. The amount of the fine
imposed shall be multiplied by the number of such days and may be charged and
collected as a judgment by the township without further judicial proceedings.
Further, the appropriate officers or agents of the township are hereby
authorized, to issue a cease and desist notice and/or to seek equitable relief,
including injunction, to enforce compliance herewith. No bond shall be required
of the township if the township seeks injunctive relief.
   (C)   Any applicant, owner, operator or other person who violates or permits
a violation of §
153.077(D) upon being found liable therefore in a civil enforcement proceeding
before a Magisterial District Judge, shall pay to the township a fine of not
more than $500, plus all court costs, including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorney’s fees incurred by the township on account of such violation. No
penalty or cost shall be imposed until the date the determination of the
violation by the Magisterial District Judge becomes final. If the defendant
neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the township may enforce the
judgment as provided by law. Each day a violation exists after final judgment
shall constitute a separate offense. The amount of the fine imposed shall be
multiplied by the number of such days and may be charged and collected as a
judgment by the township without further judicial proceedings. Further, the
appropriate officers or agents of the township are hereby authorized, to issue
a cease and desist notice and/or to seek equitable relief, including
injunction, to enforce compliance herewith. No bond shall be required of the
township if the township seeks injunctive relief.
   (D)   Any person who violates or permits a violation of §§
153.090(B)(2)(i),
153.135(B)(1)(j),
153.150(B)(1)(p) and
153.165(B)(1)(d), upon being found liable therefore in a civil enforcement
proceeding before a Magisterial District Judge, shall pay to the township a
fine of not more than $500, plus all court costs, including, but not limited
to, reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the township on account of such
violation. No penalty or cost shall be imposed until the date the determination
of the violation by the Magisterial District Judge becomes final. If the
defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the township may
enforce the judgment as provided by law. Each day a violation exists after
final judgment shall constitute a separate offense. The amount of the fine
imposed shall be multiplied by the number of such days and may be charged and
collected as a judgment by the township without further judicial proceedings.
Further, the appropriate officers or agents of the township are hereby
authorized, to issue a cease and desist notice and/or to seek equitable relief,
including injunction, to enforce compliance herewith. No bond shall be required
of the township if the township seeks injunctive relief.
   (E)   Any owner, operator, or other person who violates or permits a
violation of §§
153.280 to
153.287 upon being found liable therefore in a civil enforcement proceeding
before a Magisterial District Judge, shall pay to the township a fine of not
more than $500, plus all court costs, including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorney's fees incurred by the township on account of such violation. No
penalty or cost shall be imposed until the date the determination of the
violation by the Magisterial District Judge becomes final. If the defendant
neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the township may enforce the
judgment as provided by law. Each day a violation exists after final judgment
shall constitute a separate offense. The amount of the fine imposed shall be
multiplied by the number of such days and may be charged and collected as a
judgment by the township without further judicial proceedings. Further, the
appropriate officers or agents of the township are hereby authorized, to issue
a cease and desist notice and/or to seek equitable relief, including
injunction, to enforce compliance herewith. No bond shall be required of the
township if the township seeks injunctive relief.
(Ord. 2-93, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 01-2013, passed 2-4-2013; Ord. 7-2016, passed
9-6-2016; Ord. 8-2016, passed 9-6-2016; Ord. 3-2011, passed 2-6-2012)
APPENDIX A:  RECYCLING AND MATERIAL SALVAGE ACCESS ROAD/AISLE LAYOUT
   Figure RD-01
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72279ff0364a92c477a1bfaa1c49853723063603/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1015.jpg]
 
   Figure RD-02
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72279ff0364a92c477a1bfaa1c49853723063603/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1017.jpg]
 
(2003 Code, Ch. 170)
CHAPTER 154:  STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Short title
   
154.002   Statement of findings
   
154.003   Purpose
   
154.004   Statutory authority
   
154.005   Applicability
   
154.006   Compatibility with other requirements
   
154.007   References
   
154.008   Definitions
Stormwater Management Standards
   
154.025   General requirements
   
154.026   Exemptions
   
154.027   Volume controls
   
154.028   Rate controls
Stormwater Management Site Plan Requirements
   
154.040   Plan requirements
   
154.041   Plan submission
   
154.042   Plan review
   
154.043   Modification of plans
   
154.044   Resubmission of disapproved stormwater management site plans
   
154.045   Authorization to construct and term of validity
   
154.046   As-built plans, completion certificate and final inspection
Operation and Maintenance
   
154.060   Responsibilities of developers and landowners
   
154.061    O&M agreements
Fees and Expenses
   
154.075   General
Prohibitions
   
154.085   Prohibited discharges and connections
   
154.086   Roof drains
   
154.087   Alteration of SWM BMPs
Enforcement
   
154.100   Right-of-entry
   
154.101   Inspection
   
154.102   Enforcement
   
154.103   Suspension and revocation
   
154.104   Appeals
 
   
154.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Operation and Maintenance Agreement Operation and Maintenance
(O&M) Agreement Stormwater Management Best Management Practices (SWM BMPS)
   
Appendix B:   Disconnected Impervious Area (DIA)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Greene Township
Stormwater Management Ordinance.”
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.002  STATEMENT OF FINDINGS.
   The Township Board finds that:
   (A)   Inadequate management of accelerated runoff of stormwater resulting
from development throughout a watershed increases flows and velocities,
contributes to erosion and sedimentation, overtaxes the carrying capacity of
streams and storm sewers, greatly increases the cost of public facilities to
carry and control stormwater, undermines flood plain management and flood
control efforts in downstream communities, reduces groundwater recharge,
threatens public health and safety, and increases nonpoint source pollution of
water resources.
   (B)   A comprehensive program of stormwater management, including reasonable
regulation of development and activities causing accelerated runoff, is
fundamental to the public health, safety, and welfare and the protection of
people of the Commonwealth, their resources, and the environment.
   (C)   Stormwater is an important water resource, which provides groundwater
recharge for water supplies and base flow of streams, which also protects and
maintains surface water quality.
   (D)   Federal and state regulations require certain municipalities to
implement a program of stormwater controls. These municipalities are required
to obtain a permit for stormwater discharges from their separate storm sewer
systems under the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES).
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.003  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote health, safety, and welfare within
the township and its watershed by minimizing the harms and maximizing the
benefits described in §
154.002, above, through provisions designed to:
   (A)   Meet legal water quality requirements under state law, including
regulations at 25 Pa. Code Ch. 93 to protect, maintain, reclaim, and restore
the existing and designated uses of the waters of this Commonwealth.
   (B)   Preserve the natural drainage systems as much as possible.
   (C)   Manage stormwater runoff close to the source.
   (D)   Provide procedures and performance standards for stormwater planning
and management.
   (E)   Maintain groundwater recharge to prevent degradation of surface and
groundwater quality and to otherwise protect water resources.
   (F)   Prevent scour and erosion of stream banks and streambeds.
   (G)   Provide proper operation and maintenance of all permanent SWM BMPs
that are implemented within the township.
   (H)   Provide standards to meet NPDES permit requirements.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.004  STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The township is empowered to regulate land use activities that affect runoff
by the authority of the  the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S.
§§ 10101 et seq., as amended, and Act 167, October 4, 1978, P.L. 864, the
Stormwater Management Act.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.005  APPLICABILITY.
   All regulated activities and all activities that may affect stormwater
runoff, including land development and earth disturbance activity, are subject
to regulation by this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.006  COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   Approvals issued and actions taken under this chapter do not relieve the
applicant of the responsibility to secure required permits or approvals for
activities regulated by any other code, law, regulation, or ordinance.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.007  REFERENCES.
   (A)   Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. No. 363-0300-002
(December 2006), as amended and updated. Pennsylvania Stormwater Best
Management Practices Manual. Harrisburg, PA.
   (B)   Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. No. 363-2134-008
(April 15, 2000), as amended and updated. Erosion and Sediment Pollution
Control Program Manual. Harrisburg, PA.
   (C)   U.S. Department of Agriculture, National Resources Conservation
Service (NRCS). National Engineering Handbook. Part 630: Hydrology, 1969-2001.
Originally published as the National Engineering Handbook, Section 4:
Hydrology. Available from the NRCS online at: http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/.
   (D)   U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation
Service. 1986. Technical Release 55: Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds, 2nd
Edition. Washington, D.C.
   (E)   U.S. Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, National Weather Service, Hydrometeorological Design Studies
Center. 2004-2006. Precipitation-Frequency Atlas of the United States, Atlas
14, Volume 2, Version 3.0, Silver Spring, Maryland. Internet address: http://
hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.008  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   Interpretation.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; the
singular number includes the plural, and the plural number includes the
singular; words of masculine gender include feminine gender; and words of
feminine gender include masculine gender.
      (2)   The word “includes” or “including” shall not limit the term to the
specific example but is intended to extend its meaning to all other instances
of like kind and character.
      (3)    The words “shall” and “must” are mandatory; the words “may” and
“should” are permissive.
   (B)   Definitions.
      AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY.  Activities associated with agriculture such as
agricultural cultivation, agricultural operation, and animal heavy use areas.
This includes the work of producing crops including tillage, land clearing,
plowing, disking, harrowing, planting, harvesting crops or pasturing and
raising of livestock and installation of conservation measures. Construction of
new buildings or impervious area is not considered an agricultural activity.
      APPLICANT.  A landowner, developer, or other person who has filed an
application to the township for approval to engage in any regulated activity at
a project site in the township.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP).  Activities, facilities, designs,
measures, or procedures used to manage stormwater impacts from regulated
activities, to meet state water quality requirements, to promote groundwater
recharge, and to otherwise meet the purposes of this chapter. Stormwater BMPs
are commonly grouped into one of two broad categories or measures: “structural”
or “nonstructural.” In this chapter, nonstructural BMPs or measures refer to
operational and/or behavior-related practices that attempt to minimize the
contact of pollutants with stormwater runoff whereas structural BMPs or
measures are those that consist of a physical device or practice that is
installed to capture and treat stormwater runoff. Structural BMPs include, but
are not limited to, a wide variety of practices and devices, from large-scale
retention ponds and constructed wetlands, to small-scale underground treatment
systems, infiltration facilities, filter strips, low impact design,
bioretention, wet ponds, permeable paving, grassed swales, riparian or forested
buffers, sand filters, detention basins, and manufactured devices. Structural
stormwater BMPs are permanent appurtenances to the project site.
      CONSERVATION DISTRICT.  A conservation district, as defined in § 3(c) of
the Conservation District Law (3 P.S. § 851(c)) that has the authority under a
delegation agreement executed with DEP to administer and enforce all or a
portion of the regulations promulgated under 25 Pa. Code Ch. 102.
      DEP.  The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
      DESIGN STORM.  The magnitude and temporal distribution of precipitation
from a storm event measured in probability of occurrence (e.g., a five-year
storm) and duration (e.g., 24 hours) used in the design and evaluation of
stormwater management systems. Also see “return period.”
      DETENTION VOLUME.  The volume of runoff that is captured and released
into the waters of this Commonwealth at a controlled rate.
      DEVELOPMENT SITE (SITE).  See “project site.”
      DISCONNECTED IMPERVIOUS AREA (DIA).  An impervious or impermeable surface
that is disconnected from any storm water drainage or conveyance system and is
redirected or directed to a pervious area, which allows for infiltration,
filtration, and increased time of concentration as specified in Appendix B,
disconnected impervious area.
      DISTURBED AREA.  An unstabilized land area where an earth disturbance
activity is occurring or has occurred.
      EARTH DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY.  A construction or other human activity which
disturbs the surface of the land, including, but not limited to: clearing and
grubbing; grading; excavations; embankments; road maintenance; building
construction; and the moving, depositing, stockpiling, or storing of soil,
rock, or earth materials.
      EROSION.  The natural process by which the surface of the land is worn
away by water, wind, or chemical action.
      EXISTING CONDITION.  The dominant land cover during the five-year period
immediately preceding a proposed regulated activity.
      FEMA.  Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      FLOODPLAIN.  Any land area susceptible to inundation by water from any
natural source or delineated by applicable FEMA maps and studies as being a
special flood hazard area. Also includes areas that comprise Group 13 Soils, as
listed in Appendix A of the Pennsylvania DEP Technical Manual for Sewage
Enforcement Officers (as amended or replaced from time to time by DEP).
      FLOODWAY.  The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the
adjoining floodplains that are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
100-year flood. Unless otherwise specified, the boundary of the floodway is as
indicated on maps and flood insurance studies provided by FEMA. In an area
where no FEMA maps or studies have defined the boundary of the 100-year
floodway, it is assumed-absent evidence to the contrary-that the floodway
extends from the stream to 50 feet from the top of the bank of the stream.
      FOREST MANAGEMENT/TIMBER OPERATIONS.  Planning and activities necessary
for the management of forestland. These include conducting a timber inventory,
preparation of forest management plans, silvicultural treatment, cutting
budgets, logging road design and construction, timber harvesting, site
preparation, and reforestation.
      HYDROLOGIC SOIL GROUP (HSG).  Infiltration rates of soils vary widely and
are affected by subsurface permeability as well as surface intake rates. Soils
are classified into four HSGs (A, B, C, and D) according to their minimum
infiltration rate, which is obtained for bare soil after prolonged wetting. The
NRCS defines the four groups and provides a list of most of the soils in the
United States and their group classification. The soils in the area of the
development site may be identified from a soil survey report that can be
obtained from local NRCS offices or conservation district offices. Soils become
less pervious as the HSG varies from A to D (NRCS ).
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE (IMPERVIOUS AREA).  A surface that prevents the
infiltration of water into the ground. Impervious surfaces (or areas) shall
include, but not be limited to: roofs; additional indoor living spaces, patios,
garages, storage sheds and similar structures; and any new streets or
sidewalks. Decks, parking areas, and driveway areas are not counted as
impervious areas if they do not prevent infiltration.
      KARST.  A type of topography or landscape characterized by surface
depressions, sinkholes, rock pinnacles/uneven bedrock surface, underground
drainage, and caves. KARST is formed on carbonate rocks, such as limestone or
dolomite.
      LAND DEVELOPMENT (DEVELOPMENT).  Inclusive of any or all of the following
meanings: (i) the improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots,
tracts, or parcels of land for any purpose involving (a) a group of two or more
buildings or (b) the division or allocation of land or space between or among
two or more existing or prospective occupants by means of, or for the purpose
of streets, common areas, leaseholds, condominiums, building groups, or other
features; (ii) any subdivision of land; (iii) development in accordance with §
503(1.1) of the PA Municipalities Planning Code.
      NPDES.  National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Stormwater
Program regulates discharges from municipal separate storm sewer systems
(MS4s), construction activities, industrial activities, and those designated by
EPA due to water quality impacts.
      NRCS.  USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service (previously SCS).
      PEAK DISCHARGE.  The maximum rate of stormwater runoff from a specific
storm event.
      PERVIOUS AREA.  Any area not defined as impervious.
      PROJECT SITE.  The specific area of land where any regulated activities
in the township are planned, conducted, or maintained.
      QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL.  Any person licensed by the Pennsylvania
Department of State or otherwise qualified by law to perform the work required
by this chapter.
      REGULATED ACTIVITIES.  Any earth disturbance activities or any activities
that involve the alteration or development of land in a manner that may affect
stormwater runoff.
      REGULATED EARTH DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY.  Activity involving earth
disturbance subject to regulation under 25 Pa. Code Ch. 92, 25 Pa. Code Ch.
102, or the Clean Streams Law.
      RETENTION VOLUME/REMOVED RUNOFF.  The volume of runoff that is captured
and not released directly into the surface waters of this Commonwealth during
or after a storm event.
      RETURN PERIOD.  The average interval, in years, within which a storm
event of a given magnitude can be expected to occur one time. For example, the
25-year return period rainfall would be expected to occur on average once every
25 years; or stated in another way, the probability of a 25-year storm
occurring in any one year is 0.04 (i.e., a 4% chance).
      RUNOFF.  Any part of precipitation that flows over the land.
      SEDIMENT.  Soils or other materials transported by surface water as a
product of erosion.
      STATE WATER QUALITY REQUIREMENTS.  The regulatory requirements to
protect, maintain, reclaim, and restore water quality under 25 Pa. Code and the
Clean Streams Law.
      STORMWATER.  Drainage runoff from the surface of the land resulting from
precipitation or snow or ice melt.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.  Is abbreviated as BMPs
or SWM BMPs throughout this chapter.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITY.  Any structure, natural or man-made,
that, due to its condition, design, or construction, conveys, stores, or
otherwise affects stormwater runoff. Typical stormwater management facilities
include, but are not limited to: detention and retention basins; open channels;
storm sewers; pipes; and infiltration facilities.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SITE PLAN.  The plan prepared by the developer or
his representative indicating how stormwater runoff will be managed at the
development site in accordance with this chapter. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SITE
PLAN will be designated as SWM site plan throughout this chapter.
      SUBDIVISION.  As defined in The Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
      TOWNSHIP.  Greene Township, Beaver County, Pennsylvania.
      USDA.  United States Department of Agriculture.
      WATERS OF THIS COMMONWEALTH.  Any and all rivers, streams, creeks,
rivulets, impoundments, ditches, watercourses, storm sewers, lakes, dammed
water, wetlands, ponds, springs, and all other bodies or channels of conveyance
of surface and underground water, or parts thereof, whether natural or
artificial, within or on the boundaries of this Commonwealth.
      WATERSHED.  Region or area drained by a river, watercourse, or other
surface water of this Commonwealth.
      WETLAND.  Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater
at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar
areas.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT STANDARDS
§ 154.025  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For all regulated activities, unless preparation of an SWM site plan
is specifically exempted in §
154.026:
      (1)   Preparation and implementation of an approved SWM site plan is
required.
      (2)   No regulated activities shall commence until the township issues
written approval of an SWM site plan, which demonstrates compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   SWM site plans approved by the township, in accordance with §
154.045, shall be on site throughout the duration of the regulated activity.
   (C)   The township may, after consultation with DEP, approve measures for
meeting the state water quality requirements other than those in this chapter,
provided that they meet the minimum requirements of, and do not conflict with,
state law including, but not limited to, the Clean Streams Law.
   (D)   For all regulated earth disturbance activities, erosion and sediment
control BMPs shall be designed, implemented, operated, and maintained during
the regulated earth disturbance activities (e.g., during construction) to meet
the purposes and requirements of this chapter and to meet all requirements
under 25 Pa. Code and the Clean Streams Law. Various BMPs and their design
standards are listed in the Erosion and Sediment Pollution Control Program
Manual (E&S Manual), No. 363-2134-008 (April 15, 2000), as amended and updated.
   (E)   For all regulated activities, implementation of the volume controls in
§ 303 is required.
   (F)   Impervious areas:
      (1)   The measurement of impervious areas shall include all of the
impervious areas in the total proposed development even if development is to
take place in stages.
      (2)   For development taking place in stages, the entire development plan
must be used in determining conformance with this chapter.
      (3)   For projects that add impervious area to a parcel, the total
impervious area on the parcel is subject to the requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Stormwater flows onto adjacent property shall not be created,
increased, decreased, relocated, or otherwise altered without written
notification of the adjacent property owner(s). Such stormwater flows shall be
subject to the requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   All regulated activities shall include such measures as necessary to:
      (1)   Protect health, safety, and property;
      (2)   Meet the water quality goals of this chapter by implementing
measures to:
         (a)   Minimize disturbance to floodplains, wetlands, and wooded areas.
         (b)   Maintain or extend riparian buffers.
         (c)   Avoid erosive flow conditions in natural flow pathways.
         (d)   Minimize thermal impacts to waters of this Commonwealth.
         (e)    Disconnect impervious surfaces by directing runoff to pervious
areas, wherever possible; and
      (3)   To the maximum extent practicable, incorporate the techniques for
Low Impact Development Practices described in the Pennsylvania Stormwater Best
Management Practices Manual (BMP Manual).
   (I)   The design of all facilities over karst shall include an evaluation of
measures to minimize adverse effects.
   (J)   Infiltration BMPs should be spread out made as shallow as practicable,
and located to maximize use of natural on-site infiltration features while
still meeting the other requirements of this chapter.
   (K)   Storage facilities should completely drain both the volume control and
rate control capacities over a period of time not less than 24 and not more
than 72 hours from the end of the design storm.
   (L)   The design storm volumes to be used in the analysis of peak rates of
discharge should be obtained from the Precipitation-Frequency Atlas of the
United States. Atlas 14. Volume 2, Version 3.0, U.S. Department of Commerce,
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), National Weather
Service, Hydrometeorological Design Studies Center, Silver Spring, Maryland.
NOAA's Atlas 14 can be accessed at: http://hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/.
   (M)   For all regulated activities, SWM BMPs shall be designed, implemented,
operated, and maintained to meet the purposes and requirements of this chapter
and to meet all requirements under 25 Pa. Code, the Clean Streams Law, and the
Storm Water Management Act.
   (N)   Various BMPs and their design standards are listed in the BMP Manual.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.026  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Regulated activities that create DIAs smaller than 1,000 square feet
are exempt from the peak rate control and the SWM site plan preparation
requirement of this chapter.
   (B)   Regulated activities that create DIAs equal to or greater than 1,000
square feet and less than 5,000 square feet are exempt only from the peak rate
control requirement of this chapter.
   (C)   Agricultural activity is exempt from the rate control and SWM Site
Plan preparation requirements of this chapter provided the activities are
performed according to the requirements of 25 Pa. Code Ch. 102.
   (D)   Forest management and timber operations are exempt from the rate
control and SWM site plan preparation requirements of this chapter provided the
activities are performed according to the requirements of 25 Pa. Code Ch. 102.
   (E)   Exemptions from any provisions of this chapter shall not relieve the
applicant from the requirements in §
154.025(D) through (L).
   (F)   Exceptions and/or Alternative analyses as set forth in 25 Pa. Code §
102.8(g) concerning modification of the requirements for volume controls and
rate controls will be considered on a case-by-case basis at the discretion of
the township as advised by the Township Engineer.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.027  VOLUME CONTROLS.
   The low impact development practices provided in the BMP Manual shall be
utilized for all regulated activities to the maximum extent practicable. Water
volume controls shall be implemented using the design storm method in division
(A), below, or the simplified method in division (B), below. For regulated
activity areas equal or less than one acre that do not require hydrologic
routing to design the stormwater facilities, this chapter establishes no
preference for either methodology; therefore, the applicant may select either
methodology on the basis of economic considerations, the intrinsic limitations
on applicability of the analytical procedures associated with each methodology,
and other factors.
   (A)   The design storm method (CG-1 in the BMP Manual) is applicable to any
size of regulated activity. This method requires detailed modeling based on
site conditions which:
      (1)   Do not increase the total runoff volume for all storms equal to or
less than the two-year 24-hour duration precipitation.
      (2)   For modeling purposes:
         (a)   Existing (predevelopment) non-forested pervious areas must be
considered meadow or its equivalent.
         (b)   Twenty percent of existing impervious area, when present, shall
be considered meadow in the model for existing conditions.
   (B)   The simplified method (CG-2 in the BMP Manual) provided below is
independent of site conditions and should be used if the design storm method is
not followed. This method is not applicable to regulated activities greater
than one acre or for projects that require design of stormwater storage
facilities. For new impervious surfaces:
      (1)   Stormwater facilities shall capture at least the first two inches
of runoff from all new impervious surfaces.
      (2)   At least the first one inch of runoff from new impervious surfaces
shall be permanently removed from the runoff flow, i.e., it shall not be
released into the surface waters of this Commonwealth. Removal options include
reuse, evaporation, transpiration, and infiltration.
      (3)   Wherever possible, infiltration facilities should be designed to
accommodate infiltration of the entire permanently removed runoff; however, in
all cases at least the first half inch of the permanently removed runoff should
be infiltrated.
      (4)   This method is exempt from the requirements of §
154.028, rate controls, below.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.028  RATE CONTROLS.
   (A)   In areas not covered by a release rate map from an approved Act 167
stormwater management plan:
Post-development discharge rates shall not exceed the predevelopment discharge
rates for the two-, ten-, 50- and 100-year/24-hour storm events. If it is shown
that the peak rates of discharge indicated by the post-development analysis are
less than or equal to the peak rates of discharge indicated by the
predevelopment analysis for two-, ten-, 50- and 100-year/24-hour storm events,
then the requirements of this section have been met. Otherwise, the applicant
shall provide additional controls as necessary to satisfy the peak rate of
discharge requirement.
   (B)   In areas covered by a release rate map from an approved Act 167
stormwater management plan:
For the two-, ten-, 50- and 100-year/24-hour storm events, the post-development
peak discharge rates will follow the applicable approved release rate maps. For
any areas not shown on the release rate maps, the post-development discharge
rates shall not exceed the predevelopment discharge rates.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT (SWM) SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.040  PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   The following items shall be included in the SWM site plan:
   (A)   Appropriate sections from the township's subdivision and land
development ordinance, and other applicable local ordinances, shall be followed
in preparing the SWM site plans.
   (B)   The township shall not approve any SWM site plan that is deficient in
meeting the requirements of this chapter. At its sole discretion and in
accordance with this subchapter, when a SWM site plan is found to be deficient,
the township may either disapprove the submission and require a resubmission,
or in the case of minor deficiencies, the township may accept submission of
modifications.
   (C)   Provisions for permanent access or maintenance easements for all
physical SWM BMPs, such as ponds and infiltration structures, as necessary to
implement the operation and maintenance (O&M) plan discussed in division (D)
(9), below.
   (D)   The SWM site plan shall provide the following information:
      (1)   The overall stormwater management concept for the project.
      (2)   A determination of site conditions in accordance with the BMP
Manual. A detailed site evaluation shall be completed for projects proposed in
areas of carbonate geology or karst topography, coal combustion residual
impoundments, and other environmentally sensitive areas, such as brownfields.
      (3)   Stormwater runoff design computations, and documentation as
specified in this chapter, or as otherwise necessary to demonstrate that the
maximum practicable measures have been taken to meet the requirements of this
chapter, including the recommendations and general requirements in §
154.025.
      (4)   Expected project time schedule.
      (5)   A soil erosion and sediment control plan, where applicable, as
prepared for and submitted to the approval authority.
      (6)   The effect of the project (in terms of runoff volumes, water
quality, and peak flows) on surrounding properties and aquatic features and on
any existing stormwater conveyance system that may be affected by the project.
      (7)   Plan and profile drawings of all SWM BMPs, including drainage
structures, pipes, open channels, and swales.
      (8)   SWM site plan shall show the locations of existing and proposed on-
lot wastewater and sewage disposal facilities and water supply wells.
      (9)   The SWM site plan shall include an O&M plan for all existing and
proposed physical stormwater management facilities. This plan shall address
long-term ownership and responsibilities for O&M as well as schedules and costs
for O&M activities.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.041  PLAN SUBMISSION.
   (A)   Four copies of the SWM site plan shall be submitted to the township.
The township shall then distribute copies for review as it deems necessary, but
shall generally distribute them as follows:
      (1)   One copy to the municipal engineer.
      (2)   One copy to the Beaver County Planning Commission.
   (B)   One copy of the SWM site plan shall be submitted to the Beaver County
Conservation District when the project involves a regulated earth disturbance
activity.
   (C)   Additional copies shall be submitted as requested by the township or
DEP.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.042  PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The SWM site plan shall be reviewed by a qualified professional for
the township for consistency with the provisions of this chapter. After review,
the qualified professional shall provide a written recommendation for the
township to approve or disapprove the SWM site plan. If it is recommended to
disapprove the SWM site plan, the qualified professional shall state the
reasons for the disapproval in writing. The qualified professional also may
recommend approval of the SWM site plan with conditions and, if so, shall
provide the acceptable conditions for approval in writing. The SWM site plan
review and recommendations shall be completed within the time allowed by the
Municipalities Planning Code for reviewing subdivision plans.
   (B)   The township shall notify the applicant in writing within 45 days
whether the SWM site plan is approved or disapproved. If the SWM site plan
involves a subdivision and land development plan, the notification period is 90
days. If a longer notification period is provided by other statute, regulation,
or ordinance, the applicant will be so notified by the . If the township
disapproves the SWM site plan, the township shall cite the reasons for
disapproval in writing.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.043  MODIFICATION OF PLANS.
   A modification to a submitted SWM site plan that involves a change in SWM
BMPs or techniques, or that involves the relocation or redesign of SWM BMPs, or
that is necessary because soil or other conditions are not as stated on the SWM
site plan as determined by the township shall require a resubmission of the
modified SWM site plan in accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.044  RESUBMISSION OF DISAPPROVED STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SITE PLANS.
   A disapproved SWM site plan may be resubmitted, with the revisions
addressing the township's concerns, to the township in accordance with this
subchapter. The applicable review fee must accompany a resubmission of a
disapproved SWM site plan.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.045  AUTHORIZATION TO CONSTRUCT AND TERM OF VALIDITY.
   The township's approval of an SWM site plan authorizes the regulated
activities contained in the SWM site plan for a maximum term of validity of
five years following the date of approval. The township may specify a term of
validity shorter than five years in the approval for any specific SWM site
plan. Terms of validity shall commence on the date the township signs the
approval for an SWM site plan. If an approved SWM site plan is not completed
according to §
154.046 within the term of validity, then the township may consider the SWM
site plan disapproved and may revoke any and all permits. SWM site plans that
are considered disapproved by the township shall be resubmitted in accordance
with §
154.044 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.046  AS-BUILT PLANS, COMPLETION CERTIFICATE, AND FINAL INSPECTION.
   (A)   The developer shall be responsible for providing as-built plans of all
SWM BMPs included in the approved SWM site plan. The as-built plans and an
explanation of any discrepancies with the construction plans shall be submitted
to the township.
   (B)   The as-built submission shall include a certification of completion
signed by a qualified professional verifying that all permanent SWM BMPs have
been constructed according to the approved plans and specifications. If any
licensed qualified professionals contributed to the construction plans, then a
licensed qualified professional must sign the completion certificate.
   (C)   After receipt of the completion certification by the township, the
township may conduct a final inspection.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
§ 154.060  RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEVELOPERS AND LANDOWNERS.
   (A)   The township shall make the final determination on the continuing
maintenance responsibilities prior to final approval of the SWM site plan. The
township may require a dedication of such facilities as part of the
requirements for approval of the SWM site plan. Such a requirement is not an
indication that the township will accept the facilities. The township reserves
the right to accept or reject the ownership and operating responsibility for
any portion of the stormwater management controls.
   (B)   Facilities, areas, or structures used as stormwater management BMPs
shall be enumerated as permanent real estate appurtenances and recorded as deed
restrictions or conservation easements that run with the land.
   (C)   The O&M plan shall be recorded as a restrictive deed covenant that
runs with the land.
   (D)   The township may take enforcement actions against an owner for any
failure to satisfy the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.061  O&M AGREEMENTS.
   The owner is responsible for O&M of the SWM BMPs. If the owner fails to
adhere to the O&M agreement, the township may perform or subcontract the
services required and charge the owner appropriate fees. Nonpayment of fees may
result in a lien against the property.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
FEES AND EXPENSES
§ 154.075  GENERAL.
   The township may include all costs incurred in the review fee charged to an
applicant. The review fee may include, but not be limited to, costs for the
following:
   (A)   Administrative/clerical processing.
   (B)   Professional review of the SWM site plan.
   (C)   Attendance at meetings.
   (D)   Inspections.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 154.085  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, that
allows any non-stormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and
wash water to enter the waters of this Commonwealth is prohibited.
   (B)   No person shall allow, or cause to allow, discharges into surface
waters of this Commonwealth which are not composed entirely of stormwater,
except (1) as provided in division (C), below, and (2) discharges allowed under
a state or federal permit.
   (C)   The following discharges are authorized unless they are determined to
be significant contributors to pollution to the waters of this Commonwealth:
 
Discharges from firefighting activities Flows from riparian habitats and
                                        wetlands
Potable water sources including water   Uncontaminated water from foundations
line flushing                           or from footing drains
Irrigation drainage                     Lawn watering
Air conditioning condensate             Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges
Springs                                 Uncontaminated groundwater
Water from crawl space pumps            Water from individual residential car
                                        washing
Pavement wash waters where spills or
leaks of toxic or hazardous materials   Routine external building wash down
have not occurred(unless all spill      (which does not use detergents or other
material has been removed) and where    compounds)
detergents are not used
 
   (D)   In the event that the township or DEP determines that any of the
discharges identified in division (C), above, significantly contribute to
pollution of the waters of this Commonwealth, the township or DEP will notify
the responsible person(s) to cease the discharge.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.086  ROOF DRAINS.
   Roof drains and sump pumps shall discharge to infiltration or vegetative
BMPs and to the maximum extent practicable satisfy the criteria for DIAs.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.087  ALTERATION OF SWM BMPS.
   No person shall modify, remove, fill, landscape, or alter any SWM BMPs,
facilities, areas, or structures without the written approval of the township.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.100  RIGHT-OF-ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the township may enter at
reasonable times upon any property within the township to inspect the condition
of the stormwater structures and facilities in regard to any aspect regulated
by this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.101  INSPECTION.
   SWM BMPs should be inspected by the landowner, or the owner's designee
(including the township for dedicated and owned facilities), according to the
following list of minimum frequencies:
   (A)   Annually for the first five years.
   (B)   Once every three years thereafter.
   (C)   During or immediately after the cessation of a ten-year or greater
storm.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.102  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to undertake any regulated activity
except as provided in an approved SWM site plan, unless specifically exempted
in §
154.026.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to violate any section of this chapter.
   (C)   Inspections regarding compliance with the SWM site plan are a
responsibility of the township.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.103  SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any approval or permit issued by the township pursuant to this chapter
may be suspended or revoked for:
      (1)   Non-compliance with or failure to implement any provision of the
approved SWM site plan or O&M agreement.
      (2)   A violation of any provision of this chapter or any other
applicable law, ordinance, rule, or regulation relating to the regulated
activity.
      (3)   The creation of any condition or the commission of any act during
the regulated activity which constitutes or creates a hazard, nuisance,
pollution, or endangers the life or property of others.
   (B)   A suspended approval may be reinstated by the township when:
      (1)   The township has inspected and approved the corrections to the
violations that caused the suspension.
      (2)   The township is satisfied that the violation has been corrected.
   (C)   An approval that has been revoked by the township cannot be
reinstated. The applicant may apply for a new approval under the provisions of
this chapter.
   (D)   If a violation causes no immediate danger to life, public health, or
property, at its sole discretion, the township may provide a limited time
period for the owner to correct the violation. In these cases, the township
will provide the owner, or the owner's designee, with a written notice of the
violation and the time period allowed for the owner to correct the violation.
If the owner does not correct the violation within the allowed time period, the
township may revoke or suspend any, or all, applicable approvals and permits
pertaining to any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.104  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any action of the township or its designee,
relevant to the provisions of this chapter, may appeal to the township no later
than 30 days of that action.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the township, relevant to the
provisions of this chapter, may appeal to the County Court of Common Pleas no
later than 30 days of the township's decision.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
§ 154.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
summary offense, and upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not more
than $1,000 for each violation, recoverable with costs. Each day that the
violation continues shall be a separate offense and penalties shall be
cumulative.
   (B)   In addition, the township may institute injunctive, or any other
appropriate action or proceeding at law or in equity for the enforcement of
this chapter. Any court of competent jurisdiction shall have the right to issue
restraining orders, temporary or permanent injunctions, or other appropriate
forms of remedy or relief.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
APPENDIX A: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (O&M) AGREEMENT
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (SWM BMPS)
   THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this          day of                  
        , 20      , by and between                                       _
(hereinafter the “Landowner”), and the Township of Greene, Beaver County,
Pennsylvania, (hereinafter “Township”);
   WITNESSETH
   WHEREAS, the Landowner is the owner of certain real property as recorded by
deed in the land records of                                          County,
Pennsylvania, Deed Book            at page           , (hereinafter
“Property”).
   WHEREAS, the Landowner is proceeding to build and develop the Property; and
   WHEREAS, the SWM BMP O&M Plan approved by the Township (hereinafter referred
to as the “Plan”) for the property identified herein, which is attached hereto
as Appendix A and made part hereof, as approved by the Township, provides for
management of stormwater within the confines of the Property through the use of
BMPs; and
   WHEREAS, the Township, and the Landowner, his successors and assigns, agree
that the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the Township and the
protection and maintenance of water quality require that on-site SWM BMPs be
constructed and maintained on the Property; and
   WHEREAS, the Township requires, through the implementation of the SWM Site
Plan, that SWM BMPs as required by said Plan and the Municipal Stormwater
Management Ordinance be constructed and adequately operated and maintained by
the Landowner, successors, and assigns.
   NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing promises, the mutual
covenants contained herein, and the following terms and conditions, the parties
hereto agree as follows:
1.   The Landowner shall construct the BMPs in accordance with the plans and
specifications identified in the SWM Site Plan.
2.   The Landowner shall operate and maintain the BMPs as shown on the Plan in
good working order in accordance with the specific maintenance requirements
noted on the approved SWM Site Plan. The Landowner shall inspect BMPs in
accordance with §
154.101, Inspection.
3.   The Landowner hereby grants permission to the Township, its authorized
agents and employees, to enter upon the property, at reasonable times and upon
presentation of proper credentials, to inspect the BMPs whenever necessary.
Whenever possible, the Township shall notify the Landowner prior to entering
the property.
4.   In the event the Landowner fails to operate and maintain the BMPs per
paragraph 2, the Township or its representatives may enter upon the Property
and take whatever action is deemed necessary to maintain said BMP(s). It is
expressly understood and agreed that the Township is under no obligation to
maintain or repair said facilities, and in no event shall this Agreement be
construed to impose any such obligation on the Township.
5.   In the event the Township, pursuant to this Agreement, performs work of
any nature, or expends any funds in performance of said work for labor, use of
equipment, supplies, materials, and the like, the Landowner shall reimburse the
Township for all expenses (direct and indirect) incurred within 10 days of
receipt of invoice from the Township.
6.   The intent and purpose of this Agreement is to ensure the proper
maintenance of the onsite BMPs by the Landowner; provided, however, that this
Agreement shall not be deemed to create or effect any additional liability of
any party for damage alleged to result from or be caused by stormwater runoff.
7.   The Landowner, its executors, administrators, assigns, and other
successors in interests, shall release indemnify and hold harmless the Township
from all damages, accidents, casualties, occurrences, or claims which might
arise or be asserted against its employees and/or representatives related to
the construction, presence, existence, or maintenance of the BMP(s) by the
Landowner or Township.
8.   The Township may inspect the BMPs at a minimum of once every three years
to ensure their continued functioning.
This Agreement shall be recorded at the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of
Beaver County, Pennsylvania, and shall constitute a covenant running with the
Property and/or equitable servitude, and shall be binding on the Landowner, his
administrators, executors, assigns, heirs, and any other successors in
interests, in perpetuity.
ATTEST:
WITNESS the following signatures and seals:
 
(SEAL)                  For the Township:
                     For the Landowner:
 
ATTEST:
                                                                         
(City, Borough, Township)
County of                                           , Pennsylvania
I,                                                       , a Notary Public in
and for the county and state aforesaid, whose
commission expires on the        day of                           , 20      ,
do hereby certify that                
                             whose name(s) is/are signed to the foregoing
Agreement bearing date of the    
day of                               , 20      , has acknowledged the same
before me in my said county and
state.
GIVEN UNDER MY HAND THIS            day of                                    
          , 20      .
NOTARY PUBLIC               (SEAL)
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
APPENDIX B: DISCONNECTED IMPERVIOUS AREA (DIA)
B.l.  Rooftop Disconnection
When rooftop downspouts are directed to a pervious area that allows for
infiltration, filtration, and increased time of concentration, the rooftop may
qualify as completely or partially DIA and a portion of the impervious rooftop
area may be excluded from the calculation of total impervious area.
A rooftop is considered to be completely or partially disconnected if it meets
the requirements listed below:
• The contributing area of rooftop to each disconnected discharge is 500 square
feet or less, and
• The soil, in proximity of the roof water discharge area, is not designated as
hydrologic soil group “D” or equivalent, and
• The overland flow path from roof water discharge area has a positive slope of
5% or less.
For designs that meet these requirements, the portion of the roof that may be
considered disconnected depends on the length of the overland path as
designated in Table B.l.
Table B.1: Partial Rooftop Disconnection
Length of Pervious Flow Path * Roof Area Treated as Disconnected
Table B.1: Partial Rooftop Disconnection
Length of Pervious Flow Path * Roof Area Treated as Disconnected
(ft)                           (% of contributing area)
0-14                           0
15-29                          20
30-44                          40
45-59                          60
60-74                          80
75 or more                     100
* Flow path cannot include impervious surfaces and must be at least 15 feet
from any impervious surfaces.
 
B.2. Pavement Disconnection
When pavement runoff is directed to a pervious area that allows for
infiltration, filtration, and increased time of concentration, the contributing
pavement area may qualify as a DIA that may be excluded from the calculation of
total impervious area. This applies generally only to small or narrow pavement
structures such as driveways and narrow pathways through otherwise pervious
areas (e.g., a walkway or bike path through a park).
Pavement is disconnected if the pavement, or area adjacent to the pavement,
meets the requirements below:
• The contributing flow path over impervious area is not more than 75 feet, and
• The length of overland flow is greater than or equal to the contributing
length, and 26 of 27
• The soil is not designated as hydrologic soil group “D” or equivalent, and
• The slope of the contributing impervious area is 5% or less, and
• The slope of the overland flow path is 5% or less.
If the discharge is concentrated at one or more discrete points, no more than
1,000 square feet may discharge to any one point. In addition, a gravel strip
or other spreading device is required for concentrated discharges. For non-
concentrated discharges along the edge of the pavement, this requirement is
waived; however, there must be a provision for the establishment of vegetation
along the pavement edge and temporary stabilization of the area until
vegetation becomes stabilized.
 
REFERENCE
Philadelphia Water Department. 2006. Stormwater Management Guidance Manual.
Section 4.2.2: Integrated Site Design. Philadelphia, PA.
(Ord. 1-2017, passed 7-25-2017)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No./Code Section        Date Passed Description
3-2001                                   Granting Three Rivers Cable Associates
App. A §§ A174-1—A174-13 6-4-2001    L.P., d/b/a Adelphia Cable
                                         Communications a franchise.
2-2004                                   Granting Comcast of Pennsylvania/
App. A §§ A174-1—A174-13 10-4-2004   Washington/West Virginia a cable
                                         system franchise.
                                        
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Pennsylvania Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes Annotated
References to Pennsylvania Code
References to 2003 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA STATUTES
P.S. Cites Code Section
P.S. Cites                  Code Section
3 P.S. § 851(c)            154.008
3 P.S. § 901 et seq.       35.25
10 P.S. §§ 162.1 et seq.  110.03
16 P.S. § 11011-6          35.31
32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq.151.022
32 P.S. §§ 679.101—679.6151.002
32 P.S. §§ 693.1 et seq.  112.06,
                            151.022
35 P.S. §§ 691 et seq.    152.015
                            112.06,
35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq.  151.022,
                            153.219
                            51.01,
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.  51.02,
                            151.022,
                            153.151
35 P.S. §§ 1221 et seq.   153.076
40 P.S. § 638              34.21
53 P.S. §§ 4000.101 et seq50.25
                            35.01,
53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq35.02,
                            35.23,
                            35.51
53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq.   35.33,
                            35.36
                            32.01,
                            32.03,
                            151.022,
                            151.024,
                            152.002,
                            152.015,
53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.  152.130,
                            153.031,
                            153.076,
                            153.264,
                            153.265,
                            154.004,
                            154.008
53 P.S. §§ 10501 et seq.  153.031
53 P.S. § 10509            152.110
53 P.S. § 10906            153.264
53 P.S. §§ 11001-A—11006152.127
53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq.  112.02
53 P.S.  § 65704          33.17
53 P.S. § 66601            10.99
53 P.S. § 66601(d)         10.01
53 P.S. § 67322            90.01
58 P.S. §§ 601.101—601.6153.281
65 P.S.§§ 701 et seq.     110.10
72 P.S. § 806              35.36
72 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq.   35.53
72 P.S. §§ 7301—7361    35.53
72 P.S. § 7303             35.53
72 P.S. §§ 8101-C et seq. 35.35
72 P.S. § 8101-C           35.22
72 P.S. § 8102-D           35.31
72 P.S. §§ 8101-D et seq. 35.21
                            
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES
Pa. C.S. Cites Code Section
Pa. C.S. Cites             Code Section
2 Pa.C.S. §§ 551 et seq. 110.10
2 Pa.C.S. §§ 751 et seq. 110.10
8 Pa.C.S. § 1202(24)      33.15
53 Pa.C.S. §§ 2301 et seq33.15
53 Pa.C.S. Ch. 85 Subch. F 35.55
75 Pa.C.S. Ch. 49          112.08
75 Pa.C.S. § 7606         70.03
                           
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES ANNOTATED
 
Pa.C.S.A. Cites                    Code Section
35 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 7210.101—7210.1150.01
53 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 2301 et seq.     34.35
53 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 5601 et seq.     152.015
75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et. seq.     70.01
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 3362               Ch. 72, Sch. II
                                   
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CODE
Pa. Code Cites Code Section
Pa. Code Cites                    Code Section
6 Pa. Code Ch. 11                 153.031,
                                  153.076
16 Pa. Code Ch. 44                153.090
25 Pa. Code                       154.008,
                                  154.025
25 Pa. Code Ch. 72, § 72.22(e)   51.02
25 Pa. Code Ch. 72, § 72.22(f)   51.02
25 Pa. Code Ch. 93                154.008
                                  112.06,
25 Pa. Code Ch. 102               152.088,
                                  154.008,
                                  154.026
25 Pa. Code § 102.8(g)           154.026
25 Pa. Code Ch. 102.41            152.088
25 Pa. Code Ch. 102.42            152.088
25 Pa. Code Ch. 105               112.06
                                  151.022,
34 Pa. Code                       151.023,
                                  151.065,
                                  151.096
                                  150.02,
34 Pa. Code Chs. 401—405        151.061,
                                  151.062,
                                  151.065
61 Pa. Code Pt. I Subpt. B Art. V 35.53
67 Pa. Code                       70.04
67 Pa. Code Ch. 189               112.08
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO 2003 CODE
2003 Code 2018 Code
2003 Code                2018 Code
1-1                      10.01
1-2                      10.02
1-3                      10.03
1-4                      10.04
1-5                      10.05
1-6                      10.06,
                         10.99
1-7                      10.07
1-8                      10.08
1-9                      10.09
1-10                     10.10
1-11                     10.11
1-12                     10.12
1-13                     10.13
1-14                     10.14
18-1                     34.35
18-2                     34.36
18-3                     34.37
18-4                     34.38
24-1                     33.01
24-2                     33.02
Ch. 29                   30.01
35-1                     32.01
35-2                     32.02
35-3                     32.03
42-1                     30.15
42-2                     30.16
47-1                     31.01
47-2                     31.02
47-3                     31.03
47-4                     31.04
47-5                     31.05
47-6                     31.06
47-7                     31.07
66-1                     150.01
66-2                     150.02
66-3                     150.03
66-5                     150.05
66-6                     150.06
66-7                     150.07
66-8                     150.08
71-1                     150.20
71-2                     150.21
71-3                     150.22
71-4                     150.23
71-5                     150.24
71-6                     150.99
73-1                     93.01
73-2                     93.02
73-3                     93.03
73-4                     93.04
73-5                     93.99
73-6                     93.05
78-1                     31.20
78-2                     31.21
78-3                     31.22
78-4                     31.99
78-5                     31.23
101-1                    34.20
101-2                    34.21
101-3                    34.22
101-4                    34.99
106-10                   111.01
106-11                   111.02
106-12                   111.03
106-13                   111.04
106-14                   111.05
106-15                   111.06
106-16                   111.07
106-17                   111.08
110-1                    112.01
110-2                    112.02
110-3                    112.03
110-4                    112.04
110-5                    112.05
110-6                    112.06
110-7                    112.07
110-8                    112.08
110-9                    112.09,
                         112.99
115-1                    92.01
115-2                    92.02
115-3                    92.03
115-4                    92.04
115-5                    92.05
115-6                    92.99
115-7                    92.06
119-1                    91.01
119-2                    91.02
119-3                    91.99
119-4                    91.03
119-5                    91.04
124-1                    34.01
124-2                    34.02
124-3                    34.03
124-4                    34.04
124-5                    34.05
124-6                    34.06
124-7                    34.99
130-1                    51.01
130-1.5                  51.02
130-2                    51.03
130-3                    51.99
130-4                    51.15
130-5                    51.16
130-6                    51.17
130-7                    51.18
130-8                    51.19
130-9                    51.20
130-10                   51.21
130-11                   51.22
130-12                   51.99
130-13                   51.23
137-1                    50.01
137-2                    50.02
137-3                    50.03
137-4                    50.04
137-5                    50.05
137-6                    50.06
137-7                    50.07
137-8                    50.08
137-9                    50.09
137-10                   50.99
137-11                   50.10
137-12                   50.25
137-13                   50.26
137-14                   50.27
137-15                   50.99
137-16                   50.28
142-1                    90.01
142-2                    90.02
142-3                    90.03
142-4                    90.04
142-5                    90.05
142-6                    90.99
142-7                    90.20
142-8                    90.21
142-9                    90.22
142-10                   90.99
146-1                    152.001
146-2                    152.002
146-3                    152.003
146-4                    152.004
146-5                    152.015
146-6                    152.030
146-7                    152.031
146-8                    152.032
146-9                    152.033
146-10                   152.045
146-11                   152.046
146-12                   152.047
146-13                   152.048
146-14                   152.049
146-15                   152.050
146-16                   152.065
146-17                   152.066
146-18                   152.080
146-19                   152.081
146-20                   152.082
146-21                   152.083
146-22                   152.084
146-23                   152.085
146-24                   152.086
146-25                   152.087
146-26                   152.088
146-27                   152.089
146-28                   152.100
146-29                   152.101
146-30                   152.102
146-31                   152.103
146-32                   152.104
146-33                   152.105
146-34                   152.106
146-35                   152.107
146-36                   152.108
146-37                   152.109
146-38                   152.110
146-39                   152.125
146-40                   152.126
146-41                   152.127
146-42                   152.128
146-43                   152.129
146-44                   152.999
146-45                   152.130
146-46                   152.131
146-47                   152.145
146-48                   152.146
146-49                   152.147
146-50                   152.148
146-51                   152.149
146-52                   152.150
146-53                   152.151
146-54                   152.152
146-55                   152.153
146-56                   152.154
146-57                   152.155
146-58                   152.156
146-59                   152.157
146-60                   152.158
146-61                   152.159
151-1                    35.01
151-3                    35.03
151-4                    35.04
151-5                    35.05
151-7                    35.06
151-8                    35.20
151-9                    35.21
151-10                   35.22
151-11                   35.23
151-12                   35.24
151-13                   35.25
151-14                   35.26
151-15                   35.27
151-16                   35.28
151-17                   35.29
151-18                   35.30
151-19                   35.31
151-20                   35.32
151-21                   35.99
151-22                   35.33
151-23                   35.34
151-24                   35.35
151-25                   35.36
151-26                   35.37
151-27                   35.38
158-1                    70.01
158-2                    70.02,
                         Ch. 72 Sch. I
158-3                    70.03
158-4                    70.04
158-5                    70.05
158-6                    70.99
158-7                    Ch. 72 Sch. II
Ch. 170                  Ch. 153 App. A
170-1                    153.001
170-2                    153.002
170-3                    153.015
170-4                    153.016
170-5                    153.030
170-6                    153.031
170-7                    153.045
170-8                    153.046
170-9                    153.047
170-10                   153.060
170-11                   153.061
170-12                   153.075
170-13                   153.076
170-14                   153.077
170-15                   153.078
170-15.1                 153.090
170-15.2                 153.091
170-15.3                 153.092
170-15.4                 153.093
170-15.5                 153.094
170-16                   153.105
170-17                   153.106
170-18                   153.107
170-19                   153.108
170-20                   153.120
170-21                   153.121
170-22                   153.122
170-23                   153.123
170-24                   153.135
170-25                   153.136
170-26                   153.137
170-27                   153.138
170-28                   153.150
170-29                   153.151
170-30                   153.152
170-31                   153.153
170-32                   153.165
170-33                   153.166
170-34                   153.167
170-35                   153.168
170-36                   153.180
170-37                   153.181
170-38                   153.182
170-39                   153.183
170-40                   153.184
170-41                   153.185
170-42                   153.186
170-43                   153.187
170-44                   153.188
170-45                   153.189
170-46                   153.200
170-47                   153.201
170-48                   153.202
170-49                   153.203
170-50                   153.204
170-51                   153.215
170-52                   153.216
170-53                   153.217
170-54                   153.218
170-55                   153.219
170-56                   153.220
170-57                   153.221
170-58                   153.222
170-59                   153.223
170-60                   153.224
170-61                   153.225
170-62                   153.226
170-63                   153.227
170-64                   153.228
170-65                   153.240
170-66                   153.241
170-67                   153.242
170-68                   153.243
170-69                   153.244
170-70                   153.245
170-71                   153.246
170-72                   153.247
170-73                   153.260
170-74                   153.261
170-75                   153.262
170-76                   153.263
170-77                   153.264
170-78                   153.265
170-79                   153.266
170-80                   153.267
170-81                   153.268
170-82                   153.999
App. A §§ A174-1—A174TSO I
                         
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
6-90     11-6-1990   152.002
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     51.01—
1-68     7-1-1968    51.03,
                     51.99
                     35.01,
1-69     1-6-1969    35.03—
                     35.06,
                     35.99
                     50.01—
1-73     10-1-1973   50.10,
                     50.99
                     90.01—
2-74     11-21-1974  90.05,
                     90.99
2-82     4-6-1982    111.01—
                     111.08
                     51.15—
1-84     5-1-1984    51.23,
                     51.99
                     34.01—
3-86     11-4-1986   34.06,
                     34.99
                     35.20—
1-87     4-7-1987    35.38,
                     35.99
                     150.20—
1-1990   7-12-1990   150.24,
                     150.99
                     31.20—
1-91     4-2-1991    31.23,
                     31.99
1-92     3-3-1992    33.15—
                     33.17
                     34.20—
3-92     12-29-1992  34.22,
                     34.99
                     50.25—
4-92     12-29-1992  50.28,
                     50.99
                     153.001,
                     153.002,
                     153.015,
                     153.016,
                     153.030,
                     153.031,
                     153.045—
                     153.047,
                     153.060,
                     153.061,
                     153.075—
                     153.078,
                     153.090—
                     153.094,
                     153.105—
                     153.108,
                     153.120—
2-93     5-4-1993    153.123,
                     153.135—
                     153.138,
                     153.150—
                     153.153,
                     153.165—
                     153.168,
                     153.180—
                     153.189,
                     153.200—
                     153.204,
                     153.215—
                     153.228,
                     153.240—
                     153.247,
                     153.260—
                     153.268,
                     153.999
                     92.01—
1-94     1-3-1994    92.06,
                     92.99
2-94     2-1-1994    34.35—
                     34.38
3-94     6-7-1994    153.165,
                     153.168
                     152.001—
                     152.004,
                     152.015,
                     152.030—
                     152.033,
                     152.045—
                     152.050,
                     152.065,
2-96     7-5-1996    152.066,
                     152.080—
                     152.089,
                     152.100—
                     152.110,
                     152.125—
                     152.131,
                     152.145—
                     152.159,
                     152.999
1-97     11-4-1997   33.01,
                     33.02
1-98     3-3-1998    153.076,
                     153.078
                     153.031,
                     153.075,
                     153.076,
2-98     8-4-1998    153.078,
                     153.165,
                     153.166,
                     153.168
                     153.031,
                     153.075,
                     153.076,
                     153.078,
                     153.105,
                     153.106,
3-98     10-6-1998   153.108,
                     153.120,
                     153.121,
                     153.123,
                     153.135,
                     153.136,
                     153.138,
                     153.261
1-99     3-2-1999    31.01—
                     31.07
                     153.077,
                     153.078,
2-99     9-7-1999    153.105,
                     153.107,
                     153.108,
                     153.123
                     153.031,
3-99     11-11-1999  153.186—
                     153.189
2-2001   6-4-2001    152.083,
                     152.087
3-2001   6-4-2001    TSO I
                     91.01—
-        6-3-2002    91.04,
                     91.99
                     10.01—
                     10.14,
                     10.99,
                     90.01,
1-2003   6-3-2003    90.02,
                     90.05,
                     152.015,
                     153.031,
                     153.077,
                     153.151
                     70.01—
                     70.05,
                     70.99,
                     Ch. 72 Sch. I,
                     Ch. 72 Sch. II,
                     90.20—
                     90.22,
                     90.99,
                     150.01—
                     150.03,
1-2004   6-7-2004    150.05—
                     150.08,
                     152.015,
                     153.031,
                     153.075,
                     153.076,
                     153.135,
                     153.136,
                     153.150,
                     153.151,
                     153.165,
                     153.261
2-2004   10-4-2004   TSO I
1-2005   9-12-2005   153.046
2-2006   11-6-2006   32.01—
                     32.03
                     35.31,
3-2006   12-4-2006   35.36—
                     35.38
                     153.031,
                     153.075,
                     153.076,
1-2009   1-22-2009   153.078,
                     153.165,
                     153.166,
                     153.168
                     93.01—
                     93.05,
                     93.99,
                     153.031,
                     153.075,
                     153.077,
2-2009   2-1-2010    153.078,
                     153.090—
                     153.094,
                     153.105,
                     153.108,
                     153.120,
                     153.123,
                     153.261
                     153.031,
1-2011   3-7-2011    153.165,
                     153.166
2-2011   3-7-2011    153.187
                     153.280—
3-2011   2-6-2012    153.287,
                     153.999
                     112.01—
1-2012   6-4-2012    112.09,
                     112.99
3-2012   11-5-2012   150.04
                     153.077,
01-2013  2-4-2013    153.078,
                     153.999
                     110.01—
1-2014   5-6-2014    110.12,
                     110.99
                     35.50—
2-2014   6-3-2014    35.65,
                     35.99
4-2015   1-5-2015    30.15,
                     30.16
                     151.001—
                     151.007,
                     151.020—
                     151.030,
                     151.045—
                     151.049,
                     151.060—
5-2015   8-4-2015    151.066,
                     151.080,
                     151.095,
                     151.096,
                     151.110,
                     151.111,
                     151.125,
                     151.999
-2016    -4-2016     33.30—
                     33.33
                     153.031,
                     153.090,
7-2016   9-6-2016    153.135,
                     153.150,
                     153.165,
                     153.999
                     153.031,
8-2016   9-6-2016    153.075,
                     153.999
9-2016   10-4-2016   32.01—
                     32.03
                     71.01—
10-2016  10-4-2016   71.03,
                     71.99
                     154.001—
                     154.008,
                     154.025—
                     154.028,
                     154.040—
                     154.046,
                     154.060,
1-2017   7-25-2017   154.061,
                     154.075,
                     154.085—
                     154.087,
                     154.100—
                     154.104,
                     154.999,
                     Ch. 154, App. A,
                     Ch. 154, App. B
                    
 
