GROVE CITY BOROUGH, PENNSYLVANIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1502, passed 12-16-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 1452
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODIFICATION OF GROVE CITY BOROUGH ORDINANCES BY
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
   WHEREAS the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
empower and authorize the Council of the Borough to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate the
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Council of the Borough of Grove City has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Borough of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form as
attached hereto as Exhibit A; and
   WHEREAS, the Borough of Grove City is desirous of adopting said codification
by American Legal Publishing as amended November 20, 2017 as its official
reference of Borough Ordinances;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council of the Borough of Grove City
that:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the Borough of Grove City as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified, and complied in book form as attached
hereto as Exhibit A, are adopted and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances
of the Borough of Grove City."
   Section 2. The Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles:
      GROVE CITY BOROUGH, PENNSYLVANIA TABLE OF CONTENTS
         Chapter
         TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
            10.   General Provisions
         TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
            30.   Elected Officials
            31.   Appointed Officers
            32.   Boards and Commissions
            33.   Police Department
            34.   Fiscal Affairs and Procedures
            35.   Social Security, Pensions and Retirement
            36.   Educational Service Agency
            37.   Taxation; Special
            38.   Fee Schedule
         TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
            50.   Garbage and Sanitation
            51.   Electric Department
            52.   Stormwater Management
            53.   Sewers and Sewage Disposal
            54.   Water
         TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
            70.   General Provisions
            71.   Traffic Regulations
            72.   Parking Regulations
            73.   Snow and Ice Emergency
            74.   Removing and Impounding of Illegally Parked Vehicles
            75.   Traffic Schedules
            76.   Parking Schedules
         TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
            90.   Animals
            91.   Fire Prevention and Fire Protection
            92.   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances
            93.   Library
            94.   Parks and Recreation
            95.   Streets and Sidewalks
            96.   Trees
         TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
            110.   Amusements and Amusement Rides
            111.   Transient Retail Business
            112.   Mechanical Amusement Devices
            113.   Pool Halls/Amusement Halls
            114.   Garage Sales, Porch Sales, Yard Sales, Lawn Sales and
Similar Activities
         TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
            130.   General Provisions
            131.   Offenses Against Property
            132.   Offenses Against Public Morals
            133.   Weapons
            134.   Skateboarding
         TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
            150.   Buildings
            151.   Housing
            152.   Floodplains
            153.   Mobile Homes and Mobile Home Parks
            154.   Signs and Billboards
            155.   Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance
            156.   Zoning
         TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
         Table
            I.   Agreements and Contracts
            II.   Annexations
            III.   Bond Issues and Loans
            IV.   Bridges
            V.   Franchises
            VI.   Governmental and Intergovernmental Affairs
            VII.   Grade Crossings
            VIII.   Plan Approval
            IX.   Public Property
            X.   Sewers
            XI.   Sidewalks
            XII.   Streams
            XIII.   Street Adoption, Extension and Opening; Grades and Lines;
Improvements; Renamings; Vacations
            XIV.   Taxation and Budget
            XV.   Waterworks
         PARALLEL REFERENCES
            References to Pennsylvania Statutes
            References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes
            References to Pennsylvania Code
            References to Resolutions
            References to Ordinances
         INDEX
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of the Code,
except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in the Code;
provided that such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty
incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of the Code, nor
shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes,
appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises
or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements,
authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing money, authorizing the purchase
or sale of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements or plats,
accepting dedications of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries
of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any other
ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4. The Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by Borough Council and the Borough Secretary is hereby authorized
and ordered to file a copy of the Code in the Borough Secretary's Office, and
with the Mercer County Law Library.
   Section 5. The Code as attached shall be in full force and effect from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law. The
Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance
and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained, and
of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested,
recorded and approved, and that any public hearings and notices thereof as
required by law have been given.
THE BOROUGH OF GROVE CITY ORDAINS AND ENACTS THIS ORDINANCE AND IT IS HEREBY
ORDAINED AND ENACTED INTO LAW BY THE GROVE CITY BOROUGH COUNCIL THIS 16TH DAY
OF JULY, 2018.
ATTEST:                            GROVE CITY BOROUGH
Tanya M. Pollard /s/                         George A. Pokrant /s/
Tanya M. Pollard                        George A. Pokrant, President
Borough Secretary                         Grove City Borough Council
This Ordinance is approved this 16th day of July, 2018.
                               Randy L. Riddle /s/
                              Randy L. Riddle, Mayor
                              Grove City Borough
ORDINANCE NO. 1464
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE BOROUGH OF GROVE CITY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2019 S-l supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Borough of
Grove City, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the municipality; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Borough and for the immediate preservation of public peace, health, safuy and
general welfare of the Borough that this ordinance take effect at an early
date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF GROVE CITY BOROUGH:
Section l.   That the 2019 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Borough of Grove City as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Borough of Grove City Council and the Secretary is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Secretary.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be a measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the Borough of Grove City, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon enactment according to
law, and shall remain in effect hereafter until revised, amended, or repealed
by action of the Council of the Borough of Grove City.
ADOPTED by Borough Council this 19th day of August, 2019.
ATTEST:                                 BOROUGH OF GROVE CITY
/S/
                                                                              
Tanya M. Pollard                              George A Pokrant, President
Borough Secretary                              Grove City Borough Council
 
                                                                                               
                                    Randy L. Riddle, Mayor
                                    Grove City Borough
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Approval, adoption and title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation and definitions
   
10.03   Effect of code on previous provisions
   
10.04   Sections and ordinances repealed
   
10.05   Exemptions from repeal
   
10.06   Application to future ordinances
   
10.07   Changes and revisions in previously adopted ordinances
   
10.08   Interpretation of provisions
   
10.09   Headings, editor’s notes, statutory references
   
10.10   Filing copies of code
   
10.11   Amendments to the code; code books to be kept up-to-date
   
10.12   Severability
   
10.13   Reference to other sections
   
10.14   Errors and omissions
   
10.15   Sections histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Altering or tampering with the code; penalties for violation
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 APPROVAL, ADOPTION AND TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to 8 Pa.C.S. § 3301.5, the codification of all ordinances of
a permanent and general nature for the Borough of Grove City, Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated
into component codes, titles, chapters and sections, are approved, adopted,
ordained and enacted as a single ordinance of the Borough of Grove City and
shall be known and designated as the Borough of Grove City Code, for which
designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural and
words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE. All departments and the personnel thereof
established by the Borough Code or ordinance.
      ADOPTING ORDINANCE. The ordinance of the Borough of Grove City adopting
the Codified Ordinances of Grove City, Pennsylvania, in accordance with the
Borough Code of Pennsylvania.
      AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
      AUTHORITY. Whenever in this code, authority is given to an officer or an
act is required to be performed, the authority may be exercised and the act may
be performed, at the instance of the officer, by a deputy or subordinate,
unless contrary to law or to the clear intent of any particular provision.
      BOROUGH and MUNICIPALITY. The Borough of Grove City, Pennsylvania.
      BOROUGH CODE. Public Law 432, of 2014, No. 37, effective June 17, 2014,
being 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq., as amended.
      BUDGET. The annual budget of the borough.
      CALENDAR/COMPUTATION OF TIME. The terms MONTH and YEAR mean the CALENDAR
MONTH or YEAR. The time expressed in days within which an act is to be done or
a period is to expire shall be computed by excluding the first and including
the last day, unless the last day is a Sunday, in which case it shall be
excluded. If time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday shall be excluded.
      CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION. The management of the execution of contracts
between the borough and any individual, partnership, association, corporation
or governmental body.
      COUNCIL. The Council of the Borough of Grove City, Pennsylvania.
      COUNTY. The County of Mercer, Pennsylvania.
      ENGINEER. The engineer of the borough.
      KEEPER and PROPRIETOR. Persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs
and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or
employee.
      LAND/REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
      LAW. All applicable laws and ordinances of the United States of America,
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the County of Mercer.
      MANAGER and BOROUGH MANAGER. The chief administrative officer as
appointed by the Borough Council.
      OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION. When an oath is required or authorized by
law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken by a person having
conscientious scruples about taking an OATH. An AFFIRMATION shall have the same
effect as an OATH.
      ORDINANCE. Any ordinance of the Borough of Grove City, including this
code.
      OWNER. When applied to property, includes a part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or any part of the property.
      PERSON. An individual, association, club, corporation, firm, partnership,
body politic or any other legal entity.
      PREMISES. When used as applicable to property, extends to and includes
land and buildings.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property and any mixed and lesser
estates or interests therein. PERSONAL PROPERTY includes every kind of property
except REAL PROPERTY. REAL PROPERTY includes lands, tenements and
hereditaments.
      REASONABLE TIME. In all cases where provision is made for and act to be
done or notice to be given within a REASONABLE TIME, it shall be deemed to mean
the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act or the
giving of the notice.
      SECRETARY and BOROUGH SECRETARY. An appointed position charged with the
responsibility for taking meeting minutes; recording and certifying ordinances;
attesting to the execution of documents; and is the custodian of borough
records and the borough seal. The BOROUGH SECRETARY shall not be a member of
the Borough Council and serves an indefinite term at the pleasure of the
Borough Council.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
      SOLICITOR. The Solicitor of the borough.
      STATE and COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      STREET. Alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, streets, state
highways and other public ways in the borough.
      TENANT and OCCUPANT. As applied to buildings or land, shall extend and be
applied to any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the
whole or any part of, a building or land, alone or with others.
      TIME. Whenever any time established in the codified ordinances for the
taking of any action expires on a Sunday or legal holiday, the time shall not
expire on the day but shall expire on the next week day.
§ 10.03 EFFECT OF CODE ON PREVIOUS PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this code, insofar as they are substantially the same as
those of ordinances and resolutions in force immediately prior to the enactment
of this code, are intended as a continuation of the ordinances and resolutions,
and not as new enactments, and the effectiveness of the provisions shall date
from the date of adoption of the prior ordinance or resolution. All the
provisions are hereby continued in full force and effect and are hereby
reaffirmed as to their adoption by the Borough Council, and it is the intention
of the Borough Council that each provision contained within the code is hereby
reenacted and reaffirmed as it appears in the code.
§ 10.04 SECTIONS AND ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of
this code are hereby repealed.
§ 10.05 EXEMPTIONS FROM REPEAL.
   The repeal provided for in §
10.04 shall not affect the following ordinances, resolutions, rights and
obligations which are hereby expressly saved from repeal; provided, however,
that the repeal of ordinances or parts thereof in §
10.04, or the saving from repeal of ordinances or parts thereof pursuant to
this section, shall not be construed so as to revive an ordinance or part
thereof previously repealed, superseded or no longer of any effect:
   (A)   Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing, before the adoption
of these codified ordinances;
   (B)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money by or to the borough, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the
borough, or any evidence of the borough’s indebtedness, or any contract or
obligation assumed by the borough;
   (C)   Any ordinance or resolution of Council not in conflict or inconsistent
with the provisions of these codified ordinances;
   (D)   Any right, license or franchise conferred by any ordinance or
resolution of Council or any other person or corporation;
   (E)   Any ordinance establishing, naming, relocating or vacating any street
or other public way;
   (F)   Any ordinance or part thereof providing for the establishment of
positions, for salaries or compensation;
   (G)   Any prosecution, suit or other proceeding pending, or any judgment
rendered, on or prior to the adoption of these codified ordinances;
   (H)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes or assessments;
   (I)   Any ordinance establishing or changing the boundaries of the borough;
or
   (J)   Any ordinance or resolution adopted by Council after the adoption of
the codified ordinances.
§ 10.06 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I, compatible with future legislation, shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.07 CHANGES AND REVISIONS IN PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Nonsubstantive grammatical changes. In compiling and preparing the
ordinances and resolutions of the borough for adoption and revision as part of
the code, certain nonsubstantive grammatical and style changes were made in one
or more of the ordinances. It is the intention of the Borough Council that all
the changes be adopted as part of the code as if the ordinances and resolutions
so changed had been previously formally amended to read as such.
   (B)   Substantive changes and revisions. In addition to the changes and
revisions in division (A) above, changes and revisions of a substantive nature
are hereby made to various ordinances and resolutions included in the code.
These changes are enacted to bring provisions into conformity with the desired
policies of the Borough Council, and it is the intent of the Borough Council
that all the changes be adopted as part of the code as if the ordinances and
resolutions so changed have been previously formally amended to read as such.
All changes and revisions shall be deemed to be in effect as of the effective
date of this code.
§ 10.08 INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS.
   In interpreting and applying the provision of the code, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety,
comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where the provisions of the code
impose greater restrictions or requirements than those of any state statute,
other ordinance, resolution or regulation, the provisions of the code shall
control. Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance, resolution or
regulation impose greater restrictions or requirements, the provisions of the
statute, other ordinance, resolution or regulation shall control.
§ 10.09 HEADINGS, EDITOR’S NOTES, STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   Headings of titles, chapters, sections and divisions in the code, or
in supplements to the code, are inserted into the code, and may be inserted
into the supplements to the code, for the convenience of persons using the code
and are not part of the legislation.
   (B)   Editors’s notes and/or statutory references indicating sources of
sections, giving other information or referring the statutes or to other parts
of the code are inserted in the code, and may be inserted in supplements to the
code, for the convenience of persons using the code and are not part of the
legislation.
§ 10.10 FILING COPIES OF CODE.
   Three copies of the code in a bound volume shall be filed with the ordinance
books in the office of the Borough Manager and shall remain there for use and
examination by the public. Upon adoption, the copies shall be certified to by
the Borough Manager, as provided by law, and the certified copies shall remain
on file in the office of the Borough Manager, available to persons desiring to
examine the same during all times while the code is in effect.
§ 10.11 AMENDMENTS TO THE CODE; CODE BOOKS TO BE KEPT UP-TO-DATE.
   (A)   Any and all additions, deletions, amendments or supplements to the
code, when passed and adopted so as to indicate the intention of Borough
Council to be a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into the code
so that the references in the code shall be understood and intended to include
the changes. When any and all additions, deletions, amendments or supplements
to the code shall be adopted, they shall be printed and inserted in the bound
code book as amendments and supplements to it.
   (B)   The Borough Manager or someone authorized or directed by him or her
shall keep the certified copies of the code book, which are required to be kept
in the Borough Manager’s office for public use, up-to-date. All changes in the
code, and all ordinances and resolutions adopted subsequent to the effective
date of this code, which the Borough Council specifically adopts as part of the
code, shall be included in the code book by reference until the changes or new
ordinances or resolutions are printed as supplements to the code book and
inserted into the code book.
§ 10.12 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any title, chapter, section, division or part thereof of this code
now enacted or subsequently amended or its application to any person or
circumstances is held to be illegal, invalid or unconstitutional by a court of
competent jurisdiction, that determination shall not affect, impair or
invalidate the remainder thereof, but is confined in its operation and
application to the title, chapter, section, division or part thereof determined
illegal, invalid or unconstitutional.
   (B)   It is the intent of the Borough Council to declare that this code
would have been adopted if the illegal, invalid or unconstitutional title,
chapter, section, division or part thereof would not have been included.
§ 10.13 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.14 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   (1)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and
passage date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are
listed following the text of the code section.
      (2)   Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord.
20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (65 P.S. § 67.101) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This code book consists of all ordinances and resolutions of the borough and
shall be known as the codified ordinances of the borough.
      Statutory reference:
         Authority to codify ordinances, see 65 P.S. §§ 67.101 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the borough published in a previous year and subsequently
amended, the previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by
“(1980 Code, §      )”.
§ 10.16 ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH THE CODE; PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to improperly change or amend, by additions
or deletions, or to alter or tamper with the code or any part or portion
thereof, in any manner which will cause the law of the borough to be
misrepresented thereby. Anybody violating this section shall, upon conviction,
be punished by a fine not to exceed $600, plus costs of prosecution or
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days or both.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of
these codified ordinances, including a provision of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, and including a rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant to any provision of these codified ordinances
or of any technical or other code adopted in these codified ordinances by
reference, and including any order made under authority, express or implied, of
any provision of these codified ordinances or of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, having to do with building,
housing, property maintenance, health, fire or public safety codes or
ordinances, or with water, air or noise pollution violations, for which no
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both for each offense. Unless
otherwise stated, a separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
   (B)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of
these codified ordinances, including a provision of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, and including a rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant to any provision of these codified ordinances
or of any technical or other code adopted in these codified ordinances by
reference, and including any order made under authority, express or implied, of
any provision of these codified ordinances or of any technical or other code
adopted in these codified ordinances by reference, for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $600 or imprisoned not more
than 90 days, or both, for each offense. Unless otherwise stated, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (C)   The penalty provided for herein shall be in addition to any fee,
deposit, charge, surcharge, interest, insurance or bond requirement or
equitable remedy provided in these codified ordinances, or in any standard,
technical or other code adopted by reference in these codified ordinances, or
in any rule or regulation promulgated under authority of the standard,
technical or other code adopted by reference in these codified ordinance, or
under authority of any other provision of these codified ordinances, or under
authority of state law.
Statutory reference:
   Collection of penalties, amounts, prosecution of violators, disposition of
fines, see 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 3321 to 3324
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ELECTED OFFICIALS
      
31.   APPOINTED OFFICERS
      
32.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   FISCAL AFFAIRS AND PROCEDURES
      
35.   SOCIAL SECURITY, PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT
      
36.   EDUCATIONAL SERVICE AGENCY
      
37.   TAXATION; SPECIAL
      
38.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: ELECTED OFFICIALS
Section
   
30.01   Tax Collector’s commission
§ 30.01 TAX COLLECTOR’S COMMISSION.
   The commission to be paid to the Borough Tax Collector shall be $2.50 for
each notice delivered to a taxable property in the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 1, § 2) (Ord. 882, passed 1-31-1969; Ord. 1204, passed
2-13-1989, § 1; Ord. 1304, passed 1-15-2001, § 1)
CHAPTER 31: APPOINTED OFFICERS
Section
Borough Manager
   
31.01   Office of Borough Manager created
   
31.02   Appointment of Manager; removal; filling of vacancy
   
31.03   Qualifications of Manager
   
31.04   Manager’s bond
   
31.05   Compensation of Manager
   
31.06   General powers and duties of Manager
   
31.07   Specific powers and duties of Manager
   
31.08   Responsibilities regarding fire loss insurance proceeds
Appointees Other Than Manager
   
31.20   Same person may hold offices of Secretary and Treasurer
Cross-reference:
   Auditor, see §§
34.30 et seq.
BOROUGH MANAGER
§ 31.01 OFFICE OF BOROUGH MANAGER CREATED.
   The office of Borough Manager is hereby created by the borough, subject to
the right of the borough, by ordinance, at any time to abolish such office.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 2A, § 21) (Ord. 695, passed 8-15-1955, § 1)
§ 31.02 APPOINTMENT OF MANAGER; REMOVAL; FILLING OF VACANCY.
   As soon as practicable after the enactment of this subchapter, the Borough
Council shall elect, by a majority vote of all its members, one person to fill
the office of Borough Manager, who shall be subject to removal at any time by a
majority vote of all the members of the Council. In case of a vacancy, the
Council shall fill said office by majority vote of all its members.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 2A, § 22) (Ord. 695, passed 8-15-1955, § 2; Ord. 777,
passed 11-20-1958, § 1)
§ 31.03 QUALIFICATIONS OF MANAGER.
   The Manager shall be chosen solely on the basis of his or her executive and
administrative abilities, with special reference to his or her actual
experience in or his or her knowledge of accepted practices in respect to the
duties of the office as herein outlined. The Manager need not be a resident of
the borough or the state at the time of his or her appointment, but as soon as
possible thereafter he or she shall become, and during his or her tenure as
Manager shall remain, a resident of the borough. The Manager shall be a male or
female American citizen, age 21 or over.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 2A, § 23) (Ord. 695, passed 8-15-1955, § 3; Ord. 893,
passed 3-16-1970)
§ 31.04 MANAGER’S BOND.
   Before entering upon his or her duties, the Borough Manager shall give a
bond to the borough, with a bonding company as surety, in a sum to be fixed by
Borough Council, conditioned for the faithful performance of his or her duties,
premium for the said bond to be paid for by the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 2A, § 24) (Ord. 695, passed 8-15-1955, § 4; Ord. 973,
passed 1-21-1974, § 1)
§ 31.05 COMPENSATION OF MANAGER.
   The Borough Manager shall receive such compensation as shall be fixed from
time to time by Borough Council.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 2A, § 25) (Ord. 695, passed 8-15-1955, § 5; Ord. 973,
passed 1-21-1974, § 2)
§ 31.06 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF MANAGER.
   The Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the borough, and he
or she shall be responsible to the Council as a whole for the proper and
efficient administration of the affairs of the borough. His or her powers and
duties shall relate to the general management of all borough business not
expressly, by statute or ordinance, imposed or conferred upon other borough
officers. The Mayor is hereby authorized to delegate to the Borough Manager,
subject to recall by written notification at any time, any of his or her non-
legislative and non-judicial powers and duties.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 2A, § 26) (Ord. 695, passed 8-15-1955, § 6)
§ 31.07 SPECIFIC POWERS AND DUTIES OF MANAGER.
   Subject to recall by ordinance, the powers and duties of the Manager shall
include the following.
   (A)   He or she shall supervise and be responsible for the activities of all
municipal departments, except such departments the supervision of which shall
not have been delegated to the Manager by the Mayor or by Council, as the case
may be.
   (B)   He or she shall hire and, when he or she shall deem it necessary for
the good of the service, shall suspend or discharge all employees under his or
her supervision; provided, that persons covered by the civil service provisions
of the Borough Code, 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq., shall be hired, suspended or
discharged in accordance with such provisions; provided further, that the
Manager shall report, at the next regular meeting thereafter of Council, any
action taken by authority of this division (B).
   (C)   He or she shall prepare and submit to Council before the close of the
fiscal year, or on such alternate date as Council shall determine, a budget for
the next fiscal year and an explanatory budget message. In preparing the budget
the Manager, or an officer designated by him or her, shall obtain from the head
of each department, agency, board or officer, estimates of revenues and
expenditures and other supporting data as he or she requests. The Manager shall
review such estimates and may revise them before submitting the budget to the
Council.
   (D)   He or she shall be responsible for the administration of the budget
after its adoption by the Council.
   (E)   He or she shall, under the direction of Council, execute and enforce
the laws of the Commonwealth, and ordinances, resolutions and by-laws of the
borough except those under the jurisdiction of the Police Department of the
borough.
   (F)   He or she shall hold the office of Borough Treasurer, and shall
perform all the duties of such officer, in addition to the specific duties
assigned to the Manager by this section.
   (G)   He or she shall attend all meetings of the Borough Council and of its
committees, with the right to take part in the discussion, and he or she shall
receive notice of all special meetings of Council and of its committees.
   (H)   He or she shall prepare the agenda for each meeting of Council and
supply facts pertinent thereto.
   (I)   He or she shall keep the Council informed as to the conduct of borough
affairs; submit periodic reports on the condition of the borough finances and
such other reports as the Council shall request; and shall make such
recommendations to the Council as he or she deems necessary.
   (J)   He or she shall submit to Council, as soon as possible after the close
of the fiscal year, a complete report of the financial and administrative
activities of the borough for the preceding year.
   (K)   He or she shall see that the provisions of all franchises, leases,
permits and privileges granted by the borough are observed.
   (L)   He or she may employ, by and with the approval of Council, experts and
consultants to perform work and to advise in connection with any of the
functions of the borough.
   (M)   He or she shall attend to the letting of contracts in due form of law,
and he or she shall supervise the performance and faithful execution of the
same except insofar as such duties are expressly imposed upon some other
borough officer by statute.
   (N)   He or she shall see that all money owed the borough is promptly paid
and that proper proceedings are taken for the security and collection of all
the borough’s claims.
   (O)   He or she shall be the Purchasing Officer of the borough and he or she
shall purchase, in accordance with the provisions of the Borough Code, all
supplies and equipment for the various agencies, boards, departments and other
offices of the borough. He or she shall keep an account of all purchases and
shall, from time to time, or when directed by Council, make a full written
report thereof. He or she shall also issue rules and regulations, subject to
the approval of Council, governing the requisition and purchasing of all
municipal supplies and equipment.
   (P)   He or she shall cooperate with the Borough Council at all times and in
all matters that the best interests of the borough and of the general public
may be maintained.
   (Q)   All complaints regarding services or personnel of the borough shall be
referred to the office of the Manager. He or she, or an officer designated by
him or her, shall investigate and dispose of such complaints, and the Manager
shall report thereon to Council.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 2A, § 27) (Ord. 695, passed 8-15-1955, § 7; Ord. 1037,
passed 3-15-1976, § 1)
§ 31.08 RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING FIRE LOSS INSURANCE PROCEEDS.
   (A)   The Borough Manager, or such official's designee, is hereby appointed
as the designated officer who is authorized to carry out all responsibilities
and duties stated herein.
   (B)   No insurance company, association or exchange (hereinafter the
"Insuring Agent") doing business in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania shall pay
a claim of a named insured for fire damage to a structure located within the
Borough of Grove City (hereinafter "Municipality") where the amount recoverable
for the fire loss to the structure under all policies exceeds $7,500, unless
the insuring agent is furnished by the municipal treasurer with a municipal
certificate pursuant to Section 508 (B) of Act 98 of 1992 as amended and unless
there is compliance with Section 508 (C) of Act 98 of 1992 as amended and the
provisions of this section and all charges set forth on the certificate are
paid in full.
   (C)   Where pursuant to Section 508 (B)(l)(l) of Act 98 of 1992, as amended,
the municipal treasurer issues a certificate indicating that there are not
delinquent taxes, assessments, penalties, or user charges against real
property, the insuring agent shall pay the claim of the named insured, provided
however, that if the loss agreed upon by the named insured and the insuring
agent equals or exceeds 60% of the aggregate limits of liability on all fire
policies covering the building or structure, the following procedures must be
followed:
      (1)   The insuring agent shall transfer from the insurance proceeds to
the designated officer of the municipality in the aggregate the amount of
$2,000 for each $15,000 of a claim and for each fraction of that amount of a
claim, this section to be applied such that if the claim is $15,000 or less,
the amount transferred to the Municipality shall be $2,000; or
      (2)   If at the time of a proof of loss agreed to between the named
insured and the insuring agent, the named insured has submitted a contractor's
signed estimate of the costs of removing, repairing or securing the building or
other structure, the insuring agent shall transfer to the municipality from the
insurance proceeds the amount specified in the estimate.
      (3)   The transfer of proceeds shall be on pro rata basis by all
companies, associations or exchanges insuring the building or other structure.
      (4)   After the transfer of funds pursuant to division (B) above, the
named insured shall submit a contractor's signed estimate within 60 days
thereof for the costs of removing, repairing or securing the building or other
structure, and the designated officer shall return the amount of the funds
transferred to the municipality in excess of the estimate to the named insured,
if the municipality has not commenced to remove, repair or secure the building
or other structure, in which event, the municipality shall retain all funds
until such work has been completed with the named insured being responsible for
any additional obligations hereunder.
      (5)   Upon receipt of proceeds under this section, the municipality shall
do the following:
         (a)   The designated officer shall place the proceeds in a separate
fund to be used solely as security against the total costs of removing,
repairing, or securing the building or structure which are incurred by the
municipality. Such costs shall include, all reasonable and customary
engineering, legal or administrative costs incurred by the municipality in
connection with such removal, repair, or securing of the building or any
proceedings related thereto;
         (b)   It is the obligation of the insuring agent when transferring the
proceeds to provide the municipality with the name and address of the named
insured. Upon receipt of the transferred funds and the name and address of the
name insured, the municipal treasurer shall certify that the proceeds have been
received by the municipality and notify the named insured that the procedures
under this subsection shall be followed;
         (c)   When repairs, removal or securing of the building or other
structure have been completed in accordance with all applicable regulations and
orders of the municipality and the required proof of such completion received
by the designated officer, and if the municipality has not incurred any costs
for repairs, removal or securing, the fund shall be returned to the named
insured. If the municipality has incurred costs for repairs, removal or
securing of the building or other structure, the costs shall be paid from the
fund and if excess funds remain, the municipality shall transfer the remaining
funds to the named insured; and
         (d)   To the extent that proceeds are returned to the named insured,
no interest earned on such proceeds, if any should be earned, shall be
distributed to the named insured at the time that the proceeds are returned.
      (6)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ability of
the municipality to recover any deficiency. Furthermore, nothing in this
subsection shall be construed to prohibit the municipality and the named
insured from entering into an agreement that permits the transfer of funds to
the named insured if some other reasonable disposition of the damaged property
has been negotiated.
   (D)   The Council of the Borough of Grove City may by resolution adopt
procedures and regulations to implement Act 98 of 1992 as amended and this
section may by resolution fix reasonable fees to be charged for municipal
activities or services provided pursuant to Act 98 of 1992 as amended and this
section, including but not limited to, issuance of certificates and bills,
performance of inspections and opening separate fund accounts.
   (E)   Any owner of property, any named insured or any insuring agent who
violates this section shall be subject to a penalty of up to $1,000 per
violation.
(Ord. 1470, passed 3-16-2020)
APPOINTEES OTHER THAN MANAGER
§ 31.20 SAME PERSON MAY HOLD OFFICES OF SECRETARY AND TREASURER.
   The offices of the Secretary and Treasurer of the borough may be held by the
same person if the Borough Council shall see fit to appoint the same person to
such offices.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 2B, § 41) (Ord. 887, passed 7-24-1969, § 1)
CHAPTER 32: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Borough Planning Commission established
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Hearing Board, see §§
156.160 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 BOROUGH PLANNING COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   The Borough Planning Commission previously created shall be composed of
seven members and up to two alternate members to be appointed in the manner and
for the term provided in the law governing borough planning commissions in
effect at the time of the happening of any vacancy.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 3, § 51) (Ord. 990, passed 1-21-1974, § 1; Ord. 1029,
passed 8-18-1975, § 1; Ord. 1477, passed 3-15-2021, § 1)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Police Department
   
33.01   Police Department established
   
33.02   Organization
   
33.03   Physical examination for police applicants required
   
33.04   Cost of physical examination
Police Powers
   
33.20   Warrantless arrests
Cross-reference:
   Police pensions, see § 35.14
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.01 POLICE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   A Police Department is hereby established in and for the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 4A, § 61) (Ord. 991, passed 1-21-1974, § 1)
§ 33.02 ORGANIZATION.
   The Police Department shall consist of the following, to be designated by
the will of Council: a Chief of Police; Captain; a limit of three Sergeants;
and such patrol officers as may be designated by the Borough Council.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 4A, § 62) (Ord. 991, passed 1-21-1974, § 2)
§ 33.03 PHYSICAL EXAMINATION FOR POLICE APPLICANTS REQUIRED.
   Each applicant or candidate for employment as a borough police officer shall
submit himself or herself to a physical examination by the borough medical
examiner prior to his or her employment as a police officer.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 4A, § 63) (Ord. 1027, passed 6-16-1975, § 1)
§ 33.04 COST OF PHYSICAL EXAMINATION.
   The cost of the physical examination shall be the responsibility of the
borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 4A, § 67) (Ord. 1027, passed 6-16-1975, § 5)
POLICE POWERS
§ 33.20 WARRANTLESS ARRESTS.
   (A)   (1)   For any of the following offenses, a police officer shall, upon
view, have the right of arrest without warrant upon probable cause when there
is ongoing conduct that imperils the personal security of any person or
endangers public or private property:
      (2)   Under Title 18 (relating to crimes and offenses) when such offense
constitutes a summary offense:
         (a)   18 Pa.C.S. § 5503 (relating to disorderly conduct);
         (b)   18 Pa.C.S. § 5505 (relating to public drunkenness);
         (c)   18 Pa.C.S. § 5507 (relating to obstructing highways and other
public passages); and
         (d)   18 Pa.C.S. § 6308 (relating to purchase, consumption, possession
or transportation of liquor or malt or brewed beverage).
   (B)   When making an arrest as set forth above the police officer shall
follow the guidelines set forth in 42 Pa.C.S. § 8902 and any amendments thereof
on and after the amendment’s effective date.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 4B, § 71) (Ord. 1279, passed 12-15-1997)
CHAPTER 34: FISCAL AFFAIRS AND PROCEDURES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Charge for displaying of banners
Bad Checks
   
34.15   Charge for bad checks
   
34.16   Each bad check a separate violation
   
34.17   Cash payments required for repeated issuance of bad checks
Auditor
   
34.30   Auditor to be appointed
   
34.31   Appointment of Auditor; duties of Auditor
   
34.32   Office of elected Auditor abolished
   
34.33   Compensation of appointed Auditor
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 CHARGE FOR DISPLAYING OF BANNERS.
   Any organization who shall request the displaying of a banner across a state
highway within the borough shall be subject to a charge of $100, which shall be
submitted with the request for such service or services.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 5, § 88) (Ord. 1372, passed 8-18-2008, § 1)
BAD CHECKS
§ 34.15 CHARGE FOR BAD CHECKS.
   Any customer of the borough for electric, water, sewage or garbage
collection services, who shall issue a check in payment for any or all of said
services against a bank account having insufficient funds for the payment
thereof shall be subject to a penalty charge of $50, which shall be added to
the next succeeding bill for such service or services.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 5, § 85) (Ord. 869, passed 2-19-1968, § 1; Ord. 1134,
passed 1-8-1982, § 1; Ord. 1367, passed 3-17-2008, § 1)
§ 34.16 EACH BAD CHECK A SEPARATE VIOLATION.
   Each check issued in payment for such service or services against an account
containing insufficient funds therefor shall be considered a separate and
distinct violation of this subchapter and shall subject such customer to a
penalty charge of $50 for each such check.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 5, § 86) (Ord. 869, passed 2-19-1968, § 2; Ord. 1134,
passed 1-8-1982, § 2; Ord. 1367, passed 3-17-2008, § 2)
§ 34.17 CASH PAYMENTS REQUIRED FOR REPEATED ISSUANCE OF BAD CHECKS.
   The Borough Council shall adopt a policy directing the Borough Manager to
establish a procedure for requiring the payment of electric, water, sewage and
garbage bills in cash in the case of any customer who repeatedly issues a check
against a bank account having insufficient funds. Said policy may be reviewed
by Council from time to time and amended by Council.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 5, § 87) (Ord. 1134, passed 1-8-1982, § 3)
AUDITOR
§ 34.30 AUDITOR TO BE APPOINTED.
   By virtue of 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 1041 et seq., the borough hereby provides for the
appointment of an auditor for the borough who shall be a certified public
accountant, or a firm of certified public accountants.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 5, § 81) (Ord. 826, passed 2-17-1964, § 1)
§ 34.31 APPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR; DUTIES OF AUDITOR.
   The Auditor provided for in §
34.30 shall be appointed annually by resolution before the commencement of each
fiscal year to audit the accounts and other evidences of financial transactions
of the borough and borough officers for the fiscal year then closing, and shall
present such audit report to Council.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 5, § 82) (Ord. 826, passed 2-17-1964, § 2)
§ 34.32 OFFICE OF ELECTED AUDITOR ABOLISHED.
   At such time as an Auditor has been appointed by resolution, as provided
herein, the office of elected Borough Auditor shall be abolished, and the
appointed Auditor shall have the power and duties and be subject to the same
penalties as the elected Auditor, insofar as such powers, duties and penalties
are applicable to the functions which the certified public accountant, or firm
of certified public accountants, is appointed to perform and specified in the
Act cited herein.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 5, § 83) (Ord. 826, passed 2-17-1964, § 3)
§ 34.33 COMPENSATION OF APPOINTED AUDITOR.
   The compensation of the certified public accountant, or firm of certified
public accountants, shall be fixed by Council at the instance of employment,
and paid out of borough funds.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 5, § 84) (Ord. 826, passed 2-17-1964, § 4)
CHAPTER 35: SOCIAL SECURITY, PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT
Section
Social Security for Borough Officers and Employees
   
35.01   Benefits of extension of Social Security system to borough officers and
employees
   
35.02   Execution of plan and agreement authorized
   
35.03   System of payroll deductions and matching borough payments authorized
   
35.04   Appropriations into Contribution Fund authorized; date participation
commences
Police Pensions
   
35.15   Police Pension Fund
Non-Uniformed Employees Pension Plan
   
35.30   Non-uniformed employees pension plan established
   
35.31   Conflict
Cross-reference:
   Boards and Commissions, see
Ch. 32
   Police Department, see
Ch. 33
SOCIAL SECURITY FOR BOROUGH OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 35.01 BENEFITS OF EXTENSION OF SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM TO BOROUGH OFFICERS AND
EMPLOYEES.
   It is the considered opinion of this body that the extension of the Social
Security System to employees and officers of the borough will be of great
benefit, not only to the employees of the borough by providing that said
employees and officers may participate in the provisions of the Old Age and
Survivors Insurance System, but will also be of great benefit to the borough by
enabling it to attract and retain in employment the best of personnel and thus
increase the efficiency of its government.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 7A, § 111) (Ord. 662, passed 8-18-1952, Paragraph 1)
§ 35.02 EXECUTION OF PLAN AND AGREEMENT AUTHORIZED.
   The borough is hereby authorized to execute and deliver to the state agency
a plan, or plans, and agreement, required under 65 P.S. § 206 of said enabling
Act and the Social Security Act, to extend coverage to employees and officers
of the borough and do all other necessary things to effectuate coverage of
employees and officers under the Old Age and Survivors Insurance System.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 7A, § 112) (Ord. 662, passed 8-18-1952, Paragraph 2)
§ 35.03 SYSTEM OF PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS AND MATCHING BOROUGH PAYMENTS AUTHORIZED.
   The Secretary is hereby authorized to establish a system of payroll
deduction to be matched by payments by the borough to be made into the
Contribution Fund of the Social Security Act through the office of the state
agency, and to make charges of this tax to the fund, or funds, from which wage
or salary payments are issued to employees of the borough. Such payments are to
be made in accordance with the provisions of the law and regulations
promulgated by the state agency and the Federal Security Administrator. Such
payments which are delinquent shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per month
until such time as payments are made.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 7A, § 113) (Ord. 662, passed 8-18-1952, Paragraph 3)
§ 35.04 APPROPRIATIONS INTO CONTRIBUTION FUND AUTHORIZED; DATE PARTICIPATION
COMMENCES.
   Appropriation is hereby made from the proper fund, or funds, of the borough
in the necessary amount to pay into the Contribution Fund as provided in 65
P.S. § 204 of the enabling Act and in accordance with the plan or plans, and
agreement. Authority is given to the Mayor and the Secretary of the borough to
enter into an agreement with the state agency, which agreement shall be in
accordance with 65 P.S. §§ 201 et seq. and with 42 U.S.C. § 418 of the Social
Security Act. Such plan and agreement shall provide that the participation of
this borough shall commence as of January 1, 1951.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 7A, § 114) (Ord. 662, passed 8-18-1952, Paragraph 4)
POLICE PENSIONS
§ 35.15 POLICE PENSION FUND.
   (A)   (1)   Effective as of September 20, 2010 the accompanying joinder
agreement and the terms of the Pennsylvania State Association of Boroughs
Master Retirement Trust are hereby adopted by the employer, to be known as the
Borough of Grove City Police Pension Plan, which are incorporated herein by
reference.
      (2)   Copies of the Pennsylvania State Association of Boroughs Master
Retirement Trust and the Borough of Grove City Police Pension Plan are on file
in the borough offices.
   (B)   Said plan shall be deemed to be a successor to and a continuation of
the prior plan.
(Ord. 1445, passed 4-17-2017)
Editor’s note:
   The Borough of Grove City on December 16,1957, established a retirement plan
for certain of its employees known as the Borough of Grove City Police Pension
Plan (“prior plan”). On September 20, 2010 the Borough Council adopted Borough
Ordinance 1396 as required by Act 51 of October 9, 2009, P.L. 588, deleting the
killed-in-service benefit formerly mandated by Act 600 of May 29,1956, P.L.
1804, as amended, 53 P.S. § 771 (Act 600); and, the borough now desires to
adopt the restated Defined Benefit Pension Plan Joinder Agreement with the
Pennsylvania State Association of Boroughs Municipal Retirement Trust (PSAB
MRT), effective as of September 20, 2010. Said plan shall be deemed to be a
continuation of and a successor to the prior plan.
NON-UNIFORMED EMPLOYEES PENSION PLAN
§ 35.30 NON-UNIFORMED EMPLOYEES PENSION PLAN ESTABLISHED.
   The Retirement Plan for non-uniformed employees of the borough (the “Plan”),
which was previously established for the benefit of the borough’s employees and
which has been amended and restated by resolutions of the Borough Council
thereafter, shall be, and hereby is, amended and supplemented in the following
respects:
   (A)   The plan has been amended from time to time pursuant to various
ordinances since its last restatement effective January 1, 2001, and the
Borough Council now desires to restate the Plan for purposes of consolidation
of all such applicable amendments; and
   (B)   The Borough Council intends that the plan shall continue to meet the
requirements for qualification as a governmental plan under the requirements of
the laws of the Commonwealth governing the implementation and operation of
local government retirement plans, and under the provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code, being 26 U.S.C., as amended, including, but not limited to, the
Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 (“EGTRRA”), being 26
U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (“PPA”), being 26
U.S.C. §§ 9302 et seq., and the Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax Act
of 2008 (“HEART” or “Heroes’ Act”), being 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 7C, § 141) (Ord. 1397, passed 3-21-2011, § 1)
§ 35.31 CONFLICT.
   Any resolutions, ordinances or parts thereof which conflict with the
provisions of this subchapter shall be, and the same hereby are repealed
insofar as they shall affect this subchapter; however, such repeal shall not
affect any act done or any right or liability accrued under any such resolution
or ordinance which shall be hereunder repealed or superseded and all such
rights or liabilities shall continue and may be enforced in the same manner as
if such repeal or supersession had not been made but only to the extent
otherwise permitted under the laws of the Commonwealth.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 7C, § 142) (Ord. 1397, passed 3-21-2011, § 2)
Editor’s note:
   The Non-Uniformed Employees Pension Plan is on file at the borough office.
CHAPTER 36: EDUCATIONAL SERVICE AGENCY
Section
   
36.01   Establishment of agency
   
36.02   Composition
   
36.03   Bonds
   
36.04   Function
   
36.05   Authority
   
36.06   Monies
   
36.07   Severability
§ 36.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF AGENCY.
   By authority vested in boroughs by the 43 P.S. § 802.1, the borough
establishes an educational service agency.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 9, § 161) (Ord. 1100, passed 5-5-1980, § 1)
§ 36.02 COMPOSITION.
   The educational service agency shall be composed of the Borough Manager, the
Chief of Police and the Superintendent of Schools.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 9, § 162) (Ord. 1100, passed 5-5-1980, § 2)
§ 36.03 BONDS.
   Each member of the educational service agency may, at the discretion of the
Borough Council, be required to furnish a bond, in the amount and with the
surety specified by the borough for the faithful performance of his or her
duties as a member of the educational service agency.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 9, § 163) (Ord. 1100, passed 5-5-1980, § 3)
§ 36.04 FUNCTION.
   The function of the educational service agency shall be to employ and
supervise school crossing guards, also referred to as special school police, as
provided for in 8 Pa.C.S. § 1127, to direct traffic at or near schools. In
order to enable the educational service agency the authority to appoint and
supervise crossing guards or special school police as set out in the Borough
Code, being 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 9, § 164) (Ord. 1100, passed 5-5-1980, § 4)
§ 36.05 AUTHORITY.
   The educational service agency shall have the following authority, and it
shall be its duty to:
   (A)   Prepare annually and, on or before October 1 of each year, submit to
the Borough Council for approval a budget showing its contemplated income and
its proposed expenditures for the succeeding year;
   (B)   Annually adopt the budget as submitted under division (A) above, as
modified by the borough;
   (C)   From time to time employ, and/or discharge, and fix the compensation
of crossing guards or special school police to serve in the borough;
   (D)   Exercise supervision and control over the crossing guards or special
school police by:
      (1)   Establishing, administering and enforcing rules and regulations for
the work and conduct of the crossing guards or special school police;
      (2)   Establishing work schedules and designating the locations where and
the time when the various individuals are to be on duty;
      (3)   Establishing position classifications if deemed necessary, and
designating the individuals to serve in each classification;
      (4)   Providing for supervision as necessary; and
      (5)   Exercising any and all other prerogatives normally associated with
personnel management.
   (E)   From monies budgeted and available, make all payments for the services
of crossing guards or special school police and make all other expenditures as
prescribed by law or superior body or agency, or as otherwise deemed necessary
or appropriate;
   (F)   Receive, in addition to payments by the borough, any payments by the
school district or any other gift, grant, devise or bequest; and
   (G)   Establish a system of accounts for all monies under its control, and
establish one or more separate bank accounts into which all income shall be
deposited and from which all expenditures shall be made.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 9, § 165) (Ord. 1100, passed 5-5-1980, § 5)
§ 36.06 MONIES.
   The borough shall transfer and pay over to the educational service agency
the monies that the borough is required to pay as compensation to special
school police under the Borough Code, 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq., or other
agreement executed with the school district, as provided in the Borough Code,
as well as other monies necessary to cover expenditures budgeted, for the
educational service agency as provided in §
36.05.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 9, § 166) (Ord. 1100, passed 5-5-1980, § 6)
§ 36.07 SEVERABILITY.
   The educational service agency hereby recognized and formally established
shall continue until changed or abolished by action of the borough or until the
suspension of 43 P.S. § 802.1 as adopted by the Legislature of the Commonwealth
in accord with the terms thereof.
(1980 Code, Ch. 1, Part 9, § 167) (Ord. 1100, passed 5-5-1980, § 7)
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION; SPECIAL
Section
Earned Income
   
37.001   Imposition of tax
   
37.002   Section 13 of Local Tax Enabling Act incorporated by reference, with
certain options
Per Capita
   
37.015   Levy
   
37.016   Collection of tax by Borough Tax Collector
   
37.017   Tax Collector’s bond
   
37.018   Tax duplicate
   
37.019   Tax Collector’s compensation
   
37.020   Notice to taxpayers
   
37.021   Names added to duplicate
   
37.022   Powers and duties of Tax Collector
   
37.023   Construction
Local Services Tax
   
37.035   Title
   
37.036   Definitions
   
37.037   Levy
   
37.038   Exemption and refunds
   
37.039   Duty of employers to collect
   
37.040   Returns
   
37.041   Dates for determining tax liability and payment
   
37.042   Self-employed individuals
   
37.043   Individuals engaged in more than one occupation or employed in more
than one political subdivision
   
37.044   Nonresidents subject to tax
   
37.045   Administration of tax
   
37.046   Suits for collection
   
37.047   Interpretation
Discount and Penalty
   
37.060   Discount
   
37.061   Penalty
   
37.062   Costs
   
37.063   Savings clause
Realty Transfer Tax
   
37.075   Imposition of tax
   
37.076   Administration
   
37.077   Interest
   
37.078   Effective date
Compensation of Tax Collector
   
37.090   Compensation of Tax Collector
Real Estate Tax Collector
   
37.105   Real Estate Tax Collector
 
   
37.999   Penalty
EARNED INCOME
§ 37.001 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   A tax for general revenue purposes of 1% is hereby imposed on:
   (A)   Earned income earned on and after January 1, 1967, by residents of the
borough;
   (B)   Earned income earned on and after January 1, 1967, by nonresidents of
the said Borough for work done or services performed or rendered in the
borough;
   (C)   The net profits earned on and after January 1, 1967, by residents of
the borough; and
   (D)   The net profits earned on and after January 1, 1967, from the
operation of businesses, professions or other activity, except corporations,
conducted in the said borough by nonresidents of the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 1, § 1) (Ord. 856, passed 11-21-1966; Ord. 983, passed
1-21-1974, § 1) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.002 SECTION 13 OF LOCAL TAX ENABLING ACT INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE, WITH
CERTAIN OPTIONS.
   53 P.S. § 6913, is hereby incorporated by reference into and made a part of
this subchapter, to the same extent as if the full text of the said section had
been set out verbatim in this subchapter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 1, § 2) (Ord. 856, passed 11-21-1966; Ord. 983, passed
1-21-1974, § 2)
PER CAPITA
§ 37.015 LEVY.
   A per capita tax of $5 per annum for general borough purposes is hereby
levied and assessed on each and every resident and inhabitant of the borough
who has attained the age of 18 years, which tax shall be in addition to all
other taxes levied and assessed by the borough pursuant to any other law of the
Commonwealth; provided, that any person whose total income from all sources is
less than $5,000 per annum is hereby exempted from the payment of this per
capita tax, and that any married couple whose total income from all sources is
less than $10,000 per annum shall be hereby exempted from the payment of this
per capita tax.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 2, § 21) (Ord. 946, passed 1-3-1973, § 1; Ord. 989,
passed 1-21-1974, § 1; Ord. 1090, passed 12-17-1979, § 1; Ord. 1147, passed 4-
18-1983, § 1) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.016 COLLECTION OF TAX BY BOROUGH TAX COLLECTOR.
   Such tax shall be collected by the duly elected or appointed Tax Collector
of the borough in the same manner as other borough taxes are collected;
provided that the said notice of per capita tax due and owing to the taxpayers
shall be sent at the same time the Grove City Area School District per capita
tax notice is sent and be subject to payment at the same time and at the same
discount, face and penalty of the said Grove City Area School District per
capita tax notice.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 2, § 22) (Ord. 946, passed 1-3-1973, § 2; Ord. 1329,
passed 2-21-2005)
§ 37.017 TAX COLLECTOR’S BOND.
   The Tax Collector shall give bond secured and conditioned for the collection
and payment of such taxes as provided for other borough taxes.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 2, § 23) (Ord. 946, passed 1-3-1973, § 3)
§ 37.018 TAX DUPLICATE.
   The entry of the per capita tax in the tax duplicate and the issuance of
such duplicate to the Tax Collector shall constitute his or her warrant for the
collection of the per capita tax hereby levied and assessed.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 2, § 24) (Ord. 946, passed 1-3-1973, § 4)
§ 37.019 TAX COLLECTOR’S COMPENSATION.
   The expense of collection and compensation of the Tax Collector shall be
paid and allowed as provided in the Local Tax Collection Law of 1945, as
amended and supplemented, which compensation shall be the same as shall be
fixed from time to time for collection of other borough taxes.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 2, § 25) (Ord. 946, passed 1-3-1973, § 5)
Cross-references:
   Compensation of Tax Collector, see §
37.090
   Tax Collector's commission, see §
30.01
§ 37.020 NOTICE TO TAXPAYERS.
   The Tax Collector shall give notice to the taxpayers of the amount of per
capita tax due under this subchapter at the same time and in the same manner as
provided by the Local Tax Collection Law, 72 P.S. §§ 5511.1 et seq., as amended
and supplemented.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 2, § 26) (Ord. 946, passed 1-3-1973, § 6)
§ 37.021 NAMES ADDED TO DUPLICATE.
   In case the Tax Collector shall at any time find within the borough any
resident or inhabitant who has attained the age of 18 years, whose name does
not appear upon the tax duplicate, he or she shall report the name of the
person forthwith to the assessor, who shall thereupon certify the same unto the
Borough Council, which shall promptly certify the same to the Tax Collector
reporting such name, whereupon the Tax Collector shall add such name and the
assessment of this per capita tax against such person to the duplicate of the
borough, and shall proceed to collect the taxes.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 2, § 27) (Ord. 946, passed 1-3-1973, § 7)
§ 37.022 POWERS AND DUTIES OF TAX COLLECTOR.
   The Tax Collector shall give notice to the taxpayers; shall have the power
to collect said taxes by distress; shall have the power and authority to demand
and receive said tax from the employer of any person owing any per capita tax,
or whose spouse owes any per capita tax; shall remit such taxes to the Borough
Treasurer by separate statement at the same time as other taxes are remitted to
the borough; shall allow discounts and add penalties; shall generally be
subject to all the duties and shall have all the rights and authority conferred
upon him or her by the Local Tax Collection Law, 72 P.S. §§ 5511.1 et seq., as
amended and supplemented. It is hereby declared to be the intent of Borough
Council, in enacting this subchapter, to confer upon the Tax Collector, in the
collection of this per capita tax, all the powers, together with all the duties
and obligations to the same extent and as fully provided for in the Local Tax
Collection Law, 72 P.S. §§ 5511.1 et seq., as amended and supplemented.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 2, § 28) (Ord. 946, passed 1-3-1973, § 8)
§ 37.023 CONSTRUCTION.
   If any sentence, clause or section or part of this subchapter is for any
reason found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such
unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity shall not affect or impair any of
the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses or sections or parts of this
subchapter. It is hereby declared as the intent of the Borough Council that
this subchapter would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or
invalid sentence, clause, section or part thereof not been included herein.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 2, § 30) (Ord. 946, passed 1-3-1973, § 11)
LOCAL SERVICES TAX
§ 37.035 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Borough Local
Services Tax.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 3, § 51) (Ord. 1377, passed 11-24-2008, § 1)
§ 37.036 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR. The person, public employee or private agency designated by the
borough to collect and administer the tax herein imposed.
   DCED. The Department of Community and Economic Development of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
   EARNED INCOME. Compensation as this term is defined in § 13 (relating to
earned income taxes) of the Local Tax Enabling Act, the Act of December 31,
1965, P.L. 1257, § 13, as amended, 53 P.S. § 6913, as amended.
   EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, limited liability
corporation, limited liability partnership, corporation, governmental body,
agency or other entity employing one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission or other compensation basis, including a self-employed person.
   HE OR SHE, HIS OR HER or HIM OR HER. Indicates the singular and plural
number, as well as male, female and neuter genders.
   INDIVIDUAL. Any person, male or female, engaged in any occupation, trade or
profession within the corporate limits of the borough.
   NET PROFITS. The net income from the operation of a business, profession, or
other activity, as this term is defined in § 13 (relating to earned income
taxes) of the Local Tax Enabling Act, the Act of December 31, 1965, P.L. 1251,
§ 13, as amended, 53 P.S. § 6913, as amended.
   OCCUPATION. Any trade, profession, business or undertaking of any type, kind
or character, including services, domestic or other, earned on or performed
within the corporate limits of the borough for which compensation is charged or
received; whether by means of salary, wages, commission or fees for services
rendered.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. The area within the corporate limits of the Borough
of Grove City.
   TAX. The local services tax at the rate fixed in §
37.037 of this subchapter.
   TAX YEAR. The period from January 1 until December 31 in any year; a
calendar year.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 3, § 52) (Ord. 1377, passed 11-24-2008, § 1)
§ 37.037 LEVY.
   (A)   For specific revenue purposes, an annual tax is hereby levied and
assessed, commencing January 1, 2009, upon the privilege of engaging in an
occupation with a primary place of employment within the borough during the tax
year. Each natural person who exercises such privilege for any length of time
during any tax year shall pay the tax for that year in the amount of $52,
assessed on a pro rata basis, in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   This tax may be used solely for the following purposes as the same may
be allocated by the Borough Council from time to time:
      (1)   Emergency services, which shall include emergency medical services,
police services and/or fire services;
      (2)   Road construction and/or maintenance;
      (3)   Reduction of property taxes; or
      (4)   Property tax relief through implementation of a homestead and
farmstead exclusion in accordance with 53 Pa.C.S. Ch. 85, Subch. F (relating to
homestead property exclusion).
   (C)   The political subdivision shall use no less than 25% of the funds
derived from the tax for emergency services. This tax is in addition to all
other taxes of any kind or nature heretofore levied by the political
subdivision. The tax shall be no more than $47 on each person for each calendar
year, irrespective of the number of political subdivisions within which a
person maybe employed.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 3, § 53) (Ord. 1377, passed 11-24-2008, § 1) Penalty,
see §
37.999
§ 37.038 EXEMPTION AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   Exemption. Any person whose total earned income and net profits from
all sources within the political subdivision is less than $12,000 for any
calendar year in which the tax is levied is exempt from the payment of the tax
for that calendar year. In addition, the following persons are exempt from
payment of the tax:
      (1)   Any person who has served in any war or armed conflict in which the
United States was engaged and is honorably discharged or released under
honorable circumstances from active service if, as a result of military
service, the person is blind, paraplegic or a double or quadruple amputee or
has a service-connected disability declared by the United States Veterans’
Administration or its successor to be a total 100% disability; and
      (2)   Any person who serves as a member of a reserve component of the
armed forces and is called to active duty at any time during the taxable year.
For the purposes of this division (A)(2), RESERVE COMPONENT OF THE ARMED FORCES
shall mean the United States Army Reserve, United States Navy Reserve, United
States Marine Corps Reserve, United States Coast Guard Reserve, United States
Air Force Reserve, the Pennsylvania Army National Guard or the Pennsylvania Air
National Guard.
   (B)   Procedure to claim exemption.
      (1)   A person seeking to claim an exemption from the local services tax
may annually file an exemption certificate with the political subdivision and
with the person’s employer affirming that the person reasonably expects to
receive earned income and net profits from all sources within the political
subdivision of less than $12,000 in the calendar year for which the exemption
certificate is filed. In the event the political subdivision utilizes a tax
collection officer, it shall provide a copy of the exemption certificate to
that officer. The exemption certificate shall have attached to it a copy of all
the employee’s last pay stubs or W-2 forms from employment within the political
subdivision for the year prior to the fiscal year for which the employee is
requesting to be exempted from the tax. Upon receipt of the exemption
certificate and until otherwise instructed by the political subdivision or
except as required by division (B)(2) below, the employer shall not withhold
the tax from the person during the calendar year or the remainder of the
calendar year for which the exemption certificate applies. Employers shall
ensure that the exemption certificate forms are readily available to employees
at all times and shall furnish each new employee with a form at the time of
hiring. The exemption certificate form shall be the uniform form provided by
the political subdivision.
      (2)   With respect to a person who claimed an exemption for a given
calendar year from the tax, upon notification to an employer by the person or
by the political subdivision that the person has received earned income and net
profits from all sources within the political subdivision equal to or in excess
of $12,000 in that calendar year or that the person is otherwise ineligible for
the tax exemption for that calendar year, or upon an employer’s payment to the
person of earned income within the municipality in an amount equal to or in
excess of $12,000 in that calendar year, an employer shall withhold the local
services tax from the person under division (B)(3) below.
      (3)   If a person who claimed an exemption for a given calendar year from
the tax becomes subject to the tax for the calendar year under division (B)(2)
above, the employer shall withhold the tax for the remainder of that calendar
year. The employer shall withhold from the person, for the first payroll period
after receipt of the notification under division (B)(2) above, a lump sum equal
to the amount of tax that was not withheld from the person due to the exemption
claimed by the person under this subsection, plus the per payroll amount due
for that first payroll period. The amount of tax withheld per payroll period
for the remaining payroll periods in that calendar year shall be the same
amount withheld for other employees. In the event the employment of a person
subject to withholding of the tax under this division (B)(3) is subsequently
severed in that calendar year, the person shall be liable for any outstanding
balance of tax due, and the political subdivision may pursue collection under
this subchapter.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) above, it is the intent of
this division (B) that employers shall not be responsible for investigating
exemption certificates, monitoring tax exemption eligibility or exempting any
employee from the local services tax.
   (C)   Refunds. The Borough Manager, in consultation with the Collector and
DCED, shall establish procedures for the processing of refund claims for any
tax paid by any person who is eligible for exemption, which procedures shall be
in accord with provisions of the general municipal law relating to refunds of
overpayments and interest on overpayments. Refunds made within 75 days of a
refund request or 75 days after the last day the employer is required to remit
the tax for the last quarter of the calendar year, whichever is later, shall
not be subject to interest. No refunds shall be made for amounts overpaid in a
calendar year that do not exceed $1. The Borough Manager or the Collector shall
determine eligibility for exemption and provide refunds to exempt persons.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 3, § 54) (Ord. 1377, passed 11-24-2008, § 1)
§ 37.039 DUTY OF EMPLOYERS TO COLLECT.
   (A)   Each employer within the political subdivision, as well as those
employers situated outside the political subdivision but who engage in business
within the political subdivision, is hereby charged with the duty of collecting
the tax from each of his or her employees engaged by him or her or performing
for him or her within the political subdivision and making, a return and
payment thereof to the Collector. Further, each employer is hereby authorized
to deduct this tax for each employee in his or her or her employ, whether said
employee is paid by salary, wage or commission and whether or not all such
services are performed within the political subdivision.
   (B)   A person subject to the tax shall be assessed by the employer a pro
rata share of the tax for each payroll period in which the person is engaging
in an occupation. The pro rata share of the tax assessed on the person for a
payroll period shall be determined by dividing the rate of the tax levied for
the calendar year by the number of payroll periods established by the employer
for the calendar year. For purposes of determining the pro rata share, an
employer shall round down the amount of the tax collected each payroll period
to the nearest one hundredth of a dollar. Collection of the tax shall be made
on a payroll period basis for each payroll period in which the person is
engaging in an occupation, except as provided in division (D) below. For
purposes of this division (B), COMBINED RATE shall mean the aggregate annual
rate of the tax levied by the school district and the municipality.
   (C)   No person shall be subject to the payment of the local services tax by
more than one political subdivision during each payroll period.
   (D)   In the case of concurrent employment, an employer shall refrain from
withholding the tax if the employee provides a recent pay statement from a
principal employer that includes the name of the employer, the length of the
payroll period and the amount of the tax withheld and a statement from the
employee that the pay statement is from the employee’s principal employer and
the employee will notify other employers of a change in principal place of
employment within two weeks of its occurrence. The employee’s statement shall
be provided on the form approved by DCED.
   (E)   The tax shall be no more than $52 on each person for each calendar
year, irrespective of the number of political subdivisions within which a
person maybe employed. The political subdivision shall provide a taxpayer a
receipt of payment upon request by the taxpayer.
   (F)   No employer shall be held liable for failure to withhold the tax or
for the payment of the withheld tax money to the political subdivision if the
failure to withhold taxes arises from incorrect information submitted by the
employee as to the employee’s place or places of employment, the employee’s
principal office or where the employee is principally employed. Further, an
employer shall not be liable for payment of the local services tax in an amount
exceeding the amount withheld by the employer if the employer complies with the
provisions of §
37.038(B) and this section and remits the amount so withheld in accordance with
this subchapter.
   (G)   Employers shall be required to remit the local services taxes 30 days
after the end of each quarter of a calendar year.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 3, § 55) (Ord. 1377, passed 11-24-2008, § 1) Penalty,
see §
37.999
§ 37.040 RETURNS.
   Each employer shall prepare and file a return showing a computation of the
tax on forms to be supplied to the employer by the Collector. If an employer
fails to file the return and pay the tax, whether or not the employer makes
collection thereof from the salary, wages or commissions paid by him or her or
her to an employee, except as provided hereafter in this subchapter, the
employer shall be responsible for the payment of the tax in full as though the
tax had been originally levied against the employer.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 3, § 56) (Ord. 1377, passed 11-24-2008, § 1) Penalty,
see §
37.999
§ 37.041 DATES FOR DETERMINING TAX LIABILITY AND PAYMENT.
   In each tax year, each employer shall use his or her or her employment
records to determine the number of employees from whom such tax shall be
deducted and paid over to the Collector on or before the thirtieth day
following the end of each calendar quarter of each such tax year.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 3, § 57) (Ord. 1377, passed 11-24-2008, § 1)
§ 37.042 SELF-EMPLOYED INDIVIDUALS.
   Each self-employed individual who performs services of any type or kind or
engages in any occupation or profession within a primary place of employment
within the political subdivision shall be required to comply with this
subchapter and pay the pro rata portion of the tax due to the Collector on or
before the thirtieth day following the end of each quarter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 3, § 58) (Ord. 1377, passed 11-24-2008, § 1) Penalty,
see §
37.999
§ 37.043 INDIVIDUALS ENGAGED IN MORE THAN ONE OCCUPATION OR EMPLOYED IN MORE
THAN ONE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   The situs of the tax shall be the place of employment on the first day
the person becomes subject to the tax during each payroll period.
   (B)   In the event a person is engaged in more than one occupation, that is,
concurrent employment, or an occupation which requires the person working in
more than one political subdivision during a payroll period, the priority of
claim to collect the local services tax shall be in the following order:
      (1)   First, the political subdivision in which a person maintains his or
her or her principal office or is principally employed;
      (2)   Second, the political subdivision in which the person resides and
works if the tax is levied by that political subdivision; and
      (3)   Third, the political subdivision in which a person is employed and
which imposes the tax nearest in miles to the person’s home.
   (C)   In case of dispute, a tax receipt of the taxing authority for that
calendar year declaring that the taxpayer has made prior payment constitutes
prima facie certification of payment to all other political subdivisions.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 3, § 59)
§ 37.044 NONRESIDENTS SUBJECT TO TAX.
   All employers and self-employed individuals residing or having their places
of business outside of the political subdivision but who perform services of
any type or kind or engage in any occupation or profession within the political
subdivision do, by virtue thereof, agree to be bound by and subject themselves
to the provisions, penalties and regulations promulgated under this subchapter
with the same force and effect as though they were residents of the political
subdivision. Further, any individual engaged in an occupation within the
political subdivision and an employee of a nonresidential employer may, for the
purpose of this subchapter, be considered a self-employed person, and in the
event his or her or her tax is not paid, the political subdivision shall have
the option of proceeding against either the employer or employee for the
collection of this tax as hereinafter provided.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 3, § 60) (Ord. 1377, passed 11-24-2008, § 1)
§ 37.045 ADMINISTRATION OF TAX.
   (A)   The Collector shall be appointed by resolution of the political
subdivision. It shall be the duty of the Collector to accept and receive
payments of this tax and to keep a record thereof showing the amount received
by him or her from each employer of self-employed person, together with the
date the tax was received.
   (B)   The Collector is hereby charged with the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter and is hereby charged and empowered, subject to
municipal approval, to proscribe, adopt and promulgate rules and regulations
relating to any matter pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this
subchapter, including provisions for the examination of payroll records of any
employer subject to this subchapter, the examination and correction of any
return made in compliance with this subchapter and any payment alleged or found
to be incorrect or as to which overpayment is claimed or found to have
occurred. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Collector shall have the
right to appeal consistent with the Local Taxpayers Bill of Rights under Act 50
of 1998, 53 P.S. §§ 8421 et seq..
   (C)   The Collector is hereby authorized to examine the books and payroll
records of any employer in order to verify the accuracy of any return made by
an employer or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax due. Each employer
is hereby directed and required to give the Collector the means, facilities and
opportunity for such examination.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 3, § 61) (Ord. 1377, passed 11-24-2008, § 1)
§ 37.046 SUITS FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   In the event that any tax under this subchapter remains due or unpaid
30 days after the due dates above set forth, the Collector may sue for the
recovery of any such tax due or unpaid under this subchapter, together with
interest and penalty.
   (B)   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate
of 6% on the amount of such tax shall be calculated beginning with the due date
of the tax and a penalty of 5% shall be added to the flat rate of such tax for
nonpayment thereof. Where suit is brought for the recovery of this tax or other
appropriate remedy undertaken, the individual liable therefor shall, in
addition, be responsible and liable for the costs of collection.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 3, § 62) (Ord. 1377, passed 11-24-2008, § 1) Penalty,
see §
37.999
§ 37.047 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to empower the
political subdivision to levy and collect the tax hereby imposed on any
occupation not within the taxing power of the political subdivision under the
Constitution of the United States and the laws of the Commonwealth.
   (B)   If the tax hereby imposed under the provisions of this subchapter
shall be held by any court of competent jurisdiction to be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States or of the laws of the Commonwealth as to any
individual, the decision of the court shall not affect or impair the right to
impose or collect said tax or the validity of the tax so imposed on other
persons or individuals as herein provided.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 3, § 64) (Ord. 1377, passed 11-24-2008, § 1)
DISCOUNT AND PENALTY
§ 37.060 DISCOUNT.
   All taxpayers assessed by the borough for the payment of property tax and
per capita tax shall be given a discount of 2% from the amount of such tax upon
making payment of the whole amount thereof within two months after the date of
the tax notice.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 4, § 101) (Ord. 1092, passed 12-27-1979, § 1)
§ 37.061 PENALTY.
   All taxpayers assessed by the borough for the payment of property tax and
per capita tax, who fail to make payment of any such taxes charged against them
for four months after the date of the tax notice, shall be charged a penalty of
10% on the total of said owed taxes, which penalty shall be added to the taxes
by the Tax Collector and be collected by him or her.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 4, § 102) (Ord. 1092, passed 12-27-1979, § 2) Penalty,
see §
37.999
§ 37.062 COSTS.
   The penalties imposed by the above section shall not limit any other
ordinance, resolution or statute that provides for further penalties, fines,
costs of collection or other items of expenses incurred for the failure to
timely pay said taxes.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 4, § 103) (Ord. 1092, passed 12-27-1979, § 3)
§ 37.063 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If any provision or section of this subchapter or the application thereof to
anyone or to any circumstances is held invalid, the remaining provisions or
sections or the application of such provisions to others or other circumstances
shall not be affected thereby.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 4, § 104) (Ord. 1092, passed 12-27-1979, § 5)
REALTY TRANSFER TAX
§ 37.075 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   The borough adopts the provisions of Article XI-D of the Tax Reform
Code of 1971 and imposes a realty transfer tax as authorized under that Article
subject to the rate limitations therein.
   (B)   The tax imposed under the section shall be at the rate of 1%.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 5, § 110) (Ord. 1354, passed 7-16-2007, § 1)
§ 37.076 ADMINISTRATION.
   The tax imposed under §
37.075 and all applicable interest and penalties shall be administered,
collected and enforced under the Act of December 31, 1965 (P.L. 1257, No. 511,
as amended, known as “The Local Tax Enabling Act”; provided, that if the
correct amount of the tax is not paid by the last date prescribed for timely
payment, the borough, pursuant to § 1102-D of the Tax Reform Code of 1971 (72
P.S. § 8102-D), authorizes and directs the Department of Revenue of the
Commonwealth to determine, collect and enforce the tax, interest and penalties.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 5, § 111) (Ord. 1354, passed 7-16-2007, § 2)
§ 37.077 INTEREST.
   Any tax imposed under §
37.075 that is not paid by the date the tax is due shall bear interest as
prescribed for interest on delinquent municipal claims under the Act of May 16,
1923 (P.L. 207, No. 153) (53 Pa.C.S. §§ 7101 et seq.), as amended, known as the
“Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act”. The interest rate shall be the lesser of
the interest rate imposed upon delinquent Commonwealth taxes as provided in §
806 of the Act of April 9, 1929 (P.L. 343, No. 176) (72 P.S. § 806), as
amended, known as the “Fiscal Code”, or the maximum interest rate permitted
under the Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act for tax claims.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 5, § 112) (Ord. 1354, passed 7-16-2007, § 3)
§ 37.078 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall become effective on and be
applicable to any document made, executed, delivered, accepted or presented for
recording on or after September 1, 2007.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 5, § 113) (Ord. 1354, passed 7-16-2007, § 5)
COMPENSATION OF TAX COLLECTOR
§ 37.090 COMPENSATION OF TAX COLLECTOR.
   The commission to be paid to the receiver of taxes on taxes collected by
such receiver as levied by the borough under the provisions of Act 511, as
amended, the “Local Tax Enabling Act”, shall be as follows.
   (A)   Per capita tax: the receiver shall be paid $0.25 for each notice sent
to taxpayers advertising that the tax is due pursuant to the applicable borough
ordinance and Act 511.
   (B)   As the occupation privilege tax has been repealed by Borough Council,
any compensation referenced thereto in prior ordinances of record of borough
are hereby repealed and of no further force and effect.
   (C)   As to the earned income tax, as the said tax will be collected by a
third party agency other than the Borough Receiver of Taxes, there shall no
longer be a commission paid to the Borough Receiver of Taxes as set forth in
prior ordinances of borough and the same is hereby repealed, and the commission
shall thereafter be paid to a third party agency as appointed by Borough
Council to collect said tax in accord with the amendments to the Local Tax
Enabling Act of the Commonwealth at a commission rate to be set by resolution
of the Borough Council.
   (D)   As to the local services tax, the provisions appointing the Borough
Receiver of Taxes to collect such tax and be paid a commission of 0.76% for all
such taxes collected is hereby repealed, and the Borough Council shall
hereafter have the authority to appoint by resolution that person or entity who
shall collect said tax as well as set the commission to be paid therefor.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 6, § 1) (Ord. 1205, passed 2-13-1989, § 1; Ord. 1305,
passed 1-15-2001, § 1; Ord. 1380, passed 12-15-2008, § 1; Ord. 1406, passed 12-
19-2011, § 1)
Cross-reference:
   Tax Collector's compensation, see also §
37.019
REAL ESTATE TAX COLLECTOR
§ 37.105 REAL ESTATE TAX COLLECTOR.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by the Pennsylvania Borough Code 8 Pa.C.S.
§§ 101 et seq and Local Tax Collection Law, the borough hereby appoints the
duly elected or appointed real estate tax collector or his or her designee, as
the municipal officer authorized to provide tax certifications upon request by
the public and hereby authorizes said Tax Collector to assess, collect and
retain, as compensation for providing such additional service, a fee per tax
certification issued.
(Ord. 1439, passed 11-21-2016)
Cross-reference:
   For fees for tax certification, see §
38.01
§ 37.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or fail to carry out any of the
provisions of §§
37.015 through
37.023 or fails, neglects or refuses to pay any tax or penalty; or attempts to
do anything whatsoever to avoid payment of the whole or any part of the tax
imposed under §§
37.015 through
37.023 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $100 for each offense, and costs of prosecution, and, in default of
payment of said fine and costs, to be imprisoned for a period not exceeding ten
days; provided, that such fine or penalty imposed under this division (B) shall
be in addition to any other penalty imposed by any other section of §§
37.015 through
37.023.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 2, § 29)
   (C)   Whoever makes any false or untrue statement on any return required by
§§
37.035 through
37.047, or whoever refuses inspection of the books, records or accounts in his
or her or her custody and control setting forth the number of employees subject
to this tax who are in his or her or her employment, or whoever fails or
refuses to file any return required by §§
37.035 through
37.047 shall be guilty of a violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $600 and costs of prosecution, and, in
default of payment of such fine and costs, to imprisonment for not more than 30
days. The action to enforce the penalty herein prescribed may be instituted
against any person in charge of the business of any employer who shall have
failed or who refuses to file a return required by §§
37.035 through
37.047.
(1980 Code, Ch. 25, Part 3, § 63)
(Ord. 946, passed 1-3-1973, § 10; Ord. 989, passed 1-21-1974, § 3; Ord. 1377,
passed 11-24-2008, § 1)
CHAPTER 38: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
38.01   Fee schedule
§ 38.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Fees and costs paid by the borough. In the conduct of borough affairs,
including processing of applications for permits and other relief granted
through the borough agencies, the borough experiences costs, fees and expenses
payable to the professional employees retained by the borough and to experts
and specialists whose review, examination and inspection is necessary to the
accomplishment of the borough ordinances and their purposes and the public
welfare. There is hereby imposed as a requirement for payment by any applicant
the costs of all fees, engineering, review and inspection costs by professional
borough employees, and all other experts, specialists or persons necessary to
review applications for requested actions from the borough, and the costs and
expenses of all other borough employees necessary to a review, inspection and
determination in the process initiated by the applicant. These fees, costs and
expenses are applicable to each and every application filed with the borough.
   (B)   Impact of issuance of license and payment of fee. By the mere granting
of a license or the payment of a fee as required in this schedule, the
applicant may not, in reliance thereon, commit any violation of any local,
state or federal regulation and/or law. For example, and not by way of
limitation, the licensing of a video poker machine does not grant local
government permission to engage in illegal gambling.
   (C)   Demolition permits. For issuance of demolition permits, cash or draft
payable to the borough in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Residential Demolition Without Water    $50
Service
Residential Demolition with Water
Service and Water Service Disconnection $1,200
to the Curb Stop
Residential Demolition with Water
Service and Water Service Disconnection $2,200
at the Water Main
                                        Determined by the current fee schedule
Commercial Demolition Without Water     in place with the UCC construction code
Service                                 official or third party inspection
                                        agency
Commercial Demolition with Water        $1,200 plus a permit fee as determined
Service and Water Service Disconnection by the current fee schedule in place
to the Curb Stop                        with the UCC construction code official
                                        or third-party inspection agency
Commercial Demolition with Water        $2,200 plus a permit fee as determined
Service and Water Service Disconnection by the current fee schedule in place
to the Water Main                       with the UCC construction code official
                                        or third-party inspection agency
                                        
 
   (D)   Zoning matters. The following schedule of fees for issuance of
permits, licenses and documents relating to zoning matters is hereby adopted:
 
Zoning Permits
Sign permit                     $40 plus $0.50 per sq. ft. or portion thereof,
                                including all sides of multi-faceted sign
Zoning use permit:
   Commercial and other uses $60
   Residential use           $40
                                The borough, at its discretion, may require the
                                application materials or subsequent
                                construction to be reviewed by the Borough
                                Engineer, or other consultants, with the
                                applicant being responsible for all costs of
                                said review as billed to the borough. Where the
                                applicant has retained an architect or
Other consultant or review fees professional engineer, upon good cause shown,
                                the Borough Manager, or his or her designee,
                                may direct said architect or professional
                                engineer to deal directly with borough
                                consultants upon the condition that the
                                applicant shall furnish copies of all
                                correspondence, reviews and related materials
                                to the borough.
 
Zoning Hearing Board
For the filing of an appeal, application or any petition with the Zoning
Hearing Board:
Special exception $750, non-refundable
Variance          $750, non-refundable
All other         $750, non-refundable
If a transcript of the proceedings is requested, the requesting party shall
bear the cost of the transcript.
 
                 For the filing of an application for conditional use approval,
                 the applicant shall provide the borough with a $750 non-
                 refundable application fee. The borough, at its discretion,
                 may require the application materials or subsequent
Conditional uses construction to be reviewed by the Borough Engineer, or other
                 consultants as deemed necessary by the Borough Manager or his
                 or her designee, with the applicant being responsible for all
                 costs of said review as billed to the borough. If a transcript
                 of the proceedings is requested, the requesting party shall
                 bear the cost of the transcript.
 
   (E)   Ordinance amendments. The following fees are established for an
application of an ordinance amendment.
      (1)   For the filing of an application for an ordinance amendment, the
applicant shall provide the borough with a $750 non-refundable application fee.
      (2)   The borough, at its discretion, may require the application
materials to be reviewed by the Borough Engineer, Borough Solicitor or other
consultants as deemed necessary by the Borough Manager or his or her designee,
with the applicant being responsible for all costs of said review as billed to
the borough. If a transcript of the proceedings is requested, the requesting
party shall bear the cost of the transcript.
   (F)   Building Code and Property Maintenance Code appeals. The following
fees are hereby established for appeals under the Borough Building Code and
Property Maintenance Code.
      (1)   For the filing of an appeal under the Borough Building Code and the
Borough Property Maintenance Code, the applicant shall submit a $500 non-
refundable application fee.
   (G)   Surcharges. The applicant shall be responsible for paying any and all
surcharges imposed by federal, state, county, borough and/or local laws,
ordinances and regulations. Any such surcharge shall be in addition to any fees
assessed in the fee schedule.
   (H)   Miscellaneous permit, licenses and charges. The following schedule of
fees for permits, licenses, documents and services provided by the borough is
here by adopted:
Permits, Licenses, Documents and Services Fee
Permits, Licenses, Documents and Services          Fee
Amusements and amusement rides
                                                   $50 for each day or portion
   Initial fee                                  thereof for which such
                                                   permit shall be required
                                                   $50 for each day or portion
   Renewal                                      thereof for which such
                                                   license or permit is renewed
Bad check charge for any tax payer who shall issue
a check in payment for any or all of said local
services tax against a bank account having         $50 for each check
insufficient funds for the payment thereof shall
be subject to a penalty charge
Certification of taxes paid on real estate         $30 per tax certification
                                                   issued
Copies of ordinances
   Subdivision ordinance                        $7
   Zoning ordinance                             $10
   All other ordinances                         $0.25 per page
Local Services Tax Collector
   Additional fees; late filing fee             $25
   Commission rate for the collector on current 1.6%
collections
   Municipal lien letters                       $20
Municipal tax verification letters                  
   Duplicate tax bill paid to real estate tax   $5
collector
Photocopies                                        $0.25 per page
Police accident reports                            $15
Police confirmation letters                        $15
Police fingerprinting service
   Borough residents/business                   No fee
   All others                                   $25
Zoning maps                                        $7.50
 
   (I)   Grove City Memorial Park Picnic Pavilions.
      (1)   Costs paid by the borough. In the maintenance of borough park
facilities, including repairs, cleaning, replacement and administration of
reservations, the borough experiences costs and expenses payable for supplies,
materials and labor.
      (2)   Fees charged for use of facilities.
         (a)   There is hereby imposed as a requirement for reserving of picnic
pavilions by any applicant for use of facilities during normal Memorial Park
hours of sunrise to sunset, from Memorial Day through Labor Day, non-refundable
cash or draft payable to borough in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Name of Shelter              Fee for Use
Fellowship Shelter           $25 for entire shelter
Friendship Shelter           $25 for entire shelter
Highland Shelter             $50 for entire shelter
Joseph D. Monteleone Shelter $25 for up to 5 rows reserved (1/4 of shelter);
                             maximum space allowed per group is 1/2 of shelter
Keystone Shelter             $25 for up to 6 rows reserved (1/4 of shelter);
                             maximum space allowed per group is 1/2 of shelter
Optimist Shelter             $25 for entire shelter
 
         (b)   The borough shall confirm reservations upon receipt of payment
for use of facilities. No reservation is considered confirmed until payment is
received and verified, payment is due within ten days of reservation request.
   (J)   Scavenger wastes.
      (1)   Permit application fee for removal, transportation and disposition
of scavenger wastes to the borough. Persons desiring to discharge scavenger
wastes into any public sewer and treatment plant shall be required to obtain a
permit from the borough. The application fee for said permit will be $500, non-
refundable cash or draft payable to borough.
      (2)   Fees charged for disposition of scavenger wastes to the borough. A
fee of $0.09 per gallon will be charged to persons holding a valid permit for
discharge of scavenger wastes into any public sewer and treatment plant in the
borough. This fee will be calculated and invoiced by the borough and payment in
the form of cash or draft payable to the borough must be made to the borough
within 30 days of the invoice date. Failure to pay the full amount due, by the
date due, will result in termination of the holder’s permit for removal,
transportation and disposition of scavenger wastes to the borough.
(Res. 2009-29, passed 12-21-2009, §§ 1 through 8; Res. 2011-10, passed 6-20-
2011, §§ 1, 2; Res. 2011-14, passed 8-15-2011, §§ 1, 2; Res. 2012-12, passed 5-
21-2012; Ord. 1438, passed 11-21-2016; Ord. 1439, passed 11-21-2016; Res. 2021-
18, passed 12-20-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND SANITATION
      
51.   ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
      
52.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
53.   SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
      
54.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND SANITATION
Section
Collection
   
50.001   Authority
   
50.002   Definitions
   
50.003   Rights and responsibilities of the borough for garbage collection
   
50.004   Rights and responsibilities of the resident/user for garbage
collection
   
50.005   Responsibilities of the borough agent
   
50.006   Responsibilities of dumpster users
   
50.007   Fees
   
50.008   Prohibited acts
   
50.009   Household hazardous waste and electronic waste collection and
recycling
   
50.010   Household hazardous waste and electronic waste collection and
recycling fees
Unlawful Disposal
   
50.015   Unlawful practices
Recycling
Part A: Resource Recovery and Recycling Program
   
50.030   Short title
   
50.031   Definitions
   
50.032   Program
   
50.033   Separation and disposal of leaf waste
   
50.034   Municipal ownership of recyclables
   
50.035   Recycling materials
   
50.036   Franchise, license and/or contract
   
50.037   Incentive, violation and enforcement
Part B: Recycling Program Regulations
   
50.050   Separation of recyclables by residences and storage and collection
   
50.051   Separation of recyclables by multi-family housing properties and
storage and collection
   
50.052   Separation of recyclables by commercial, municipal and institutional
establishments and at community activities and storage and collection
   
50.053   Separation and collection of leaf waste, yard waste and grass
clippings
   
50.054   Public education program
   
50.055   Changes to regulations
Greenwood Drive Compost Facility
   
50.085   Greenwood Drive compost allowable uses
   
50.086   Prohibited uses
   
50.087   Hours of operation
 
   
50.999   Penalty
COLLECTION
§ 50.001 AUTHORITY.
   Borough Council shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations
regarding the collection of garbage and refuse.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 1, § 1) (Ord. 996, passed 1-21-1974, § 1)
§ 50.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALUMINUM CANS. Empty all-aluminum food or beverage containers.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. A building containing three or more regulated rental
units.
   ASHES. The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible materials in homes, places of residence, office buildings, stores
and institutions for the purpose of heating and cooking.
   BIMETALLIC CONTAINERS. Empty food or beverage containers consisting of steel
and aluminum.
   COMBUSTIBLE RUBBISH. All rubbish which can be burned and is not recyclable.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. All persons, firms, partnerships, associations or
corporations who or which own or operate stores, restaurants, industries,
institutions and other similar places, public or private, charitable or
noncharitable, which, in the operation of said commercial establishment, has or
accumulates refuse and recyclables in and about its premises or elsewhere.
   COMMERCIAL-A ESTABLISHMENT. Those establishments used primarily for
commercial purposes which generate a maximum average of three 30-gallon trash
bags of refuse per week and are served as a residential customer for refuse
pickup.
   COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES. Events that are sponsored by public or private
agencies or individuals that include, but are not limited to, fairs, bazaars,
socials, picnics and organized sporting events attended by 200 or more
individuals per day.
   COMPOST. A mixture of various decaying organic substances such as dead
leaves or manure used for fertilizing soil.
   CORRUGATED PAPER. Structural paper material with an inner core shaped in
rigid parallel furrows and ridges.
   DEAD ANIMALS. Includes all dead animals or parts thereof not intended to be
used as food for human beings.
   DISCONTINUANCE OF GARBAGE SERVICE. The temporary suspension of garbage
pickup for a prearranged absence of at least four weeks.
   DUMPSTER. A type of large metal bin for refuse, designed to be hoisted onto
a specially equipped truck for emptying or hauling away.
   DUMPSTER ENCLOSURE. A fence completely surrounding and concealing a dumpster
or dumpsters and constructed of approved materials.
   ELECTRONIC WASTE. Products as described within the Pennsylvania Covered
Device Recycling Act that prohibits the landfilling of televisions, desktop
computers, laptops and other electronic items.
   FERROUS CONTAINERS. Empty steel or tin coated steel food or beverage
containers.
   GARBAGE. The by-products of animal and vegetable foodstuffs resulting from
the handling or preparation of food or other matter which is subject to
decomposition, decay, putrefaction or the generation of noxious or offensive
gases and odors, or all refuse or animal or vegetable matter which has been
used for food or which was intended to be so used.
   GREASE DUMPSTER. A container used for the collection and reclamation of
spent or used grease/cooking oil.
   HIGH-GRADE OFFICE PAPER. All white paper, bond paper and computer paper
commonly used in commercial, institutional and municipal establishments.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE. Household products that can catch fire, react, or
explode under certain circumstances, or that are corrosive or toxic. Includes,
but is not limited to, products such as paints, cleaners, oils, batteries,
pesticides, and the like.
   INCINERATOR. A furnace or apparatus for burning trash, garbage, and the like
to ashes.
   INSTITUTIONAL ESTABLISHMENTS. Those facilities that house or serve groups of
people in a non-residential setting which include, but are not limited to,
hospital,; colleges, schools, day care centers, and nursing homes.
   LEAD ACID BATTERIES. Include, but are not limited to, automotive, truck and
industrial batteries that contain lead.
   LEAF WASTE. Leaves from trees, bushes and other plants; garden residue;
chipped shrubbery; and tree trimmings, but not including grass clippings.
   METALS. Any of a class of elementary substances such as gold, silver,
copper, and the like, all of which are crystalline when solid and many of which
are characterized by opacity, ductility, conductivity, and a peculiar luster
when freshly fractured; or an alloy or mixture composed wholly or partially of
such substances.
   MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING PROPERTY. Any property having four or more dwelling
units per structure.
   NEWSPAPER. Paper of the type commonly referred to as newsprint and
distributed at fixed intervals, having printed thereon news and opinions,
containing advertisements and other matter of public interest. NEWSPAPER shall
expressly exclude glossy advertising inserts often included with newspapers.
   NONCOMBUSTIBLE RUBBISH. All rubbish which cannot be burned and is not
recyclable.
   PERSON. Every natural person, co-partnership, association, corporation or
firm.
   PLASTICS. All containers with the number one through seven in the recycling
symbol on the bottom of the container. Includes all plastic grocery bags.
   PREMISES. A tract of land within the borough, including any buildings or
structures located thereon, having a county tax I.D. number.
   PROPER GARBAGE AND RUBBISH CONTAINER. A container with a handle for lifting
or a tightly sealed garbage bag.
   RECEPTACLE. A proper container.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Materials having an economic value in the secondary
materials market. The following materials have such economic value: aluminum
cans and articles, bimetal cans, steel cans, clear and colored bottles and
jars, paper (cardboard, office paper, newspaper, paper products not chemically
coated). All plastics HDPE, PET, PVC, and the like, including numbers one
through seven plastics. The Borough Council shall designate by resolution the
recyclable materials eligible for collection within the borough. The Borough
Council may amend the list of recyclable materials at its discretion.
   RUBBISH. All refuse material not included in "garbage," as hereinbefore
defined, except refuse from building construction or reconstruction, street
refuse, industrial refuse, dead animals, abandoned large machinery or vehicles
or such other refuse materials not commonly produced in homes, stores and
institutions.
   SCREEN PLANTING. An alive and healthy evergreen hedge sufficient in height
to screen the dumpster six feet high, planted in such a way that it will block
the line of sight. It may be one or more rows of evergreen bushes or trees.
   SCREENING. A fence, screen planting or wall, sufficient in height to screen
the dumpster, six feet high, provided in such a way that it will block the line
of sight.
(Ord. 1488, passed 12-19-2022, § 1)
§ 50.003 RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOROUGH FOR GARBAGE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Garbage within the Borough of Grove City shall, when properly prepared
for collection as herein defined, be collected, removed and disposed of by the
Borough of Grove City or through an agent contracted by the borough. The
contractor and/or employees of the Borough of Grove City shall be responsible
for the emptying of all trash receptacles located on public spaces. The
contractor and/or employees of the Borough of Grove City shall not be required
to remove any garbage not properly prepared for collection or stored in
receptacles of the type and in the manner provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   The Borough of Grove City and/or contracted agent may divide the
borough into collection zones and designate the days on which garbage shall be
collected in the various zones.
   (C)   Garbage containers and/or other materials/bulk items, not to exceed
the limits set by the contract with the borough’s agent or by Borough Council
resolution, shall be collected and removed by the Borough of Grove City or the
borough agent at least once each week from private residences, apartments and
all other residential places within the Borough of Grove City.
   (D)   The borough shall collect and remove garbage and recyclables from
residential and commercial establishments that are referred to as commercial-
A properties within the Borough of Grove City. The Borough Manager shall be
responsible for maintaining a list of commercial-A properties and he/she may
add or remove properties from this list at his/her discretion.
   (E)   All garbage, refuse and recyclables collected and removed by the
Borough of Grove City or its agent shall be and become the property of the
borough or the borough’s agent.
(Ord. 1488, passed 12-19-2022, § 2)
§ 50.004 RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE RESIDENT/USER FOR GARBAGE
COLLECTION.
   It shall be required of every resident, householder, tenant and person
occupying a dwelling, apartment or place of residence within the Borough of
Grove City:
   (A)   To recycle all items that are eligible for collection according to
current regulations. Recyclables shall not be placed in the same garbage cans,
dumpsters or bags, or otherwise mixed with solid waste for collection, removal
or disposal;
   (B)   To keep and maintain all receptacles for the storage of garbage in
good and sanitary condition;
   (C)   To keep garbage and recyclables from being scattered about, and, in
the case of scattered garbage, it shall be the responsibility of the occupant
to clean up the same;
   (D)   Residents, their agents, or rental unit agents shall leave refuse,
properly contained, behind the front building line of the respective residence,
until the scheduled pickup;
   (E)   Residents, their agents, or rental unit agents, are responsible to
move such refuse and recyclables to the edge of the adjacent street for pickup
no earlier than 5:00 p.m. the day before it is to be picked up. Residents,
their agents, or rental unit agents are responsible for returning emptied
containers to behind the front building line of the residence no later than the
day the refuse is picked up;
   (F)   All receptacles required by this subchapter for the storage of garbage
shall conform to the following standards and shall be maintained as follows:
      (1)   All such receptacles shall be of substantial construction and of
such shape and design that the contents may be readily discharged, and that the
same may be easily handled and carried by one person.
      (2)   All receptacles for the storage of garbage shall be of standard
type garbage can or garbage bag, shall be watertight and shall be provided with
handles on the outside thereof and with a tight-fitting closure, which shall
not be removed except when necessary to place garbage therein or to take
garbage therefrom;
   (G)   The occupant of any premises shall be responsible for the sanitary
condition of the premises occupied by them, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit or allow refuse to be placed or deposited on his/her
premises, except as designated by terms of this chapter. If the property is
occupied by other than the owner, the tenant or tenants shall be responsible
for the property assigned to him/her or them. The owner shall be responsible
for the portions of the property not leased to the tenants;
   (H)   Discontinuance of garbage service. Every occupied residence and
commercial-A property shall use the borough garbage and recycling service as
described in this subchapter. No exceptions shall be made except as provided:
      (1)   If the property is vacant and water service has been discontinued
as verified by the Borough of Grove City, the property owner may be permitted
to discontinue garbage and recycling service. If the property is reoccupied at
any point, the property owner shall be responsible for notifying the Borough of
Grove City of such. Failure to notify the Borough of Grove City of reoccupation
shall constitute a violation as defined in §
50.999.
      (2)   If the property will be vacant on a temporary basis, but longer
than 30 days, the property owner may vacation garbage service. The property
owner shall provide advanced notice of this temporary vacancy. The property
owner shall notify the Borough of Grove City when the property is reoccupied.
Failure to notify the Borough of Grove City of reoccupation shall constitute a
violation as defined in §
50.999. If a property has active water service as verified by the Borough of
Grove City, the maximum vacation period shall not exceed six months. Garbage
service may not be vacationed for periods less than 30 days; and
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prevent any person from building or
maintaining a compost pile, consisting of lawn, hedge and shrubbery clippings,
leaves, weeds and soil. Garbage shall not be deposited in compost piles. The
compost pile shall not become offensive or a nuisance.
(Ord. 1488, passed 12-19-2022, § 3)
§ 50.005 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOROUGH AGENT.
   The contracted agent of the Borough of Grove City, charged with collection
of municipal waste, shall issue a report to the Borough of Grove City,
specifying total tonnage of solid waste and recycling collected. The borough
agent shall be subject to all requirements of the refuse collection and
disposal contract. Failure to follow through on any provisions shall constitute
a breach of contract. The Borough Manager shall address any breaches of
contract and shall take action in the interest of the Borough of Grove City, up
to and including termination of said contract.
(Ord. 1488, passed 12-19-2022, § 4)
§ 50.006 RESPONSIBILITIES OF DUMPSTER USERS.
   All institutional and commercial properties, except commercial-A properties
as defined herein, and multi-family housing properties that contain four or
more units not served by the Borough of Grove City refuse collection and
recycling service, shall contract with the garbage hauler of their choice for
the disposal of garbage and recycling of material, and referred to herein as a
dumpster user. It shall be the duty of each dumpster user:
   (A)   To provide and at all times to keep a number of dumpsters to contain
all garbage and recyclables that may accumulate on the premises of the user
during the interval between collections;
   (B)   To keep and maintain all dumpsters in a good and sanitary condition;
   (C)   To keep garbage and recyclables from being scattered about, and in the
case of scattered garbage, it shall be the responsibility of the user(s) to
clean up same;
   (D)   To screen on all sides any dumpster(s) viewable from any angle by a
pedestrian or motorist using a public sidewalk or right-of-way which is
substantially at grade with said dumpstcr(s). See definitions of "screening"
and "screen planting." Alternatively, if site conditions in the judgment of the
Zoning Officer cause said screening not to be feasible, the Zoning Officer
shall grant a written exception to the property owner with requirements for
dumpster maintenance and upkeep. The Zoning Officer hereby is authorized to
issue regulations establishing standards of material, workmanship and
maintenance to achieve durable and well-maintained dumpsters throughout the
Borough of Grove City;
   (E)   To ensure that all dumpster(s) are of substantial construction and of
such shape and design that contents may be readily discharged therefrom;
   (F)   To utilize separate grease dumpsters, if required; and
   (G)   To recycle either using a separate, marked dumpster(s), or special,
separate, marked recycling containers.
(Ord. 1488, passed 12-19-2022, § 5)
§ 50.007 FEES.
   (A)   Every resident, householder, tenant or person shall pay to the Borough
of Grove City a fee or charge as hereinafter provided for its services in
collecting and removing such garbage or refuse or recyclables. This fee, as set
by resolution of Council, shall include a penalty for late payment.
   (B)   Billing for services shall be on a monthly basis and shall be under
the direction and supervision of the Borough Manager. All bills shall be issued
monthly and shall be due and payable upon the prescribed due date and shall
contain a notice that a penalty set by resolution of Council will be charged if
payment is not made.
(Ord. 1488, passed 12-19-2022, § 6)
§ 50.008 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person other than the Borough of Grove City, the contracted borough
agent or the contracted private dumpster agency may remove, transport or
convey, or cause to be removed, transported or conveyed, any garbage or
recyclable items along any public street or alley or other public places in the
Borough of Grove City.
   (B)   No person other than the Borough of Grove City, the contracted borough
agency or the contracted private dumpster agency may engage in or conduct the
business of collecting, removing or disposing of garbage and recyclables within
the limits of the Borough of Grove City.
   (C)   No person may dispose of, deposit or place, or cause or permit to be
disposed of, deposited or placed, any garbage or refuse upon or in any public
street, park, alley, lane, place, catch basin or receptacle leading into any
sewer or in or upon any private lot within the limits of the Borough of Grove
City.
   (D)   No person may dispose of garbage and/or recyclables in any manner
otherwise than as provided in this subchapter.
   (E)   No person may place any receptacles for the storage of garbage and
recyclables in or upon any public street, lane, alley or sidewalk.
   (F)   No person may obstruct, delay or interfere with the collectors of
garbage and recyclables in the performance of their duties.
   (G)   No person may place or discard household refuse in public trash
containers.
   (H)   No person may dispose of trash or recycling materials at a residence
in which they were not generated.
(Ord. 1488, passed 12-19-2022, § 7)
§ 50.009 HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE AND ELECTRONIC WASTE COLLECTION AND
RECYCLING.
   The borough may establish a household hazardous waste and electronic waste
collection and recycling program and if established, shall be mandatory for all
residential customers and commercial-A customers as defined. The borough shall
have the right to contract with a borough agent to perform this collection. The
borough’s contract with said agent shall specify the terms of collection,
eligible items for collection and frequency of collection.
(Ord. 1488, passed 12-19-2022, § 8)
§ 50.010 HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE AND ELECTRONIC WASTE COLLECTION AND
RECYCLING FEES.
   (A)   Every resident, householder, tenant or person shall pay to the Borough
of Grove City a fee or charge as hereinafter provided for its services in
collecting and removing such items. This fee, as set by resolution of Council,
shall include a penalty for late payment.
   (B)   Billing for services shall be on a monthly basis and shall be under
the direction and supervision of the Borough Manager. All bills shall be issued
monthly, shall be due and payable upon the prescribed due date, and shall
contain a notice that a penalty set by resolution of Council will be charged if
payment is not made.
(Ord. 1488, passed 12-19-2022, § 9)
UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL
§ 50.015 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Throw any waste paper, sweepings, ashes, household waste, glass,
metal, refuse or rubbish, or any dangerous or detrimental substance into or
upon any road, street, highway or alley, or upon the land of another or into or
upon any stream or navigable river;
   (B)   Interfere with, scatter or distribute the contents of any receptacle
containing ashes, garbage, household waste or rubbish; or
   (C)   Accumulate, or place on lands of which he or she is an owner or tenant
any waste paper, sweepings, ashes, household waste, glass, metal, refuse or
rubbish except where such items are placed in a container suitable for the
protection of the environment.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 2, § 21) (Ord. 1073, passed 5-15-1978, § 1) Penalty,
see §
50.999
RECYCLING
PART A: RESOURCE RECOVERY AND RECYCLING PROGRAM
§ 50.030 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Resource Recovery and Recycling
Ordinance” of the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 3A, § 31) (Ord. 1216, passed 8-13-1990, § 1)
§ 50.031 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALUMINUM CANS. Empty all-aluminum food or beverage containers.
   BIMETALLIC CONTAINERS. Empty food or beverage containers consisting of steel
and aluminum.
   COMMERCIAL “A” ESTABLISHMENT. Those establishments used primarily for
commercial purposes which generate a maximum average of three 30-gallon trash
bags of refuse per week and are currently being served as a residential
customer for refuse pickup.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Those properties used primarily for commercial or
industrial purposes.
   COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES. Events that are sponsored by public or private
agencies or individuals that include, but are not limited to, fairs, bazaars,
socials, picnics and organized sporting events attended by 200 or more
individuals per day.
   CORRUGATED PAPER. Structural paper material with an inner core shaped in
rigid parallel furrows and ridges.
   FERROUS CONTAINERS. Empty steel or tin-coated steel food or beverage
containers.
   GLASS CONTAINERS. Bottles and jars made of clear, green or brown glass.
Excluded are plate glass, automotive glass, blue glass and porcelain and
ceramic products.
   HIGH-GRADE OFFICE PAPER. All white paper, bond paper and computer paper used
in commercial, institutional and municipal establishments and in residences.
   INSTITUTIONAL ESTABLISHMENTS. Those facilities that house or serve groups of
people in a nonresidential setting which include, but are not limited to, the
following: hospitals; colleges; schools; day care centers; and nursing homes.
   LEAD ACID BATTERIES. Includes, but not limited to, automotive, truck and
industrial batteries that contain lead.
   LEAF WASTE. Leaves from trees, bushes and other plants, garden residue,
chipped shrubbery and tree trimmings but not including grass clippings.
   MAGAZINES AND PERIODICALS. Printed matter containing miscellaneous written
pieces published at fixed or varying intervals. Expressly excluded are all
other paper products of any nature whatsoever.
   MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING PROPERTIES. Any properties having four or more dwelling
units per structure.
   MUNICIPAL ESTABLISHMENTS. Public facilities operated by the municipality and
other governmental and quasi-governmental authorities.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Borough of Grove City.
   NEWSPAPER. Paper of the type commonly referred to as newsprint and
distributed at fixed intervals, having printed thereon news and opinions,
containing advertisements and other matter of public interest. Expressly
excluded are glossy advertising inserts often included with newspapers.
   PERSON(S). Owners, lessees and occupants of residences, commercial or
institutional establishments.
   PLASTIC CONTAINERS. Empty plastic food and beverage containers.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Source separated recyclable materials, including
materials listed in 53 P.S. § 4000.1501 of Act 101, and materials identified by
the Borough of Grove City to be recycled.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS. Any occupied single- or multi-family dwelling having
up to three dwelling units per structure for which the municipality provides
municipal waste collection service.
   SINGLE STREAM RECYCLING. Commingling of several recyclable materials into
one container for pickup and processing.
   SOURCE SEPARATED RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Those materials separated at the
point of origin for the purpose of being recycled.
   WASTE. Material whose original purpose has been completed and which is
directed to a disposal or processing facility or is otherwise disposed. The
term does not include source separated recyclable materials or material
approved by the Department of Environmental Resources for beneficial use.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 3A, § 32) (Ord. 1216, passed 8-13-1990, § 2; Ord.
1459, passed 2-18-2019, § 1)
§ 50.032 PROGRAM.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Resource Recovery and Recycling Program
for the mandatory separating of recyclables from refuse and rubbish in the
borough.
      (1)   Separation and storage of recyclables by residences shall be the
responsibility of the resident until collection of the same.
      (2)   Separation, storage and collection of recyclables by commercial,
municipal and institutional establishments and community activities shall be
the responsibility of each establishment/activity.
      (3)   Separation and storage of recyclables by commercial “A”
establishments shall be the responsibility of each establishment until the
collection of the same.
      (4)   Separation, storage and collection of recyclables by multi-family
housing units shall be the responsibility of the owner of the same.
      (5)   Separation of leaf waste from refuse, rubbish and recyclables shall
be mandatory, and the same shall be collected in accordance with regulations
established by the borough.
      (6)   A public information and education program shall be established by
the borough.
   (B)   The Resource Recovery and Recycling Program shall be operated
according to the specific program regulations adopted by resolution of the
Borough Council. The Borough Council shall have authority to adopt, modify, and
amend recycling regulations from time to time by resolution, including, without
limitation, regulations regarding which recyclable materials must be recycled
and regulations requiring the source-separation of recyclable materials and/or
the placement of recyclable materials for collection through single stream
recycling. Any regulations so adopted by the Borough Council shall be published
at least one time in a newspaper of general circulation in the borough and
posted on the borough's website. Violations of any such regulations shall be
deemed violations of this chapter and subject to the same penalties hereunder.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 3A, § 33) (Ord. 1216, passed 8-13-1990, § 3; Ord.
1459, passed 2-18-2019, § 1) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.033 SEPARATION AND DISPOSAL OF LEAF WASTE.
   In compliance with Act 101, 53 P.S. §§ 4000.1501(c)(1)(ii) and 4000.1502(2),
it is hereby required that leaf waste be separated from ordinary household
waste and composted as outlined in the attached program regulations.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 3A, § 34) (Ord. 1216, passed 8-13-1990, § 4)
§ 50.034 MUNICIPAL OWNERSHIP OF RECYCLABLES.
   From the time of placement of recyclables at the curb for collection in
accordance with the terms and conditions herein, items shall be and become the
property of the borough or its authorized agent. However, the person or entity
responsible for placing the recycling containers at the curb for collection
shall ensure that the recyclables remain within the containers until collected.
It shall be a violation of this subchapter to collect or pick up or cause to be
collected or picked up any such items unless authorized by the borough. Any and
each such collection in violation hereof from one or more locations shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense punishable as hereinafter provided
in the attached program regulations.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 3A, § 35) (Ord. 1216, passed 8-13-1990, § 5) Penalty,
see §
50.999
§ 50.035 RECYCLING MATERIALS.
   (A)   Disposal of designated recyclables with ordinary waste by any
residential, commercial, commercial “A,” multi-family or institutional facility
is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   The borough or its authorized agent may not dispose of recyclables in
landfills or burn the same in incinerators unless markets for the same do not
exist.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 3A, § 36) (Ord. 1216, passed 8-13-1990, § 6) Penalty,
see §
50.999
§ 50.036 FRANCHISE, LICENSE AND/OR CONTRACT.
   The borough may enter into an agreement or contract for the collection and
disposal of recyclable materials.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 3A, § 37) (Ord. 1216, passed 8-13-1990, § 7)
§ 50.037 INCENTIVE, VIOLATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Each household shall have a container approved by the borough in which
to store recyclables and to place the same at curbside on the designated day
for pickup of the recyclables.
   (B)   Recycling containers provided by the borough shall be the property of
the borough and shall be returned to the borough if requested. Recycling
containers provided by the person, firm or corporation contracted by the
borough for providing collection, transportation and marketing of recyclable
materials shall be property of said person, firm or corporation and shall be
returned to the same if requested. Failure to return the container if requested
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subject to the penalties
hereunder.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 3A, § 38) (Ord. 1216, passed 8-13-1990, § 8; Ord.
1459, passed 2-18-2019, § 1)
PART B: RECYCLING PROGRAM REGULATIONS
§ 50.050 SEPARATION OF RECYCLABLES BY RESIDENCES AND STORAGE AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   All residential property, including multi-family housing units with
four or more units and Commercial "A" establishments being serviced under the
borough's contract, shall recycle all recyclable materials (as determined by
the Borough Council and established by resolution from time to time) generated
at their homes, apartments and other establishments in the Borough of Grove
City and place such materials at locations designated by the Borough Council
for collections by the Borough of Grove City, its agents, servants or
contractors.
   (B)   The recyclables shall be prepared for recycling in the following
manner.
      (1)   Glass items are to be rinsed; lids are to be removed; labels may be
left on.
      (2)   Cans are to be rinsed, crushed flat in order to allow more to be
placed in the recycling container.
      (3)   Plastic containers are to be rinsed and labels and metal rings are
to be removed.
   (C)   Each dwelling unit and Commercial "A" establishment has been provided
with one recycling container in which to place the recyclable materials. The
container shall be returned by the occupant if requested. The container shall
remain property of the borough and/or the person, firm or corporation
responsible for collecting, transporting and marketing the recyclable
materials. Should a resident or user of the container move from the property or
terminate its activities or no longer use the same, they shall leave the
container at the property for the next occupant. Additional or replacement
containers will be provided at the resident's expense.
   (D)   All recyclables are to be co-mingled in the container for single
stream recycling. Containers shall be placed at the curb on the days set forth
by the Borough Council. Collections of recyclable materials shall be made in
accordance with a schedule publicly advertised by the Borough of Grove City.
   (E)   The borough will implement its responsibilities for collection,
transportation, processing and marketing materials for recycling by entering
into a contract with a third party for the collection, transportation,
processing and/or marketing of materials as required by law. Any person
entering into a contract with the borough to implement a recycling program
shall be responsible with the borough for the implementation of the program.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 3B, § 41; Ord. 1459, passed 2-18-2019, § 1)
§ 50.051 SEPARATION OF RECYLABLES BY MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING PROPERTIES AND
STORAGE AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   All multi-family housing units with four or more units and not being
serviced under the borough's contract shall recycle all recyclable materials
(as determined by the Borough Council and established by resolution from time
to time) generated at their property.
   (B)   The recyclables shall be prepared for recycling in the following
manner.
      (1)   Glass items are to be rinsed; lids are to be removed; labels may be
left on.
      (2)   Cans are to be rinsed, crushed flat in order to allow more to be
placed in the recycling container.
      (3)   Plastic containers are to be rinsed and labels and metal rings are
to be removed.
   (C)   Landlords of multi-family dwellings with four or more units, and not
being serviced under the borough’s contract, are required to establish
collection systems for recyclable materials at each property. The landlord must
provide containers for collecting and sorting materials, easily accessible
locations for the containers and written instructions to the occupants of their
buildings. Owners, landlords and agents of owners or landlords who comply with
Act 101 shall not be liable for the noncompliance of the occupants of their
buildings.
   (D)   All recyclables are to be co-mingled for single stream recycling. The
owner of a multi- family housing property shall provide an appropriate number
of recycling containers at a sufficient number of drop-off points to
accommodate the amount of recycling generated by the property. The borough
reserves the right to require the owner to provide additional containers if the
number of containers is not adequate.
   (E)   Arrangement for the collection of designated recyclable materials, as
determined by resolution of the Borough Council, shall be the responsibility of
the owner and occupier of the multi-family property in which the recyclables
were generated. Recyclables shall be collected at least once per month. Such
arrangements may include direct marketing of recyclables and/or contracts with
haulers for separate or single stream collection. All owners of property not
serviced by the Borough of Grove City must provide the borough, before January
20th of each calendar year, a written report stating the name of the hauling
contractor or direct market recycler and the total weight of each kind of
material recycled during the previous calendar year and any other relevant
information required by the Borough of Grove City.
   (F)   All owners and/or agents of multi-family residential properties
located in the Borough of Grove City, regardless of the number of units, shall
be required to provide notice to tenants of the borough's mandatory recycling
program and to provide such notice, in writing, either by including language in
the lease notifying the tenant of the recycling obligation at the time of
tenant change or lease renewal; or by prominently posting written notice of the
recycling obligation in the common area of the building. This written notice
shall be kept accessible for inspection by borough officials, if requested.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 3B, § 42) (Ord. 1216, passed 8-13-1990, Exhibit A;
Ord. 1459, passed 2-18-2019, § 1) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.052 SEPARATION OF RECYCLABLES BY COMMERCIAL, MUNICIPAL AND INSTITUTIONAL
ESTABLISHMENTS AND AT COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES AND STORAGE AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   All commercial, municipal, institutional establishments and community
activities in the borough shall recycle all recyclable materials (as determined
by the Borough Council and established by resolution from time to time)
generated at their property or by their community activity.
   (B)   The recyclables shall be prepared for recycling in the following
manner.
      (1)   Glass items are to be rinsed; lids are to be removed; labels may be
left on.
      (2)   Cans are to be rinsed, crushed flat in order to allow more to be
placed in recycling container.
      (3)   Plastic containers are to be rinsed and labels and metal rings are
to be removed.
      (4)   High-grade office paper and corrugated paper are to be separated by
type, tied in bundles and placed in recycling container or paper bags.
   (C)   Arrangement for the collection of designated recyclable materials, as
determined by resolution of the Borough Council, shall be the responsibility of
the owner of the commercial, municipal or institutional property or organizer
of community activity in which the recyclables were generated. Recyclables
shall be collected at least once per month. Community activities are to be
collected as required. Such arrangements may include direct marketing of
recyclables and/or contracts with haulers for separate or single stream
collection. All owners of property not serviced by the Borough of Grove City
must provide the Borough, before January 20th of each calendar year, a written
report stating the name of the hauling contractor or direct market recycler and
the total weight of each kind of material recycled during the previous calendar
year and any other relevant information required by the Borough of Grove City.
   (D)   The owner of a commercial, municipal or institutional property or
organizer of community activity shall provide an appropriate number of
recycling containers at a sufficient number of drop-off points to accommodate
the amount of recycling generated by the property. The borough reserves the
right to require the owner or community activity organizer to provide
additional containers if the number of containers is not adequate.
   (E)   Exceptions to the borough’s Resource Recovery and Recycling Program
and Program Regulations shall be provided to those commercial, institutional or
municipal establishments that have provided for recycling of materials required
to be source separated and collected by the borough. Such commercial,
institutional or municipal solid waste generators shall annually provide
written documentation to the borough of the total number of tons of materials
recycled.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 3B, § 43) (Ord. 1216, passed 8-13-1990, Exhibit A;
Ord. 1459, passed 2-18-2019, § 1) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.053 SEPARATION AND COLLECTION OF LEAF WASTE, YARD WASTE AND GRASS
CLIPPINGS.
   (A)   Effective September 1, 1990 the disposal of leaves with household
waste shall be prohibited. Effective October 1, 1990 it shall be unlawful to
dispose of yard waste, grass clippings, garden residue, tree trimmings and the
like with household waste.
   (B)   The borough will provide for the collection of leaf waste as defined
in the Resource and Recovery and Recycling Ordinance. Leaves will be collected
during the fall season according to a schedule which will be established by the
borough.
   (C)   Leaves shall be placed at the curb for collection by the borough or
its authorized agent.
   (D)   The borough will provide a drop-off site for the disposal of other
yard waste, i.e., tree trimmings, bushes, plants, garden residue, shrubbery
clippings and grass clippings.
   (E)   Property owners may do backyard composting.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 3B, § 44) (Ord. 1216, passed 8-13-1990, Exhibit A)
Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.054 PUBLIC EDUCATION PROGRAM.
   (A)   In accord with the requirements of Act 101, the borough will establish
a comprehensive public education program.
   (B)   Prior to October 1, 1990 and every six months thereafter, the borough
will notify the community of the recycling program through advertisements which
may include the local newspaper, cable television channel, brochures and
leaflets. The advertisement will set forth the requirements of this subchapter
and the incentives and penalties set forth herein.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 3B, § 45) (Ord. 1216, passed 8-13-1990, Exhibit A)
§ 50.055 CHANGES TO REGULATIONS.
   All changes to the regulations set forth herein will require majority vote
of a quorum present of the Council of the borough. Public notice of any
proposed change in the program regulations will be advertised once in a
newspaper of general circulation within the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 3B, § 46) (Ord. 1216, passed 8-13-1990, Exhibit A)
GREENWOOD DRIVE COMPOST FACILITY
§ 50.085 GREENWOOD DRIVE COMPOST ALLOWABLE USES.
   (A)   The borough hereby officially establishes its compost site located off
Greenwood Drive in the Borough of Grove City, Mercer County, Pennsylvania, for
use by its residents only for dumping and removal of yard waste, i.e., tree
trimmings, bushes, plants, garden residue, shrubbery clippings and grass
clippings; provided further, that all grass clippings shall be disposed of at a
designated location at the compost site.
   (B)   All nonresident individuals not directly associated with a commercial
or industrial entity and all agents of nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporations may
remove said yard waste so long as they are not involved in the resale of such
materials.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 4, § 51) (Ord. 1332, passed 3-21-2005, § 1)
§ 50.086 PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   All nonresident individuals and all agents of non-profit 501(c)(3)
corporations are prohibited from dumping any materials whatsoever at the said
compost site. All other agents of all commercial, industrial or other entities,
firms or corporations, regardless of where located, and regardless of whom they
may be working for, are prohibited from entering upon or utilizing the
Greenwood Drive compost facility for any purpose whatsoever, including the
dumping or removal of materials thereat.
   (B)   Upon completion of any activity at the said compost site, all
containers utilized in such activity must be removed from the said site.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 4, § 52) (Ord. 1332, passed 3-21-2005, § 2) Penalty,
see §
50.999
§ 50.087 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Individuals shall only be at the said compost site between dawn and dusk,
and shall not be at the said site at any other time.
(1980 Code, Ch. 11, Part 4, § 53) (Ord. 1332, passed 3-21-2005, § 3) Penalty,
see §
50.999
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of
§§
50.001 through
50.010, §§
50.030 through
50.037, and §§
50.050 through
50.055 or any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto shall, for each and
every such violation, upon conviction thereof be sentenced to pay a fine of not
less than $75 nor more than $500 for the first two uncorrected violations of
the same section on the same property and not less than $150 nor more than
$1,000 for the third uncorrected violation of the same section of the code on
the same property, plus court costs and any expenses incurred by Borough of
Grove City for remediation thereof. Every section of this chapter that is
violated shall constitute a separate offense punishable by a separate fine as
set forth herein. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been
served shall be deemed a separate offense punishable by a separate fine as set
forth herein.
   (B)   Any person and/or corporation who violates §§
50.085 through
50.087 shall, upon conviction before a district magistrate, be guilty of a
summary offense and be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $300 and costs
of prosecution, or in the default of the payment of such fine, to undergo
imprisonment for a period not in excess of 30 days.
(Ord. 1488, passed 12-19-2022, § 11)
CHAPTER 51: ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
Section
Electric Utility Services
   
51.01   Electric rates, rules and regulations adopted
   
51.02   Written application or contract required
   
51.03   Deposits
   
51.04   Meter reading intervals
   
51.05   Choice of rates
   
51.06   Temporary service
   
51.07   Combined installations
   
51.08   Application of rates; determination of demand
   
51.09   Increased loads
   
51.10   Partial, auxiliary or standby service
   
51.11   Billing and bills payable
   
51.12   Discontinuance of service
   
51.13   Description of service to be furnished
   
51.14   Right-of-way, tree trimming and service connections; general
   
51.15   Customer’s wiring and electrical equipment
   
51.16   Change in service entrance connections
   
51.17   Meters, transformers and other equipment
   
51.18   Type of motors and control devices
   
51.19   Single-phase power service
   
51.20   Notify borough of any defect in electrical supply
   
51.21   Meter testing
   
51.22   Access to premises
   
51.23   Extension of lines and service; services; seasonal customers
   
51.24   Merging of agreements
   
51.25   Borough’s responsibility limited
   
51.26   Rates, rules and regulations subject to change
   
51.27   Fuel adjustment clause
   
51.28   Residential service; Rate No. 1
   
51.29   Residential electric heating
   
51.30   Commercial service; Rate No. 2
   
51.31   General service; Rate No. 3
   
51.32   Primary power service; Rate No. 4
   
51.33   Service entrance capacity
   
51.34   Primary power service; Rate No. 5
   
51.35   Termination of service procedures
   
51.36   Severability
   
51.37   Customer owned electric service generation
   
51.38   Customer owned standby and portable generation
   
51.39   Technical requirements for customer owned generation
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
51.50   Bidding of demand response
   
51.51   Cogeneration and small power production
ELECTRIC UTILITY SERVICES
§ 51.01 ELECTRIC RATES, RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The policy and practice of the borough with respect to the supply of
electric service is embodied in the following rules and regulations.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 41) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 1)
§ 51.02 WRITTEN APPLICATION OR CONTRACT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A written application or contract, accepted by the borough will be
required from each customer before electric service is supplied. This shall
apply whether the supply of service involves a new installation, the unsealing
of the service switch where service has been previously supplied, a change in
the class of service or a change in the customer’s name. The borough may, at
its discretion where unusual circumstances prevail and as a convenience to the
customer, institute service pending the formal application.
   (B)   Standard contracts shall be for terms as specified in the statement of
rate, but where large or special investment is necessary for the supply of
service, a longer contract period than that specified in the rate, or a special
guarantee of revenue, or both, may be required to safeguard such investment.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 42) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 2)
§ 51.03 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   From and after the executed date of this chapter, applications for
utility services by tenants will be accepted only when accompanied by a
contract with the landlord assuming responsibility in any delinquency in
payment of utility bills.
   (B)   Utility deposits presently held by the borough will be returned to the
depositor upon written application accompanied by a signed contract by the
landlord assuming responsibility for any delinquency in the amount of the
utility bills or upon written application by the depositor together with a
statement that the depositor has paid all borough utility bills on a current
basis for a period of one year prior to the date of the application.
   (C)   If after the signing of the contract of responsibility by the landlord
the tenant fails to make payment of charges due, the borough shall give the
owner written notice of such default by U.S. mail at such time as the utilities
are discontinued.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 43) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 3; Ord. 1388,
passed 10-19-2009, § 1)
§ 51.04 METER READING INTERVALS.
   (A)   The borough will read its meters on monthly periods as regularly
scheduled as practical.
   (B)   In the event that scheduled reading of meters is not obtained because
of inability to gain access to the meter location or to installations at remote
locations, the borough will estimate the amount of service supplied, and for
the intervening months between actual readings the borough will render
appropriately marked bills. The bills so provided for the month in which the
meter is not read shall have the same force and effect as if the meters had
been read for that period, and shall be paid in accordance with the standard
payment terms of the applicable schedule.
   (C)   The bills so rendered shall be subject to revision whenever the
customer shall advise the borough of any unusual circumstances occurring in his
or her use of service between meter readings, or whenever irregularity in use
is readily apparent to the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 44) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 4)
§ 51.05 CHOICE OF RATES.
   A copy of rates, rules and regulations may be procured from the Borough
Secretary’s office. Upon request, the proper borough representative will assist
the customer in the selection of the schedule most desirable from the
standpoint of such customer. Any advice given by the borough will necessarily
be based on customer’s statements as to the class of service desired and the
manner in which he or she intends to use the same, and by giving such advice
the borough assumes no responsibility whatever. The rate so selected, as
embodied in the customer’s application, shall remain in effect for the contract
term therein stated unless a study of the customer’s written request to the
borough reveals a justified change. Reasonable opportunity and assistance will
be given at any time in analyzing customer’s operating conditions relative to
the various rates, but the borough does not guarantee that customers will be
served under the most favorable rate at all times. No refund will be made
representing the difference in the charge under different rates applicable to
the same class of service.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 45) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 5)
§ 51.06 TEMPORARY SERVICE.
   (A)   Temporary installation, requiring special service, meter or other work
shall be made at the expense of the customer, with charges according to the
materials and work required for installing and removing. Service installed for
temporary use, such as construction purposes or exhibits of short duration and
the like, will be installed and removed at the expense of the customer. In all
cases of temporary service, the customer shall pay in advance the estimated
amount of construction and dismantling costs, but in no case less than $10. In
any event, however, the borough reserves the right to forgive any or all
construction costs where the particular service is of sufficient civic interest
to justify. Current used by temporary service shall be billed to and paid for
by the customer on a basis of minimum charge and energy rate applicable.
   (B)   If, however, a temporary location thus installed is such as to permit
the permanent connection to a residence under construction, then this rule
shall not apply thereto and such connection shall be made by the borough.
   (C)   All temporary wiring facilities installed by the customer shall be
inspected and approved by a borough representative prior to connection of such
facilities to the electrical system of the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 46) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 6)
§ 51.07 COMBINED INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Service will be supplied to each separate premises as one customer
through one meter for each class of service. The electricity used by the same
person, firm or corporation, and delivered and measured separately, will not be
combined, and several premises will not be billed as one customer. Each meter
installed shall be covered by a contract or application specifying the class of
service and rate schedule applicable thereto.
   (B)   Installation combining different classes of service will be permitted
only where the use can be registered on one meter and billed on one rate,
subject to the rates, rules and regulations of the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 47) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 7)
§ 51.08 APPLICATION OF RATES; DETERMINATION OF DEMAND.
   (A)   Where the rate provides that the determination of demand for billing
purposes shall be on the basis of demands established in the current month,
this provision shall apply even though during months a new contract may have
been signed or service transferred to another schedule.
   (B)   Where charges specified in the rate are based upon customer’s demand,
it is intended that such demand shall fairly represent the capacity which the
borough is required to stand ready to supply. The billing demand shall
therefore be determined as outlined on each rate sheet.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 48) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 8; Ord. 1349,
passed 12-18-2006, § 1)
§ 51.09 INCREASED LOADS.
   The service connections, meters and other service facilities supplied by the
borough for each customer have definite capacities, and no additions to the
customer’s installations shall be made until notice thereof has been given the
borough. Customers may be held responsible for any damage resulting from a
violation of this rule.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 49) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 9)
§ 51.10 PARTIAL, AUXILIARY OR STANDBY SERVICE.
   (A)   Application of rule.
      (1)   The charges contained in the borough’s rates, unless otherwise
specified, are based upon the customer purchasing all energy requirements from
the borough and do not apply when the service is used for partial, auxiliary or
standby service to any other source of energy.
      (2)   When the customer obtains a portion of his or her energy
requirements from the borough for partial, auxiliary, breakdown, emergency,
reserve or standby service to energy supplied or which can be supplied from any
other source, the provisions of this rule shall then apply.
      (3)   Customer’s equipment may not be concurrently operated by means of
service supplied by the borough and by such other source of electric or
mechanical power, except upon written agreement setting forth the conditions of
such operation, nor shall the borough be obligated to furnish capacity in
excess of the contract demand or billing demand whichever is the greater.
   (B)   Rate. Service will be supplied under the terms of General Service Rate
No. 3, or Primary Power Service Rate No. 4, whichever is applicable, subject to
the terms of this rule relating to the contract demand.
   (C)   Contract demand.
      (1)   The contract demand for any class of service provided for in this
rule shall be initially established by mutual agreement between the borough and
the customer and contained in the service contract, but in no event less than
the minimum demand stipulated in the applicable rate.
      (2)   The borough reserves the right to require the customer to furnish,
install and maintain a limiting device, approved by and under the sole control
of the borough.
      (3)   The billing demand shall not be less than the contract demand, and
whenever the actual measured demand exceeds the contract demand, then this
actual measured demand becomes the billing demand. For any month, the billing
demand shall not be less than the greatest actual measured demand during the
preceding 11 months.
      (4)   No customer shall be permitted to effect a reduction in his or her
contract demand by recontracting for the same service unless a bona fide
reduction in load has occurred.
   (D)   Contract periods. Written contract for a term of years as mutually
agreed to between the customer and the borough, but in no event shall the term
be for less than one year.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 50) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 10)
§ 51.11 BILLING AND BILLS PAYABLE.
   (A)   All bills will be rendered monthly following the rendition of service
and are payable at the office of the borough on or before the fifteenth day
following the mailing date of the bill. If not so paid, the bill becomes
delinquent and a delayed payment charge of 5% of the total net charge will be
added to the total net charge.
   (B)   When remittance is made to the borough by United States mail, it is
considered that the customer is relieved of the penalty if the date of mailing,
as evidenced by the stamp of the Postal Department on the envelope is prior to
the delinquent date.
   (C)   In case of bills for service to the United States of America, the
Commonwealth or any agency of either, the net rate period specified in the
schedule shall be taken to be 30 days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 51) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 11; Ord. 1388,
passed 10-19-2009, § 1)
§ 51.12 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The borough reserves the right to discontinue its service upon
reasonable notice in accord with the provisions set forth hereafter in the
event the customer is in arrears in the payment of bills for service or fails
to comply with these rules and regulations. In case service is discontinued by
customer choice or for nonpayment of bills rendered, a charge of $35 will be
made for reconnection. Reconnection shall be made during normal working hours
of the borough. The reconnection charge, together with all arrearages, shall be
paid or payment satisfactorily arranged before the service is resumed. Service
discontinuance shall be considered to become effective enabling the
reconnection fee to be billed herein when a borough representative is
dispatched to perform the actual disconnection.
   (B)   In the event there is any need for restoration or reconnection of
service for any reason whatsoever, a restoration or reconnection fee of $35
shall be paid by the customer to the borough prior to such work being
commenced.
   (C)   At the borough’s option, in lieu of disconnection of customers for
nonpayment, the borough may install load-limiting devices that restrict the
amount of power flow to the customer.
   (D)   In cases where the customer expects to be away from the borough for a
period in excess of the length of the normal billing period, service may be
continued upon proper notification of borough officials responsible for the
administration of these rules and regulations, provided that arrangements are
made for the payment of bills either during the customer’s absence or promptly
upon his or her return. Non-property owners may be required to make deposits in
the amount of estimated bills for the anticipated period of their absence.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 52) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 12; Ord. 1134,
passed 1-8-1982, § 5; Ord. 1349, passed 12-18-2006, § 2)
§ 51.13 DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE TO BE FURNISHED.
   (A)   Service will be supplied in the form of 60-cycle, alternating current,
at only the standard voltages and phase available in the locality in which the
premises to be serviced are situated. Before purchasing equipment or installing
wiring, the customer shall secure from the borough in writing the current
characteristics available.
   (B)   (1)   The borough does not guarantee, but with the cooperation of the
customer, will endeavor to furnish a continuous supply of electric energy and
to maintain voltage and frequency within reasonable limits.
      (2)   The borough shall not be liable for damages which the customer may
sustain by reason of the failure of the supply or variation in service
characteristics or phase reversals, nor shall the borough be liable for damage
that may be incurred by the use of electrical appliances, or the borough’s
property on customer’s premises.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 53) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 13)
§ 51.14 RIGHT-OF-WAY, TREE TRIMMING AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS; GENERAL.
   The customer shall provide and/or grant, at his, her or their own expense,
to the borough, such right-of-way over customer’s property as may be necessary
for the erection and maintenance of the necessary poles, wires and
appurtenances, together with such tree trimming privileges as may reasonably be
required.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 54) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 14)
§ 51.15 CUSTOMER’S WIRING AND ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Service installation shall be made in accordance with the National
Electrical Code published by the National Fire Protection Association; the
governmental authorities having jurisdiction; and the reasonable requirements
of the borough. All new installations shall be inspected by an authorized
electrical inspector before the borough connects its service.
   (B)   All interior wiring and electrical equipment shall be installed and
maintained by the customer in accordance with the National Electrical Code
published by the National Fire Protection Association; the governmental
authorities having jurisdiction; and the reasonable requirements of the
borough. All new installations shall be inspected by an authorized electrical
inspector before the borough connects its service. The borough shall not be
responsible for any injury or damage which may result from defects in wiring or
devices on the customer's premises. The borough may, however, without
assumption of any liability connect the installation when the customer presents
evidence that he or she had made application to the authority having
jurisdiction for said inspection. In such case the borough specifically
reserves the right to disconnect the service if the said installation on final
inspection proves defective, and the customer, after reasonable notice, has
failed to rectify same.
   (C)   In the case of fluorescent mercury vapor lighting, neon signs or any
lighting or power equipment having low power factor characteristics, customer
shall furnish, install and maintain at his or her own expense power factor
corrective equipment which will maintain the power factor of the resultant load
on the meter to which the apparatus is connected at not less than 85% lagging.
   (D)   The customer's service entrance facilities shall be brought outside
the building wall at such height as will conform to the requirements of the
National Electrical Code published by the National Fire Protection Association,
unless otherwise directed by the borough's representative. All conductors shall
extend beyond the service cap to a distance of not less than 15 inches to
facilitate connection to the borough's service drop wires. In locations subject
to mechanical damage, all service entrance conductors shall be enclosed in
heavy-wall, rigid conduit for its entire length. Thin-wall metallic tubing is
not acceptable for exterior use where exposure to weather may be encountered
and its use as a service entrance enclosure shall be prohibited.
   (E)   The normal facilities of the borough whether transmission,
distribution or secondary voltage are by means of overhead open wires and the
rates herein established do not contemplate or include underground or overhead
cable service or supply.
   (F)   Customers requiring underground service entrance facilities shall, at
their own expense, install and maintain same. Such installations to be enclosed
by Schedule 40 PVC conduit in its entirety and to have its location on borough
pole approved by the borough's representative. In cases where economics dictate
and in lieu of an overhead service, the borough may choose to provide, at no
cost to the customer, all or a portion of the conduit for an underground
service. However, the provision by the borough of such conduit shall in no case
exceed in value the installed cost of a 100-foot aerial service entrance drop
and its accessories.
   (G)   In addition to the electrical service ground rod requirements as
specified in the National Electrical Code, all electrical services shall also
be grounded to the incoming water service line.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 55) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 15; Ord. 1047,
passed 12-23-1976; Ord. 1291, passed 5-17-1999, § 1; Ord. 1499, passed 4-15-
2024, § 1)
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of UCC and application of National Electric Code to wiring and
electrical equipment, see
Ch. 150
§ 51.16 CHANGE IN SERVICE ENTRANCE CONNECTIONS.
   All changes to services, including, but not limited to, placing existing
facilities underground, shall be approved by the borough, and all borough costs
and customer costs shall be borne by the customer.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 56) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 16; Ord. 1349,
passed 12-18-2006, § 3)
§ 51.17 METERS, TRANSFORMERS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The borough will furnish, own and maintain one meter or one unified
set of meters for each service contract. The customer shall provide, at his or
her own expense, suitable space, and enclosures where necessary, for the
installation and use of the borough's metering and transforming equipment and
the customer shall permit no person otherwise lawfully authorized, to remove,
inspect or tamper with such equipment. If borough's equipment is destroyed or
damaged or prevented from properly registering the current supplied to the
customer due to the negligence of the customer or by any unauthorized person,
the cost of the necessary replacement or repairs, together with the reasonable
cost of investigation and a fair estimate of the energy not registered, shall
be paid by the customer. The borough also reserves the right to require the
customer to install at the customer's own expense such reasonable service
facilities as will protect the borough from further tampering or diversion of
current.
   (B)   In the event that the representatives of the borough have been unable
to enter any premises within the borough for the purpose of making electric
meter readings for a period of not less than three consecutive billing periods,
the owner of such premises may be required to relocate such electric meter to
the outside of the premises at such owner's expense within 30 days from receipt
of notice to relocate such meter duly given by the Borough Manager or by his or
her duly appointed representative by registered mail to such owner.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 57) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 17; Ord. 1499,
passed 4-15-2024, § 2)
§ 51.18 TYPE OF MOTORS AND CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The customer shall furnish and equip all motors operating on the lines
of the borough with control devices provided with suitable starting, overload
and low-voltage protection or release, and in the case of motors operating
equipment such as elevators, conveyors, hoists and similar appliances where a
definite direction of movement must be maintained, the controlling device shall
be further equipped by the customer with protection against phase reversal.
   (B)   The starting current for all alternating current motors shall be in
accordance with the National Electrical Code of the National Board of Fire
Underwriters.
   (C)   The borough reserves the right to suspend service, after reasonable
notice, to any customer whose use of service is such as to cause undue
disturbance to the borough’s distribution system, or if in the borough’s
judgment the customer’s installation or equipment is defective or dangerous or
does not comply with reasonable safety requirements thus resulting in hazardous
conditions or unsatisfactory service to its customers.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 58) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 18)
§ 51.19 SINGLE-PHASE POWER SERVICE.
   The borough reserves the right to limit single-phase power service to loads
of five h.p. capacity or less, and any single motor of three h.p. or over shall
be equipped with suitable starting, overload and low-voltage protection control
devices.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 59) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 19)
§ 51.20 NOTIFY BOROUGH OF ANY DEFECT IN ELECTRICAL SUPPLY.
   The customer shall notify the borough promptly of any defect in service or
of any trouble or accident involving the electrical supply.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 60) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 20)
§ 51.21 METER TESTING.
   (A)   Meters shall be tested for accuracy and adjustment made according to
rules of the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission.
   (B)   Whenever a meter fails during any period to register correctly due to
burn-out, open potential or otherwise, the customer shall pay for such period
an estimated amount based either upon the determination obtained from the meter
test or upon the consumption during a similar period or upon both of these
methods combined.
   (C)   In case of dispute of an account involving the accuracy of the
registration of a meter, the meter will be tested by the borough on payment by
the applicant of a testing charge of $20 which will be returned to the
applicant in case the meter is found to over-register 2% or more. In case of
such over-registering, or if the meter is under-registering 2% or more, the
registering shall be adjusted to correspond and the bill upon which complaint
was made corrected accordingly or proper credit shall be applied to ensuing
bills.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 61) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 21; Ord. 1134,
passed 1-8-1982, § 6)
§ 51.22 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   The borough’s representative, when properly identified, shall have access to
the customer’s premises at all reasonable hours for the purpose of reading,
inspecting, repairing or removing its meters or other property, and/or to
inspect and determine the connected load in lamps, appliances, motors and other
connected equipment.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 62) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 22)
§ 51.23 EXTENSION OF LINES AND SERVICE; SERVICES; SEASONAL CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   Extension of lines and service.
      (1)   When in the judgment of the borough, the estimated revenue will be
insufficient to justify the investment in the extensions required to supply
service to the customer, the borough may require the customer to bear all or
any portion of the cost of such extensions in the form of a revenue advance, or
otherwise conform to the rules hereinafter set forth regarding extensions and
additions. Money advanced by a customer for the construction of industrial
power lines, shall be subject to refund at the rate of 25% of the customer’s
monthly power bill.
      (2)   In the event that contract is terminated prior to the complete
refund of the revenue advance or that the entire amount has not been credited
to the customer within a period of five years, there shall be no further refund
of any remaining portion of said revenue advance.
      (3)   As an alternate, if mutually agreeable to both the customer and the
borough, added facilities will be supplied and the minimum monthly charge shall
be increased by an amount equal to 1.5% of the estimated construction costs.
      (4)   The guaranteed minimum monthly payment provision outlined in
division (A)(3) above shall terminate five years after the date that the
particular line extension was placed in service, and the minimum charges
provided for in the borough’s standard rates will become effective.
   (B)   Services. The borough will not install or pay for any facilities on
the private property of a customer and for the exclusive service of such
customer, except the meter and the first 100 feet of service wires for each
customer extending from the general facilities of the borough. All such
facilities not paid for by the borough shall be installed, maintained and
replaced at the expense of the customer; provided, however, the borough may
furnish and install the necessary facilities upon the private property of a
customer, when such customer provides a continuous right-of-way through his or
her property for the construction, operation, maintenance and extension of such
facilities to service other customers; or when each customer guarantees an
additional monthly payment to the borough under the provisions of this rule,
for the additional expense involved beyond the first 100 feet of service wires.
   (C)   Seasonal customers. Seasonal customers may elect to take service for a
smaller number of months, provided that the customer guarantees to pay during
the months chosen a minimum not less than the sum of the 12 monthly guarantees.
Service will be discontinued during the remaining months of the year unless
customer requests that service remain connected, in which case minimum of the
applicable schedule will apply during the remaining months.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 63) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 23)
§ 51.24 MERGING OF AGREEMENTS.
   No promises, agreements or representations of any agent or employee of the
borough shall be of binding force upon the borough unless the same shall be
incorporated in the contract for electric service and same accepted and signed
by an authorized representative of the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 64) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 24)
§ 51.25 BOROUGH’S RESPONSIBILITY LIMITED.
   The borough shall make every reasonable effort, but does not, however,
guarantee or assume any responsibility for having meters, transformers and
other necessary equipment available for immediate installation as required to
serve a customer under these rules and regulations. In cases where proper
equipment is not readily available, the borough reserves the right to install
temporarily such equipment as is available for a service and condition to which
both the borough and customer are mutually agreed.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 65) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 25)
§ 51.26 RATES, RULES AND REGULATIONS SUBJECT TO CHANGE.
   The rates, rules and regulations governing electric service as herein
contained, are subject to termination, change or modification by action of
Borough Council.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 66) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 26)
§ 51.27 FUEL ADJUSTMENT CLAUSE.
   The fuel adjustment clause shall apply to all kilowatt hours as listed in
the various energy rate schedules.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 67) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 27)
§ 51.28 RESIDENTIAL SERVICE; RATE NO. 1.
   (A)   Availability.
      (1)   Available to all residential electric customers for single phase
service to household and related domestic uses in a single private dwelling, an
individual dwelling unit in a multiple-dwelling structure and a private
dwelling in which space is used in connection with the conduct of a business or
profession by a person residing therein. Residential service shall include
service to the dwelling and all appurtenant detached buildings of the dwelling.
      (2)   Residential service shall not include halls, basements or other
sections of multiple-dwelling structures common to more than one dwelling unit.
   (B)   Nature of service. Alternating current, 60 cycles, single phase,
nominal voltage 120/240.
   (C)   Rate. The net monthly charge per customer shall be:
      (1)   Customer charge: $10.00; and
      (2)   Energy charge:
         (a)   First 150 KWH: 16.22 cents per KWH; and
         (b)   Over 150 KWH: 15.46 cents per KWH.
   (D)   Minimum monthly charge. The minimum monthly charge shall be the
customer charge.
   (E)   Fuel adjustment clause. The charges set forth above shall be adjusted
for the current month by anamount equal to the fuel adjustment in the preceding
month’s wholesale supplier’s power bill to the borough plus an allowance for
distribution system losses.
   (F)   Terms of payment. The above rate is net and due and payable on or
before the fifteenth day following the mailing date of the bill. If not so
paid, the gross amount becomes due, which is 5% above the net rates as stated.
   (G)   Multi-family dwellings. Where two or more families, with separate
cooking facilities, occupy a residential dwelling, the wiring shall be so
arranged that the service to each family can be metered and billed separately.
If the wiring is not arranged and two or more families are served through one
meter, the energy blocks and minimum charges shall be multiplied by the number
of families served.
   (H)   Special apparatus. This rate is not applicable to the use of electric
welders or electric arc furnaces in the home.
   (I)   Term and form of contract. Written application on borough’s standard
application.
   (J)   State tax adjustment surcharge. The charges set forth shall be
increased by 2.5%, reflecting a state tax adjustment surcharge.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 68) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 28; Ord. 1058,
passed 9-7-1977, § 1; Ord. 1117, passed 1-2-1981, § 28; Ord. 1140, passed 8-2-
1982, § 1; Ord. 1154, passed 1-3-1984; Ord. 1195, passed 10-19-1987; Ord. 1222,
passed 12-17-1990, § 1; Ord. 1230, passed 10-21-1991, § 1; Ord. 1234, passed 7-
13-1992, § 1; Ord. 1247, passed 11-15-1993; Ord. 1254, passed 12-19-1994, § 1;
Ord. 1280, passed 1-19-1998, § 1; Ord. 1282, passed 4-20-1998, § 1; Ord. 1349,
passed 12-18-2006, § 4; Ord. 1363, passed 1-7-2008, § 1; Ord. 1407, passed 12-
19-2011, § 1; Ord. 1426, passed 5-19-2014; Ord. 1430, passed 12-15-2014; Ord.
1497, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 1502, passed 12-16-2024, § 1)
§ 51.29 RESIDENTIAL ELECTRIC HEATING.
   (A)   Availability. Available to single-family residential dwelling units
having electric heat as its exclusive source of heat. This rate is not
available to commercial institutional or industrial customers.
   (B)   Rate.
      (1)   The net monthly charge per customer for the May billing cycle
through and including the September billing cycle shall be:
         (a)   Customer charge: $10.00 ; and
         (b)   Energy charge:
            1.   First 150 KWH: 16.22 cents per KWH; and
            2.   Over 150 KWH: 15.46 cents per KWH.
      (2)   The net monthly charge per customer for the October billing cycle
through and including the April billing cycle shall be:
         (a)   Customer charge: $10.00; and
         (b)   Energy charge:
            1.   First 150 KWH: 16.22 cents per KWH;
            2.   Over 150 KWH: 15.46 cents per KWH; and
            3.   Over 900 KWH: 10.50 cents per KWH.
   (C)   Minimum monthly charge. The minimum monthly charge shall be the
customer charge.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 68A) (Ord 1008, passed 5-20-1974; Ord. 1267,
passed 9-16-1996, § 1; Ord. 1280, passed 1-19-1998, § 1; Ord. 1282, passed 4-
20-1998, § 1; Ord. 1349, passed 12-18-2006, § 5; Ord. 1363, passed 1-7-2008, §
2; Ord. 1407, passed 12-19-2011, § 2; Ord. 1426, passed 5-19-2014; Ord. 1430,
passed 12-15-2014; Ord. 1497, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 1502, passed 12-16-2024,
§ 1)
§ 51.30 COMMERCIAL SERVICE; RATE NO. 2.
   (A)   Availability. Available to nonresidential customers for general
lighting and/or power service outside the scope of the residential service
rate. Requirements for service under this rate shall be that monthly demand
shall not be in excess of three KW and that the monthly average use shall not
be in excess of 10,000 KWH. The average monthly use shall be measured over the
most recent 12-month period, or for customers with less than 12 months of
service the average of the months of service.
   (B)   Nature of service.
      (1)   Lighting and/or cooking;
      (2)   Standard single phase secondary service; and
      (3)   Power or lighting and power combined: standard single-phase
secondary service, or where available standard three-phase, three-wire or four-
wire secondary service. Where three-phase service is furnished, the customer
shall provide and maintain all equipment required for lighting service.
   (C)   Rate. The net monthly charge per customer shall be:
      (1)   Customer charge: $15.00; and
      (2)   Energy charge:
         (a)   First 350 KWH: 15.18 cents per KWH; and
         (b)   Over 350 KWH: 14.83 cents per KWH.
   (D)   Minimum monthly charge. The minimum monthly charge shall be the
customer charge.
   (E)   Fuel adjustment clause. The charges set forth above shall be adjusted
for the current month by an amount equal to the fuel adjustment in the
preceding month’s wholesale supplier’s power bill to the borough plus an
allowance for distribution system losses.
   (F)   Terms of payment. The above rates are net and are due and payable on
or before the fifteenth day following the mailing date of the bill. If not so
paid, the gross amount becomes due which is 5% above the net
rates as stated.
   (G)   Terms and form of contract. Written application on the borough’s
standard application form.
   (H)   Rules and regulations. Service governed by the borough’s standard
rules and regulations.
   (I)   State tax adjustment surcharge. The charges set forth shall be
increased by 2.5%, reflecting a state tax adjustment surcharge.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 69) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 29; Ord. 1058,
passed 9-7-1977, § 2; Ord. 1117, passed 1-2-1981, § 29; Ord. 1140, passed 8-2-
1982, § 2; Ord. 1154, passed 1-3-1984; Ord. 1195, passed 10-19-1987; Ord. 1222,
passed 12-17-1990, § 1; Ord. 1230, passed 10-21-1991, § 1; Ord. 1234, passed 7-
13-1992, § 1; Ord. 1247, passed 11-15-1993; Ord. 1254, passed 12-19-1994, § 1;
Ord. 1280, passed 1-19-1998, § 1; Ord. 1282, passed 4-20-1998, § 1; Ord. 1349,
passed 12-18-2006, § 6; Ord. 1363, passed 1-7-2008, § 3; Ord. 1407, passed 12-
19-2011, § 3; Ord. 1426, passed 5-19-2014; Ord. 1430, passed 12-15-2014; Ord.
1497, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 1502, passed 12-16-2024, § 1)
§ 51.31 GENERAL SERVICE; RATE NO. 3.
   (A)   Availability. Available for loads greater than three kilowatts (KW) or
having an average monthly use greater than 10,000 kilowatt hours (10,000 KWH).
The average monthly use shall be measured over the most recent 12-month period.
   (B)   Nature of service.
      (1)   Standard single-phase or three-phase three-wire or four-wire
secondary service, as available.
      (2)   Where service is furnished at three-phase, the customer shall
provide and maintain all equipment required for lighting service.
   (C)   Rate. The net monthly charge per customer shall be:
      (1)   Demand charge; all KVA: $12.17 per KW; and
      (2)   Energy charge; all KWH: 11.25 cents per KWH.
   (D)   Minimum monthly charge. The minimum monthly charge shall be the demand
charge.
   (E)   Fuel adjustment clause. The charges set forth above shall be adjusted
for the current month by an amount equal to the fuel adjustment in the
preceding month’s wholesale supplier’s power bill to the borough plus an
allowance for distribution system losses.
   (F)   Terms of payment. The above rates are net and are due and payable on
or before the fifteenth day following the mailing date of the bill. If not so
paid, the gross amount becomes due, which is 5% above the net rates as stated.
   (G)   Determination of billing demand. The term DEMAND is defined as the
rate of use of electric energy measured in kilowatts (KW) during any 15-minute
period. The billing demand shall be the highest maximum demand during each
month, but not less than five kilowatts (KW).
   (H)   Terms and forms of contract. Written application on borough’s standard
application form or borough’s standard contract form.
   (I)   Rules and regulations. Service governed by borough’s standard rules
and regulations.
   (J)   State tax adjustment surcharge. The charges set forth shall be
increased by 2.5%, reflecting a state tax adjustment surcharge.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 70) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 30; Ord. 1058,
passed 9-7-1977, § 3; Ord. 1079, passed 1-8-1979, § 1; Ord. 1117, passed 1-2-
1981, § 30; Ord. 1140, passed 8-2-1982, § 3; Ord. 1154, passed 1-3-1984; Ord.
1195, passed 10-19-1987; Ord. 1222, passed 12-17-1990, § 1; Ord. 1230, passed
10-21-1991, § 1; Ord. 1234, passed 7-13-1992, § 1; Ord. 1247, passed 11-15-
1993; Ord. 1254, passed 12-19-1994, § 1; Ord. 1280, passed 1-19-1998, § 1; Ord.
1282, passed 4-20-1998, § 1; Ord. 1349, passed 12-18-2006, § 7; Ord. 1363,
passed 1-7-2008, § 4; Ord. 1407, passed 12-19-2011, § 4; Ord. 1426, passed 5-
19-2014; Ord. 1430, passed 12-15-2014; Ord. 1497, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 1502,
passed 12-16-2024, § 1)
§ 51.32 PRIMARY POWER SERVICE; RATE NO. 4.
   (A)   Availability. Available to customers taking primary, 4,160 volt, and
higher service.
   (B)   Nature of service.
      (1)   Alternating current, 60 cycles, three-phase, 2400 volts or more as
available and determined by the borough based on the load to be served.
      (2)   All transformers, controlling, regulating and service equipment
shall be owned, operated and maintained by the customer.
      (3)   The borough reserves the right to install metering equipment on
either the primary or secondary side of the customer’s transformers, and when
installed on the secondary side, 3% shall be added to the demand and energy
quantities thus metered to correct for transformer losses.
   (C)   Rate. The monthly charge per customer shall be:
      (1)   Demand charge; all KVA: $11.12 per KW; and
      (2)   Energy charge:
         (a)   First 175,000 KWH: 11.20 cents per KWH; and
         (b)   Over 175,000 KWH: 9.81 cents per KWH.
   (D)   Determination of billing demand. The term DEMAND is defined as the
rate of use of electric energy measured in kilowatts (KW) during any 15-minute
period. The billing demand shall be the highest maximum demand during each
month, but not less than 75% of the highest billing demand for any of the
preceding 11 months and in no event shall the billing demand be less than 50
kilowatts (KW).
   (E)   Minimum monthly charge. The minimum monthly charge shall be the demand
charge.
   (F)   Fuel adjustment clause. The charges set forth above shall be adjusted
for the current month by an amount equal to the fuel adjustment in the
preceding month’s wholesale supplier’s power bill to the borough plus an
allowance for distribution system losses.
   (G)   Terms of payment. The above rates are net and are due and payable on
or before the fifteenth day following the mailing date of the bill. If not so
paid, the gross amount becomes due, which is 5% above the net rates as stated.
   (H)   Term and form of contract. At least one year, on the borough’s
standard contract form.
   (I)   Rules and regulations. Service governed by borough’s standard rules
and regulations.
   (J)   State tax adjustment surcharge. The charges set forth shall be
increased by 2.5%, reflecting a state tax adjustment surcharge.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 71) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 31; Ord. 1058,
passed 9-7-1977, § 4; Ord. 1079, passed 1-8-1979, § 2; Ord. 1084, passed 8-20-
1979, § 1; Ord. 1117, passed 1-2-1981, § 31; Ord. 1140, passed 8-2-1982, § 4;
Ord. 1154, passed 1-3-1984; Ord. 1195, passed 10-19-1987; Ord. 1222, passed 12-
17-1990, § 1; Ord. 1230, passed 10-12-1991, § 1; Ord. 1234, passed 7-13-1992, §
1; Ord. 1254, passed 12-19-1994, § 1; Ord. 1280, passed 1-19-1998, § 1; Ord.
1282, passed 4-20-1998, § 1; Ord. 1349, passed 12-18-2006, § 8; Ord. 1407,
passed 12-19-2011, § 5; Ord. 1426, passed 5-19-2014; Ord. 1430, passed 12-15-
2014; Ord. 1497, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 1502, passed 12-16-2024, § 1)
§ 51.33 SERVICE ENTRANCE CAPACITY.
   (A)   No electrical service entrance having a rating of less than 100
amperes shall be installed in any new residential structure within the service
area of the Grove City Municipal Electric Department.
   (B)   Failure of any major component of an existing service entrance due to
overloading will require replacement of the complete service entrance in an
entrance having a rated capacity of not less than 100 amperes.
   (C)   When changing an existing two-wire or three-wire service to
accommodate additional loading, a minimum rating of 100 amperes will be
requested.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 72) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 32)
§ 51.34 PRIMARY POWER SERVICE; RATE NO. 5.
   (A)   Availability. Available to customers taking primary, 69,000-volt, and
higher service.
   (B)   Nature of service.
      (1)   Alternating current, 60 cycles, three-phase, 2,400 volts or more as
available and determined by the borough based on the load to be served.
      (2)   All transformers, controlling, regulating and service equipment
shall be owned, operated and maintained by the customer, except as determined
by and provided for under separate contract by the borough.
      (3)   The borough reserves the right to install metering equipment on
either the primary or secondary side of the customer’s transformers, and when
installed on the secondary side, 3% shall be added to the demand and energy
quantities thus metered to correct for transformer losses.
   (C)   Rate. The monthly charge per customer shall be:
      (1)   Demand charge; all KVA: $9.95 per KW; and
      (2)   Energy charge:
         (a)   First 175,000 KWH: 11.20 cents per KWH; and
         (b)   Over 175,000 KWH: 9.81 cents per KWH.
   (D)   Minimum monthly charge. The minimum monthly charge shall be the demand
charge.
   (E)   Fuel adjustment clause. The charges set forth above shall be adjusted
for the current month by an amount equal to the fuel adjustment in the
preceding month’s wholesale supplier’s power bill to the borough plus an
allowance for distribution system losses.
   (F)   Terms of payment. The above rates are net and are due and payable on
or before the fifteenth day following the mailing date of the bill. If not so
paid, the gross amount becomes due, which is 5% above the net rates as stated.
   (G)   Determination of billing demand. The term DEMAND is defined as the
rate of use of electric energy measured in kilowatts (KW) during any 15-minute
period. The billing demand shall be the highest maximum demand during each
month, but not less than 50 KW.
   (H)   Term and form of contract. Special contract provisions apply.
   (I)   Rules and regulations. Service governed by special contract
provisions.
   (J)   State tax adjustment surcharge. The charges set forth shall be
increased by 2.5%, reflecting a state tax adjustment surcharge.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 73) (Ord. 1140, passed 8-2-1982, § 6; Ord. 1144,
passed 11-15-1982; Ord. 1154, passed 1-3-1984; Ord. 1222, passed 12-17-1990, §
1; Ord. 1230, passed 10-21-1991, § 1; Ord. 1234, passed 7-13-1992, § 1; Ord.
1254, passed 12-19-1994, § 1; Ord. 1280, passed 1-19-1998, § 1; Ord. 1282,
passed 4-20-1998, § 1; Ord. 1349, passed 12-18-2006, § 9; Ord. 1363, passed 1-
7-2008, § 6; Ord. 1407, passed 12-19-2011, § 6; Ord. 1426, passed 5-19-2014;
Ord. 1430, passed 12-15-2014; Ord. 1497, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 1502, passed
12-16-2024, § 1)
§ 51.35 TERMINATION OF SERVICE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The borough shall be responsible for sending each utility consumer a
monthly billing statement for all utility services utilized by the said
consumer.
   (B)   The said monthly utility bill shall list a due date by which the
utility bill must be paid, said due date being not less than 15 days after the
date of mailing of said bill to the consumer.
   (C)   If the consumer does not pay the utility bill by the due date listed
on said billing, the utility bill shall automatically be increased by 5% of the
total amount of said monthly billing and the utility bill shall be considered
delinquent.
   (D)   As to any utility bill considered delinquent herein, the borough shall
notify said consumer that if said bill and penalty are not paid within ten days
of the date of the mailing of notice of delinquency, the consumer’s utilities
shall be subject to termination by the borough.
   (E)   If the consumer does not pay the said bill and penalty within the ten-
day period provided above, a representative of the borough shall attempt to
make personal contact with the consumer at the consumer’s residence and inform
the consumer that the utilities will be terminated five days thereafter unless
said bill and penalty are paid within the time-frame or unless the consumer,
within the said five-day time-frame, contacts the Borough Manager and requests
a hearing with the Utilities Committee of the Borough Council.
   (F)   If the consumer is not present at the time the representative of the
borough attempts to personally contact the said individual, the said
representative shall leave a notice on the door of the said consumer as to the
pending actions of the borough and the rights of the consumer as set forth in
this chapter.
   (G)   If the consumer does not pay his or her bill and penalty within the
aforesaid five-day time-frame nor contacts the Borough Manager to request a
hearing with the Utilities Committee, the borough shall have the right to
terminate the consumer’s utility service.
   (H)   If a consumer requests a hearing with the Utilities Committee of the
Borough Council, it shall be conducted as follows.
      (1)   Within five days of a representative of the borough personally
contacting or posting notice of the pending termination of utilities, the
consumer must, in writing, request a hearing of the Utilities Committee of the
Borough Council through the office of the Borough Manager.
 
      (2)   A hearing date before the Utilities Committee of the borough shall
be promptly held; and the consumer shall be informed of the hearing date
personally or by certified mail at least three days prior thereto.
      (3)   The consumer may challenge said utility bill upon any of the
following grounds:
         (a)   The utility bill has been paid by the consumer;
         (b)   The utility bill in inaccurate;
         (c)   The termination of utility service is especially dangerous to
the health of the consumer or a member of his or her immediate family residing
therein and that the consumer is financially unable to pay for such service in
accord with the requirements of the utilities billing or that he or she is able
to pay for such service but only in installments;
         (d)   As to any claim to a particular illness or disease by a
consumer, a certified statement of the consumer’s physician must be presented
specifying the diagnosis and prognosis of the illness or disease and how the
termination of utility service would affect the same; and
      (e)   The borough does not have good cause to terminate utility services.
   (4)   The Utilities Committee of the borough shall have the final decision
as to the termination of service and/or the method of payment by the consumer
for the same.
   (I)   If the borough attempts to terminate the utility services of any
individual known to the borough to be beyond the age of 65 years or physically
or mentally handicapped, in addition to attempting to make personal contact
with said individual and/or leaving notice of termination proceedings at his or
her place of residence, the borough shall also contact in writing the County
Area Agency on Aging and inform the said agency of the contemplated termination
proceedings as well as all rights of the consumer as set forth in this chapter.
   (J)   If any portion or provision of this chapter is held to be
unconstitutional or illegal, the remaining provisions and conditions of this
chapter shall remain in effect and only that portion of the chapter ruled
unconstitutional or illegal shall be affected thereby.
   (K)   If any federal or state law mandates further procedures to be complied
with prior to termination of utility service, the borough shall comply with
those requirements.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 74) (Ord. 1162, passed 6-18-1984)
§ 51.36 SEVERABILITY.
   If any part of this chapter is declared invalid, illegal or
unconstitutional, the remaining provisions shall be given full force and
effect.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 75) (Ord. 1008, passed 5-20-1974, § 33; Ord. 1140,
passed 8-2-1982, § 5)
§ 51.37 CUSTOMER OWNED ELECTRIC SERVICE GENERATION.
   (A)   Customer generation may be installed to offset the customer energy
consumption up to the annual consumption of the customer subject to the
capacity limits established by resolution of the borough. Customer generation
shall be subject to the requirements of the borough. The permanent installation
shall comply with all applicable land use, zoning, planning, borough
ordinances, rules, regulations and the applicable electric classification and
rates. Customer generation shall be owned and operated by the customer.
   (B)   If the customer generates more energy than consumed during a monthly
billing cycle, the customer shall receive an energy credit in kilowatt hours
for the next billing month. Monthly credit shall be applicable to energy only.
Excess energy credits at the end of a 12-month period established by
resolution, shall be credited in dollars at 50% of the average 12-month
wholesale rate charged to the borough from the borough’s power suppliers. This
average wholesale rate shall be based the previous 12-month power supply cost
to the borough. The customer shall be required to pay all applicable charges
including customer, capacity, tax and the purchased power adjustment.
   (C)   The customer-generator operating an electric generating facility shall
maintain homeowners, commercial or other insurance providing coverage in an
amount set by resolution of the borough. The borough shall be named an
additional insured. The customer must submit evidence of such insurance to the
borough before interconnection with the borough system. The borough’s receipt
of evidence of liability insurance shall not imply an endorsement of the terms
and conditions of the coverage.
   (D)   Applicable fees shall be set by resolution of the borough. Customer
shall be responsible for insurance with requirements set by resolution of the
borough. Customer shall be responsible for costs of all system studies and
upgrades, required to accommodate generation.
   (E)   All customer owned generation shall be subject to the borough
technical requirements for customer owned generation, as amended by resolution
of the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 76) (Ord. 1416, passed 6-17-2013, § 76)
§ 51.38 CUSTOMER OWNED STANDBY AND PORTABLE GENERATION.
   (A)   Standby generation shall be allowed with the express written
authorization and approval of customer equipment by the borough. Standby
generation shall include open or closed transition automatic switching subject
to approval by the borough.
   (B)   Portable customer owned generation shall be allowed only without
electrical connection between the borough service, building electrical service
and the portable generation. Open transition switching shall be allowed. Closed
transition switching is prohibited. Generator connection to building wiring,
including outlet connections, shall not be allowed.
   (C)   All customer-owned standby generation shall be subject to the borough
technical requirements for customer- owned generation, as amended by resolution
of the borough.
   (D)   In no case shall customer owned standby generation be allowed in any
building or garage.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 77) (Ord. 1416, passed 6-17-2013, § 8-28)
§ 51.39 TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CUSTOMER OWNED GENERATION.
   (A)   General. The installation shall comply with all applicable land use,
zoning, planning, borough ordinances, rules, regulations and the applicable
electric classification and rates. The terms and conditions contained herein
are in addition to, but do not modify nor negate the terms of the borough
ordinances.
   (B)   Fees. For all customer owned generation, the following fees shall
apply:
      (1)   Application fee: $200;
      (2)   Interconnection study fee: at cost;
      (3)   Initial inspection fee: $600;
      (4)   Customer shall be responsible for costs of all system studies and
upgrades, required to accommodate generation. Customer shall be responsible for
annual system testing, witnessed by representatives of the borough;
      (5)   The fixed annual reconciliation period shall be set as June through
May; and
      (6)   The customer-generator operating an electric generating facility
shall maintain homeowners, commercial or other insurance providing coverage in
the amount of at least $1,000,000 for the liability of the insured against
losses or damages arising from the use of the customer’s electric generating
facility. The borough shall be named an additional insured. The customer must
submit evidence of such insurance to the borough before interconnection with
the borough system. The borough’s receipt of evidence of liability insurance
shall not imply an endorsement of the terms and conditions of the coverage.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of this document is to state the terms and
conditions that govern the interconnection and operation of on-site distributed
generation, in order to:
      (1)   Establish technical requirements which will promote the safe and
reliable parallel operation of distributed generation resources;
      (2)   Enhance the reliability of electric service;
      (3)   Facilitate the implementation and use of distributed resources
technologies;
      (4)   Enhance economic efficiency in the production and consumption of
electricity and other energy; and
      (5)   Promote the use of distributed resources in order to provide
electric system benefits during periods of capacity constraint.
   (D)   Applicability. Unless otherwise provided, these guidelines apply to
all customer generation interconnected and operated in the borough power
delivery system.
   (E)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCOUNT. One metered or un-metered rate or service classification which
normally has one electric delivery point of service. Each ACCOUNT shall have
only one electric service supplier which shall be the Borough of Grove City,
providing full electric supply requirements for that account.
      COMPANY. Borough of Grove City (hereinafter called borough).
      CUSTOMER.
         (a)   Any adult person, partnership, association, corporation or other
entity:
            1.   In whose name a service account is listed;
            2.   Who occupies or is the ratepayer for a premises, building,
structure and the like; and
            3.   Who is primarily responsible for payment of bills.
         (b)   A CUSTOMER includes anyone taking electrical service from the
borough under one service classification for one account, premises or site.
Multiple premises or sites under the same name are considered multiple
CUSTOMERS.
      GENERATOR OWNER. The owner of the generating system that is
interconnected to the borough electric system. Owner shall be a customer.
      GRID. The interconnected arrangement of lines and transformers that make
up the borough electric power system.
      IEEE STANDARD 929-IEEE. Standard entitled Recommended Practice for
Utility Interface of Photovoltaic (PV) Systems, latest approved revision
thereof.
      IEEE STANDARD 1547-IEEE. Standard entitled IEEE Standard for
Interconnecting Distributed Resources with Electric Power Systems.
      INTERCONNECTION. The physical connection of distributed generation to the
borough system in accordance with these guidelines so that parallel operation
can occur.
      INTERCONNECTION APPLICATION. The letter application which must be
submitted by the generation owner to the borough for permission to interconnect
with the borough system.
      INVERTER. A static power converter with control, protection and filtering
functions that converts direct current input to alternating current output.
INVERTERS must be of the non-islanding type.
      ISLAND. A portion of the utility system which contains both load and
distributed generation and is isolated from the remainder of the utility
system.
      ON-SITE DISTRIBUTED GENERATION. An electrical generating unit which may
be connected to the borough electric system. The maximum size allowed for any
customer generator system shall not be in excess of 100 kilowatts.
      PARALLEL OPERATION. Any electrical connection between the borough system
and the generator owner’s generating source.
      POINT OF COMMON COUPLING. The point where the electrical conductors of
the borough system are connected to the customer’s conductors and where any
transfer of electric power between the generator owner and the borough electric
system takes place.
      PRE-INTERCONNECTION STUDY. A study or studies which may be undertaken by
the borough in response to its receipt of a completed application for parallel
operation with the borough’s system. PRE-INTERCONNECTION STUDIES may include,
but are not limited to, service studies, coordination studies and facilities
impact studies. Applicant shall be responsible for all study costs.
      STABILIZED. The borough’s system following a disturbance which returns to
the normal range of voltage and frequency for at least five minutes or longer
as coordinated with the borough. The borough may require a longer period upon a
reasonable showing that the reconnection after five minutes will adversely
affect the safety and reliability of the electric system.
      UL 1741. Underwriters Laboratories Inc., document entitled Inverters,
Converters, Controllers and Interconnection System Equipment for Use with
Distributed Energy Resources.
      UNIT. A distributed generation facility.
      UTILITY SYSTEM OR ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION FACILITY. Borough’s distribution
system operating to which the generation equipment is interconnected.
   (F)   Interconnection application. A proposed generator owner shall make a
written letter application to the borough for the interconnection of a
generator to the borough system. The customer shall submit a letter to the
borough stating the technical aspects of the installation, two clean copies of
equipment catalog cuts and two copies of a one line or riser diagram of the
proposed installation and interconnection to the borough system. Additionally,
a statement by the customer that the installation will be constructed and
operated in full compliance with the borough requirements shall be included.
For inverter installations, a statement that the inverter for the project is of
the non-islanding type to prevent back feeds shall also be included.
   (G)   Designation of borough contact persons for matters relating to
distributed generation interconnection. The Borough Office will be the
designated point of contact for all matters related to interconnected
generation. The borough office will maintain records concerning applications
received for interconnection and parallel operation of distributed generation.
Such records will include the date of receipt of each such application,
documents generated in the course of processing such applications,
correspondence regarding such applications and the final disposition of such
application.
   (H)   Pre-interconnection studies.
      (1)   Generally. The borough reserves the right to conduct a service
study, coordination study or facilities impact study prior to approval of a
distributed generation unit. In instances where such studies are deemed
necessary, the scope of such studies shall be based on the characteristics of
the particular distributed generation unit to be interconnected and the
proposed point of interconnection.
      (2)   Completion of pre-interconnection study. Upon completion of the
interconnection study, the borough will notify the generator owner that the
application has been approved or indicate why the application cannot be
approved.
   (I)   Interconnection of distributed generation. Where generation is capable
of exporting power to borough system, the interconnection study may result in
more stringent interconnection requirements.
   (J)   Pre-approval of generation units, devices and systems. Upon approval
by the borough that certain generating unit’s protective devices and/or system
(s) meet the standards set out in these guidelines, such approval shall be made
available to the appropriate manufacturer upon written request.
   (K)   Connection approval. The generator owner can connect his or her
generation to the borough system only after the interconnection application has
been approved, the installation has been inspected by the borough, the system
has been tested and the tests witnessed by the borough, and the generation
owner has received approval notification.
   (L)   Interconnected generation site warning label. The generator owner will
install a warning label in a conspicuous place on his or her electric meter or
meter box to notify the borough personnel that there is a generator source
installed on the load side of the meter. The warning label shall not be placed
in a location that would interfere with the ability of borough personnel to
read the electric meter. The warning label must be placed before the generation
can be interconnected.
   (M)   Disconnection and reconnection. The borough may disconnect a
distributed generation unit under the following conditions:
      (1)   Application termination. Upon termination of the approved
interconnection application;
      (2)   Noncompliance. For noncompliance with the technical guidelines
specified in this document or other requirement contained in the borough
ordinance, provided that the borough has given notice to the generator owner
and provided the generator owner reasonable time (consistent with the
condition) to correct such noncompliance. The borough will reconnect the unit
only upon receipt of certification from the generator owner and verification by
the borough that the unit is in compliance. The borough will provide
verification within a reasonable time period;
      (3)   In case of a system emergency outage of the borough electrical
system. The generator owner’s generation equipment must be installed and
configured so that parallel operation must automatically cease immediately and
automatically during outages or loss of the borough electric source in
accordance with these guidelines. The generation owner must also cease parallel
operation upon notification by the borough of a system emergency, abnormal
condition or in cases where such operation is determined to be unsafe,
interferes with the supply of service to other customers or interferes with the
borough’s system maintenance or operation. In addition, the borough may
disconnect the generator from the system for system emergencies without notice;
and
      (4)   For routine maintenance and repairs. The borough may disconnect a
customer/generation owner for routine maintenance and repairs on the borough
system.
   (N)   Termination. The generation owner may terminate the approved
interconnection application upon 30 days’ written notice to the borough. The
generator owner must give the borough notice that it intends to permanently
shut down his or her generation.
   (O)   Privileged communications concerning proposed distributed generation
projects. In the course of processing applications for parallel operation and
in the conduct of pre-interconnection studies, the generation owner shall
provide the borough with detailed information concerning the proposed
distributed generation project and note as privileged, on each applicable sheet
and information considered privileged. If any submitted information is
requested by a third party, notice shall be given by the borough to the
generator owner. It shall be the responsibility of the generation owner to
legally challenge the release of this information.
   (P)   Technical guidelines for parallel operation of on-site distributed
generation units.
      (1)   This division (P) describes minimum requirements and procedures for
safe and effective connection and operation of distributed generation. A
generator owner may operate 60 Hertz, three phase or single phase generating
equipment, in parallel with the borough’s system pursuant to an approved
interconnection application provided that the equipment and generator owner
meet or exceed the requirements of these guidelines and that the borough has
approved the generator owner’s application to interconnect. This division (P)
describes typical interconnection requirements. Certain specific
interconnection locations and conditions may require the installations of
additional protective settings or hardware, especially when exporting power to
the system. If the borough, in the borough’s sole opinion, concludes that an
application for parallel operation requires additional protective settings or
hardware, the borough shall make those requirements known after all pertinent
studies are completed.
      (2)   Approval to connect to the borough system indicates only that the
minimum borough electrical requirements for a safe proper interconnection have
been satisfied. Such approval does not imply that the generator owner’s
facility meets land use, zoning, planning or federal, state and other borough
standards or regulations.
         (a)   General interconnection and protection requirements.
            1.   The generator owner’s generation and interconnection
installation must meet all borough land use, zoning, planning and applicable
national, state and local construction and safety codes.
            2.   The generator owner’s generator shall be equipped with
protective hardware and software designed to prevent the generator from
energizing the borough’s de-energized circuits. The generator must
automatically disconnect from the borough’s system if the grid source is lost,
irrespectively of connected loads or other generators.
            3.   The generator shall be equipped with the necessary protective
hardware and software designed to prevent sustained parallel operation of the
generating equipment with the borough system unless the system service voltage
and frequency are within acceptable magnitudes.
            4.   The generator owner will be responsible for protecting its own
generating and interconnection equipment in such a manner so that borough
system outages, short circuits, single phasing conditions or other disturbances
including zero sequence currents and ferroresonant over-voltages do not damage
the generator owner’s generating equipment. The protective equipment shall also
prevent excessive or unnecessary tripping that would adversely affect the
borough’s service reliability to other generator owners and customers.
            5.   The generator and interface protection schemes shall be
continuously monitored and functioning and the generator shall immediately
disconnect from the borough’s system for any condition that would make the
protection scheme inoperable.
            6.   The operating power required for the protection and control
schemes for the generator and the control power used to disconnect the
generator from the borough must not be dependent on local borough power.
            7.   Where multiple generators are connected to the system through
a single point of common coupling, the sum of the ratings of the generators
will be used to determine the applicability of these guidelines. Protection
scheme performance with one or more units off line will be considered.
            8.   Applicable circuit breakers or other interrupting devices at
the generator owner’s facility must be capable of interrupting the maximum
available fault current at the site, including any contribution from the
owner’s generator(s).
            9.   The generator owner will furnish and install a manual
disconnect switch which, when opened, will have the effect of isolating the
generator from the borough’s system. The disconnect device shall have a visual
break appropriate to the voltage level, and shall be mounted on the exterior of
the building adjacent to the borough revenue meter accessible to the borough’s
personnel at all times, and shall be capable of being locked in the open
position via a borough padlock. The borough shall use reasonable efforts to
utilize padlocks of a size consistent with typical manufacture’s
specifications. The generator owner shall follow the borough’s switching,
clearance and tagging procedures.
            10.   The design, procurement, installation and maintenance of the
equipment at the generator owner’s site shall be the responsibility of the
generator owner at the generator owner’s expense.
            11.   Any necessary enhancements or improvements needed, in the
opinion of the borough, within the borough’s system and/or at the customer
sites to accommodate the parallel interconnection of the generator owner’s
generation will be at the generator owner’s expense.
            12.   The generator owner has full responsibility and liability for
the safe and proper operation of their equipment and the power originating from
their generator. The generator owner is also responsible for synchronizing
their generator(s) with the borough’s system and maintaining a synchronous
operation.
            13.   The generator owner must immediately cease parallel operation
upon notification by the borough if such operation is determined to be unsafe,
interferes with the supply of service to other customers, or interferes with
the borough’s system maintenance or operation.
            14.   The borough reserves the right to specify the type of
transformer connection that will be employed for all multiphase interface
transformers consistent, where reasonable, with the generator owner’s power
system.
         (b)   Prevention of generator owner generation interference with the
borough system. To eliminate undesirable interference caused by operation of
the generator owner’s generating equipment, the generator owner’s generator
shall meet the following criteria.
            1.   Voltage. The generating equipment will be operated in such a
manner that the voltage levels on the borough’s system are in the same range as
if the generating equipment were not connected to the borough’s system. The
generator owner shall provide an automatic method of initiating a disconnect
sequence of his or her generating equipment from the borough system with set
points noted in the table below.
Generating Systems with Generating Systems with      Non-Inverter or Rotating
Inverters up to 30 KW   Inverters Greater than 30 KW Machine Generating Systems
Generating Systems with   Generating Systems with    Non-Inverter or Rotating
Inverters up to 30 KW     Inverters Greater than 30  Machine Generating Systems
                          KW
Trip in 0.16 Second for V Trip in 0.16 Second for V  Trip in 0.16 Second for V
< 50%                     < 50%                      < 50%
Trip in 2 Seconds for 50% Trip within 0.1 to 30      Trip in 2.0 Seconds for
V < 88%                   Seconds (Default 2.0       50% V < 88%
                          Seconds) for 50% < V 88%
                          Trip within 0.1 to 30
Trip in 1 Seconds for     Seconds (Default 1.0       Trip in 1.0 Second for
110% < V < 120%           Second) for 110% < V <     110% < V < 120%
                          120%
Trip in 0.16 Second for   Trip in 0.16 Second for    Trip in 0.16 Second for
120% V                    120% V                     120% V
                          (Specific voltage and time (Specific voltage and time
                          delay set points will be   delay set points may vary
IEEE 1547-2003            determined for each        for each installation.
                          installation. Otherwise    Otherwise, the above set
                          inverter default setting   points will remain.)
                          will remain.)
UL 1741-2005              IEEE 1547-2003             IEEE 1547-2003
                          UL1741-2005
Note: Trip time refers to the time between when the abnormal voltage condition
occurs and the generator being disconnected from the borough system.
 
               a.   On three phase generator installations, full three phase
voltage sensing shall be employed. Voltages must be sensed on the high side of
any interface transformer if the transformer high voltage winding is
ungrounded.
               b.   The generator owner may reconnect to the grid when the
system voltage returns to normal range and is stabilized as defined in the
definitions.
            2.   Flicker. The generator equipment or operation of equipment
shall not cause voltage flicker on the borough’s system or to any other borough
customer. This flicker shall not exceed the borderline of irritation curve, as
defined in IEEE Standard 519-1992, Recommended Practices and Requirements for
Harmonic Control in Electric Power Systems. Lower levels of flicker may be
required in areas where equipment such as computers and instrumentation are
impacted.
            3.   Frequency.
               a.   The operating frequency of the generating equipment shall
not deviate more than the values noted in the table below.
Generating Systems with Generating Systems with      Non-Inverter or Rotating
Inverters up to 30 KW   Inverters Greater than 30 KW Machine Generating Systems
Generating
Systems
with       Generating Systems with Inverters Greater than 30 KW                           Non-Inverter or Rotating Machine Generating Systems
Inverters
up to 30
KW
Trip in
0.16
Second for Trip in 0.16 Second for F < 57.0 Hz.                                           Trip in 0.16 Second for F < 57.0 Hz.
F < 59.3
Hz.
Trip in
0.16
Second for Trip in 0.16-300 Seconds for 57.0 F < 59.8 Hz.                                 Trip in 0.16-300 Seconds for 57.0 F < 59.8 Hz.
F > 60.5
Hz.
IEEE 1547- Trip in 0.16 Second for F > 60.5 Hz.                                           Trip in 0.16 Second for F > 60.5 Hz.
2003
UL 1741-   Frequency and time delay set points for 57.0—59.8 Hz. will be determined for Frequency and time delay set points for 57.0—59.8 Hz. will be determined for
2005       each specific installation.                                                    each specific installation.
           IEEE 1547-2003                                                                 IEEE 1547-2003
           UL 1741-2005
Note: Trip time refers to the time between when the abnormal frequency condition occurs and the generator being disconnected from borough.
 
               b.   The generator owner may reconnect when the system frequency
returns to normal range and is stabilized.
            4.   Harmonics.
               a.   Non-linear circuit elements such as inverter can produce
harmonics. Per IEEE Standard 519, Recommended Practices and Requirements for
Harmonic Control in Electric Power Systems, the total harmonic distortion (THD)
voltage shall not exceed 5% of the fundamental 60 Hz frequency nor 3% of the
fundamental for any individual harmonic as measured at the location where the
customer interfaces with the borough’s system (point of common coupling). In
addition, the level of harmonic current that the customer is allowed to inject
into the borough’s system shall not exceed that specified in IEEE Std 519.
Furthermore, any communication notch shall be limited as defined by IEEE Std
519. The preceding requirements apply to all types of generation systems.
               b.   The generator owner is responsible for the installation of
any necessary controls or hardware to limit the voltage and current harmonics
generated by his or her equipment to defined levels.
            5.   Power factor.
               a.   The generator must not adversely impact the power factor of
the generator owner site. Inverters shall be designed to operate close to unity
power factor. The operating power factor of the generator shall be contained
within the limits defined in the table below.
 
Generating Systems with   Generating Systems with    Non-Inverter or Rotating
Inverters up to 25 KW     Inverters Greater than 25  Machine Generating Systems
                          KW
0.85 lagging or leading   0.85 lagging or leading
when output exceeds 10%   when output exceeds 10% of 0.85 lagging or leading
of inverter rating. (From inverter rating
IEEE 929-2000)
 
               b.   However, to the extent that a generator owner’s power
factor at the point of common coupling falls below 0.985 lagging, the generator
owner must obtain, install and maintain, at his or her expense, corrective
apparatus that compensates for the drop in power factor caused by the
installation of the generator.
            6.   Current.
               a.   In some cases, directional over-current protection may be
required to limit fault current flowing onto the grid in the event of a line
fault. DC inverters that are incapable of producing fault current do not
require directional over-current protection.
               b.   Inverter systems shall not inject DC current greater than
0.5% of rated inverter output in the AC interface point under either normal or
abnormal conditions.
            7.   Fault and line clearing. The generator owner shall
automatically disconnect from the borough’s system during electrical faults on
the borough’s electrical system and upon loss of the borough’s electric source.
The generator owner may reconnect when the system voltage and frequency return
to normal range and is stabilized. Detection of the loss of the borough’s
primary electric system, where the generator owner is operating in an island
with other customer load, becomes increasingly difficult as the level of
dispersed generation on a feeder approaches the connected load. The over/under
voltage and over/under frequency settings described previously along with the
anti-islanding provisions of IEEE 929/UL 1746 inverters, shall be sufficient to
satisfy this provision.
            8.   Automatic reclosing. The generator owner is responsible for
protecting his or her equipment from the effects of switching or automatic
reclosing of the borough’s feeder circuits.
      (3)   Control, protection and safety equipment requirements specific to
generators of 25 KW or less. All generators 10 KW or less can be single phase.
The following table describes necessary control, protection and safety
equipment specific to generator of 25 KW or less connected to secondary or
primary voltage systems:
Control, Protection and Safety Equipment for Generators of 25 KW1 or Less
Connected to Secondary System
Control, Protection and Safety Equipment for Generators of 25 KW1 or Less
Connected to Secondary System
Generator size 25 KW or less
Generator disconnect device
Over-current trip
Over-voltage trip
Under voltage trip
Over/under frequency trip
Synchronizing checks2        Manual or automatic
Notes:
1 Exporting to the borough system many require additional operational/
protection devices.
2 For synchronous and other type of generators with stand-alone capability.
 
      (4)   Control, protection and safety equipment requirements specific to
three phase synchronous generators, induction generators, and inverter systems.
Generators greater than 25 KW must be three phase machines connected to three
phase circuits.
         (a)   Three phase synchronous generators. Generator circuit breakers
shall be three-phase devices with electronic or electromechanical control. The
generator owner is solely responsible for properly synchronizing his or her
generator with the company’s system. For a synchronous generator, the
excitation system response ratio shall not be less than 0.5. The generator’s
excitation system(s) shall conform, as near as reasonably achievable, to the
field voltage vs. time criteria specified in American National Standards
Institute Standard C50.13-1989 in order to permit adequate field forcing during
transient conditions.
         (b)   Three phase induction generators and inverter systems. Induction
generation may be connected and brought up to synchronous speed (as an
induction motor) if it can be demonstrated that the initial voltage drop
measured on the company ‘s side at the point of common coupling is within the
visible flicker limits. Otherwise, the generator owner may be required to
install hardware or other techniques to bring voltage fluctuations to
acceptable levels. Line-commutated inverters do not require synchronizing
equipment. Self-commutated inverters whether of the utility-interactive type or
stand-alone type shall be used in parallel with the company system only with
synchronizing equipment.
Control, Protection and Safety Equipment 1 Less than 100 KW Three Phase
Connected to Primary System
Control, Protection and Safety Equipment 1 Less than 100 KW Three Phase
Connected to Primary System
Generator disconnect device
Over-voltage trip
Under-voltage trip
Over-current trip
Over/under frequency trip
Ground over-voltage trip
Ground over-current trip
Synchronizing check1                                      Manual or automatic
Excessive closed time trip transfer trip/reclose blocking
Notes:
1 Exporting to the company’s system may require additional operating/
protection devices and will require coordination of operations with the
company.
 
      (5)   Requirements specific to generators paralleling for 0.1 second or
less (closed transition switching). The table below shows the protective
functions required by this requirement for generators less than one MW which
parallel with the company’s system for 0.1 second or less such as during source
or load transfers.
Control, Protection and Safety Equipment Generators Connected to Secondary or
Primary System Voltage
For 0.1 Second or Less (Closed Transition Switching)
Control, Protection and Safety Equipment Generators Connected to Secondary or
Primary System Voltage
For 0.1 Second or Less (Closed Transition Switching)
Generator size
Up to 1 MW
Over-voltage trip
Under-voltage trip
Synchronizing check        Manual or automatic
Excessive closed time trip
Notes:
1. For synchronous and other types of generators with stand-alone capability.
2. Scheme will trip generator if closed transition parallel mode remains in
effect longer than 0.1 second.
 
      (6)   Inverter type. DC generation installations using inverters for
interconnection with the borough must use non-islanding type inverters as
defined in IEEE 929, IEEE Recommended Practices for Utility Interface of
Photovoltaic (PV) Systems (including Annex B, D, E & G) and UL Subject 1741,
May 1999, Standard for Static Inverters and Charge Controllers for use in
Photovoltaic Power Systems.
      (7)   Inspection and start-up testing. The generator owner shall provide
the borough with reasonable prior notice at least three weeks before the
initial energizing and start-up testing of the generator owner’s generating
equipment and the borough, at its discretion, shall witness the testing of any
equipment and protective systems associated with the interconnection. The
generator owner shall revise and resubmit the application information for any
proposed modification that may affect the safe and reliable operation of the
borough’s system. The generator may be reconnected to the borough’s system only
after the modified application has been reviewed, testing has been confirmed
and the borough has given approval to reconnect.
      (8)   Site testing and commissioning. Testing of protection systems shall
include procedures to functionally test all protective elements of the
installation up to and including tripping of the generator and interconnection
point. Testing and testing intervals shall be in accordance with manufacturers’
and industry recommendations. Testing shall verify all protective set points
and relay/breaker trip timing. The borough, at it discretion, may witness the
testing of installed switchgear, protection systems, and generator. The
generator owner is responsible for all maintenance of the generator, control
and protective equipment. The generator owner will maintain records of such
maintenance activities which the borough may review at reasonable times. Annual
inspection of each generator installation shall be required at the discretion
of the borough.
      (9)   Revenue metering. Revenue metering requirements will be reviewed on
each specific installation. A single net meter shall be provided by the borough
for each generator installation. The customer shall be responsible for all
costs associated with the borough revenue metering.
      (10)   Dedicated transformer. A dedicated transformer or other current-
limiting device shall be required for any type of generator installation where
the increase in available short circuit current could adversely impact other
borough customers on the same secondary circuit.
      (11)   Applicable standards. All equipment and installations, and
specifically generation installations, shall meet all requirements including,
but not limited to, safety and performance, of the current edition of the
National Electrical Code, applicable Institute of Electrical and Electronic
Engineers’ (IEEE) standards, Underwriters Laboratories, borough’s specific
requirements, UL 1741 and IEEE 1547.
   (Q)   Customer owned standby generation.
      (1)   Written authorization and approval. Standby generation shall be
allowed with the express written authorization and approval of customer
equipment by the borough.
      (2)   Standby generators. Customer may install standby generation to
serve all or part of existing load in the event of an interruption in service.
Electrical connection between the borough service and the standby generation is
prohibited without a borough approved transfer switch. The installation shall
comply with all applicable land use, zoning, planning, borough ordinances,
borough rules and regulations and the applicable electric classification and
rates.
      (3)   Method of installation. The customer shall install an open
transition transfer switch so there can be no electrical connection between the
borough service and the standby generation. Switch shall be of the break before
make type preventing electrical interconnection of the borough service and
standby generation. Closed transition switching shall be subject to equipment
approval of the borough. Standby generation shall have over current protection
integrated with the generator.
      (4)   Transfer switch. The transfer switch may be operated manually or
automatically. The transfer switch shall be rated adequately for the voltage,
current and interrupting levels.
      (5)   Conditions of National Electrical Code. All installations shall be
subject to the requirements of the current edition of the National Electrical
Code.
      (6)   Location. It shall be prohibited to operate a generator indoors, in
a garage, (attached or detached) or in an appendage to any structure absent
compliance with Borough Code and a borough approved exhaust venting system.
      (7)   Consult borough before installation. Customer shall notify the
borough prior to installing standby generation.
   (R)   Customer owned portable generation.
      (1)   Portable generation. Customer may install use portable generation
to serve selected existing load in the event of an interruption in service. The
installation shall comply with all applicable land use, zoning, planning,
Borough Code rules and regulations and the applicable electric classification
and rates.
      (2)   Allowable. Portable customer owned generation shall be allowed only
without electrical connection between the borough service, building electrical
service and the portable generation. Closed transition switching is prohibited.
Electrical connection between the generation, service, building wiring and
outlet connections, shall not be allowed.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 1, § 78) (Res. 2013-12, passed 6-17-2013)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 51.50 BIDDING OF DEMAND RESPONSE.
   (A)   The Borough Council, as the retail electric regulatory authority for
the municipality and its retail electric consumers, determines it to be
desirable that the aggregation of demand response on behalf of its retail
customers to be bid directly into the organized electric and ancillary services
markets administered by the regional transmission organization that includes
the borough be performed by the borough or its authorized designee.
   (B)   The borough, or its authorized designee is the sole entity permitted
to aggregate retail customers’ demand response and bid demand response on
behalf of retail customers of the borough directly into any Commission-approved
independent system operator’s or regional transmission organization’s organized
electric markets.
   (C)   Retail customers on the borough’s electric system desiring to bid
their demand response into a Commission-approved independent system operator’s
or regional transmission organization’s organized electric markets may do so
only by participating in the program established by the borough or its
authorized designee.
   (D)   The borough or its authorized designee is the sole entity permitted to
bid demand response on behalf of retail customers of the borough directly into
any Commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional transmission
organization’s organized markets for energy imbalance, spinning reserves,
supplemental reserves, reactive power and voltage control, or regulation and
frequency response ancillary services (or its functional equivalent in the
Commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional transmission
organization’s tariff).
   (E)   Retail customers of the borough’s electric system desiring to bid
their demand response into a Commission-approved independent system operator’s
or regional transmission organization’s organized markets for energy imbalance,
spinning reserves, supplemental reserves, reactive power and voltage control,
or regulation and frequency response ancillary services (or its functional
equivalent in the Commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional
transmission organization’s tariff) may do so only by participating in the
program established by the borough or its authorized designee.
(1980 Code, Ch. 8, Part 2, § 81) (Ord. 1383, passed 2-16-2009, §§ 1—5)
§ 51.51 COGENERATION AND SMALL POWER PRODUCTION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the plural include the
singular, and words in the singular include the plural.
      AVOIDED COSTS. Incremental costs to the borough of electric energy,
capacity, or both which, if not for the purchase from the qualifying facility,
the borough would generate itself or purchase from another source.
      BACK-UP POWER. Electric energy or capacity supplied by the borough to
replace energy ordinarily generated by a facility's own generation equipment
during an unscheduled outage of the facility.
      COGENERATION FACILITY. Shall have the meaning specified at 18 C.F.R.
Parts 292.202 and 292.205, as amended.
      DECOMMISSIONING COSTS. Those costs associated with the removal of a
qualifying facility from the borough's electric grid.
      INTERCONNECTION COSTS. The reasonable costs of connection, switching,
metering, transmission, distribution, safety provisions, and administration
incurred by the borough directly related to the installation and maintenance of
physical facilities necessary to permit interconnected operations with a
qualifying facility. INTERCONNECTION COSTS do not include any costs included in
calculation of avoided costs. INTERCONNECTION COSTS shall include, but not be
limited to, the costs associated with municipal administration, municipal
audit, load management and monitoring, load dispatch or curtailment services,
ongoing inspection and monitoring of interconnection, physical and digital
maintenance of both the borough's and the qualifying facility's side of the
interconnection, interference with market pricing associated with congestion,
delivery, or any other PJM fee or charge now in effect or imposed in the
future, capital costs associated with the interconnection, costs assessed by
the larger regional grid which may be necessitated by the load associated with
the installation, consulting engineering costs, legal costs, and regulatory
filing costs.
      INTERRUPTIBLE POWER. Electric energy or capacity supplied by the borough
subject to interruption by the borough under specified conditions.
      MAINTENANCE POWER. Electric energy or capacity supplied by the borough
during scheduled outages of the qualifying facility.
      PLANNING YEAR. The following year's guaranteed energy output from a
qualifying facility that shall be agreed upon by the parties and held as a
required output for planning purposes.
      PURCHASE. The purchase of electric energy, capacity, or both from a
qualifying facility by the borough.
      QUALIFYING FACILITY or QF. A cogeneration facility or a small power
production facility.
      SALE. The sale of electric energy, capacity, or both by the borough to a
qualifying facility.
      SMALL POWER PRODUCTION FACILITY. Shall have the meaning specified at 18
C.F.R. Parts 292.202 and 292.204, as amended.
      SUPPLEMENTARY POWER. Electric energy or capacity supplied by the borough
and regularly used by a qualifying facility in addition to that electric energy
or capacity which the qualifying facility generates/ provides itself.
      SYSTEM.  The facilities, lines, and equipment used to supply electric
energy and/or capacity from suppliers to customers.
      SYSTEM EMERGENCY. A condition on the borough's system or any
interconnected system that may result in an imminent significant disruption of
service to customers or may imminently endanger life or property.
   (B)   General. This section sets forth the manner in which the borough will
discharge duties imposed upon it by Title II of the Public Utility Regulatory
Policies Act of 1978 and FERC's implementing orders including, without
limitation, Qualifying Facility Rates and Requirements Implementation Issues
Under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, Order No. 872, 85 FR
54638 (Sept. 2, 2020), 172 FERC ¶ 61,041 (2020).
   (C)   Applicability. This section shall apply to any purchases from or sales
to any qualifying facility made by the borough.
   (D)   Criteria for qualifying facility status. The criteria for
qualification of small power production facilities and cogeneration facilities
as qualifying facilities under this section are the same as those adopted by
FERC, including, but not limited to, 18 C.F.R. Parts 292.203, 292.204, 292.205,
and 292.206, as amended.
   (E)   Availability of data. To the extent required by law, the borough
shall, upon request, make available the data necessary to enable qualifying
facilities to estimate the borough's then-current estimated avoided cost with
respect to both energy and capacity, using the procedures and requirements set
forth in this section. Likewise, on an annual basis, or as-needed, the operator
of the qualifying facility shall make data and estimates available to the
borough for the proper integration of the facility into the borough's load
pattern in advance of each planning year.
   (F)   Borough obligations.
      (1)   The borough shall purchase any energy and capacity which is made
available to it from a qualifying facility, except as provided in divisions (F)
(2) and (3) of this section or other applicable law, in accordance with the
then-current requirements of PURPA and any implementing orders from FERC.
      (2)   The qualifying facility's right to sell power to the borough and
the borough's obligations under division (F)(1) shall be curtailed in periods
when, due to operational circumstances, purchases from qualifying facilities
will result in costs greater than those which the borough would incur if it
generated an equivalent amount of energy instead of purchasing that energy.
      (3)   During any system emergency, the borough may discontinue:
         (a)   Purchases from a qualifying facility if such purchases would, in
the borough's sole reasonable discretion, contribute to such emergency; or
         (b)   Sales to a qualifying facility on a nondiscriminatory basis.
      (4)   Rates for sales to qualifying facilities. The borough shall sell
power to a qualifying facility except as provided in division (F)(3)(b). The
borough shall sell power to a qualifying facility at rates for sale that are
just and reasonable in the public interest, and nondiscriminatory. Rates shall
be charged in accordance with the borough's duly adopted rate schedule. If the
borough provides back-up power or supplementary power to the qualifying
facility, then costs associated with that capacity reservation shall be paid by
the qualifying facility.
      (5)   Interconnection.
         (a)   The borough shall make any interconnection with a qualifying
facility that is necessary for the purchase and sale of electric energy and/or
capacity to or from that qualifying facility. Interconnection shall be
performed pursuant to the borough's specifications and safety standards. All
plans, equipment, and facilities shall be submitted for approval by the
borough. Prior to installation, the borough shall either approve or reject the
plans within 60 days of receipt of all required documents.
         (b)   Owners of qualifying facilities shall be required to pay for all
interconnection costs. Payment shall be made over a reasonable period of time
to be determined exclusively by the borough.
         (c)   The borough shall operate in parallel with a qualifying
facility, provided that the qualifying facility complies with applicable
standards established in accordance with division (H) and all applicable
borough ordinances, rules, regulations, and published tariffs and fees.
         (d)   A qualifying facility seeking to interconnect with the borough
shall submit an application containing all information required by the borough
and reasonably necessary to study the impacts of the proposed facility on the
borough's system.
         (e)   Following the submission of an application to interconnect
pursuant to division (F)(5)(d), the qualifying facility shall enter an
interactive development period, during which time the borough will evaluate the
qualifying facility's feasibility and all of its potential impacts on the
borough's system based on the information provided in said application or
reasonably requested by the borough. The purpose of this evaluation is to
ensure that the integrity of the borough's system will be preserved if
interconnection proceeds, and to address any safety, reliability, practicality,
cost, and stability concerns related to the proposed interconnection. The
qualifying facility shall pay all costs incurred by the borough for the
research necessary to establish and permit the qualifying facility. The borough
will endeavor to complete this review process within 120 days.
         (f)   Prior to and as a condition precedent to the borough's review
and approval of the qualifying facility's application to interconnect pursuant
to the procedure set forth in division (F)(5)(a) through (e), the borough and
the qualifying facility shall negotiate and execute a written agreement
memorializing the obligations and responsibilities of each party relating to
interconnection and the purchase and sale of electric energy and/or capacity,
which agreement may include, but shall not be limited to, the terms of payment
of the costs of evaluation under division (F)(5)(e) and any expected
interconnection costs. Upon execution of this agreement, the borough may
require that the qualifying facility deposit a sum of money with the borough to
be held in escrow to be used by the borough as the borough incurs fees for its
costs related to the qualifying facility's interconnection to the borough's
system.
   (G)   Purchase of output from qualifying facilities.
      (1)   The borough, in its discretion, may establish rates for purchases
of energy from a qualifying facility based on the locational marginal price
(LMP) calculated by PJM interconnection, LLC (PJM) at the applicable pricing
node for the borough.
      (2)   To the extent that rates for the purchase of capacity or energy are
not established pursuant to division (G)(1), the following factors shall be
taken into account when determining the final purchase price:
         (a)   The availability of capacity or energy from a qualifying
facility during the borough's system daily and seasonal peak, including: the
ability to dispatch the qualifying facility, reliability, terms of contract,
duration of obligation, termination requirements, ability to coordinate
scheduled outages, usefulness of energy and capacity during system emergencies,
compliance with the requirements of PJM or any successor thereto, and the
individual and aggregate value of energy and capacity from qualifying
facilities on the borough's system.
         (b)   The ability of the borough to avoid costs, if any, due to
deferral, cancellation, or downsizing of capacity additions from the qualifying
facility.
      (3)   All rates for purchases of energy and/or capacity from a qualifying
facility pursuant to either a legally enforceable obligation or on an as-
available basis shall vary through the life of the obligation and shall be set
at the borough's avoided cost for energy calculated at the time of delivery.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the borough from making
financial decisions which are in the best interest of the pool of customers
served by the borough's electric system, up to and including requiring
reimbursement for any deleterious impact created by the qualifying facility.
   (H)   Utility safety and system protection requirements. Any qualifying
facility operating in the borough shall provide adequate staff and equipment to
ensure the safety and reliability of interconnected operations and comply with
all borough requirements and specifications. This equipment shall be
specifically designed, installed, and operated to protect interconnected
operations between the qualifying facility and the borough's system. The
qualifying facility shall be solely responsible for the cost of obtaining,
installing, maintaining, repairing, renovating, replacing, removing, and
operating this equipment. Access to the facility and inspection of all
equipment is required right of interconnection.
   (I)   Additional services to be provided to qualifying facilities. Upon
request by a qualifying facility, the borough shall provide, at rates
reasonably determined by the borough, supplementary power, back-up power,
maintenance power, and interruptible power; provided, however, that the borough
shall not be obligated to provide such services if the borough determines in
its sole discretion that such service would impair its ability to render
adequate service to its other customers or would be unduly burdensome on the
borough's system. Nothing herein shall require the borough to offer power to
the qualifying facility or its property owner at the same rate or same
regularity as other commercial or residential customers of the borough system.
The borough can curtail supply or adopt a supplementary power rate as
reasonable for these services.
   (J)   Wheeling. The borough may wheel power to another utility if the
qualifying facility approves. This provision shall not eliminate the
responsibility of the borough to purchase power from the qualifying facility if
the qualifying facility does not approve the wheeling transaction. Resale of
power supplied by the qualifying facility is unrestricted.
   (K)   Legally enforceable obligations. No legally enforceable obligation
will be created until the qualifying facility has demonstrated, to the
borough's reasonable satisfaction:
      (1)   The commercial viability of the qualifying facility's project
("project");
      (2)   A financial commitment from the qualifying facility to construct
the project;
       (3)   The project's compliance with all applicable borough laws, rules,
and regulations, including, but not limited to, this section of the Borough
Code; and
      (4)   The project's compliance with the then-current requirements of
PURPA and any implementing orders from FERC.
   (L)   Negotiated rates. This section shall not restrict the creation and
execution of voluntary, written agreements between a qualifying facility and
the borough consistent with the provisions of this section concerning the
purchase of electric power and/or capacity from the facility.
   (M)   Adopted rates.
      (1)   The borough hereby will calculate avoided cost rates for capacity
and energy by a method set forth by resolution adopted and amended by the
borough from time to time. This calculation of avoided cost will be in
compliance with the then-current requirements of PURPA and any implementing
orders from FERC. From time to time, Borough Council may, by resolution, revise
this calculation method to ensure its continuing compliance with PURPA and any
implementing orders from FERC and to account for the specific circumstances
unique to the borough's system.
      (2)   The avoided cost estimates to be set forth in the borough's
resolutions will be based on the borough's current contractual arrangements and
supply portfolio and are subject to change. From time to time, the Borough
Manager, in consultation with the Director of Electric Operations and the
Director of Electric Planning & Compliance, may, as necessary, update the
borough's avoided cost rates using the calculation method to be set forth by
resolution adopted by Borough Council, as may be revised in accordance with
division (M)(1) above, to reflect the borough's then-current avoided cost
estimates. The borough shall publish its estimated avoided cost rates as part
of the borough's annual Fee Schedule.
      (3)   Any avoided cost rate adopted pursuant to this section shall ensure
that the borough's other electric customers and other electric suppliers do not
subsidize the operations of any qualifying facility selling capacity, energy,
or both to the borough.
   (N)    Removal, indemnification, and experts.
      (1)   In the event that use of a qualifying facility is discontinued, the
owner shall provide written notice to the borough of its intent to discontinue
use and the date when the use shall be discontinued. Unused or abandoned
qualifying facilities or portions thereof shall be removed as follows:
         (a)   All unused or abandoned qualifying facilities and accessory
facilities shall be removed within two months of the cessation of operations at
the site unless a time extension is approved by the borough.
         (b)   If the qualifying facility and/or accessory facility is not
removed within two months of the cessation of operations at a site, or within
any longer period approved by the borough, the qualifying facility and
accessory facilities and equipment may be removed by the borough and the cost
of removal assessed against the owner of the qualifying facility.
      (2)   Indemnification. Each person that owns or operates a qualifying
facility shall, at its sole cost and expense, indemnify, defend and hold
harmless the borough, its elected and appointed officials, employees and
agents, at all times against any and all claims for personal injury, including
death, and property damage arising in whole or in part from, caused by or
connected with any act or omission of the person, its officers, agents,
employees or contractors arising out of, but not limited to, the construction,
installation, operation, maintenance or removal of the qualifying facility.
Each person that owns or operates a qualifying facility shall defend any
actions or proceedings against the borough in which it is claimed that personal
injury, including death, or property damage was caused by the construction,
installation, operation, maintenance or removal of a qualifying facility. The
obligation to indemnify, hold harmless and defend shall include but not be
limited to the obligation to pay judgments, injuries, liabilities, damages,
reasonable attorneys' fees, reasonable expert fees, court costs and all other
costs of indemnification. No person shall be issued a permit to own or operate
a qualifying facility unless and until the owner or operator executes a
qualifying facility indemnification agreement in a form as adopted by the
borough from time to time.
      (3)   Retention of experts. The borough may hire any consultant(s) and/or
expert(s) necessary to assist the borough in reviewing and evaluating the
application for approval of the qualifying facility and, once approved, in
reviewing and evaluating any potential violations of the terms and conditions
of this chapter. The applicant and/or owner of the qualifying facility shall
establish an escrow deposit to cover the costs of any consultant(s) and/or
expert(s) hired to assist the borough in reviewing and evaluating the
application for approval of the qualifying facility. The amount of the escrow
deposit is directed to be established from time to time by resolution of the
Mayor and Borough Council.
      (4)   Owners of qualifying facilities shall be required to pay all costs
associated with their decommissioning. Such costs include, but shall not be
limited to, the costs of decommissioning and liquidating or redistributing each
individual component and any decommissioning studies to determine the effect on
the borough's system of such decommission. The borough may require the owner of
the qualifying facility to post financial security at the time the application
to interconnect is submitted in an amount necessary to guarantee payment of the
costs described in this section as estimated by the borough in its sole
discretion.
(Ord. 1493, passed 11-20-2023)
CHAPTER 52: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Short title
   
52.002   Statement of findings
   
52.003   Purpose
   
52.004   Statutory authority
   
52.005   Applicability
   
52.006   Compatibility with other requirements
   
52.007   Obligation to safeguard
Definitions
   
52.020   Definitions
Stormwater Management Standards
   
52.035   General requirements
   
52.036   Exemptions
   
52.037   Volume controls
   
52.038   Rate controls
   
52.039   Calculation methodology
Stormwater Management Site Plan Requirements
   
52.050   Small project application (< 5,000 sq. ft. of impervious area)
   
52.051   SWM plan (> 5,000 sq. ft. of impervious area)
   
52.052   Plan submission
   
52.053   Plan review
   
52.054   Modification of plans
   
52.055   Resubmission of disapproved SWM site plans
   
52.056   Authorization to construct and term of validity
   
52.057   As-built plans, completion certificate and final inspection
Riparian Buffer Requirements
   
52.070   Design standards for riparian buffers
   
52.071   Extensions to minimum buffer width
   
52.072   Buffer management and maintenance
Operation and Maintenance
   
52.085   Responsibilities of developers and landowners
   
52.086   Operation and maintenance agreements
Fees and Expenses
   
52.100   General
Prohibitions
   
52.115   Prohibited discharges and connections
   
52.116   Authorized discharges
   
52.117   Alteration of SWM BMPs
Enforcement and Penalties
   
52.130   Right-of-entry
   
52.131   Inspection
   
52.132   Violations
   
52.133   Enforcement
   
52.134   Suspensions and revocation
   
52.135   Appeals
 
   
52.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Instructions for completing the small project application
   
Appendix B: Operation and maintenance (O&M) agreement
   
Appendix C: Review fee reimbursement agreement
Cross-references:
   Floodplains, see
Ch. 152
   Water supply, sewage disposal and stormwater management, see §§
155.088,
155.089
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the “Borough of Grove
City Stormwater Management Ordinance”.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 1, § 101) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 101)
§ 52.002 STATEMENT OF FINDINGS.
   The governing body of the borough finds that:
   (A)   Inadequate management of accelerated runoff of stormwater resulting
from development throughout a watershed increases flows and velocities,
contributes to erosion and sedimentation, overtaxes the carrying capacity of
streams and storm sewers, greatly increases the cost of public facilities to
carry and control stormwater, undermines floodplain management and flood
control efforts in downstream communities, reduces groundwater recharge,
threatens public health and safety, and increases non-point source pollution of
water resources;
   (B)   A comprehensive program of stormwater management, including reasonable
regulation of development and activities causing accelerated runoff, is
fundamental to the public health, safety and welfare and the protection of
people of the Commonwealth, and this borough, their resources and the
environment;
   (C)   Stormwater is an important water resource, which provides groundwater
recharge for water supplies and base flow of streams, which also protects and
maintains surface water quality;
   (D)   Federal and state regulations require certain municipalities to
implement a program of stormwater controls. These municipalities are required
to obtain a permit for stormwater discharges from their separate storm sewer
systems under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES); and
   (E)   Public education is necessary for the proper understanding and
implementation of stormwater management in the community in which it functions.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 1, § 102) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 102)
§ 52.003 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote health, safety and welfare within
the borough and its watershed by minimizing the harms and maximizing the
benefits described in §
52.002, through provisions designed to:
   (A)   Meet legal water quality requirements under state law, including
regulations at 25 Pa. Code Chapter 93, to protect, maintain, reclaim and
restore the existing and designated uses of this Commonwealth;
   (B)   Manage the volume, rate and quality of stormwater runoff;
   (C)   Preserve the natural drainage systems as much as possible;
   (D)   Manage stormwater runoff as close to the source as possible;
   (E)   Provide procedures and performance standards for stormwater planning
and management;
   (F)   Maintain groundwater recharge to prevent degradation of surface and
groundwater quality and to otherwise protect water resources;
   (G)   Prevent scour and erosion of stream banks and streambeds from
accelerated runoff;
   (H)   Provide proper operation and maintenance of all permanent SWM BMPs
that are implemented and constructed within the borough;
   (I)   Provide standards to meet NPDES permit requirements; and
   (J)    Integrate stormwater management into the land development site
planning process.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 1, § 103) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 103)
§ 52.004 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Primary authority. The borough is empowered to regulate these
activities by the authority of the Act of October 4, 1978, P.L. 864 (Act 167),
32 P.S. §§ 680.1 et seq., as amended, the “Stormwater Management Act” and the
Pennsylvania Borough Code, 8 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq..
   (B)   Secondary authority. The borough also is empowered to regulate land
use activities that affect runoff by the authority of the Act of July 31, 1968,
P.L. 805, No. 247, the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§
10101 et seq., as amended.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 1, § 104) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 104)
§ 52.005 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   All regulated activities and all activities that may affect stormwater
runoff, including land development and earth disturbing activities, are subject
to regulation by this chapter.
   (B)   For projects that add impervious area to a parcel, the total
impervious area on the parcel is subject to the requirements of this chapter;
except that the volume controls in §
52.037 and the peak rate controls of §
52.038 do not need to be retrofitted to existing impervious areas that are not
being altered by proposed regulated activities.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 1, § 105) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 105)
§ 52.006 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   Approvals issued and actions taken under this chapter do not relieve the
applicant of the responsibility to secure required permits or approvals for
activities regulated by any other code, law, regulation or ordinance.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 1, § 106) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 108)
§ 52.007 OBLIGATION TO SAFEGUARD.
   Notwithstanding any provision(s) of this chapter, including exemptions, any
landowner or any person engaged in the alteration or development of land which
may affect stormwater runoff characteristics shall implement such measures as
are reasonably necessary to prevent injury to health, safety or other property.
Such measures also shall include actions as are required to manage the rate,
volume, direction and quality of resulting stormwater runoff in a manner which
otherwise adequately protects health, property and water quality.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 1, § 107) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 109)
DEFINITIONS
§ 52.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; the singular
number includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular; words
of masculine gender include feminine gender; and words of feminine gender
include masculine gender.
   (B)   The word “includes” or “including” shall not limit the term to the
specific example but is intended to extend its meaning to all other instances
of like kind and character.
   (C)   The words “shall” and “must” are mandatory; the words “may” and
“should” are permissive.
      AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY. Activities associated with agriculture such as
agricultural cultivation, agricultural operation and animal heavy use areas.
This includes the work of producing crops including tillage, land clearing,
plowing, disking, harrowing, planting, harvesting crops or pasturing and
raising of livestock and installation of conservation measures. Construction of
new buildings or impervious area is not considered an AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY.
      APPLICANT. A landowner, developer or agent of a property owner who has
filed an application for approval to engage in any regulated activity at a
project site in the borough.
      BMP (BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE). Activities, facilities, designs, measures
or procedures used to manage stormwater impacts from regulated activities, to
meet state water quality requirements, to promote groundwater recharge, and to
otherwise meet the purposes of this chapter. PERMANENT STORMWATER BMPs are
commonly grouped into one of two broad categories or measures: “structural” or
“nonstructural”. In this chapter, NONSTRUCTURAL BMPs or measures refer to
operational and/or behavior-related practices that attempt to minimize the
contact of pollutants with stormwater runoff whereas STRUCTURAL BMPs or
measures are those that consist of a physical device or practice that is
installed to capture and treat stormwater runoff. STRUCTURAL BMPs include, but
are not limited to, a wide variety of practices and devices, from large-scaled
retention ponds and constructed wetlands, to small-scale underground treatment
systems, infiltration facilities, filter strips, low impact design,
bioretention, wet ponds, permeable paving, grassed swales, riparian or forested
buffers, sand filters, detention basins and manufactured devices. STRUCTURAL
PERMANENT STORMWATER BMPs are permanent appurtenances to the project site.
      CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse with a defined bed and banks
that conveys continuously or periodically flowing water.
      CONSERVATION DISTRICT. A conservation district, as defined in § 3(c) of
the Conservation District Law (3 P.S. § 851(c)) that has the authority under a
delegation agreement executed with DEP to administer and enforce all or a
portion of the regulations promulgated under 25 Pa. Code 102.
      DESIGN STORM. The magnitude and temporal distribution of precipitation
from a storm event measured in probability of occurrence (e.g., a five-year
storm) and duration (e.g., 24-hours), used in the design and evaluation of
stormwater management systems.
      DEP. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
      DETENTION VOLUME. The volume of runoff that is captured and released into
the waters of the Commonwealth at a controlled rate.
      DEVELOPMENT SITE (SITE). See PROJECT SITE.
      DISCONNECTED IMPERVIOUS AREA (DIA). An impervious or impermeable surface
that is disconnected from any stormwater drainage or conveyance system and is
redirected or directed to a pervious area, which allows for infiltration,
filtration and increased time of concentration as specified in
Appendix A.
      DISTURBED AREA. An unstabilized land area where an earth disturbance
activity is occurring or has occurred.
      EARTH DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY. A construction or other human activity which
disturbs the surface of the land, including, but not limited to, clearing and
grubbing, grading, excavations, embankments, roadside maintenance, building
construction and the moving, depositing, stockpiling or storing of soil, rock
or earth materials.
      EASEMENT. A legal right granted by a landowner to a grantee allowing the
use of private land for conveyance or treatment of stormwater runoff and access
to stormwater practices.
      EROSION. The natural process by which the surface of the land is worn
away by water, wind or chemical action.
      EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN (E&S PLAN). A plan that is designed to
minimize the accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site during
construction activities.
      EXISTING PRE-DEVELOPMENT CONDITION. The dominant land cover during the
five-year period immediately preceding a proposed regulated activity.
      FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to inundation by water from any
natural source or delineated by applicable Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) maps and studies as being a special flood hazard area. Also included are
those soil groups found in Appendix 13 of the (1993) DER Technical Manual for
Sewage Enforcement Officers, Soil Groups,
Appendix A (as amended or replaced from time to time by PADEP).
      FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the
adjoining floodplains that is reasonably required to carry and discharge the
100-year flood. Unless otherwise specified, the boundary of the FLOODWAY is as
indicated on maps and flood insurance studies provided by FEMA. In an area
where no FEMA maps or studies have defined the boundary of the 100-year
floodway, it is assumed, absent evidence to the contrary, that the FLOODWAY
extends from the stream to 50 feet from the top of the bank of the stream.
      FOREST MANAGEMENT/TIMBER OPERATIONS. Planning and activities necessary
for the management of forestland. These include timber inventory and
preparation of forest management plans, silvicultural treatment, logging road
design and construction, timber harvesting, site preparation and reforestation.
      HYDROLOGIC SOIL GROUP (HSG). Infiltration rates of soils vary widely and
are affected by subsurface permeability as well as surface intake rates. Soils
are classified into four HSGs (A, B, C and D) according to their minimum
infiltration rate, which is obtained for bare soil after prolonged wetting. The
Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) of the U.S. Department of
Agriculture defines the four groups and provides a list of most of the soils in
the United States and their group classification. The soils in the area of the
development site may be identified from a soil survey report that can be
obtained from local NRCS offices or conservation district offices. Soils become
less pervious as the HSG varies from A to D (NRCS).
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE (IMPERVIOUS AREA). A surface that prevents the
infiltration of precipitation into the ground (e.g., building area/footprint,
pavement, sidewalks, driveways and the like). Decks, gravel parking areas,
gravel driveways, porous concrete, porous asphalt, porous pavers and green
roofs are not counted as IMPERVIOUS AREAS if they do not prevent infiltration.
      INFILTRATION. The entrance of surface water into the soil, usually at the
soil/air interface.
      LAND DEVELOPMENT (DEVELOPMENT). Inclusive of any or all of the following
meanings:
         (a)   The improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots,
tracts or parcels of land for any purpose involving:
            1.   A group of two or more buildings; or
            2.   The division or allocation of land or space between or among
two or more existing or prospective occupants by means of, or for the purpose
of streets, common areas, leaseholds, condominiums, building groups or other
features.
         (b)   Any subdivision of land; and
         (c)   Development in accordance with 53 P.S. § 10503(1.1) of the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code.
      MCCD. Mercer County Conservation District, Borough of Grove City, Mercer
County, Pennsylvania.
      NON-STRUCTURAL BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). A combination of design
and planning techniques that focus on preserving open space, protecting natural
systems and incorporating existing landscape features such as wetlands and
stream corridors into a SWM site plan to manage stormwater at its source.
      NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) STORMWATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the EPA, or by a state under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b), that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the state, whether the permit is applicable on an
individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
      NRCS. USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service (previously SCS).
      OPTIONAL. These are requirements that are recommended but may be modified
or deleted at the discretion of the borough.
      OWNER.
         (a)   The owner or owners of the freehold of the premises or lesser
estate therein, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee of rents,
receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in
control of a piece of land.
         (b)   As used herein, owner also refers to, in the appropriate
context:
            1.   Any other person authorized to act as the agent for the owner;
            2.   Any person who submits a stormwater management concept or
design plan for approval or requests issuance of a permit, when required,
authorizing land development to commence; and
            3.   Any person responsible for complying with an approved
stormwater management design plan.
      PEAK DISCHARGE. The maximum rate of stormwater runoff from a specific
storm event.
      PERMANENT STORMWATER BMP. A stormwater (BMP) that will be operational
after the construction phase of a project and that is designed to become a
permanent part of the site for the purposes of managing stormwater runoff.
      PERVIOUS AREA. Any area not defined as impervious.
      PROJECT SITE. The specific area of land where any regulated activities in
the borough are planned, conducted or maintained.
      QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL. Any person licensed by the Pennsylvania
Department of State or otherwise qualified by law to perform the work required
by this chapter.
      RECEIVING STREAM OR CHANNEL. A body of water or conveyance into which
stormwater runoff is discharged.
      RECHARGE. The replenishment of underground water reserves.
      REDEVELOPMENT. A change to previously existing, improved property,
including, but not limited to, the demolition or building of structures,
filling, grading, paving or excavating, but excluding ordinary maintenance
activities, remodeling of buildings on the existing footprint, resurfacing of
paved areas and exterior changes or improvements that do not materially
increase or concentrate stormwater runoff or cause additional non-point source
pollution.
      REGULATED ACTIVITIES. Any earth disturbing activities or any activities
that involve the alteration or development of land in a manner that may affect
stormwater runoff.
      REGULATED EARTH DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY. Activity involving earth
disturbance subject to a regulation under 25 Pa. Code Chapter 92, 25 Pa. Code
Chapter 102 or the Clean Streams Law, 35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq..
      RETURN PERIOD. The recurrence interval, in years, which a storm event of
a given magnitude has the probability of occurrence in any given year, i.e.,
the probability of a two-year storm occurring in any one year is 0.5 (a 50%
chance), the probability of a ten-year storm occurring in any one year is 0.1
(a 10% chance), the probability of a 25-year storm occurring in any one year is
0.04 (a 4% chance) and the probability of a 100-year storm occurring in any one
year is 0.01 (a 1% chance).
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm,
company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
governmental entity or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives,
agents, or assigns that is named on a stormwater maintenance agreement as
responsible for long-term operation and maintenance of one or more permanent
stormwater BMPs.
      RIPARIAN BUFFER. An area of land at or near a stream bank, wetland or
waterbody that has intrinsic water quality value due to the ecological and
biological processes it performs or is otherwise sensitive to changes which may
result in significant degradation to water quality.
      RUNOFF. Any part of precipitation that flows over the land.
      SEDIMENT. Soils or other materials transported by surface water as a
product of erosion.
      STATE WATER QUALITY REQUIREMENTS. The regulatory requirements to protect,
maintain, reclaim and restore water quality under Pa. Code Title 25 and the
Clean Streams Law, 35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq..
      STORMWATER. Drainage runoff from the surface of the land resulting from
precipitation or snow or ice melt.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITY. Any structure, natural or human-made,
that are designed to reduce all of the following: stormwater runoff pollutant
loads; discharge volumes; peak flow discharge rates; and detrimental changes in
stream temperature that affect water quality and habitat.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. The plan for managing stormwater runoff
adopted by the County of Mercer as required by the Act of October 4, 1978, P.L.
864, (Act 167), as amended, and known as the “Stormwater Management Act,” 32
P.S. §§ 680.01 et seq..
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT (SWM) BMWs. Is abbreviated as SWM BMPs throughout
this chapter.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT (SWM) SITE PLAN. The plan prepared by the developer
or his or her representative indicating how stormwater runoff associated with
industrial, commercial, institutional, residential or other land uses will be
managed at the development site in accordance with this chapter. STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT SITE PLAN will be designated as SWM site plan throughout this
chapter.
      STREAM. A body of water with a current, confined within a bed and stream
banks, less than 60 feet in width, that is subject to inundation from overflow
or flood water. A STREAM may be referred to as a branch, brook, creek or run.
      STRUCTURAL BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). A constructed facility or
measure that helps to protect receiving water quality and control stormwater
runoff rate and volume.
      SUBDIVISION. As defined in the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code,
53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq..
      WATERCOURSE. A permanent or intermittent stream or other body of water,
either natural or human-made, which gathers or carries surface water.
      WATERS OF THIS COMMONWEALTH. Rivers, streams, creeks, rivulets,
impoundments, ditches, watercourses, storm sewers, lakes, dammed water,
wetlands, ponds, springs and other bodies or channels of conveyance of surface
and underground water, or parts thereof, whether natural or artificial, within
or on the boundaries of this Commonwealth.
      WATERSHED. Region or area drained by a river, watercourse or other body
of water, whether natural or artificial.
      WETLAND. Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs, fens and similar
areas.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 2, § 201) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 201)
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT STANDARDS
§ 52.035 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For all regulated activities, unless preparation of a SWM site plan is
specifically exempted in §
52.036:
      (1)   Design and implementation of an approved SWM site plan is required;
and
      (2)   No regulated activities shall commence until the borough issues
written approval of an SWM site plan, which demonstrates compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   SWM site plan approved by the borough, in accordance with §
52.056, shall be on site throughout the duration of the regulated activity.
   (C)   The borough may, after consultation with DEP, approve measures for
meeting the state water quality requirements other than those in this chapter,
provided that they meet the minimum requirements of, and do not conflict with,
state law including, but not limited to, the Clean Streams Law, 35 P.S. §§
691.1 et seq..
   (D)   For all regulated earth disturbance activities, erosion and sediment
control BMPs shall be designed, implemented, operated and maintained during the
regulated earth disturbance activities (e.g., during construction) to meet the
purposes and requirements of this chapter and to meet all requirements under
Pa. Code Title 25 and the Clean Streams Law. Various BMPs and their design
standards are listed in the Erosion and Sediment Pollution Control Manual (E&S
Manual), No. 363-2134-008 (April 15, 2000), as amended and updated.
   (E)   For all regulated activities, implementation of the volume controls in
§
52.037 is required.
   (F)   Impervious areas.
      (1)   The measurement of impervious areas shall include all of the
impervious areas in the total proposed development even if development is to
take place in stages.
      (2)   For development taking place in stages, the entire development plan
must be used in determining conformance with this chapter.
   (G)   Stormwater flow onto adjacent property shall not be created,
increased, decreased, relocated or otherwise altered without a written
agreement from the adjacent property owner(s). Such stormwater flows shall be
subject to the requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   All regulated activities shall include such measures, to the maximum
extent practicable, to:
      (1)   Protect health, safety and property and the public welfare;
      (2)   Meet the water quality goals of this chapter by implementing
measures to:
         (a)   Minimize disturbance to floodplains, wetlands and wooded areas;
         (b)   Maintain or extend riparian buffers;
         (c)   Maintain natural drainage patterns;
         (d)   Avoid erosive flow conditions in natural flow pathways;
         (e)   Minimize the creation of impervious surfaces;
         (f)   Minimize thermal impacts to waters of this Commonwealth; and
         (g)   Disconnect impervious surfaces by directing runoff to pervious
areas, wherever possible.
      (3)   Incorporate the techniques for low impact development practices.
   (I)   Discharge roof drains and sump pumps to infiltration or vegetative
BMPs or satisfy the criteria for DIAs.
   (J)   Infiltration BMPs should be spread out, made as shallow as
practicable, and located to maximize use of natural on-site infiltration
features while still meeting the other requirements of this chapter.
   (K)   Stormwater storage facilities should completely drain both the volume
control and rate control capacities over a period of time not less than 24
hours and not more than 72 hours from the end of the design storm.
   (L)   (1)   The design storm volumes to be used in the analysis of peak
rates of discharge will be the 24-hour values as shown in the following table:
 
Storm Frequency 24-Hour Depth in Inches
2-year          2.45
10-year         3.44
25-year         4.07
100-year        5.13
 
      (2)   Or the 24-hour values obtained from the Precipitation-Frequency
Atlas of the United States, Atlas 14, Volume 2, Version 3.0, U.S. Department of
Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), National
Weather service, Hydrometeorological Design, Studies Center, Silver Spring,
Maryland. NOAA’s Atlas 14 can be accessed at: http://hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/
pfds/
   (M)   For all regulated activities, SWM BMPs shall be designed, implemented,
operated and maintained to meet the purposes and requirements of this chapter
and to meet all requirements under Pa. Code Title 25, the Clean Streams Law and
the Stormwater Management Act.
   (N)   Various BMPs and their design standards are listed in the BMP Manual.
   (O)   Off-site areas which drain through a proposed development site are not
subject to release rate criteria when determining allowable peak runoff rates.
However, on-site drainage facilities shall be designed to safely convey off-
site flows through the development site.
   (P)   Any stormwater management facility designed to store stormwater runoff
and not eligible for a waiver from permit requirements pursuant to 25 Pa. Code
§ 105.12 requiring a berm or earthen embankment shall be designed to provide an
emergency spillway to handle flow up to and including the 100-year post-
development conditions. The height of embankment must be a minimum one-foot
above the maximum pool elevation computed when the facility functions for the
100-year post-development inflow.
   (Q)   Any facilities that constitute water obstructions (e.g., culverts,
bridges, outfalls or stream enclosures), and any work involving wetlands
pursuant to 25 Pa. Code Chapter 105 regulations, as amended or replaced, shall
be designed, permitted and constructed in accordance with Chapter 105.
   (R)   Any drainage conveyance facility and/or channel that does not fall
under Chapter 105 regulations, must be able to convey, without damage to the
drainage structure or roadway, runoff from the 25-year design storm. Conveyance
facilities discharging to or exiting from stormwater management facilities
shall be designed to convey the design flow to or from that structure.
   (S)   Storm sewers must be able to convey post-development runoff from a
ten-year storm event without surcharging inlets, where appropriate.
   (T)   Adequate erosion protection shall be provided along all open channels,
and at all points of discharge.
   (U)   The design of all stormwater management facilities shall incorporate
sound engineering principles and practices and shall not result in the creation
or continuation of adverse hydrologic or adverse hydraulic conditions within
the watershed.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 3, § 301) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 301)
§ 52.036 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Regulated activities that create impervious areas smaller than 2,500
square feet are exempt from the peak rate control and stormwater management
site plan requirements of this chapter unless the borough disqualifies the
project for an exemption pursuant to division (G) below.
   (B)   Regulated activities that create impervious areas of 2,500 square feet
to 5,000 square feet require a small project application to be submitted to the
borough and volume controls must be installed to meet the requirements of the
BMP Manual, or meet the requirements for the disconnected impervious area (DIA)
credits in §
52.050.
   (C)   Agricultural activity is exempt from this rate control and SWM site
plan preparation requirements of this Chapter provided the activities are
performed according to the requirements of 25 Pa. Code Chapter 102.
   (D)   Forest management and timber operations are exempt from the rate
control and the SWM site plan preparation requirements of this chapter provided
the activities are performed according to the requirements of 25 Pa. Code
Chapter 102.
   (E)   Oil and gas operations are exempt from the rate control and SWM site
plan preparation requirements of this chapter provided the activities are
performed according to the requirements of 25 Pa. Code Chapter 102.
   (F)   Exemptions from any provisions of this chapter shall not relieve the
applicant from the requirements in §
52.035(D) through (U).
   (G)   The borough may deny or revoke any exemption pursuant to this section
at any time for any project that the borough believes may pose a threat to
public health, safety, property or the environment.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 3, § 302) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 302)
§ 52.037 VOLUME CONTROLS.
   (A)   The low impact development practices, like those provided in the BMP
Manual shall be utilized for all regulated activities to the maximum extent
practicable. Water volume controls shall be implemented using the design storm
method in division (B)(1) or the simplified method in division (B)(2).
   (B)   For regulated activity areas equal or less than one acre that do not
require hydrologic routing to design the stormwater facilities, this chapter
establishes no preference for either methodology; therefore, the applicant may
select either methodology on the basis of economic considerations, the
intrinsic limitations on applicability of the analytical procedures associated
with each methodology, and other factors.
      (1)   The design storm method (CG-1 in the BMP Manual) is applicable to
any size of regulated activity. This method requires detailed modeling based on
site conditions.
         (a)   Do not increase the post-development total runoff volume for all
storms equal to or less than the two-year 24-hour duration precipitation; and
         (b)   For hydrologic modeling purposes:
            1.   Existing pre-development non-forested pervious areas must be
considered meadow or its equivalent in good condition; and
            2.   Existing (pre-development) impervious areas, when present,
must consider 20% of the impervious area as meadow in good condition.
      (2)   The simplified method (CG-2 in the BMP Manual) is independent of
site conditions and should be used if the design storm method is not followed.
This method is not applicable to regulated activities greater than one acre or
for projects that require design of stormwater storage facilities. For new
impervious surfaces:
         (a)   Stormwater facilities shall capture at least the first two
inches of runoff from all new impervious surfaces;
         (b)   At least the first one inch of runoff from new impervious
surfaces shall be permanently removed from the runoff flow, i.e., it shall not
be release into the surface waters of this Commonwealth. Removal options
include reuse, evaporation, transpiration and infiltration;
         (c)   Wherever possible, infiltration facilities should be designed to
accommodate infiltration of the entire permanently removed runoff; however, in
all cases at least the first one-half inch of the permanently removed runoff
should be infiltrated; and
         (d)   This method is exempt from the requirements of §
52.038.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 3, § 303) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 303)
§ 52.038 RATE CONTROLS.
   Post-development peak discharge rates shall not exceed the pre-development
peak discharge rates for the two-year, ten-year, 25-year and 100-year storm
events.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 3, § 304) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 304)
§ 52.039 CALCULATION METHODOLOGY.
   Stormwater runoff from all development sites shall be calculated using
either the rational method (stormwater conveyance systems only) or a soil cover
complex methodology as follows.
   (A)   Major and minor conveyance systems up to 20 acres may be designed
using the rational method. The rational method may also be used in sizing the
minor conveyance systems for larger sites. Any stormwater runoff calculations
involving drainage areas greater than 20 acres, including on-site and off-site
areas, shall use a generally accepted runoff hydrograph technique that is based
on the NRCS soil cover complex method. Runoff hydrograph methods must be used
for major drainage system designs for all systems with greater than 20 acres of
drainage area and for design of all stormwater storage facilities.
   (B)   All calculations consistent with this chapter using the soil cover
complex method shall use the appropriate design rainfall depths for the various
return period storms presented §
52.035(L). If a hydrologic computer model is used for stormwater runoff
calculations, the duration of rainfall shall be 24 hours. The SCS Rainfall Type
II curve shall be used for the rainfall distribution.
   (C)   For the purposes of existing pre-development runoff rate
determination, undeveloped non-forested pervious areas including disturbed
areas must be considered meadow in good condition, or its equivalent in good
condition. Those areas that have existing impervious areas within the planned
development area may be included in the determination of the predevelopment
flow rate.
   (D)   All calculations using the rational method shall use rainfall
intensities from the Precipitation-Frequency Atlas of the United States, Atlas
14, Volume 2, Version 3.0, U.S. Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), National Weather Service,
Hydrometeorological Design Studies Center, Silver Spring, Maryland. NOAA’s
Atlas 14 can be accessed at: http://hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/.
   (E)   Times-of-concentration for overland flow shall be calculated using the
methodology presented in Chapter 3 of Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds,
NRCS, TR-55. Travel time for channel and pipe flow shall be computed using
velocities determined using Manning’s equation.
   (F)    Runoff curve numbers (CN) for both existing (pre-development) and
proposed (post-development) conditions to be used in the soil cover complex
method shall be obtained from Chapter 2 of Urban Hydrology for Small
Watersheds, NRCS, TR-55.
   (G)   (1)   Runoff coefficients (C) for both existing (pre-development) and
proposed (post-development) conditions for use in the rational method shall be:
Runoff Factors for the Rational Equation
Type of Drainage Area or Surface Runoff Factor “C”
                                 Minimum Maximum
Runoff Factors for the Rational Equation
Type of Drainage Area or Surface                       Runoff Factor “C”
                                                       Minimum Maximum
City business sections                                 0.60    0.80
Clay soil, bare or light growth                        0.35    0.75
Clay soil, woods or heavy growth                       0.25    0.60
Dense residential sections                             0.50    0.70
Gravel, bare or light growth                           0.20    0.40
Gravel, woods or heavy brush                           0.15    0.35
Pavement, bituminous macadam or surface-treated gravel 0.65    0.80
Pavement, concrete or bituminous concrete              0.75    0.95
Pavement, gravel, macadam and the like                 0.25    0.60
Rural areas, parks, golf courses                       0.15    0.30
Sandy soil, cultivated or light growth                 0.15    0.30
Sandy soil, woods or heavy brush                       0.15    0.30
Suburban, normal residential areas                     0.35    0.60
 
Runoff Coefficient for Rural Watersheds
 Slope
 Extreme High Normal Low
Runoff Coefficient for Rural Watersheds
             Slope
             Extreme                                                                  High                                                                      Normal                                                                      Low
Relief (Cr)  0.28—0.35 steep, rugged terrain with average slopes above 30%          0.20—0.28 hilly, with average slopes of 10-30%                          0.14—0.20 rolling, with average slopes of 5—10%                         0.08—0.14 relatively flat land, with average slopes of 0-5%
Soil         0.12—0.16 no effective soil cover either rock or thin soil mangle of   0.08—0.12 slow to take up water, clay or shallow loam soils of low                                                                                  0.04—0.06 deep sand or other soil that takes up water readily, very light
infiltration negligible infiltration capacity                                         infiltration capacity or poorly drained                                   0.06—0.08 normal; well drained light or medium textured soils, sandy loamswell drained soils
(Ci)
Vegetative   0.12—0.16 no effective plant cover, bare or very sparse cover          0.08—0.12 poor to fair; clean cultivation, crops or poor natural cover, 0.06—0.08 fair to good; about 50% of area in good grassland or woodland,  0.04—0.06 good to excellent; about 90% of drainage area in good grassland,
cover (Cv)                                                                            less than 20% of drainage area over good cover                            not more than 50% of area in cultivated crops                               woodland, or equivalent cover
Surface (Cs) 0.10—0.12 negligible; surface depression few and shallow; drainageways 0.08—0.10 well defined system of small drainageways; no ponds or marshes0.06—0.08 normal; considerable surface depression storage lakes and ponds 0.04—0.06 much surface storage, drainage system not sharply defined; large
             steep and small, no marshes                                                                                                                        and marshes                                                                 floodplain storage or large number of ponds or marshes
The total runoff coefficient based on the four runoff components is: C = Cr + Ci + Cv + Cs
As obtained from Pub. 584, PennDOT Drainage Manual, §§ 7.5.c through 7.5.g.
 
      (2)   Where uniform flow is anticipated, the Manning equation shall be
used for hydraulic computations such as the capacity of open channels, pipes
and storm sewers. Values for Manning’s roughness coefficient (n) shall be
consistent with Pub. 584, PennDOT Drainage Manual § 7.3.
   (H)   Outlet structures for stormwater storage facilities shall be designed
to meet the performance standards of this chapter using any generally accepted
hydraulic analysis technique or method. Orifices smaller than three inches
diameter are not recommended; however, if the qualified professional can
provide proof that the smaller orifices are protected from clogging by use of
anti-clogging devices, then smaller orifices may be permitted.
   (I)   The design of any stormwater storage facilities intended to meet the
performance standards of this chapter shall be verified by routing the design
storm hydrograph through these facilities.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 3, § 305) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 305)
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.050 SMALL PROJECT APPLICATION (< 5,000 SQ. FT. OF IMPERVIOUS AREA).
   (A)   This section applies to eligible projects with total impervious
surface area from 1,000 square feet to less than 5,000 square feet.
   (B)   If the total impervious surface area is 2,500 square feet to 5,000
square feet the project requires a small project application to be submitted to
the borough and volume controls must be installed to meet the requirements of
the surface area of BMPs required.
   (C)   For areas where runoff from impervious areas can be directed to
pervious areas that allow for infiltration, filtration and increased time of
concentration disconnected impervious area (DIA) credits may be used. To
qualify as DIA the concentrated discharge must meet the following criteria:
      (1)   For rooftop areas:
         (a)   Area draining to a downspout must be 500 square feet or less;
         (b)   Discharge must be to an area with a positive slope of 5% (one
foot of fall per 20 feet of length, 20:1) or less; and
         (c)   Be a minimum distance of 75 feet from a watercourse or down
slope property line.
      (2)   For paved areas (driveways):
         (a)   Runoff draining to a point must be 1,000 square feet or less;
         (b)   Discharge must be to a gravel strip or spreading device; and
         (c)   Flow length of the pervious surface must be greater than or
equal to the contributing length.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 4, § 401) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 401)
§ 52.051 SWM PLAN (> 5,000 SQ. FT. OF IMPERVIOUS AREA).
   The following items shall be included in the SWM site plan.
   (A)   Appropriate sections from borough’s Subdivision and Land Development
Ordinance (
Ch. 156), and other applicable local ordinances, shall be followed in preparing
the SWM site plans. In instances where the borough lacks subdivision and land
development regulations, the content of SWM site plans shall follow the
county’s Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
   (B)   The developer shall not receive approval of any SWM site plan that is
deficient in meeting the requirements of this chapter. When a SWM site plan is
found to be deficient, the borough, at its sole discretion and in accordance
with this subchapter, may either disapprove the submission, require a
resubmission, or in the case of minor deficiencies, the borough may accept
submission of modifications.
   (C)   Provisions for permanent access or maintenance easements for all
physical SWM BMPS, such as ponds and infiltration structures, as necessary to
implement the operation and maintenance procedures discussed in division (E)
(14) below.
   (D)   The following signature block for the borough:
 
“The Stormwater Management Site Plan shown hereon complies with all design standards
and criteria of the Borough of Grove City Stormwater Management Ord. 1403.”
_________________________________                  ___________________________________
Date                                    Signature
 
   (E)    The SWM site plan shall be black and white and provide the following
information, at a minimum:
      (1)   Proposed name or identifying title of the project;
      (2)   Name and address of the landowner and/or developer of the project;
      (3)   Plan date, date of the latest revision, north arrow, graphic and
written scale;
      (4)   Project location map overlaid on the title sheet showing the
project and the nearest intersecting street;
      (5)   Tract boundaries showing bearings, distances and curve data;
      (6)   Existing and proposed contours at a vertical interval of one foot,
unless steeper slopes do not permit the visual representation at this scale;
      (7)   Existing and proposed natural and/or artificial objects thereon;
      (8)   Existing subsurface objects as required by Pennsylvania One Call,
as well as proposed subsurface objects;
      (9)   A determination of site conditions in accordance with the BMP
Manual. A detailed site evaluation shall be completed for projects proposed in
areas of carbonate geology or karst topography, and other environmentally
sensitive areas, such as brownfields;
      (10)   A report containing stormwater runoff design calculations,
assumptions, criteria, methodology and documentation used in the design to
demonstrate that the maximum practicable measures have been taken to meet the
requirements of this chapter, including the recommendations and general
requirements in §
52.035;
      (11)   A soil erosion and sediment control plan, where applicable, as
prepared for and submitted to the approval authority;
      (12)   Plan and profile drawings of all SWM BMPs, including drainage
structures and pipes;
      (13)   A plan showing the locations of existing and proposed on-lot
wastewater facilities and water supply wells; and
      (14)   Operation and maintenance procedures for all existing and proposed
physical stormwater management facilities that shall address long-term
ownership and responsibilities for O&M.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 4, § 402) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 402)
§ 52.052 PLAN SUBMISSION.
   (A)   Five copies of the SWM site plan shall be submitted as follows:
      (1)   Two copies to borough;
      (2)   One copy to the Municipal Engineer (when applicable);
      (3)   One copy to the County Conservation District (when applicable); and
      (4)   One copy to the County Planning Commission (when applicable).
   (B)   Additional copies shall be submitted as requested by borough or other
regulatory authorities.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 4, § 403) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 403)
§ 52.053 PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The SWM site plan shall be reviewed by a qualified professional for
the borough for consistency with the provisions of this chapter. After review,
the qualified professional shall provide a written recommendation for the
borough to approve or disapprove the SWM site plan. If it is recommended to
disapprove the SWM site plan, the qualified professional shall state the
reasons for the disapproval in writing. The qualified professional also may
recommend approval of the SWM site plan with conditions and, if so, shall
provide the acceptable conditions for approval in writing. The SWM site plan
review and recommendations shall be completed within the time allowed by the
Municipalities Planning Code for reviewing subdivision plans.
   (B)   The borough shall notify the applicant in writing within 30 days
whether the SWM site plan is approved or disapproved. If the SWM site plan
involves a subdivision and land development plan, the notification period is 60
days. If a longer notification period is provided by other statute, regulation
or ordinance, the applicant will be notified by the borough. If the borough
disapproves the SWM site plan, the borough shall cite the reasons for
disapproval in writing.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 4, § 404) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 404)
§ 52.054 MODIFICATION OF PLANS.
   A modification to a submitted SWM site plan that involves a change in SWM
BMPs or techniques, or that involves the relocation or redesign of SWM BMPs, or
that is necessary because the borough has determined that other conditions are
not as stated on the SWM site plan, then the borough shall require a
resubmission of the modified SWM site plan in accordance with this subchapter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 4, § 405) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 405)
§ 52.055 RESUBMISSION OF DISAPPROVED SWM SITE PLANS.
   A disapproved SWM site plan may be resubmitted, with the revisions
addressing the borough’s concerns, to the borough in accordance with this
subchapter. The applicable review fee must accompany a resubmission of a
disapproved SWM site plan.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 4, § 406) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 406)
§ 52.056 AUTHORIZATION TO CONSTRUCT AND TERM OF VALIDITY.
   The borough’s approval of an SWM site plan authorizes the regulated
activities contained in the SWM site plan for a maximum term of validity of
five years following the date of approval. The borough may specify a term of
validity shorter than five years in the approval for any specific SWM site
plan. Terms of validity shall commence on the date the borough signs the
approval for a SWM site plan. If an approved SWM site plan is not completed
according to §
52.057, within the term of validity, then the borough may consider the SWM site
plan disapproved and may revoke any and all permits. SWM site plans that are
considered disapproved by the borough shall be resubmitted in accordance with §
52.054.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 4, § 407) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 407)
§ 52.057 AS-BUILT PLANS, COMPLETION CERTIFICATE AND FINAL INSPECTION.
   (A)   The developer shall be responsible for providing as-built plans of all
SWM BMPs including in the approved SMW site plan. The as-built plans and an
explanation of any discrepancies with the construction plans shall be submitted
to the borough.
   (B)   The as-built submission shall include a certification of completion
signed by a qualified professional verifying that all permanent SWM BMPs have
been constructed according to the approved plans and specifications.
   (C)   After receipt of the completion certification by the borough, the
borough may conduct a final inspection.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 4, § 408) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 408)
RIPARIAN BUFFER REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.070 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR RIPARIAN BUFFERS.
   (A)   A riparian buffer for a stream shall consist of a forested strip of
land extending along both sides of the stream and its adjacent wetlands or
steep slopes. The riparian buffer width shall be adjusted to include contiguous
sensitive areas, such as steep slopes and wetlands, where development or
disturbance may adversely affect water quality, streams, wetlands or other
waterbodies.
   (B)   The riparian buffer shall begin at the edge of the stream bank of the
active channel.
   (C)   The riparian buffer shall be composed of two distinct zones, with each
zone having its own set of permitted and restricted uses.
   (D)   Zone 1-Streamside Zone:
      (1)   Protects the physical and ecological integrity of the stream
ecosystem;
      (2)   Begins at the edge of the stream bank of the active channel and
extends 25 feet from the top of the bank plus any additional buffer width as
specified in this section;
      (3)   Allowable uses within this zone are highly restricted to:
         (a)   Flood control structures;
         (b)   Utility rights-of-way;
         (c)   Footpaths; and
         (d) Road crossings, where permitted.
      (4)   Streamside zone contains undisturbed natural vegetation.
   (E)   Zone 2-Outer Zone.
      (1)   Protects key components of the stream and provides distance between
upland development and the streamside zone;
      (2)   Begins at the outer edge of the streamside zone and extends 25
feet;
      (3)   Allowable uses within the outer zone are restricted to:
         (a)   Biking or hiking paths;
         (b)   Stormwater management facilities, with the approval of the
borough;
         (c)   Recreational uses as approved by borough; and
         (d)   Removal of mature tree cover.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 5, § 501) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 501)
§ 52.071 EXTENSIONS TO MINIMUM BUFFER WIDTH.
   (A)   The required width for the riparian buffer totals 50 feet (Zone 1
equals 25 feet, Zone 2 equals 25 feet). This buffer shall be extended if
wetlands or steep slopes are present.
      (1)   Wetlands. When wetlands are present, the width of the streamside
zone shall be adjusted so that the Zone 1 buffer will consist of the extent of
the wetland plus 20 feet beyond the wetland edge.
      (2)   Percent slope. The riparian buffer width shall be modified if steep
slopes are within close proximity to the stream and drain into the stream. The
following extensions will be added to the standard 50-foot riparian buffer in
relation to the slope of the stream bank. The extensions are calculated as
follows:
 
Percent of Slope Buffer Extension Required Riparian Buffer Adjusted Total Width
                                  Width
15%—17%        10 feet          50 feet                  60 feet
18%—20%        30 feet          50 feet                  80 feet
21%—23%        50 feet          50 feet                  100 feet
24%—25%        60 feet          50 feet                  110 feet
>25%             70 feet          50 feet                  120 feet
 
   (B)   Water pollution hazards. The following land uses and/or activities are
designated as potential water pollution hazards, and must be set back from any
stream or waterbody by the distance indicated below:
      (1)   Storage of hazardous substances: 150 feet;
      (2)   Above ground or underground petroleum storage facilities: 150 feet;
      (3)   Drain fields from on-site sewage disposal and treatment systems
(i.e., septic systems): 50 feet;
      (4)   Raised septic systems: 50 feet;
      (5)   Solid waste landfills or junkyards: 300 feet;
      (6)   Confined animal feedlot operations: 250 feet;
      (7)   Subsurface discharges from a wastewater treatment plant: 50 feet;
and
      (8)   Land application of bio-solids: 100 feet.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 5, § 502) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 502)
§ 52.072 BUFFER MANAGEMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The riparian buffer, including wetlands shall be managed to enhance
and maximize the unique value of these resources. Management includes specific
limitations on alteration of the natural conditions of these resources. The
following practices and activities are restricted within both zones of the
riparian buffer, except with approval by the borough:
      (1)   Clearing of existing vegetation (except as noted previously in §
52.070(E)(3)(d);
      (2)   Soil disturbance by grading, stripping or other practices;
      (3)   Filling or dumping;
      (4)   Use, storage or application of pesticides, except for spot spraying
of noxious weeds or non-native species consistent with recommendations of the
borough;
      (5)   Housing, grazing or other maintenance of livestock;
      (6)   Storage or operation of motorized vehicles within Zone 1, except
for maintenance or emergency use; and
      (7)   Drainage by ditching, underdrains or other systems.
   (B)   Practices, and activities that are permitted in the riparian buffer,
with specific design or maintenance features, subject to the review of the
borough:
      (1)   Roads, bridges, paths and utilities;
      (2)   Stormwater management;
      (3)   Stream restoration projects, facilities and activities approved by
the borough are permitted within the riparian buffer;
      (4)   Water quality monitoring and stream gauging are permitted within
the riparian buffer; and
      (5)   Individual trees within the riparian buffer that are in danger of
falling, causing damage to dwellings or other structures, or causing blockage
of the stream may be removed.
   (C)   All plans prepared for recording and all right-of-way plans shall
clearly:
      (1)   Show the extent of any riparian buffer on the subject property; and
      (2)   Label the riparian buffer.
   (D)   All riparian buffer areas shall be maintained through a declaration of
protective covenant, which is required to be submitted for approval by the
borough. The covenant shall be recorded in the land records and shall run with
the land and continue in perpetuity.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 5, § 503) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 503)
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
§ 52.085 RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEVELOPERS AND LANDOWNERS.
   (A)   The borough shall make the final determination on the continuing
maintenance responsibilities prior to final approval of the SWM site plan. The
borough may require a dedication of such facilities as part of the requirements
for approval of the SWM site plan. Such a requirement is not an indication that
the borough will accept the facilities. The borough reserves the right to
accept or reject the ownership and operating responsibility for any portion of
the stormwater management facilities.
   (B)   Facilities, areas or structures used as SWM BMPs shall be enumerated
as permanent real estate appurtenances and recorded as deed restrictions or
conservation easements that run with the land.
   (C)   The O&M plan shall be recorded as a restrictive deed covenant that
runs with the land. The borough itself is exempt from the requirement to sign
and record an O&M agreement.
   (D)   The responsible party named in the stormwater maintenance agreement
shall maintain in good condition and promptly repair and restore all structural
and non-structural permanent stormwater BMPs and all necessary access routes
and appurtenances.
   (E)   The borough may take enforcement actions against an owner for any
failure to satisfy the provisions of this subchapter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 6, § 601) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 601)
§ 52.086 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to final approval of the SWM site plan, the property owner shall
sign and record an operation and maintenance (O&M) agreement (
Appendix B) covering all stormwater control facilities which are to be
privately owned.
      (1)   The owner, successor and assigns shall maintain all facilities in
accordance with the approved maintenance schedule in the O&M plan.
      (2)   The owner shall convey to the borough conservation easements to
assure access for periodic inspections by the borough and maintenance as
necessary.
      (3)   The owner shall keep on file with the borough the name, address and
telephone number of the entity responsible for maintenance activities; in the
event of a change, new information shall be submitted by the owner to the
borough within ten days of the change.
   (B)   The owner is responsible for O&M of the SWM BMPs. If the owner fails
to adhere to the O&M agreement, the borough may perform the services required
and charge the owner appropriate fees. Nonpayment of fees may result in a lien
against the property.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 6, § 602) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 602)
FEES AND EXPENSES
§ 52.100 GENERAL.
   (A)   The borough may charge to the applicant all reasonable costs incurred
in their review.
   (B)   The review fee may include, but not limited to, costs for the
following:
      (1)   Administrative and/or clerical processing;
      (2)   Review of the SWM site plan and associated documents by any duly
authorized representatives of the borough;
      (3)   Attendance at public and/or municipal meetings relating to the
enforcement of this chapter; and
      (4)   Inspection of stormwater management facilities.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 7, § 701) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 701)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 52.115 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, that
allows a non-stormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and
wastewater to enter the waters of this Commonwealth is prohibited.
   (B)   No person shall allow, or cause to allow, discharges into surface
waters of this Commonwealth which are not composed entirely of stormwater,
except:
      (1)   As provided in §
52.116(A); and
      (2)   Discharges allowed under a state or federal permit.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 8, § 801) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 801)
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.116 AUTHORIZED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The following discharges are authorized unless they are determined to
be significant contributors to pollution to the waters of this Commonwealth:
      (1)   Discharges from firefighting activities;
      (2)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
      (3)   Potable water sources including waterline and fire hydrant
flushing;
      (4)   Uncontaminated water from foundations or from footing drains;
      (5)   Irrigation drainage;
      (6)   Lawn watering;
      (7)   Air conditioning condensate;
      (8)   De-chlorinated swimming pool discharges;
      (9)   Springs;
      (10)    Uncontaminated groundwater;
      (11)   Water from crawl space pumps;
      (12)   Water from individual residential car washing;
      (13)   Pavement wash waters where spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous
materials have not occurred (unless all spill material has been removed) and
where detergents are not used;
      (14)   Routine external building wash down (which does not use detergents
or other compounds); and
      (15)   Discharge from diverted stream flows.
   (B)   In the event that the borough or DEP determines that any of the
discharges identified in division (A) above significantly contribute to
pollution of the waters of this Commonwealth, the borough or DEP will notify
the responsible person(s) to cease the discharge.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 8, § 802) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 802)
§ 52.117 ALTERATION OF SWM BMPs.
   No person shall modify, remove, fill, landscape or alter any SWM BMPs,
facilities, areas or structures without the written approval of the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 8, § 803) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 803)
Penalty, see §
52.999
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
§ 52.130 RIGHT-OF-ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, duly authorized representatives of
the borough may enter at reasonable times upon any property within the borough
to inspect the condition of the stormwater structure and facilities in regard
to any aspect regulated by this chapter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 9, § 901) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 901)
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.131 INSPECTION.
   (A)   SWM BMPs should be inspected by the landowner, or the owner’s designee
(including the borough for dedicated and owned facilities), according to the
following list of minimum frequencies:
      (1)   Annually for the first five years; and
      (2)   Once every three years thereafter.
   (B)   All inspections shall be documented in writing and shall document any
maintenance and repair needs.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 9, § 902) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 902)
§ 52.132 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   When the borough determines that an activity is not being carried out
in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, it shall issue a written
notice of violation to the owner of the property. The notice of violation shall
contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner or applicant;
      (2)   The address when available or a description of the building,
structure or land upon which the violation is occurring;
      (3)   A statement specifying the nature of the violation and a time
schedule for the completion of such remedial action;
      (4)   A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be
assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and
      (5)   A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to
the borough by filing a written notice of appeal within 15 days of service of
notice of violation.
   (B)   Persons receiving a notice of violation will be required to halt all
construction activities. This “stop work order” will be in effect until the
borough confirms that the development activity is in compliance and the
violation has been satisfactorily addressed. Failure to address a notice of
violation in a timely manner can result in civil, criminal or monetary
penalties in accordance with the enforcement measures authorized in this
chapter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 9, § 903) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 903)
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.133 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to undertake any regulated activity
except as provided in an approved SWM site plan, unless specifically exempted
in §
52.036.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to violate §
52.117.
   (C)   Inspections regarding compliance with the SWM site plan are a
responsibility of the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 9, § 904) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 904)
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.134 SUSPENSIONS AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any approval or permit issued by the borough pursuant to this chapter
may be suspended or revoked for:
      (1)   Noncompliance with or failure to implement any provisions of the
approved SWM site plan or O&M agreement;
      (2)   A violation of any provision of this chapter or any other
applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation relating to the regulated
activity; and
      (3)   The creation of any condition or the commission of any act during
the regulated activity which constitutes or creates a hazard, nuisance,
pollution or endangers the life or property of others.
   (B)   A suspended approval may be reinstated by the borough when:
      (1)   The borough has inspected and approved the corrections to the
violations that cause the suspension; and
      (2)    The borough is satisfied that the violation has been corrected.
   (C)   An approval that has been revoked by the borough cannot be reinstated.
The applicant may apply for a new approval under the provisions of this
chapter.
   (D)   If a violation causes no immediate danger to life, public health or
property, at its sole discretion, the borough may provide a limited time period
for the owner to correct the violation. In these cases, the borough will
provide the owner, or the owner’s designee, with a written notice of the
violation and the time period allowed for the owner to correct the violation.
If the owner does not correct the violation within the allowed time period, the
borough may revoke or suspend any, or all, applicable approvals and permits
pertaining to any provision of this chapter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 9, § 905) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 905)
§ 52.135 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any action of the borough or its designee,
relevant to the provisions of this chapter, may appeal to the borough within 30
days of that action.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the borough, relevant to the
provisions of this chapter, may appeal to the County Court of Common Pleas in
the county where the activity has taken place within 30 days of the borough’s
decision.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 9, § 907) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 907)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
summary offense, and upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not less
than $50 and not more than $300 for each violation, recoverable with costs.
Each day that the violation continues shall be a separate offense and penalties
shall be cumulative.
   (B)   In addition, the borough may institute injunctive, mandamus or any
other appropriate action or proceeding of law or in equity for the enforcement
of this chapter. Any court of competent jurisdiction shall have the right to
issue restraining orders, temporary or permanent injunctions, mandamus or other
appropriate forms of remedy or relief.
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Part 9, § 906) (Ord. 1403, passed 7-18-2011, § 906)
APPENDIX A: INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING THE SMALL PROJECT APPLICATION.
The small projects application was designed to assist individuals constructing
improvements of impervious surfaces (surfaces that do not infiltrate water,
i.e. rooftops driveways, sidewalk and the like) A method for determining if
control measures are required to be implemented to comply with the SWM
Ordinance.
Step 1:   Determine the length (in feet) and width (in feet) of the proposed
improvement and insert into the “length” and “width” columns under the
respective “surface type”. If the “surface type” is not listed use “other” and
list the improvement type. Irregular surfaces will require additional
mathematical equations not listed in the application or the examples.
Step 2:   Multiply the length times the width and insert that number into the
“Impervious Area (ft2)” column. This number will be in square feet.
Step 3:   Add the numbers In the “Impervious Area (ft2)” column and insert the
total number of square feet in the “TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA” box.
Step 4:   If the “TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA” is:
2,500 square feet or less your project is exempt and you can proceed with
construction as planned (see Example #1).
2,500 square feet to 5,000 square feet you are required to submit the
application to the borough, along with details on how you will manage the
increase in runoff (implement volume controls) (see Example #2).
5,000 square feet or more your project requires a SWM plan prepared by a
Pennsylvania registered design professional experienced in the design of such
control measures and to the requirements of the Stormwater Management
Ordinance.
Step 5:   If credit will be taken for DIA (Disconnected Impervious Area), list
the “Qualifying Surfaces” obtain the square footage of the impervious area by
multiplying the length times the width (see Example #2).
Step 6:   Subtract the “DIA CREDITS” from the “TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA” and
insert this number in the “TOTAL AREA TO BE MANAGED BY BMPs” box.
Step 7:   Multiply the number in the “TOTAL AREA TO BE MANAGED BY BMPs” box by
0.20 (20%) and insert that number into the “SURFACE AREA OF BMPs (ft2) “ box,
This number will be in square feet.
PLEASE USE WORKSHEET ON FOLLOWING PAGE
Small Project Application Swm Plan Worksheet
Surface Type - Description Length X Width = Impervious Area (ft2)
Small Project Application Swm Plan Worksheet
Surface
Type -      Length                                             X Width = Impervious Area (ft2)
Description
Building                                                       X       =
                                                               X       =
Garage                                                         X       =
                                                               X       =
Driveway                                                       X       =
                                                               X       =
Other
parking                                                        X       =
areas
                                                               X       =
Patios or                                                      X       =
sidewalks
                                                               X       =
Other
            “TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA”                                =
If the “TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA” is 2,500 square feet or less your project is exempt.
If the “TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA” is 2,500 square feet to 5,000 square feet your project requires this small project application be submitted
to the borough and volume controls must be installed to meet the requirements of the “SURFACE AREA OF BMPs REQUIRED.”
If the “TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA” is greater than 5,000 square feet your project requires a Stormwater Management Plan prepared by a
Pennsylvania registered design professional experienced in the design of such control measures and to the requirements of the Stormwater
Management Ordinance
Requirements for Use of Discconnected Impervious Area (DIA) Credits
1.   Rooftop area draining to a downspout must be 500 sq. ft1.   Paved area (drives) draining to a point must be 1,000 sq. ft. or less.
or less;
2.   Discharge must be to an area with positive slope of 5% 2.   Discharge must be to a gravel strip or spreading device; and the
(one foot of fall per 20 feet of length, 20:1) or less; and a
3.   Minimum distance of 75-feet from a watercourse or down 3.   Flow length of the pervious surface must be greater than or equal to
slope property line.                                           the contributing length.
DIA Credits to Be Subtracted from “Total Impervious Area”
Qualifying  Length                                             X Width =
surfaces
                                                               X       = -
                                                               X       = -
                                                               X       = -
                                                               X       = -
TOTAL AREA TO BE MANAGED BY BMPs                                       =
20% CONVERSION TO BMP                                                  X 0.20
“SURFACE AREA OF BMP’S REQUIRED” (ft2)                           =
 
   SMALL PROJECT APPLICATION SWM PLAN WORKSHEET: EXAMPLE #1
Small Project Application Swm Plan Worksheet
Surface Type - Description Length X Width = Impervious Area (ft2)
Small Project Application Swm Plan Worksheet
Surface
Type -      Length                                             X Width = Impervious Area (ft2)
Description
Building                                                       X       =
                                                               X       =
                                                                 18
Garage      30 ft., 0 in.                                      X ft.,  = 540
                                                                 0 in.
                                                               X       =
                                                                 10
Driveway    31 ft., 0 in.                                      X ft.,  = 310
                                                                 0 in.
                                                               X       =
Other
parking                                                        X       =
areas
                                                               X       =
Patios or                                                      X       =
sidewalks
                                                               X       =
Other
            “TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA”                                =    850
If the “TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA” is 2,500 square feet or less your project is exempt.
If the “TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA” is 2,500 square feet to 5,000 square feet your project requires this small project application be
submitted to the borough and volume controls must be installed to meet the requirements of the “SURFACE AREA OF BMPs REQUIRED.”
If the “TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA” is greater than 5,000 square feet your project requires a Stormwater Management Plan prepared by a
Pennsylvania registered design professional experienced in the design of such control measures and to the requirements of the
Stormwater Management Ordinance
Requirements for Use of Discconnected Impervious Area (DIA) Credits
1.   Rooftop area draining to a downspout must be 500 sq. ft1.   Paved area (drives) draining to a point must be 1,000 sq. ft.
or less;                                                       or less.
2.   Discharge must be to an area with positive slope of 5% 2.   Discharge must be to a gravel strip or spreading device; and
(one foot of fall per 20 feet of length, 20:1) or less; and a  the
3.   Minimum distance of 75-feet from a watercourse or down 3.   Flow length of the pervious surface must be greater than or
slope property line.                                           equal to the contributing length.
DIA Credits to Be Subtracted from “Total Impervious Area”
Qualifying  Length                                             X Width =
surfaces
                                                               X       = -
                                                               X       = -
                                                               X       = -
                                                               X       = -
TOTAL AREA TO BE MANAGED BY BMPs                                       = 0
20% CONVERSION TO BMP                                                  X 0.20
“SURFACE AREA OF BMP’S REQUIRED” (ft2)                           = 0
 
   SMALL PROJECT APPLICATION SWM PLAN WORKSHEET: EXAMPLE #2
Small Project Application Swm Plan Worksheet
Surface Type - Description Length X Width = Impervious Area (ft2)
Small Project Application Swm Plan Worksheet
Surface
Type -      Length                                             X Width = Impervious Area (ft2)
Description
                                                                 30
Building    40 ft., 0 in.                                      X ft.,  = 1,200
                                                                 0 in.
                                                               X       =
                                                                 25
Garage      30 ft., 0 in.                                      X ft.,  = 750
                                                                 0 in.
                                                               X       =
                                                                 20
Driveway    41 ft., 0 in.                                      X ft.,  = 820
                                                                 0 in.
                                                               X       =
Other
parking                                                        X       =
areas
                                                               X       =
Patios or                                                      X       =
sidewalks
                                                               X       =
Other
            “TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA”                                = 2,770
If the “TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA” is 2,500 square feet or less your project is exempt.
If the “TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA” is 2,500 square feet to 5,000 square feet your project requires this small project application be
submitted to the borough and volume controls must be installed to meet the requirements of the “SURFACE AREA OF BMPs REQUIRED.”
If the “TOTAL IMPERVIOUS AREA” is greater than 5,000 square feet your project requires a Stormwater Management Plan prepared by a
Pennsylvania registered design professional experienced in the design of such control measures and to the requirements of the
Stormwater Management Ordinance
Requirements for Use of Discconnected Impervious Area (DIA) Credits
1.   Rooftop area draining to a downspout must be 500 sq. ft1.   Paved area (drives) draining to a point must be 1,000 sq. ft.
or less;                                                       or less.
2.   Discharge must be to an area with positive slope of 5% 2.   Discharge must be to a gravel strip or spreading device; and
(one foot of fall per 20 feet of length, 20:1) or less; and a  the
3.   Minimum distance of 75-feet from a watercourse or down 3.   Flow length of the pervious surface must be greater than or
slope property line.                                           equal to the contributing length.
DIA Credits to Be Subtracted from “Total Impervious Area”
Qualifying  Length                                             X Width =
surfaces
Barn roof                                                        15
downspout   20 ft., 0 in.                                      X ft.,  = -300
#1                                                               0 in.
Barn roof                                                        15
downspout   20 ft., 0 in.                                      X ft.,  = -300
#2                                                               0 in.
                                                               X       = -
                                                               X       = -
TOTAL AREA TO BE MANAGED BY BMPs                                       = 2,170
20% CONVERSION TO BMP                                                  X 0.20
“SURFACE AREA OF BMP’S REQUIRED” (ft2)                           = 434
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Appendix 24-A)
APPENDIX B: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (O&M) AGREEMENT.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (O&M) AGREEMENT
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
(SWM BMPs)
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this ____________ day of ____________,
20____, by and between __________________________, (hereinafter “Landowner”),
and ________________, (hereinafter “Borough of Grove City”), Mercer County,
Pennsylvania,
WHEREAS, the Landowner is the owner of certain real property as recorded in
Deed Book _____ at Page _____ (hereinafter “Property”) of the Mercer County
Records, Pennsylvania, and
WHEREAS, the Landowner is proceeding to build and develop the property; and
WHEREAS, the SWM Site Plan approved by the borough (hereinafter “Plan”) for the
property identified herein, which is attached hereto as Addendum A and made
part hereof, as approved by the borough, provides for management of stormwater
within the confines of the Property through the use of SWM BMPs; and
WHEREAS, the Borough of Grove City, and the Landowner, his successors and
assigns, agree that the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the
borough and the protection and maintenance of water quality require that on-
site SWM BMPs be constructed and maintained on the property; and
WHEREAS, the Borough of Grove City requires, through the implementation of the
SWM Site Plan, that SWM BMPs as required by said Plan and the Municipal
Stormwater Management Ordinance be constructed and adequately operated and
maintained by the landowner, successors assigns.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing promises, the mutual
covenants contained herein, and the following terms and conditions, the parties
hereto agree as follows:
   1.   The Landowner shall construct the SWM BMPs in accordance with the plans
and specifications identified In the SWM Site Plan.
   2.   The Landowner shall operate and maintain the SWM BMPs as shown on the
Plan in good working order in accordance with the specific maintenance
requirements of §
52.131, Inspection of the SWM Ordinance.
   3.   The Landowner hereby grants permission to the Borough of Grove City,
its authorized agents, and employees, to enter upon the property, at reasonable
times and upon the presentation of proper credentials, to inspect the SWM BMPs
whenever necessary. Whenever possible, the Borough of Grove City shall notify
the Landowner prior to entering the property.
   4.   In the event the Landowner fails to operate and maintain the SWM BMPs
per paragraph 2, the Borough of Grove City or its representatives may enter
upon the property and take whatever action is deemed necessary to maintain said
SWM BMPs. It is expressly understood and agreed that the Borough of Grove City
is under no obligation to maintain or repair said facilities, and in no event
shall this Agreement be construed to impose any such obligation on the Borough
of Grove City,
   5.   In the event the Borough of Grove City, pursuant to this Agreement,
performs work of any nature, or expends any funds in performance of said work
for labor, use of equipment, supplies, materials and the like, the landowner
shall reimburse the Borough of Grove City for all expenses (direct and
indirect) incurred within ten (10) days of receipt of invoice from the Borough
of Grove City.
   6.   The intent and purpose of this Agreement is to ensure the proper
maintenance of the on-site SWM BMPs by the Landowner; provided , however, that
this Agreement shall not be deemed to create or effect any additional liability
of any party for damage alleged to result from or be caused by stormwater
runoff.
   7.   The landowner, its executors, administrators, assigns and other
successors in interests, shall release the Borough of Grove City from all
damages, accidents, causalities, occurrences or claims which might arise or be
asserted against said employees and representatives from the construction,
presence, existence, or maintenance of the SWM BMPs by the Landowner or Borough
of Grove City.
   8. The Borough of Grove City may inspect the SWM BMPs at a minimum of once
every three years to ensure their continued functioning.
This Agreement shall be recorded at the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of
Mercer County, Pennsylvania, and shall constitute a covenant running with the
property and/or equitable servitude, and shall be binding on the Landowner, his
administrators, executors, assigns, heirs and other successors in interests, in
perpetuity.
ATTEST:
WITNESS the following signatures and seals:
(SEAL)                              For the Borough of Grove City:
                                 ________________________________
ATTEST:                           For the Landowner:
                                 ________________________________
________________ (City, Borough, Township) County of __________, State of
________ I, ________________, a Notary Public in and for the County and State
aforesaid, whose commission expires on the _________ day of _________, 20_____,
do hereby certify that _________ whose name(s) is/are signed to the foregoing
Agreement bearing date of the _________ day of _________, 20_____, has
acknowledged the same before me in my said County and State.
GIVEN UNDER MY HAND THIS _________ day of _________,20______ .
NOTARY PUBLIC ______________________________________________
                                          (SEAL)
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Appendix 24-B)
APPENDIX C: REVIEW FEE REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT.
   REVIEW FEE REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT MUST BE COMPLETED AND SIGNED BY THE DEVELOPER/APPLICANT PRIOR TO
SUBMISSION OF THE SUBDIVISION/LAND DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION AND PLANS, SKETCH
PLANS, CONDITIONAL USE APPLICATIONS OR ANY OTHER SUBMISSION WHICH REQUIRES
MUNICIPAL CONSULTANT REVIEW. REVIEW FEE REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this _________ day of _________, 20_____,
by and between _______________, (hereinafter the “Landowner”), and Borough of
Grove City, Mercer County, Pennsylvania, (hereinafter”Borough of Grove City”);
WITNESSETH
WHEREAS, the Landowner is the owner of certain real property as recorded by
deed in the land records of Mercer County, Pennsylvania, Deed Book _____ at
Page _____, (hereinafter “Property”).
WHEREAS, the Landowner is proceeding to build and develop the property; and
WHEREAS, the Landowner has submitted a SWM Site Plan for review and approval by
the Borough of Grove City (hereinafter referred to as the “Plan”) for the
property identified herein; and
WHEREAS, the Developer has requested and/or required the Borough of Grove City
approval and/or review of its proposed plans, and the Borough of Grove City is
willing to authorize its professional consultants to review said Plan and/or
proposal upon execution of this agreement, and upon deposit of an escrow
account according to the current Fee Schedule.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing promises, the mutual
covenants contained herein, and the following terms and conditions, the parties
hereto agree as follows:
   1.   The Landowner and Borough of Grove City hereby authorize and direct the
Borough of Grove City’s professional consultants, as defined at § 107 of the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code to review Landowner’s plans or
proposals to use its property, and to make such recommendations and
specifications as may be necessary with respect to such plans in accordance
with all applicable Borough of Grove City ordinances, and State and Federal
rules and regulations.
   2.   The Landowner and Borough of Grove City acknowledge that the Borough of
Grove City will incur costs and fees relating to the review of Landowner’s
plans by its professional consultants, and Landowner agrees to pay and/or
reimburse the Borough of Grove City for such costs in accordance with this
agreement.
   3.   The Landowner shall pay the professional consultant’s charges and fees
for the following: (a) review of any and all Stormwater Management Plans,
studies, or other correspondence relating to the Landowners submission; (b)
attendance at any and all meetings relating to Landowner’s plan; (c)
preparation of any reports, legal documents, or other correspondence relating
to Landowner’s plan or proposal; and (d) administrative cost and incurred
expenses relating to the administration of this agreement. It is understood by
the execution of this agreement that the Landowner specifically accepts the Fee
Schedule currently in effect in the Borough of Grove City.
   4.   The Landowner hereby agrees to deposit with the Borough of Grove City
the sum of _____ dollars ($_____), payable as cash in U.S. dollars or check
drawn on a Pennsylvania bank, as security for the payment of all costs and
expenses, charges and fees as set forth in paragraph 3 above, upon execution of
this agreement, which shall be held in a non-interest bearing account by the
Borough of Grove City. In the event that the above deposited escrow fund shall
fall below fifty percent (50%) of the original deposit, the Landowner shall
immediately, upon receipt of written notice from the Borough of Grove City or
its agent(s), deposit sums with the Borough of Grove City necessary to
replenish the account to its original balance. In the event that this is
insufficient to pay current Borough of Grove City incurred expenses, Landowner
agrees to pay the total amount currently due for Borough of Grove City incurred
expenses without delay in addition to re-establishing the base escrow account
balance. The Borough of Grove City will use its best efforts to advise the
Landowner of the impending likelihood that its costs have exceeded the required
escrow account sums as described above.
   5.   Landowner and Borough of Grove City agree that upon completion of the
Borough of Grove City’s review of Landowner’s plan or proposal, all unused
portions of the escrow account as described above shall be returned to the
applicant upon written request to the Borough of Grove City.
   6.   Landowner and Borough of Grove City acknowledge that the ordinance and
appropriate fee schedules require Landowner to pay Borough of Grove City’s
professional consultant fees relating to this plan or project, and in the even
that Landowner fails to provide sufficient funds in the above-described
revolving escrow account upon fifteen (15) days written notice to the Landowner
or make the initial deposit payment described above within five (5) days of the
date of this agreement, Landowner shall be in default of this agreement and in
violation of the above sections of the ordinance. In the event of Landowner’s
default as described above, the Borough of Grove City may refuse to issue any
permit or grant any approval necessary to further improve or develop the
subject site until such time as the terms of this Agreement are strictly met by
Landowner. Moreover, final approval or further review may be denied or delayed
until such time as the terms of this agreement are strictly met by Landowner.
   7.   Landowner and the Borough of Grove City further agree that all fees or
costs arising out of this Agreement shall be paid prior to the issuance of any
permit, occupancy or otherwise, for the use, improvement or construction of the
buildings as proposed on the Landowner’s plan. The Landowner agrees and
acknowledges that no permit, occupancy or otherwise, or recordable plans, shall
be released by the Borough of Grove City until all outstanding professional
consultant fees and costs are paid to the Borough of Grove City, and provided
that the Landowner is not in default under this agreement.
   8.   The Landowner may at any time terminate all further obligations under
this Agreement by giving fifteen (15) days written notice to the Borough of
Grove City that it does not desire to proceed with the development as set forth
on the plan and upon receipt of such written notice by the Landowner to the
Borough of Grove City, the Landowner shall be liable to the Borough of Grove
City for its costs and expenses Incurred to the date and time of its receipt of
the notice, plus the applicable administrative costs and expenses as outlined
in paragraph 3 above.
   9.   The Landowner and the Borough of Grove City further agree that the
Borough of Grove City shall have the right and privilege to sue the Landowner
or the property owner in court for reimbursement or to lien the property or
both, in its sole discretion, for any expense in excess of the then current
balance of funds on deposit with the Borough of Grove City in accordance with
this agreement incurred by the Borough of Grove City by reason of any review,
supervision and inspection of Landowner’s project by its professionals
including, but not limited to, the Borough of Grove City Engineer and
Solicitor. The Borough of Grove City’s election of its remedies under this
paragraph shall not constitute a waiver of any other remedies the Borough of
Grove City may have.
   10.   The Landowner and the Borough of Grove City acknowledge that this
agreement represents their full understanding as to the Borough of Grove City’s
reimbursement for professional or consultant services.
   11.   This agreement shall be binding on and insure to the benefit of the
successors and assigns of Landowner, The Borough of Grove City shall receive
thirty (30) days advance written notice from Landowner of any proposed
assignment of Landowner’s rights and responsibilities under this Agreement.
ATTEST:
WITNESS the following signatures and seals:
(SEAL) ________________________ For the Borough of Grove City:
ATTEST: ________________________ For the Landowner:
____________________________ (City, Borough, Township)
County of Mercer, Pennsylvania
I,________________________, a Notary Public in and for the County and State
aforesaid, whose commission expires on the ________________ day of
________________, 20_____, do hereby certify that ____________________________
whose name(s) is/are signed to the foregoing Agreement bearing date of the
________________day of ________________, 20_____, has acknowledged the same
before me in my said County and State.
GIVEN UNDER MY HAND THIS ________________day of ________________, 20_____.
NOTARY PUBLIC _____________________________________
                                                (SEAL)
(1980 Code, Ch. 24, Appendix 24-C)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
Section
Sewer Construction and Connections
Part A: Requirement for Connections; Cost of Construction
   
53.001   Property owner to make connection to sewer on abutting street or alley
   
53.002   Authority for borough to make connection and collect cost from
property owner
   
53.003   Deposit required prior to construction of sewer line
   
53.004   Borough not required to construct sewer line following petition and
deposit
Part B: Connection Procedures and Standards
   
53.015   Adequacy of sewer connections and drains
   
53.016   Work to be inspected; notice of readiness for inspection
   
53.017   Separate connections and drains; plans for private sewers
   
53.018   Standards for material and workmanship; manner of laying pipe and
house sewer
   
53.019   Material for certain sewers laid between buildings
   
53.020   Connection of certain drains to sanitary sewer system prohibited
   
53.021   Correction of violations
Tapping and Connection Fees
   
53.035   Sewer capacity tap fee
   
53.036   Charges for sewer collection system taps
Sewer Rental
   
53.050   Short title
   
53.051   Purpose
   
53.052   Conditions of service
   
53.053   Monthly readiness-to-serve charges
   
53.054   Monthly additional waste charges
   
53.055   Monthly multi-user charges
   
53.056   Monthly charges based on private water usage
   
53.057   Monthly surcharges for high-strength wastewater
   
53.058   Pine Township, Liberty Township, Springfield Township, Mercer Township
and Harrisville Borough rates
   
53.059   Rate review
   
53.060   Bookkeeping
   
53.061   Administration
   
53.062   Procedure for termination of service
   
53.063   Savings clause
Uses of Sewers
   
53.080   Short title
   
53.081   Purpose
   
53.082   Regulations
   
53.083   The disposal of waters not containing sewage
   
53.084   Materials and substances excluded from public sewers
   
53.085   Toxic substances prohibited or accepted conditionally
   
53.086   Terms and conditions for the issuance of a permit
   
53.087   Removal, transportation and disposition of scavenger wastes
   
53.088   Rules and regulations in force and validity
Industrial Wastewater Requirements
   
53.100   General provisions
   
53.101   Regulations
   
53.102   Fees
   
53.103   Administration
   
53.104   Enforcement
Backflow Prevention and Cross Connection
   
53.120   General policy
   
53.121   Definitions
   
53.122   Water system
   
53.123   Cross-connections prohibited
   
53.124   Surveys and investigations
   
53.125   Where protection required
   
53.126   Type of protection required
   
53.127   Backflow prevention devices
   
53.128   Installation
   
53.129   Inspection and maintenance
   
53.130   Booster pumps
   
53.131   Violations
Private Sanitary Sewer Laterals
   
53.140   Definitions
   
53.141   Certification application
   
53.142   Temporary document of certification
   
53.143   Sale without compliance
   
53.144   Water disconnection for non-compliance
   
53.145   Rules and regulations
 
   
53.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Applications; industrial sewer connection application wastewater
discharge permit
SEWER CONSTRUCTION AND CONNECTIONS
PART A: REQUIREMENT FOR CONNECTIONS; COST OF CONSTRUCTION
§ 53.001 PROPERTY OWNER TO MAKE CONNECTION TO SEWER ON ABUTTING STREET OR
ALLEY.
   From and after the legal publication of this chapter, any and all persons
owning property in Grove City, Pennsylvania, abutting on or adjoining any
street or alley in which is a sewer shall be required after 45 days’ notice as
aforesaid to make connection with such sewer in such a manner as the borough
may order for the purpose of discharge of such drainage or waste matter as the
borough may specify.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 1A, § 1) (Ord. 236, passed 5-3-1919, § 1)
Editor’s note:
   Section 3 of this Ord. 236 declared all sewers emptying into Wolf Creek and
not a part of or connected with the sanitary sewer or its branches, known as
Main Interceptor, to be nuisances, and required all parties to disconnect such
sewers and connect with the main sewer system.
§ 53.002 AUTHORITY FOR BOROUGH TO MAKE CONNECTION AND COLLECT COST FROM
PROPERTY OWNER.
   In case any owner of property on sewer line as herein specified in said
borough shall fail to connect his or her premises with sewer after 45 days’
notice as aforesaid the said borough be and is hereby empowered by its proper
officer and employees to make such connections and collect the cost thereof
from the owner by a municipal claim or in an action of assumpsit.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 1A, § 2) (Ord. 236, passed 5-3-1919, § 2)
§ 53.003 DEPOSIT REQUIRED PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION OF SEWER LINE.
   Sanitary sewer lines be constructed only after the parties requesting the
sewer line deposit with the borough an amount equal to the cost of constructing
that portion of the said line which directly serves the lands owned by the
petitioners.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 1A, § 3) (Res. 4/16/1951, passed 4-16-1951, § 3)
§ 53.004 BOROUGH NOT REQUIRED TO CONSTRUCT SEWER LINE FOLLOWING PETITION AND
DEPOSIT.
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to require the said borough to
construct a sewer or water line merely because of a petitioner’s compliance
with the provisions of this resolution.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 1A, § 4) (Res. 4/16/1951, passed 4-16-1951, § 4)
PART B: CONNECTION PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS
§ 53.015 ADEQUACY OF SEWER CONNECTIONS AND DRAINS.
   It shall be the duty of every person constructing or owning any drains, soil
pipe, passage or connection between a sewer and any ground, building, erection
or place of business, and in like manner the duty of the owners of all grounds,
buildings, erections and all parties interested therein or thereat, to cause
and require that such drain, soil pipe, passage or connection shall be adequate
for its purpose, and shall at all times allow to pass freely all material that
enters or should enter the same, and no change of drainage, sewerage or the
sewer connection of any house shall be permitted unless notice thereof shall
have been given the Building and Housing Inspector and assent thereto obtained
in writing.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 1B, § 11) (Ord. 618, passed 3-5-1951, § 1; Ord. 971,
passed 1-21-1974, § 1)
§ 53.016 WORK TO BE INSPECTED; NOTICE OF READINESS FOR INSPECTION.
   Drainage, sewerage or plumbing work must not be covered or concealed in any
manner until after it is inspected and approved by the Building and Housing
Inspector. Notice must be given said Inspector upon blanks to be furnished by
him or her, when the work is sufficiently advanced for such inspection, when it
shall be the duty of the proper officers to inspect the same within three days
after receipt of such notice.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 1B, § 12) (Ord. 618, passed 3-5-1951, § 2; Ord. 971,
passed 1-21-1974, § 1) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.017 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS AND DRAINS; PLANS FOR PRIVATE SEWERS.
   The main drainage system of every house or building shall be separately and
independently connected with the street sewer, where such sewer exists, except
where two houses are built together on a lot with a frontage of 30 feet or
less, when one connection with main sewer will be allowed; but there shall be a
separate house drain for each house, connected by a Y connection in the front
of such houses, at the property line, with main house sewer; or, where one
building exists or is erected in the rear of another, on an interior lot, of
single ownership, and no private sewer is available, or can be made for the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the house
drain from the front building may be extended to the rear buildings, and the
whole will be considered as one house or building drain. Where it is necessary
to construct a private sewer to connect with sewer on adjacent street, such
plans may be used as may be approved by the Building and Housing Inspector, but
in no case shall joint drains be laid in cellars, parallel with the street or
alley.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 1B, § 13) (Ord. 618, passed 3-5-1951, § 3; Ord. 971,
passed 1-21-1974, § 1) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.018 STANDARDS FOR MATERIAL AND WORKMANSHIP; MANNER OF LAYING PIPE AND
HOUSE SEWER.
   Materials can be cast iron, concrete, vitrified clay, tile, plastic no less
grade than Schedule 40, asbestos-cement, copper tube type L, hard temper and
all joints shall be watertight and root-proof. In filled ground the sewer will
be of cast iron or copper tube of a weight not less than that of copper water
tube type L, hard temper, except that non-metallic drains may be used if laid
on an approved continuous supporting system approved by the Housing Official.
All pipe shall be laid on an up-grade with the bell or socket, if so designed,
at the upper end. The sewer shall not be laid closer than five feet to any
exterior wall of any building; nor be less than three and one-half feet below
the surface of the ground. The sewer shall be covered by hand to a depth of 12
inches above the top of the pipe.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 1B, § 14) (Ord. 618, passed 3-5-1951, § 4; Ord. 971,
passed 1-21-1974, § 2)
§ 53.019 MATERIAL FOR CERTAIN SEWERS LAID BETWEEN BUILDINGS.
   Where a sewer is laid between buildings in a passageway, alley or courtyard,
at a less distance than five feet from the buildings, it must be constructed of
extra heavy cast iron pipe, for a distance corresponding to the length of the
foundation of said buildings.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 1B, § 15) (Ord. 618, passed 3-5-1951, § 5)
§ 53.020 CONNECTION OF CERTAIN DRAINS TO SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   Where subsoil drains are placed under the cellar floor or are used to
encircle the outer walls of a building, they shall not be connected or
discharged into any sanitary sewer. Where such drains are located at such
elevation that the discharge cannot be carried by gravity to existing storm
drainage facilities, the discharge shall be made into a sump or receiving tank,
the contents of which shall be automatically lifted and discharged into or as
close to existing storm drainage facilities as is practicable. The discharge
from roofs, paved areas, yards, courts and courtyards shall be disposed of in
the same manner.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 1B, § 17) (Ord. 733, passed 4-15-1957, § 1)
§ 53.021 CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, any facilities
constructed in violation of the terms of §
53.020 shall, upon written notice from the borough to the owner or occupant of
the property in question, be reconstructed forthwith by said owner or occupant
in such manner that they comply with the provisions of this chapter, at the
cost of the said owner or occupant.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 1B, § 18) (Ord. 733, passed 4-15-1957, § 2) Penalty,
see §
53.999
TAPPING AND CONNECTION FEES
§ 53.035 SEWER CAPACITY TAP FEE.
   (A)   The following sewer capacity tap fee shall be paid for each new
connection. The capacity tap fee shall be in addition to any collection system
tap fee, which is the cost to connect a new user to the sewer collection
system. The sewer collection system tap fee is provided in §
53.036. Payment of the capacity tap fee and collection system tap fee shall
accompany each application for a new connection.
   (B)   There shall be a sanitary sewer capacity tap fee of $3,300 per EDU for
each new customer connection to the wastewater treatment system.
(Ord. 1496, passed 12-18-2023)
§ 53.036 CHARGES FOR SEWER COLLECTION SYSTEM TAPS.
   The fee for new or replacement connections to the wastewater collection
system shall be as follows:
   (A)   The estimated sum equal to all of the costs of the sewer tap
construction including, but not limited to, labor, materials, equipment fees,
state permit fees, excavation, asphalt restoration and/or contractor charges
plus an administrative charge in an amount equal to 10% of the construction
costs.
   (B)   The borough or its designee shall make all connections to the sanitary
sewer collection system, unless otherwise approved by the borough. Upon
approval of an application for sewer service and upon payment of a sanitary
sewer capacity tap fee set as forth in §
53.035(B), and payment of the estimated sanitary sewer collection system tap
cost set forth in §
53.036(A), the borough, its designee, authorized agent, or a designated
contractor will tap the main sanitary sewer, install a tapping saddle or wye
connection and lateral pipe to the curb, or if no curb, to the property line;
all of which facilities shall remain property of the customer and the customer
shall be responsible for maintaining the entire lateral pipe from the building
to the main sewer. Upon completion, the borough will calculate the actual costs
of construction and invoice the property owner for any additional billing.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 2, § 31) (Ord. 637, passed 12-3-1951, § 1; Ord. 853,
passed 9-14-1966, § 1; Ord. 972, passed 1-21-1974; Ord. 1109, passed 8-18-1980,
§ 1; Ord. 1323, passed 10-20-2003, § 1; Ord. 1336, passed 6-20-2005, § 1; Ord.
1338, passed 12-19-2005, § 1; Ord. 1496, passed 12-18-2023)
SEWER RENTAL
§ 53.050 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Grove City Borough User Charge and
Industrial Cost Recovery Charge Sewage Ordinance”.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 3, § 49) (Ord. 1088, passed 11-7-1979, § 1)
§ 53.051 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish standard conditions and to
establish user charges and industrial cost recovery charges for sewage service
of the borough to residents and nonresidents of the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 3, § 50) (Ord. 1088, passed 11-7-1979, § 2)
§ 53.052 CONDITIONS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Residents of the borough. The recorded owners of property shall be
responsible for all charges for service used on the owner’s property. Property
owners shall be required to sign the necessary documents acknowledging their
ownership and their obligation to pay for the service rendered by the borough
prior to institution of service by the borough.
   (B)   Pine Township, Liberty Township, Springfield Township, Mercer Township
and Harrisville Borough. The conditions for service to Pine Township, Liberty
Township, Springfield Township, Mercer Township and Harrisville Borough are set
forth in an agreement approved by Ordinance #1438 on September 19, 2016, as may
be amended from time to time, by and between the borough and the respective
municipalities.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 3, § 51) (Ord. 1088, passed 11-7-1979, § 3; Ord. 1388,
passed 10-19-2009, § 2; Ord. 1414, passed 12-17-2012, § 2; Ord. 1457, passed
12-17-2018, § 1)
§ 53.053 MONTHLY READINESS-TO-SERVE CHARGES.
   The following minimum charges shall be made monthly per meter based on water
meter size and water usage:
Demand by Meter Size (in Wastewater Used (in Effective for Bills Rendered
inches)                  gallons)            on or after 1-1-2024 Minimum
Demand by Meter Size (in Wastewater Used (in Effective for Bills Rendered
inches)                  gallons)            on or after 1-1-2024 Minimum
5/8 or 3/4               2,000               $29.07
1                        5,000               $74.69
1-1/4                    8,000               $120.95
1-1/2                    12,000              $153.24
2                        21,000              $248.72
3                        48,000              $498.80
4                        85,000              $829.33
6                        185,000             $1,754.93
8                        325,000             $2,996.08
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 3, § 52) (Ord. 1088, passed 11-7-1979, § 4; Ord. 1118,
passed 12-29-1980, § 1; Ord. 1133, passed 1-8-1982, § 1; Ord. 1155, passed 1-3-
1984; Ord. 1166, passed 12-17-1984; Ord. 1221, passed 12-17-1990, § 1; Ord.
1316, passed 12-16-2002, § 1; Ord. 1388, passed 10-19-2009, § 2; Ord. 1414,
passed 12-17-2012, § 2; Ord. 1457, passed 12-17-2018, § 1; Ord. 1466, passed 1-
6-2020, § 1; Ord. 1473, passed 12-21-2020, § 1; Ord. 1482, passed 12-20-2021, §
1; Ord. 1496, passed 12-18-2023)
§ 53.054 MONTHLY ADDITIONAL WASTE CHARGES.
   In addition to the minimum levied under §
53.053, the following additional charges shall be made monthly for wastewater
used in excess of the amounts set forth in §
53.053:
 
                                     Effective 01/01/2021
Next 3,000 gallons rate per thousand $6.03
Next 5,000 gallons                   $5.79
Next 5,000 gallons                   $5.79
Next 5,000 gallons                   $5.22
Next 5,000 gallons                   $5.22
Excess over 23,000 gallons           $4.62
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 3, § 53) (Ord. 1088, passed 11-7-1979, § 5; Ord. 1097,
passed 4-26-1980, § 1; Ord. 1118, passed 12-29-1980, § 2; Ord. 1133, passed 1-
8-1982, § 1; Ord. 1155, passed 1-3-1984; Ord. 1221, passed 12-17-1990, § 2;
Ord. 1316, passed 12-16-2002, § 1; Ord. 1388, passed 10-19-2009, § 2; Ord.
1414, passed 12-17-2012, § 2; Ord. 1466, passed 1-6-2020, § 1)
§ 53.055 MONTHLY MULTI-USER CHARGES.
   (A)   The total monthly charge made on meters that serve more than one
dwelling unit and/or commercial user shall be based on water consumption and
shall be determined as follows: the total water use in gallons for each billing
period shall be divided by the number of dwelling units and/or commercial users
served by the meter.
   (B)   That average use of water shall be used in assessing sewage charges by
applying the average water use in gallons to the five-eighths-inch meter size
rates set forth in §§
53.053 and 53.054.
   (C)   The average sewage charge as so determined shall then be multiplied by
the number of dwelling units and/or commercial users served by that meter to
determine the total sewage charge.
   (D)   The total sewage charge shall be billed to the customer responsible
for charge against the meter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 3, § 54) (Ord. 1088, passed 11-7-1979, § 6)
§ 53.056 MONTHLY CHARGES BASED ON PRIVATE WATER USAGE.
   (A)   Users of the Borough sewage system who obtain water, in whole or in
part, from private or unmetered sources shall be charged a monthly flat rate of
$33.55 per equivalent dwelling unit (EDU) and each EDU or fraction thereof
shall be subject to this monthly minimum flat rate charge. For the purposes of
this section, an equivalent dwelling unit shall be considered to be 5,000
gallons of potable water consumed per month.
   (B)   In the alternative to division (A) above, at the option of the sewage
system user and provided that the sewage system user permits uninterrupted
access and unscheduled inspections of private and borough water facilities and
provided that every source of water available to the user is metered, such user
may be charged, as an alternative, the monthly metered sewage rental charges as
provided elsewhere in these rates.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 3, § 55) (Ord. 1088, passed 11-7-1979, § 7; Ord. 1118,
passed 12-19-1980, § 3; Ord. 1133, passed 1-8-1982, § 1; Ord. 1155, passed 1-3-
1984; Ord. 1221, passed 12-17-1990, § 3; Ord. 1316, passed 12-16-2002, § 1;
Ord. 1388, passed 10-19-2009, § 2; Ord. 1414, passed 12-17-2012, § 2; Ord.
1457, passed 12-17-2018, § 1; Ord. 1466, passed 1-6-2020, § 1; Ord. 1473,
passed 12-21-2020, § 1; Ord. 1482, passed 12-20-2021, § 1; Ord. 1496, passed
12-18-2023)
§ 53.057 MONTHLY SURCHARGES FOR HIGH-STRENGTH WASTEWATER.
   (A)   All wastewater discharged to the borough sewage system exceeding
normal domestic thresh level concentrations of 250 milligrams per liter (mg/l)
five days' biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and 200 milligrams per liter (mg/l)
suspended solids (SS), shall be considered high-strength wastewater discharges
and the user who contributes said high-strength wastewater shall obtain a
Wastewater Contribution Permit as set forth in §
53.103. The user shall pay the required permit application fees and the
required surcharge fees intended to cover the borough's additional costs for
treating high-strength wastewater.
   (B)   These surcharges will be made in addition to the normal user and
industrial cost recovery charges imposed by other sections of this subchapter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 3, § 56) (Ord. 1088, passed 11-7-1979, § 8; Ord. 1118,
passed 12-29-1980, § 4; Ord. 1133, passed 1-8-1982, § 1; Ord. 1155, passed 1-3-
1984; Ord. 1316, passed 12-16-2002, § 1; Ord. 1388, passed 10-19-2009, § 2;
Ord. 1414, passed 12-17-2012, § 2; Ord. 1457, passed 12-17-2018, § 1)
§ 53.058 PINE TOWNSHIP, LIBERTY TOWNSHIP, SPRINGFIELD TOWNSHIP, MERCER TOWNSHIP
AND HARRISVILLE BOROUGH RATES.
   The rates charged by Pine Township, Liberty Township, Springfield Township,
Mercer Township and Harrisville Borough to their respective customers will be
in accord with the Wastewater Treatment Service Agreements approved by
Ordinance #1438 on September 19, 2016, as may be amended from time to time, by
and between the borough and the respective municipalities.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 3, § 59) (Ord. 1088, passed 11-7-1979, § 11; Ord.
1388, passed 10-19-2009, § 2; Ord. 1414, passed 12-17-2012, § 2; Ord. 1457,
passed 12-17-2018, § 1)
§ 53.059 RATE REVIEW.
   The borough shall review not less often than every two years the wastewater
contribution of users and user classes, the total costs of operation and
maintenance of the treatment works, and its approved user charge to accomplish,
among other things, the following:
   (A)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance
costs among users or user classes;
   (B)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and maintenance
costs necessary to the proper operation and maintenance (including replacement)
of the treatment works; and
   (C)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year and
adjust the rate accordingly.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 3, § 61) (Ord. 1088, passed 11-7-1979, § 13)
§ 53.060 BOOKKEEPING.
   The borough shall maintain and keep records, books and accounts related to
the sewage treatment system in accord with present rules and regulations of the
Environmental Protection Agency.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 3, § 62) (Ord. 1088, passed 11-7-1979, § 14)
§ 53.061 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The borough shall have the right to:
      (1)   Establish a monitoring system to implement the intent and object of
this chapter;
      (2)   Test sewage flow and contents which may include the removal of
samples and the user supplying regular reports of sewage flow and contents; and
      (3)   Inspect sewage equipment.
   (B)   In regard to this section, the borough shall have the right to:
      (1)   Authorize employees to enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing pertinent to sewage
discharge; and
      (2)   Obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system.
   (C)   Failure on the part of any user or person to permit the borough to act
under this section will result in the termination of sewage service, the
revocation of sewage permits under Borough Ord. 940 (see §§
53.080 through
53.088) known as the Grove City Borough Industrial-Commercial Waste Treatment
Ordinance.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 3, § 64) (Ord. 1088, passed 11-7-1979, § 16) Penalty,
see §
53.999
§ 53.062 PROCEDURE FOR TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The borough shall be responsible for sending each utility consumer a
monthly billing statement for all utility services utilized by the said
consumer.
   (B)   The said monthly utility bill shall list a due date by which the
utility bill must be paid, said due date being not less than 15 days after the
date of mailing of said bill to the consumer.
   (C)   If the consumer does not pay the utility bill by the due date listed
on said billing, the utility bill shall automatically be increased by 5% of the
total amount of said monthly billing and the utility bill shall be considered
delinquent.
   (D)   As to any utility bill considered delinquent herein, the borough shall
notify said consumer that if said bill and penalty are not paid within ten days
of the date of the mailing of notice of delinquency, the consumer’s utilities
shall be subject to termination by the borough.
   (E)   If the consumer does not pay the said bill and penalty within the ten-
day period provided above, a representative of the borough shall attempt to
make personal contact with the consumer at the consumer’s residence and inform
the consumer that the utilities will be terminated five days thereafter unless
said bill and penalty are paid within that time-frame or unless the consumer,
within the said five-day timeframe, contacts the Borough Manager and requests a
hearing with the Utilities Committee of the Borough Council.
   (F)   If the consumer is not present at the time the representative of the
borough attempts to personally contact the said individual, the said
representative shall leave a notice on the door of the said consumer as to the
pending action of the borough and the rights of the consumer as set forth in
this subchapter.
   (G)   If the consumer does not pay his or her bill and penalty within the
aforesaid five-day time-frame nor contacts the Borough Manager to request a
hearing with the Utilities Committee shall have the right to terminate the
consumer’s utility service.
   (H)   If a consumer requests a hearing with the Utilities Committee of the
Borough Council, it shall be conducted as follows.
      (1)   Within five days of a representative of the borough personally
contacting or posting notice of the pending termination of utilities, the
consumer must, in writing, request a hearing of the Utilities Committee of the
Borough Council through the office of the Borough Manager.
      (2)   A hearing date before the Utilities Committee of the borough shall
be promptly held; and the consumer shall be informed of the hearing date
personally or by certified mail at least three days prior thereto.
      (3)   The consumer may challenge said utility bill upon any of the
following grounds:
         (a)   The utility bill has been paid by the consumer;
         (b)   The utility bill is inaccurate;
         (c)   The termination of utility service is especially dangerous to
the health of the consumer or a member of his or her immediate family residing
therein and that the consumer is financially unable to pay for such service in
accord with the requirements of the utilities billing or that he or she is able
to pay for such service but only in installments;
         (d)   As to any claim to a particular illness or disease by a
consumer, a certified statement of the consumer’s physician must be presented
specifying the diagnosis and prognosis of the illness or disease and how the
termination of utility service would affect the same; and
         (e)   The borough does not have good cause to terminate utility
services.
      (4)   The Utilities Committee of the borough shall have the final
decision as to the termination of service and/or the method of payment by the
consumer for the same.
   (I)   If the borough attempts to terminate the utility services of any
individual known to the borough to be beyond the age of 65 years or physically
or mentally handicapped, in addition to attempting to make personal contact
with said individual and/or leaving notice of termination proceedings at his or
her place of residence, the borough shall also contact in writing the County
Area Agency on Aging and inform the said agency of the contemplated termination
proceedings as well as all rights of the consumer as set forth in this
subchapter.
   (J)   If any portion or provision of this subchapter is held to be
unconstitutional or illegal, the remaining provisions and conditions of this
subchapter shall remain in effect and only that portion of the subchapter ruled
unconstitutional or illegal shall be affected thereby.
   (K)   If any federal or state law mandates further procedures to be complied
with prior to termination of utility service, the borough shall comply with
those requirements.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 3, § 65) (Ord. 1162, passed 6-18-1984) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.063 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If any provision or section of this chapter or the application thereof to
anyone or to any circumstances is held invalid, the remaining provisions or
sections or the application of such provisions to others or other circumstances
shall not be affected thereby.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 3, § 66) (Ord. 1088, passed 11-7-1979, § 17)
USES OF SEWERS
§ 53.080 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Grove City Borough Industrial-
Commercial Waste Treatment Ordinance.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 4, § 71) (Ord. 940, passed 8-4-1972, § 1)
§ 53.081 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish standard conditions and
regulations for the use of the borough sewage system by industrial-commercial
users.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 4, § 72) (Ord. 940, passed 8-4-1972, § 2)
§ 53.082 REGULATIONS.
   The borough hereby adopts the rules and regulations relating to the use of
the public sewage system for the discharge of the sewage-commercial-industrial
waste and other waste as set out in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 940, codified as
§§
53.083 through
53.088.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 4, § 73) (Ord. 940, passed 8-4-1972, § 3)
§ 53.083 THE DISPOSAL OF WATERS NOT CONTAINING SEWAGE.
   (A)   No stormwater connection from any building or yard, nor any drain from
any catch basin, lake, swamp, pond or swimming pool, nor any inlet for surface
water, stormwater or ground water of any kind shall be connected to any public
sanitary sewer, or to any private sanitary sewer connected to a public sanitary
sewer, or to any interceptor-collector.
   (B)   Within any area served by the sanitary sewer system no stormwater
shall be discharged to the soil, waste or vent pipes from any building. Within
any such area no downspout or leader, gutter or other pipe, drain or channel
which may at any time carry stormwater, subsurface drainage derived from
hydraulic pressure or from well points or cooling water, shall be connected
with any sanitary sewer. No downspout or leader shall be used as a soil, waste
or vent pipe. Every joint in the connection of a house sewer to the sanitary
sewer system shall be made watertight so that no leakage into or from any such
drain shall occur.
   (C)   No connection with or opening into any intercepting sewer or any
intercepting-collecting sewer shall be made without the written approval of an
authorized borough representative.
   (D)   No connection shall be made to an intercepting sewer system in such a
location as to cause the flow of sewage, industrial waste or other wastes to
the receiving stream rather than to the sewage treatment plant.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 4, § 74) (Ord. 940, passed 8-4-1972, Rules and
Regulations, § 1) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.084 MATERIALS AND SUBSTANCES EXCLUDED FROM PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged, or allow to run, leak, or escape into any public sewer, pipe,
channel or sewer appurtenance connecting with any public sewer, or into any
private sewer connected with a public sewer, any of the following described
materials, substances or wastes except such small quantities as may be present
in normal household wastes:
      (1)   Construction materials, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings,
metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastic, wood, paunch manure, coffee
grounds, fur, wax or any solids or viscous substances capable of causing
obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewer system;
      (2)   Dumping of snow and ice into public sewers;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzine, naphtha, fuel oil or other inflammable or
explosive liquids, solids or gases;
      (4)   Steam or hot water above 150°F (65.6°C);
      (5)   Any waste or water which may contain petroleum hydrocarbons, such
as greases, oil and oil sludges from garages, repair shops, machine shops,
industrial establishments in concentrations in excess of 100 milligram per
liter. However, fats and greases, such as those derived from cooking and food
processing, may be discharged to borough sewers, provided that the
concentration and physical dispersion of the fats and greases does not result
in separation and the adherence to sewer structures or appurtenances. If there
is evidence of adherence of such materials to said structures, or if such
materials cause blockage in the sewer system, then the wastewater carrying such
materials must be effectively treated by a process or device, such as a grease
trap or interceptor, before its discharge to borough sewers;
      (6)   Coal tar, its derivatives and waste;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0
or having any other corrosive property apt to cause damage or hazard to
structures, equipment of the sewer system or personnel employed in its
operations;
      (8)   Any liquids or wastes containing toxic or poisonous substances in
sufficient quantity or rate of flow as to injure or interfere with any of the
sewage treatment processes to constitute a hazard to human beings or animals,
or to create any hazard in the receiving waters;
      (9)   Any liquids or wastes containing suspended solids of such quality
and/or quantity that become burdensome in the operation and maintenance of the
sewage treatment plant facilities;
      (10)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
      (11)   Any natural waters, including lake and swamp drainage, or recycled
stream waters; and
      (12)   Any water or substance, which in the opinion of the borough will
result in a discoloration or other undesirable physical change in the
appearance of the stream receiving the discharge from the borough’s sewage
treatment plant.
   (B)   When in the opinion of the borough the solids in an industrial or
commercial waste require comminution before discharge to the sewer system, not
only must the necessary comminution facilities be approved for adequacy, but
also the operating results must satisfactorily abate the problem which such
solids may tend to create in the sewer system.
   (C)   Any physical connection to a public sewer, or to a private sewer
connected to a public sewer, from vessels, tanks or containers receiving any of
the hereinbefore mentioned materials and substances from which quantities of
the aforesaid prohibited materials or substances could accidentally be
discharged directly or indirectly into the public sewers is prohibited.
Precautions shall be taken to prevent the accidental spillage of any of the
hereinbefore mentioned material to floor drains, basins, manholes, gutters and
the like, from any manufacturing process or storage tank.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 4, § 75) (Ord. 940, passed 8-4-1972, Rules and
Regulations, § 2) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.085 TOXIC SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED OR ACCEPTED CONDITIONALLY.
   (A)   The following is a partial list of toxic substances and pathogenic
bacteria, the admission of which into the public sewer system is hereby
prohibited unless their concentration:
      (1)   Is reduced by treatment at the source to a point that will meet the
general purposes of these rules and regulations (§§
53.083 through
53.088) or come within the acceptable standards formally established by the
borough through issuance of a permit described under §
53.086; and
      (2)   Will not adversely affect sludge handling or any other biochemical,
biological or other sewage treatment process:
         (a)   Alcohols;
         (b)   Antibiotics;
         (c)   Arsenic and arsenicals;
         (d)   Bromine, iodine, chlorine;
         (e)   Copper or copper salts;
         (f)   Creosols or creosotes;
         (g)   Fluorine;
         (h)   Formaldehydes;
         (i)   Mercury and mercurials;
         (j)   Phenols and their derivatives;
         (k)   Silver and silver compounds;
         (l)   Sulfonamides, toxic dyes (organic or mineral);
         (m)   Zinc compounds;
         (n)   All strong oxidizing agents, such as chromates, dichromates,
permanganates, peroxides and the like;
         (o)   Chemical compounds producing toxic, inflammable or explosive
gases, either upon acidification, alkalization, oxidation or reduction;
         (p)   Strong reducing agents such as nitrites, sulphides, sulphites
and thiosulphates and the like;
         (q)   Wastes from industrial processes or hospital procedures
containing viable pathogenic organisms;
         (r)   Cyanide; and
         (s)   Heavy metals, such as chromium, nickel, iron, zinc, tin, copper,
cadmium, lead and the like.
   (B)   The concentration in sewage of any toxic substances shall not exceed
those concentrations judged by the borough to be toxic to biological sewage
treatment processes or to the biota of the receiving stream, and shall not
exceed those previously approved and formally permitted by the borough before
they are discharged to the sewer.
   (C)   When the volume of a single toxic industrial waste discharge, or the
combined toxic industrial waste discharge of a group of industries within a
single contributary area, is such as to raise a question of the ultimate
concentration of toxic substances entering a treatment plant or a receiving
stream, the borough may impose separate or special concentration limits upon
the contributors. Conversely, where a toxic industrial waste discharge may be
expected to be highly diluted or rendered innocuous before reaching a treatment
plant or a receiving stream, the borough may conditionally permit such
discharge.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 4, § 76) (Ord. 940, passed 8-4-1972, Rules and
Regulations, § 3; Ord. 1143, passed 10-25-1982, § 1) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.086 TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE ISSUANCE OF A PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge directly or
indirectly into the public sewer or into any private sewer or drain emptying
into the sewer system, any non-domestic industrial, commercial or other waste,
except upon the issuance of a permit therefor by the borough and upon such
terms and conditions as may be established by the borough in the issuance of
such a permit.
   (B)   Terms and conditions as may be required by the borough in the issuance
of a permit are as follows:
      (1)   A limitation upon the volume and/or concentration of waste and the
rate of flow permitted from the premises;
      (2)   The installation and maintenance by the permittee, at his or her
own expense, of facilities or equipment for intermittent or continuous
measurement of sewage, industrial waste or other wastes discharged into the
sewer system from such premises;
      (3)   The installation and maintenance by the permittee, at his or her
own expense, of detention tanks or other facilities or equipment for reducing
the maximum rates of discharge of sewage to such a percentage of the 24-hour
rate as may be required by the borough;
      (4)   The installation and maintenance by the permittee, at his or her
own expense, of such preliminary treatment facilities as may be required by the
borough;
      (5)   The installation and maintenance by the permittee, at his or her
own expense, of a suitable control manhole in any building sewer carrying such
sewage;
      (6)   (a)   The installation and maintenance by the permittee, at his or
her own expense, of grease, oil and grit interceptors or traps that are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in
excessive amounts, or any inflammable waste, and other harmful ingredients
except such interceptors or traps shall not be required for private living
quarters or dwelling units; and
         (b)   All interceptors or traps shall be of an approved type and
capacity and shall be so located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
      (7)   The submission to and approval by the borough of the plans for any
of the facilities or equipment required to be installed and maintained by the
permittee;
      (8)   Such other terms and conditions as may be necessary to protect the
sewer system and carry out the provisions of these rules and regulations (§§
53.083 through
53.088);
      (9)   Such terms and conditions may also provide that subsequent to the
commencement of operation of any preliminary treatment facilities, periodic
reports shall be made by the permittee to the borough setting forth adequate
data upon which the acceptability of the sewage, industrial waste or other
wastes, after treatment, may be determined; and
      (10)   A violation by the permittee of any terms or conditions of the
permit shall constitute cause for revocation or suspension of the permit.
   (C)   (1)   Filing of an industrial/commercial waste questionnaire: all
applicants for a permit to discharge sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes
into the sewer system shall fill out and file with the borough an industrial/
commercial wastes questionnaire as a prerequisite for the consideration of such
a permit. The following is a partial listing of information to be furnished by
the applicant for a permit:
         (a)   Details of production, number of employees, water consumption
and usage, waste disposal facilities, and other pertinent data to enable the
borough to properly determine the nature of the waste being discharged;
         (b)   Plan of the property showing accurately all sewers, drains and
house sewer connections; and
         (c)   Laboratory and/or field determinations of the characteristics of
the sewage, industrial waste or other wastes discharged to the sewer system.
      (2)   Such information shall be obtained and filed with the borough at
the expense of the applicant, and when the applicant has neither the facilities
nor professional personnel to properly perform these determinations, he or she
shall have the determinations performed and attested to by a person or agency
of recognized professional standing.
      (3)   The samples of sewage, industrial waste or other wastes for which a
laboratory and/or field determination is to be made shall be taken in
accordance with the direction of the borough and/or as shown on the industrial/
commercial waste questionnaire.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 4, § 77) (Ord. 940, passed 8-4-1972, Rules and
Regulations, § 4) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.087 REMOVAL, TRANSPORTATION AND DISPOSITION OF SCAVENGER WASTES.
   (A)   (1)   Scavenger wastes will be admitted into the sewer system only by
approval of the borough. Persons desiring to discharge scavenger wastes into
any public sewer and treatment plant shall be required to obtain a permit from
the borough. Scavenger wastes under this section shall mean putrid or offensive
matter collected from privies, septic tanks and cesspools. All other material
and substances, chemical or chemical compounds and/or industrial/commercial
wastes will not be permitted to be discharged into the public sewer system,
except as heretofore provided under these rules and regulations (§§
53.083 through
53.088).
      (2)   The discharge of these wastes shall be made only at a location on a
sanitary sewer or at the sewage treatment plant as shall be stated on said
permit or as may be relocated by the borough.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant shall be the owner of the vehicle for which a
permit is applied. Any false, untruthful or misleading statements in any
application for a permit or in any paper submitted in support of said
application will invalidate the permit. All permits issued by the borough shall
be for one year.
      (2)   Such a permit may be suspended or revoked at any time by the
borough for willful, continued or persistent violation of these rules and
regulations.
   (C)   All applicants for a permit to discharge scavenger wastes into the
sewer system shall furnish the following information with each application:
      (a)   Name of firm or individual and address;
      (b)   Volume, including maximum monthly volume, of scavenger wastes
removed each year for the last three years; new applicants to submit an
estimate of volume for the first year;
      (c)   Number and identification of scavenger vehicles in collection
service;
      (d)   A certificate of insurance with minimum coverages as specified by
the borough from time to time, naming the borough as an additional insured; and
      (e)   Any other information as deemed necessary by the Borough Engineer
or Wastewater Treatment Plant Superintendent.
   (D)   Only scavenger waste generated from residential dwelling units will be
accepted by the borough for treatment. Waste from nonresidential sources,
including, but not limited to, industrial waste, restaurant grease trap waste
and portable toilet waste shall not be discharged to the borough’s wastewater
treatment plant.
   (E)   Persons transporting scavenger waste for disposal shall provide a
manifest acceptable to the borough documenting the origin of the scavenger
waste prior to its discharge.
   (F)   Applicants shall be required to pay a permit fee as established by
resolution of the Borough Council.
   (G)   Permitted scavenger waste haulers shall pay a disposal fee for each
gallon of scavenger waste discharged to the sanitary sewer at a rate
established by resolution of the Borough Council.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 4, § 78) (Ord. 940, passed 8-4-1972, Rules and
Regulations, § 5; Ord. 1404, passed 8-15-2011, § 5) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.088 RULES AND REGULATIONS IN FORCE AND VALIDITY.
   These rules and regulations (§§
53.083 through
53.088) shall be in full force and effect upon appropriate action by the
Council of the borough. All existing industrial, commercial and/or other users
of the public sewer system discharging non-domestic wastes to said public sewer
system, shall thereafter, but no later than July 1, 1973, file with the borough
an application for permit for the discharge of wastes into the public sewerage
system, as heretofore described under §
53.086. All future industrial, commercial and/or other such non domestic users
shall have a borough-approved permit before connection to any public or private
sewer, either direct or indirect, may be made.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 4, § 79) (Ord. 940, passed 8-4-1972, Rules and
Regulations, § 6)
INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.100 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and policy.
      (1)   This subchapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and
indirect contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for
the borough and enables the borough to comply with all applicable state and
federal laws required by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and the general pre-
treatment regulations (40 C.F.R. Part 403). The objectives of this subchapter
are:
         (a)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the borough
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
         (b)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the borough
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system;
         (c)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters
and sludges from the system; and
         (d)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the borough
wastewater system.
      (2)   This subchapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the borough wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general requirements
for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires
user reporting, assures that existing customers’ capacity will not be
preempted, and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution
of costs resulting from the program established herein.
      (3)   This subchapter shall apply to the borough and to persons outside
the borough who are, by contract or agreement with the borough, users of the
borough’s wastewater treatment plant.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      AUTOMATIC SAMPLER. A sampling device which will provide for the automatic
collection of composite wastewater samples and store the same for as many as
eight consecutive days in a refrigerated/heated unit.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director in an NPDES state with an approved state
pretreatment program and the administrator of the EPA in a non-NPDES state or
NPDES state without an approved state pretreatment program.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER. An authorized
representative of an industrial user may be:
         (a)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice
president if the industrial user is a corporation;
         (b)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively; and
         (c)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams
per liter (mg/l)).
      BOROUGH. The Borough of Grove City, Mercer County, Pennsylvania, or the
Borough Council of the Borough of Grove City.
      BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user
to the wastewater treatment plant.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
pretreatment standard.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY. Refer to the Borough of Grove City.
      COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is
heat.
      DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater
directly to the waters of the State of Pennsylvania.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one time
basis with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration
of time.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from any source regulated under § 307(b) or (c) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317), into the wastewater treatment plant (including holding tank
waste discharged into the system).
      INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute
a “discharge of pollutants” under regulations issued pursuant to § 402 of the
Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the wastewater treatment
plant treatment processes or operations which contributes to a violation of any
requirement of the borough’s NPDES permit. The term includes prevention of
sewage sludge use or disposal by the wastewater treatment plant in accordance
with § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or any criteria, guidelines or
regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42
U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.), the
Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.) or more stringent
state criteria (including those contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or
use employed by the wastewater treatment plant.
      MAY. Is permissive.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1347) which applies to
a specific category of industrial users.
      NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD. Any regulation developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act
and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
      NEW SOURCE. Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a § 307(c) (33 U.S.C. § 1317)
categorical pretreatment standard which will be applicable to such source, if
such standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of proposal in the
Federal Register. Where the standard is promulgated later than 120 days after
proposal, a new source means any source, the construction of which is commenced
after the date of promulgation of the standard.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
trust, estate, governmental entity or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the
feminine, the singular shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
      pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
      POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological and radiological integrity of water.
      POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
      PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a wastewater
treatment plant. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical,
chemical or biological processes, or process changes by other means, except as
prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d).
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on
an industrial user.
      SHALL. Is mandatory.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the borough’s
wastewater disposal system who:
         (a)   Has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work
day;
         (b)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the borough’s
wastewater treatment system;
         (c)   Has in his, her or its wastes toxic pollutants as defined
pursuant to § 307 of the Act of Pennsylvania Statutes and rules; or
         (d)   Is found by the borough, state control agency or the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater
treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or air
emissions generated by the system.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A system developed by the U.S.
Office of Management and Budget that is used to classify various types of
business entities. In 1998 the North American Industry Classification System
(NAIS) replaced the SIC.
      STATE. State of Pennsylvania.
      STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the borough to supervise the
operation of the publicly-owned wastewater treatment plant and who is charged
with certain duties and responsibilities by this section, or his or her duly
authorized representative.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as
toxic in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency under the provision of CWA 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a) or other acts.
      USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the borough’s wastewater treatment plant.
      WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or permitted
to enter the wastewater treatment plant.
      WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT. As set forth in §
53.103(B).
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. A treatment works as defined by § 212 of the
Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned in this instance by the borough. This
definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the wastewater
treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not
connected to a facility providing treatment. For the purposes of this chapter,
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT shall also include any sewers that convey
wastewaters to the wastewater treatment plant from persons outside the borough
who are, by contract or agreement with the borough, users of the borough’s
wastewater treatment plant.
      WATERS OF STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
   (C)   Abbreviations. The following abbreviations shall have the designated
meanings:
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
EPA    Environmental Protection Agency
l      Liter
mg     Milligrams
mg/l   Milligrams per Liter
NPDES  National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
SIC    Standard Industrial Classification
SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
U.S.C. United States Code
TSS    Total suspended solids
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 5, § 81) (Ord. 1226, passed 3-18-1991, § 1)
§ 53.101 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General discharge prohibitions.
      (1)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation
or performance of the wastewater treatment plant. These general prohibitions
apply to all such users of a wastewater treatment plant whether or not the user
is subject to national categorical pretreatment standards or any other
national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements. A user may not
contribute the following substances to any wastewater treatment plant:
         (a)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater treatment plant or to the operation of the wastewater treatment
plant. At no time shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard meter at
the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the system) be more
than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of
the meter. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline,
kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones,
adlehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and
sulfides and any other substances which the borough, the state or EPA has
notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard to the system;
         (b)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the
flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
treatment facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with
particles greater than one-half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues,
paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper,
wood, plastics, gas, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining, or
processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing
wastes;
         (c)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or greater than 9.0,
unless the wastewater treatment plant is specifically designed to accommodate
such wastewater, or wastewater having any other corrosive or caustic property
capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and/or personnel
of the wastewater treatment plant;
         (d)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient
quantity, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or
interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans
or animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater
treatment plant, or to exceed the limitation set forth in a categorical
pretreatment standard. A toxic pollutant shall include, but not be limited to,
any pollutant pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a);
         (e)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for maintenance and repair;
         (f)   Any substance which may cause the wastewater treatment plant’s
effluent or any other product of the wastewater treatment plant, such as
residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to
interfere with the reclamation process. In no case shall a substance discharged
to the wastewater treatment plant cause the wastewater treatment plant to be in
noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations
developed under § 405 of the Act, 33 U.,S.C. § 1345; any criteria, guidelines
or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal developed pursuant to the Solid
Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. §§
7401 et seq.), the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.) or
state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being used;
         (g)   Any substance which will cause the wastewater treatment plant to
violate its NPDES and/or state disposal system permit or the receiving water
quality standards;
         (h)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
         (i)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit
biological activity in the wastewater treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater with a temperature at the introduction
into the wastewater treatment plant which exceeds 40°C (104°F) unless the
wastewater treatment plant is designed to accommodate such temperature;
         (j)   Any pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and
the like) released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which a user
knows or has reason to know will cause interference to the wastewater treatment
plant. In no case shall a slug load have a flow rate or contain concentration
or qualities of pollutants that exceed for any time period longer than 15
minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration, quantities or
flow during normal operation;
         (k)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the
superintendent in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations; and
         (l)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance.
      (2)   When the borough determines that a user(s) is contributing to the
wastewater treatment plant any of the above enumerated substances in such
amounts as to interfere with the operation of the wastewater treatment plant,
the borough shall:
         (a)   Advise the user(s) of the impact of the contribution on the
wastewater treatment plant; and
         (b)   Develop effluent limitation(s) for such user to correct the
interference with the wastewater treatment plant.
   (B)   Federal categorical pretreatment standards. Upon the promulgation of
the federal categorical pretreatment standards for a particular industrial
subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent than limitations imposed
under this subchapter for sources in that subcategory, shall immediately
supersede the limitations imposed under this subchapter. The borough shall
notify all affected users of the applicable reporting requirements under 40
C.F.R. § 403.12.
   (C)   Modification of federal categorical pretreatment standards. Where the
borough’s wastewater treatment system achieves consistent removal of pollutants
limited by federal pretreatment standards, the borough may apply to the
approval authority for modification of specific limits in the Federal
pretreatment standards. CONSISTENT REMOVAL shall mean reduction in the amount
of a pollutant or alteration of the nature of the pollutant by the wastewater
treatment system to a less toxic or harmless state in the effluent which is
achieved by the system in 95% of the samples taken when measured according to
the procedures set forth in § 403.7(c)(2) of 40 C.F.R. Part 403, “General
Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New Sources of Pollution”,
promulgated pursuant to the Act. The borough may then modify pollutant
discharge limits in the federal pretreatment standards if the requirements
contained in 40 C.F.R. Part 403, § 403.7 are fulfilled and prior approval from
the approval authority is obtained.
   (D)   Specific pollutant limitations.
TABLE 1
 Average Monthly Instant Maximum
TABLE 1
                                 Average Monthly Instant Maximum
Arsenic, mg/l                    0.55            1.1
*Biochemical oxygen demand, mg/l 250             500
Cadmium, mg/l                    0.31            0.62
*Chemical oxygen demand, mg/l    400             600
Chromium - Hexavalent, mg/l      0.04            0.28
Chromium - total, mg/l           4.76            9.52
Copper, mg/l                     0.14            0.28
Cyanide - free, mg/l             0.04            0.08
Cyanide - total, mg/l            0.86            1.72
Lead, mg/l                       1.38            2.76
Mercury, mg/l                    0.002           0.004
Nickel, mg/l                     1.23            2.46
Oil and grease, mg/l             26              52
pH - maximum                     9               9
pH - minimum                     6               6
Phenols, mg/l                    3.2             6.4
Selenium, mg/l                   0.01            0.02
Silver - GF, mg/l                0.43            0.86
*Suspended solids, mg/l          200             300
Temperature — maximum          90              180
*Total Kjeldahl nitrogen, mg/l   40              80
Total toxic organics, mg/l       2.13            2.13
Zinc, mg/l                       2.02            4.04
* Indicates that the specified levels are for the purpose of assessing
surcharges, [/tfn]
 
   (E)   State/federal requirements. State and/or federal requirements and
limitations on discharges shall apply in any case where they are more stringent
than the requirements and limitations in this subchapter.
   (F)   Borough’s right of revision. The borough reserves the right to
establish by ordinance more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges
to the wastewater disposal system if deemed necessary to comply with the
objectives presented in §
53.100(A) of this subchapter.
   (G)   Excessive discharge. No user shall ever increase the use of process
water or, in any way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete
substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations
contained in the federal categorical pretreatment standards, or in any other
pollutant-specific limitation developed by the borough or state. (Comment:
Dilution may be an acceptable means of complying with some of the prohibitions
set forth in §
53.100(A), e.g., the pH prohibition.)
   (H)   Accidental discharges.
      (1)   Generally. Each user shall provide protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this
subchapter. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner or user’s own cost and expense.
Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this
protection shall be submitted to the borough for review and shall be approved
by the borough before a construction of the facility. All existing users shall
complete such a plan as advised by the borough. No user who commences
contribution to the wastewater treatment plan after the effective date of this
subchapter shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until
accidental discharge procedures have been approved by the borough. Review and
approval of such plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the
industrial user from the responsibility to modify the user’s facility as
necessary to meet the requirements of this subchapter. In the case of an
accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately
telephone and notify the wastewater treatment plan of the incident. The
notification shall include location of discharge, type of waste, concentration
and volume, and corrective actions.
      (2)   Written notice. Within five days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the borough a detailed written report describing the
cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, wastewater treatment plant, fish kills or any other
damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of
any fines, civil penalties or other liability which may be imposed by this
section or other applicable law.
      (3)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 5, § 82) (Ord. 1226, passed 3-18-1991, § 2; Ord. 1237,
passed 9-21-1992, § 1; Ord. 1270, passed 11-18-1996, § 1) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.102 FEES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the
recovery of costs from users of the borough’s wastewater disposal system for
the implementation of the program established herein. The applicable charges or
fees shall be set forth in the borough’s schedule of charges and fees.
   (B)   Charges and fees.
      (1)   The borough may adopt charges and fees which may include:
         (a)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
borough’s pretreatment program;
         (b)   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures;
         (c)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
         (d)   Fees for permit application;
         (e)   Fees for filing appeals;
         (f)   Fees for consistent removal (by the borough) of pollutants
otherwise subject to federal pretreatment standards; and
         (g)   Other fees as the borough may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
      (2)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this subchapter
and are separate from all other fees chargeable by the borough.
   (C)   Surcharge for high-strength wastewater. There is hereby levied and
assessed against each person, industry or corporation discharging high-strength
industrial waste into the wastewater treatment plant a surcharge, or
surcharges, which are intended to cover such additional cost to the borough.
Such surcharges shall be in addition to any regular sewerage service charges
and shall be payable as hereinafter provided in the amount hereinafter
stipulated.
   (D)   Sampling. The strength of any industrial waste, the discharge of which
is to be subject to surcharge, shall be determined quarterly, or more
frequently if deemed necessary by the borough, from samples taken as prescribed
herein. The frequency and duration of the sampling period shall be such as, in
the opinion of the borough, will permit a reasonably reliable determination of
the average composition of the said wastes.
   (E)   Suspended solids concentration.
      (1)   In the event any industrial waste is found by the borough to have
an average suspended solids concentration in excess of 200 mg/l, the producer
of said waste shall be surcharged an amount equal to the product of the actual
volume of wastes in thousand gallons per billing period, discharged to the
public sanitary sewerage system and the suspended solids surcharge rate. The
suspended solids surcharge rate shall be determined by the following formula:
   R = 0.008345 x P(S - 200)
   Where R = the suspended solids surcharge rate in dollars per 1,000 gallons
of metered water per quarter.
   P = the prior year’s cost of operating and maintaining the sludge digestion,
dewatering and disposal facilities at the treatment works, in dollars per pound
of sewage solids received at the treatment plant.
   S = the average suspended solids concentration of the abnormal industrial
waste, expressed in parts per milligrams per liter (mg/l).
      (2)   The figure 200 appearing in the above formula corresponds to the
maximum suspended solids concentration permissible without surcharge. The
figure 0.008345 is the factor to convert parts per million to pounds per 1,000
gallons. No discount will be permitted for sewage or industrial wastes having a
suspended solids concentration less than 200 parts per million.
   (F)   BOD concentration.
      (1)   In the event any industrial waste is found by the UCC to have an
average BOD concentration in excess of 250 mg/l, the producer of said waste
shall be surcharged an amount equal to the product of the actual volume of
wastes in 1,000 gallons per quarter, discharged to the public sanitary sewerage
system and the BOD surcharge rate. The BOD surcharge rate shall be determined
by the following formula:
   R = 0.008345 x P (B - 250)
   Where R = the BOD surcharge rate in dollars per 1,000 gallons of metered
water per quarter.
   P = the prior year’s cost of operating and maintaining the biological or
secondary treatment processes at the treatment plant, in dollars per pound of
BOD received at the plant.
   B = the average BOD concentration of the abnormal industrial waste,
expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
      (2)   The 250 appearing in the above formula corresponds to the maximum
BOD concentration permissible without a surcharge. As before, the figure
0.008345 is the factor to convert parts per million to pounds per 1,000
gallons. No discount will be permitted for sewage or industrial wastes having a
BOD concentration less than 250 parts per million.
      (3)   For the purpose of assessing surcharges, COD is a surrogate of BOD.
   (G)   TKN concentration.
      (1)   In the event any industrial waste is found by the borough to have
an average TKN concentration in excess of 40 mg/l, the producer of said waste
shall be surcharged an amount equal to the product of the actual volume of
wastes, in thousand gallons per quarter, discharged to the public sanitary
sewerage system and the TKN surcharge rate. The TKN surcharge rate shall be
determined by the following formula:
   R = 0.008345 x P (T - 40)
   Where R = TKN surcharge rate in dollars per 1,000 gallons of metered water
per quarter.
   P = the prior year’s cost of operating and maintaining the biological or
secondary treatment processes at the treatment plant, in dollars per pound of
TKN received at the plant.
   T = the average TKN concentration of the abnormal industrial waste,
expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
      (2)   The figure “40" appearing in the above formula corresponds to the
maximum TKN concentration permissible without surcharge. As before, the figure
“0.008345" is the factor to convert parts per million per pounds per 1,000
gallons. No discount will be permitted for sewage or industrial wastes having a
TKN concentration less than 40 parts per million.
   (H)   Surcharges. The surcharges provided for in this section will be added
to any normal sewerage service charges assessed to the user. They will be
billed quarterly.
   (I)   Unit cost. The borough shall determine the unit cost surcharge rates,
in the surcharge formulas, based on the prior year’s cost of plant operations.
After the end of each fiscal year, the borough shall calculate the surcharge
rates for the preceding year based on the actual costs for the previous year.
When this computation has been made, the surcharge quarterly billing will be
made using the preceding year’s actual cost.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 5, § 83) (Ord. 1226, passed 3-18-1991, § 3; Ord. 1270,
passed 11-18-1996, §§ 2, 3)
§ 53.103 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Wastewater dischargers. It shall be unlawful to discharge without a
borough permit to any natural outlet within the borough, or in any area under
the jurisdiction of said borough, and/or to the wastewater treatment plant any
wastewater except as authorized by the borough in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Wastewater contribution permits.
      (1)   General permits. All significant users proposing to connect to or
to contribute to the wastewater treatment plant shall obtain a wastewater
discharge permit before connecting to or contributing to the wastewater
treatment plant. All existing significant users connected to or contributing to
the wastewater treatment plant shall obtain a wastewater contribution permit
within 180 days after the effective date of this subchapter.
      (2)   Permit application. Users required to obtain a wastewater
contribution permit shall complete and file with the borough, an application in
the form prescribed by the borough, and accompanied by a fee of $500. Existing
users shall apply for a wastewater contribution permit within 60 days after the
effective date of this subchapter; and proposed new users shall apply at least
90 days prior to connecting to or contributing to the wastewater treatment
plant. In support of the application the user shall submit, in units and terms
appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
         (a)   Name, address and location (if different from the address);
         (b)   North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) number;
         (c)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including, but not
limited to, those mentioned in §
53.101 as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory. Sampling and analysis
shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA
pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1443(g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. Part 136,
as amended;
         (d)   Time and duration of contribution;
         (e)   Average daily and three minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any;
         (f)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, sewer connections and appurtenances by the size,
location and elevation;
         (g)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are or could be discharged;
         (h)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in
the discharge which are limited by any borough, state or federal pre-treatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user
to, meet applicable pretreatment standards;
         (i)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet
the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will
provide such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule
shall not be later than the compliance date established for the applicable
pretreatment standards. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
            1.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form
of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction and the
like);
            2.   No increment referred to in division (B)(2)(i)1. above shall
exceed nine months; and
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
borough including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment
of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it expects to
comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay and the steps
being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule established.
In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress reports to
the borough.
         (j)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
         (k)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         (l)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant
and proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system; and
         (m)   Any other information as may be deemed by the borough to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application. The borough will evaluate the
data furnished by the user and may require additional information. After
evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished, the borough may issue a
wastewater contribution permit subject to terms and conditions provided herein.
      (3)   Permit modifications. Within nine months of the promulgation of a
National Categorical Pretreatment Standard, the wastewater contribution permit
of users subject to such standards shall be revised to require compliance with
such standard within the time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user,
subject to a National Categorical Pretreatment Standard, has not previously
submitted an application for a wastewater contribution permit as required by
division (B)(2) above, the user shall apply for a wastewater contribution
permit within 180 days after the promulgation of the applicable national
categorical pretreatment standard. In addition, the user with an existing
wastewater contribution permit shall submit to the borough within 180 days
after the promulgation of an applicable federal categorical pretreatment
standard the information required by divisions (B)(2)(h) and (i) above.
      (4)   Permit conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of this subchapter and all other applicable
regulations, user charges and fees established by the borough. Permits may
contain the following:
         (a)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
         (b)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
         (c)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         (d)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
         (e)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests and reporting schedule;
         (f)   Compliance schedules;
         (g)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports (see division (C) below);
         (h)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records
relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the borough, and affording
borough access thereto;
         (i)   Requirements for notification of the borough of any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume
or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the
wastewater treatment system;
         (j)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges as per §
53.104(B); and
         (k)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the borough to ensure
compliance with this subchapter.
      (5)   Permits duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time
period not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than
a year or may be stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for
permit reissuance a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the user’s
existing permit, accompanied by a renewal fee of $500. The terms and conditions
of the permit may be subject to modification by the borough during the term of
the permit as limitations or requirements as identified in §
53.101 are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in his or her permit at least 30 days prior to the
effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall
include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
      (6)   Permit transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a
specific user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not
be reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different
premises or a new or changed operation without the approval of the borough. Any
succeeding owner or user shall also comply with the terms and conditions of the
existing permit.
   (C)   Reporting requirements for permittee.
      (1)   Compliance date report. Within 90 days following the date for final
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new
source, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the
wastewater treatment plant, any user subject to pretreatment standards and
requirements shall submit to the borough a report indicating the nature and
concentration of all pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process
which are limited by pretreatment standards and requirements and the average
and maximum daily flow for these process units in the user facility which are
limited by such pretreatment standards or requirements. The report shall state
whether the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on
a consistent basis and, if not, what additional O&M and/or pretreatment is
necessary to bring the user into compliance with the applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements. This statement shall be signed by an authorized
representative of the industrial user, and certified to by a qualified
professional.
      (2)   Periodic compliance reports.
         (a)   1.   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the
compliance date of such pretreatment standard, or in the case of a new source,
after commencement of the discharge into the wastewater treatment plant, shall
submit to the borough the following monthly reports:
 
           Sampling Frequency
BOD        Twice weekly (8 samples per month)
Oil/grease Twice weekly (8 samples per month)
pH         Daily
TSS        Twice weekly (8 samples per month)
 
            2.   In addition the user shall submit to the borough during the
months of July and January, unless required more frequently in the pretreatment
standard or by the borough, a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the effluent which are limited by such pretreatment standards.
This report shall include a record of all daily flows which during the
reporting period exceeded the average daily flow reported in division (B)(4)(b)
above. At the discretion of the borough and in consideration of such factors as
local high or low flow rates, budget cycles and the like, the borough may agree
to alter the months during which the above reports are to be submitted.
         (b)   1.   The borough may impose mass limitations on users which are
using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in
other cases where the imposition of mass limitations are appropriate. In such
cases, the report required by division (C)(1) above shall indicate the mass of
pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the user.
These reports shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the
discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration, or production
and mass where requested by the borough, of pollutants contained therein which
are limited by the applicable pretreatment standards. The frequency of
monitoring shall be prescribed in the applicable pretreatment standard. All
analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by the
Administrator pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1314(g) of the Act and contained in 40
C.F.R. Part 136, and amendments thereto or with any other test procedures
approved by the Administrator. Sampling shall be performed in accordance with
the techniques approved by the Administrator.
            2.   Comment: where 40 C.F.R. Part 136, does not include a sampling
or analytical technique for the pollutant in question, sampling and analysis
shall be performed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA
publication, Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial
Effluents for Priority Pollutants, April 1977, and amendments thereto, or with
any other sampling and analytical procedures approved by the Administrator.
   (D)   Monitoring facilities.
      (1)   The borough shall require to be provided and operated at the user’s
own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility shall be situated on the user’s premises.
      (2)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or
facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
The facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times
in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
      (3)   The sampling and monitoring facilities shall be provided in
accordance with the borough’s requirements and all applicable local
construction standards and specifications. Construction shall be completed
within 90 days following written notification by the borough.
      (4)   The borough may require the installation of an automatic sampler
device. The sampler shall be designed to automatically collect composite
wastewater samples for as many as eight consecutive days. The unit shall be
designed to refrigerate the samples in warm weather and a heater in cold
weather conditions. The unit shall be installed and maintained by the user and
made accessible to the borough. The user or the user’s employees shall not
remove or cause to be removed any samples from the unit without prior approval
of the borough. Unit design and installation plans shall require borough
approval prior to construction.
   (E)   Inspection and sampling. The borough shall inspect the facilities of
any user to ascertain whether the purpose of this subchapter is being met and
all requirements are being complied with. Persons or occupants of premises
where wastewater is created or discharged shall allow the borough or its
representative ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination or in
the performance of any of his or her duties. The borough, approval authority
and (where the NPDES state is the approval authority) EPA shall have the right
to set up on the user’s property such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a
user has security measures in force which would require proper identification
and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall make necessary
arrangements with its security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the borough, approval authority and EPA will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
   (F)   Pretreatment.
      (1)   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this subchapter and shall achieve compliance with all federal
categorical pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat
wastewater to a level acceptable to the borough shall be provided, operated and
maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment
facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the borough for
review and shall be acceptable to the borough before construction of the
facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary
to produce an effluent acceptable to the borough under the provisions of this
subchapter. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of
operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the borough prior to the
user’s initiation of the changes.
      (2)   The borough shall annually publish in The Allied News newspaper a
list of the users which were not in compliance with any pretreatment
requirements or standards at least once during the 12 previous months. The
notification shall also summarize any enforcement actions taken against the
user(s) during the same 12 months.
      (3)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards
shall be made available to officials of the EPA or approval authority upon
request.
   (G)   Confidential information.
      (1)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports,
questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from
inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental agency
without restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the borough that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
      (2)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this subchapter, the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, state disposal
system permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such
portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state
agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be
recognized as confidential information.
      (3)   Information accepted by the borough as confidential shall not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the borough
until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the user.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 5, § 84) (Ord. 1226, passed 3-18-1991, § 4) Penalty,
see §
53.999
§ 53.104 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Harmful contributions.
      (1)   The borough may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a
wastewater contribution permit when such suspension is necessary, in the
opinion of the borough, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge
which presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the
health or welfare of persons, to the environment, causes interference to the
wastewater treatment plant, or causes the borough to violate any condition of
its NPDES permit.
      (2)   Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater contribution permit shall immediately stop or
eliminate the contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the borough shall take such steps as
deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the wastewater treatment
plant system or endangerment to any individuals. The borough shall reinstate
the wastewater contribution permit and/or the wastewater treatment service upon
proof of the elimination of the non-complying discharge. A detailed written
statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be
submitted to the borough within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
   (B)   Revocation of permit. Any user who violates the following conditions
of this chapter or applicable state and federal regulations is subject to
having his or her permit revoked in accordance with the procedures of this
section and §
53.999:
      (1)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of his, her or its discharge;
      (2)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
   (C)   Notification of violation. Whenever the borough finds that any user
has violated or is violating this subchapter, wastewater contribution permit,
or any prohibition, limitation of requirements contained herein, the borough
may serve upon such person a written notice stating the nature of the
violation. Within 30 days of the date of the notice, a plan for the
satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the borough by the user.
   (D)   Show-cause hearing.
      (1)   The borough may order any user who causes or allows an unauthorized
discharge to enter the wastewater treatment plant to show cause before the
Borough Council why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A
notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place of a hearing
to be held by the borough Council regarding the violation, the reasons why the
action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and directing the user
to show cause before the Borough Council why the proposed enforcement action
should not be taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by
certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing.
Service may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
      (2)   The Borough Council may itself conduct the hearing and take the
evidence, or may designate any of its members or any officer or employee of the
assigned department to:
         (a)   Issue in the name of the Borough Council notices of hearings
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearings;
         (b)   Take the evidence; and
         (c)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Borough
Council for action thereon.
      (3)   At any hearing held pursuant to this subchapter, testimony taken
must be under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded,
will be made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing
upon payment of the usual charges thereof.
      (4)   After the Borough Council has reviewed the evidence, it may issue
an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a
specified time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances shall have been
installed on existing treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances and are properly operated. Further orders and directives as are
necessary and appropriate may be issued.
   (E)   Legal action. If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or
other wastes into the borough’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the
provisions of this subchapter, federal or state pretreatment requirements, or
any order of the borough, the Borough Solicitor may commence an action for
appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the Court of Mercer County.
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Part 5, § 85) (Ord. 1226, passed 3-18-1991, § 5) Penalty,
see §
53.999
BACKFLOW PREVENTION AND CROSS CONNECTION
§ 53.120 GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is:
      (1)   To protect the public water supply from contamination or pollution
by isolating, within the consumer's water system, contaminants or pollutants
which could backflow through the service connection into the public water
supply system.
      (2)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between the public or consumer's water supply
and non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems
containing process fluids.
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance and continuation of a cross-
connection control program which prevents the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's water supply.
   (B)   Application. The public water supplier and the consumer have the joint
responsibility for protection of the public water supply from contamination or
pollution due to backflow. The consumer should immediately install an approved
device or devices at his or her own expense at each service connection as
required. Failure, refusal, or inability on the part of the consumer to install
such a device or devices shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water
service to the premises until such a device or devices have been installed.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 53.121 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying potable
water to a tank, plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of
the receptacle. The differential distance shall be at least double the diameter
(2 x D) of the supply pipe measured vertically above the top of the rim of the
vessel. In no case, shall the air gap be less than one inch.
   APPROVED. A backflow prevention device or method that has been accepted by
the public water supplier as suitable for the proposed use.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on the premises of, or
available to, the customer except connections to other approved community water
supply systems.
   BACKFLOW. A flow condition, induced by a differential in pressure, that
causes the flow of water or mixtures of water and other substances into the
distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from a source other than
its intended source. BACKFLOW can result from either backsiphonage or
backpressure.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device or other means which will prevent the backflow
of water or any other substance into the public water supply system.
   BACKPRESSURE. The backflow of water or a mixture of water and other
substances from a plumbing fixture or other customer source, into a public
water supply system due to an increase of pressure in the fixture or customer
source to a value that exceeds the system pressure.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. The backflow of water or a mixture of water and other
substances from a plumbing fixture or other customer source, into a public
water supply system due to a temporary negative or sub-atmospheric pressure
within the public water supply system.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water supply system.
   CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system, located on the consumer's
premises, supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water supply
system. A household plumbing system is considered to be a consumer's water
system.
   CONTAMINATION. The degradation of the quality of the drinking water by
wastewaters, processed fluids, or any water of a quality less than accepted
drinking water quality to a degree which would create an actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION An arrangement allowing either a direct or indirect
connection through which backflow, including backsiphonage, can occur between
the drinking water in a public water system and a system containing a source or
potential source of contamination, or allowing treated water to be removed from
any public water system, used for any purpose or routed through any device or
pipes outside the public water system, and returned to the public water system.
The term does not include connections to devices totally within the control of
one or more public water systems and connections between water mains.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. An evaluation of the potential risk to health and the
adverse effect upon the public water supply system.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device, or practice in a water system or its
operation that creates, or may create, a danger to the health and well-being of
its users. The word SEVERE, as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD, means a hazard to
the health of the user that could reasonably be expected to result in
significant morbidity or death.
   INTERNAL PROTECTION. Cross-connection control which isolates all non-outlet,
water-use appliances within a facility (e.g., kitchen appliances, air
conditioners, boilers, process tanks, photo developing equipment) from the
water distribution system within the facility. Internal protection prevents
backflow contamination of both the facility water system and the public water
supply. Reduced pressure zone devices and double check valve assemblies are
used for internal protection.
   NON-HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or
its operation that creates, or may create, an impairment of the quality of the
water to a degree which does not create a hazard to the public health, but
which does adversely and unreasonably affect the aesthetic qualities of such
water for domestic use.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal, culinary, or any
other type of domestic use.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, company, corporation,
municipality, municipal authority, political subdivision or any agency of
federal or state government. The term includes the officers, employees and
agents of any partnership, association, company, corporation, municipality,
municipal authority, political subdivision or any agency of federal or state
government.
   POLLUTION. The presence in water of any foreign substance that tends to
degrade its quality so as to constitute a hazard, or to impair the usefulness
or quality of the water to a degree
which does not create an actual hazard to the public health, but which does
adversely and unreasonably affect such waters for domestic use.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which is satisfactory for drinking, personal, culinary,
and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of DEP.
   PROCESS FLUIDS. Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollutional, or system hazard if introduced into the
public or a consumer's water system. This includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters; sanitary quality;
      (3)   Cooling waters;
      (4)   Contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes, streams, or
irrigation systems;
      (5)   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
      (6)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis, and other liquid or gaseous fluids
used in industrial or
      (7)   Other processes, or for firefighting purposes;
      (8)   Heating system waters from boilers or heat pumps.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLIER. A person who owns or operates a public water system.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. A system which provides water to the public for
human consumption which has at least 15 service connections or regularly serves
an average of at least 25 individuals daily at least 60 days out of the year.
The term includes any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution
facilities under control of the operator of the system and used in connection
with the system. The term includes collection or pretreatment storage
facilities not under such control which are used in connection with the system.
The term also includes a system which provides water for human consumption via
bottling, vending machines, retail sale, or bulk hauling methods.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal-end of a service line from the public water
supply system. Typically located at the curb stop between the street and
sidewalk.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition posing an actual or potential threat of damage to
the physical properties of the public water system or to the consumer's potable
water system.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 53.122 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer's water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
public water supply system under the control of the public water supplier up to
the point where the consumer's water system begins,
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public
distribution system.
   (D)   The public distribution system shall include the network of conduits
used for delivery of water from the source to the consumer's water system.
   (E)   The consumer's water system shall include all facilities beyond the
service connection (curb stop) which are utilized in conveying water from the
public distribution system to points of use.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 53.123 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross-connections to the public water supply
system or consumer's water system may exist, unless such cross-connections are
abated or controlled to the satisfaction of the public water supplier.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby water from an
auxiliary water supply may enter a public or consumer's water system unless
such auxiliary water supply, as well as the method of connection and use of
such supply, has been approved.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-16-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.124 SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer's premises shall be open at all times to the public water
supplier, or its authorized representative, for the purposes of surveying for,
or investigating, actual or potential cross-connections.
   (B)   On request by the public water supplier, the consumer shall furnish
information on water use practices within his or her premises.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to conduct
periodic surveys of water use practices on his/her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross connections to his or her water
system.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 53.125 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed prior to the
first branch line leading off each service line to a consumer's water system
where, in the judgement of the public water supplier, an actual or potential
hazard to the public water supply system exists.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system where the following conditions exist:
      (1)   Systems having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the public water supplier and
approved by DEP.
      (2)   Systems where any substance is handled in such a fashion as to
create an actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This
shall include systems having sources or auxiliary systems, which contain
process fluids or waters originating from the public water supply system, which
are no longer under the sanitary control of the water purveyor.
      (3)   Systems having internal cross-connections that are not correctable,
or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to determine
whether or not cross-connections exist.
      (4)   Systems where, because of security requirements or restrictions, it
is impossible or impractical to make a complete cross-connection survey.
      (5)   Systems located on properties which have a swimming pool, lawn
irrigation system, fire sprinkler system, or where there is a home based
business conducted that presents a potential risk to health and an adverse
effect upon the public water supply system.
      (6)   Systems having a repeated history of cross-connections.
      (7)   Others specified by the public water supplier.
   (C)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving, but not necessarily limited
to, the following types of facilities unless the public water supplier
determines that no actual or potential hazards to the public water supply
system exist:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping station or storm water
pumping station;
      (5)   Food or beverage processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical plants;
      (7)   Metal plating industries;
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants; j. car wash or truck wash;
or
      (10)   Others specified by the water purveyor.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-16-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.126 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   The type of protection required under §
53.125(A), (B), and (C) above shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists
as follows:
   (A)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the public
water supply system may be contaminated with substances that are dangerous to
public health and could cause a severe health hazard, and where such a device
would be technically feasible and/or practical.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure zone
device shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
contaminated with a substance that could cause a system or health hazard.
   (C)   An approved air gap separation, an approved reduced pressure zone
device, or an approved double check valve assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be polluted with substances that would be
objectionable but not dangerous to health.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 53.127 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   Any backflow prevention device required by this subchapter shall be of
a model or construction approved by the public water supplier and shall comply
with the following:
      (1)   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at least twice the
diameter of the supply pipe, measured vertically above the top rim of the
receiving vessel, but in no case less than one inch.
      (2)   A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure zone device
shall be approved by the public water supplier and shall mean a device that has
been manufactured in full conformance with standards established by the
American Water Works Association (AWWA) entitled: ANSI/AWWA C510 Standard for
Double Check Valve Backflow-Prevention Assembly, and ANSI/AWWA C511 Standard
for Reduced-Pressure Principle Backflow-Prevention Assembly. Said AWWA
standards are herein adopted by the public water supplier. Final approval,
however, of the reduced pressure zone device and the double check valve
assembly shall be evidenced by a certificate of full approval, issued by an
approved testing laboratory, certifying full compliance with the said AWWA
standards.
   (B)   Existing backflow prevention devices approved by the public water
supplier at the time of installation and properly maintained shall, except for
inspection and maintenance requirements, be excluded from the requirement of
division (A) above provided the public water supplier is assured that they will
satisfactorily protect the public water supply system. Whenever the existing
device is moved from the present location, or requires more than minimum
maintenance, or when the public water supplier finds that the maintenance of
the device constitutes a hazard to health, the device shall be replaced by a
backflow prevention device meeting the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 53.128 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter shall be
installed at a location, and in a manner, approved by the public water
supplier. The device(s) shall be installed by a person properly qualified.
Installation of the devices shall be at the expense of the water consumer.
   (B)   Backflow prevention devices installed on the service line to a
consumer's water system shall be located on the consumer's side of the water
meter, as close to the meter as is reasonably practical, and prior to any other
connection.
   (C)   Pits or vaults shall be water-tight, flood-free, and maintained free
from standing water by means of either a sump and pump or a suitable drain.
Such a pump or drain shall not connect to a sanitary sewer, nor permit flooding
of the pit or vault by reverse flow from its point of discharge. An access
ladder and adequate lighting, natural or artificial, shall be provided to
permit maintenance, inspection, and testing of the backflow prevention device.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 53.129 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices are required by this subchapter to have inspections, tests,
and overhaul made in accordance with the following schedule, or more often
where inspections indicate a need.
      (1)   Air separation shall be inspected at the time of installation, and
at least every 12 months thereafter.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at the time of installation, and at least every 12 months thereafter.
These devices shall be dismantled, inspected internally, cleaned, and repaired
whenever needed, and at least every 30 months.
      (3)   Reduced pressure zone devices shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at the time of installation, and at least every 12 months thereafter,
These devices shall be dismantled,
inspected internally, cleaned, and repaired whenever needed and at least every
five years.
      (4)   Pressure vacuum breakers shall be inspected and tested for the
capability to prevent backsiphonage at the time of installation and at least
every 12 months thereafter. These devices shall be dismantled, inspected
internally, cleaned, and repaired whenever needed and at least every 12 months.
   (B)   Inspections, tests, and overhaul of backflow prevention devices shall
be made at the expense of the water consumer, and shall be performed by a
person certified to inspect, test, and overhaul backflow prevention devices.
   (C)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay.
   (D)   The water consumer must maintain a complete record of each backflow
prevention device from purchase to retirement. This shall include a
comprehensive listing that includes a record of all tests, inspections, and
repairs. Records of inspections, tests, repairs, and overhaul shall be
submitted to the public water supplier upon request.
   (E)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed, or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
water supplier.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-16-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.130 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to, or
within, any premises, such a pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shutoff the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to ten pounds per square inch gauge
or less for a period of 30 seconds or longer.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the public
water supplier, at least once a year that the device is operating properly.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-16-2017) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.131 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The public water supplier may deny or discontinue, after issuing
reasonable notice, the water service to any premises wherein any backflow
prevention device required by this subchapter is not installed, tested, and
maintained in a manner acceptable to the public water supplier, or if it is
found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if
an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises, or if a low pressure
cut-off device required by this subchapter is not installed and maintained in
working order.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with this subchapter and to the satisfaction of the public water supplier.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-16-2017)
PRIVATE SANITARY SEWER LATERALS
§ 53.140 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal pipe of drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of a building and conveys it to the private lateral. The building
drain ends five feet outside the inner face of the building wall. The building
drain is privately owned.
   DOCUMENT OF CERTIFICATION. An official statement from the proper officer of
the Borough of Grove City stating that there are no known illegal stormwater or
surface water connections into the sanitary sewer connections on the specific
property which is being sold or subdivided.
   GROVE CITY SEWER LATERAL INSPECTION STANDARDS. Standards, policies and/or
guidelines set by the Borough of Grove City Council by resolution. These
standards shall enumerate all requirements of plumbers who complete sewer
lateral test and/or inspections and all grading criteria for sewer laterals,
specifying repairs and replacements. These standards shall be readily available
at the Borough Office and shall be provided to all plumbers providing testing
services. It is acknowledged that these standards may be revised from time to
time by a duly adopted resolution by the Borough of Grove City Council.
   ILLEGAL STORMWATER OR SURFACE WATER CONNECTIONS. The discharge of
groundwater or surface water or the connection of downspouts, roof drainage,
surface areaway drainage, or foundation or basement drainage into the sanitary
sewer system.
   MUNICIPAL LIEN AND PROPERTY TAX VERIFICATION LETTER. A written letter from
the proper official of the Borough of Grove City concerning municipal liens and
property taxes.
   PERSON.  Any person, syndicate, associate, partnership, firm, corporation,
institution, agency, authority or other entity recognized by law as the subject
of rights and duties.
   PRIVATE LATERAL. That part of drainage system piping that starts from the
building drain and ends at the connection to the Grove City Borough sanitary
sewer system main. The private lateral is privately owned.
   STRUCTURAL AND/OR MAINTENANCE DEFECT(S) REQUIRING REPAIR. Those private
lateral and building drain defects identified in the Borough of Grove City
sewer lateral inspection standards that require repair to promote reliable
service to the structure(s) being served.
   TEMPORARY DOCUMENT OF CERTIFICATION.  A temporary statement of certification
from the proper officer of the Borough of Grove City, issued pursuant to the
terms of this chapter.
   TEST (OR LATERAL TEST). A color-televised closed circuit camera video (CCTV)
inspection and other photographic information of the sanitary sewer lateral
(and building drain) and storm or surface water collection system and
downspouts of real estate property to determine if illegal stormwater or
surface water is entering the sanitary sewer system. In addition to the CCTV
inspection, dyed water testing may also be required on a case-by-case basis to
determine if downspouts, driveway drains and/or sump pump pits are illegally
connected to the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 1492, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 53.141 CERTIFICATION APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person selling real estate (including the subdivision of property
in which an existing structure is located) located within the Borough of Grove
City shall make application on a form furnished by the Borough of Grove City at
least 14 days before the date of sale. The applicant shall then have a plumber,
who has completed all required elements of the Borough of Grove City sewer
lateral inspection standards as set by resolution of Borough Council, televise
and/or dye test all elements of the sewer drainage system on the property to be
sold (or subdivided), meeting all requirements of the Grove City sewer lateral
inspection standards. The plumber shall notify the borough at least two working
days before the test is made so that the borough may witness the test if they
desire. The borough shall have the right to approve the test as performed and/
or to require that additional tests be made.
   (B)   The plumber shall complete the appropriate portions of the form after
completing the test and certify that test has been completed to all established
standards. The plumber shall then provide the required form, application fee as
set by resolution of the Borough of Grove City Council, and media containing a
recording of the test to the Borough of Grove City for review.
   (C)   In the event that there are no illegal stormwater or surface water
connections, there are no structural and/or maintenance defect(s) requiring
repair and the existing drainage system is sound, the Borough of Grove City
shall issue a document of certification. This document of certification shall
be good for a period of three years.
   (D)   From the date of the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, new
construction shall be deemed compliant for a period of three years from the
date of the issuance of the certificate of occupancy. After the three-year
period has expired, they shall be required to follow all elements of this
chapter.
   (E)   When an illegal stormwater or surface water connection, structural
and/or maintenance defect(s) requiring repair or malfunctioning drainage system
is discovered by the means of the above-mentioned testing, no document of
certification will be issued until the illegal connection/malfunctioning
drainage system is removed/repaired, the system is retested and certification
of such removal/repair by a plumber is received. The borough application fee
shall be retained even if the property fails its inspection. Furthermore,
properties that require retesting shall be subject to a fee (as set forth by
Borough Council resolution) for said retest.
   (F)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to repair or
replace all defective lateral sewer pipe to the point of connection to a sewer
maintained by the borough.
   (G)   In instances where the property owner's lateral connects to a lateral
sewer not maintained by the borough and used by other property owners, then,
absent an agreement to the contrary, each property owner shall be responsible
for repairing or replacing the shared sewer lateral in proportion to the number
of properties using the section(s) being replaced. In the event that any of the
other property owners using the shared lateral being repaired or replaced under
the provisions of this subchapter are unwilling or unable to pay their share of
the costs, the borough may, but is not required to, pay their share of the
costs and collect the costs by civil action or under the Municipal Claims and
Lien Law.
(Ord. 1492, passed 8-21-2023) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.142 TEMPORARY DOCUMENT OF CERTIFICATION.
   A temporary document of certification may be issued, at the borough's sole
discretion and is no way required to issue one should it not be in the best
interests of the borough, subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   Lateral test temporary document of certification. Either when the
applicant proves that such testing cannot be performed because of weather
conditions, and when such is the case, the applicant shall provide the borough
with a financial security in the amount of $1,000 to guarantee that the
appropriate test will be performed. The applicant will cause to have performed
the appropriate test within 14 days of subsequent written notification from the
borough, which will be given at such time as weather conditions make such
testing possible. In addition, the applicant shall provide a signed written
acknowledgement from the purchaser of the real estate, agreeing to correct, at
the purchaser's sole expense, any violations/defects that may be discovered as
the result of subsequent tests. Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit any
purchaser from requiring the applicant to reimburse the purchaser for any costs
incurred; provided, nevertheless, that primary liability shall run with the
land and no such agreement shall affect the Borough's enforcement powers or
excuse the current owner from performance.
   (B)   Repair temporary document of certification. When an illegal stormwater
or surface water connection, structural and/or maintenance defect(s) requiring
repair or malfunctioning drainage system has been discovered and the necessary
remedial activities to correct such connection would require a length of time
such as to create a practical hardship for the applicant, the applicant may
apply to the borough for a temporary document of certification, which may only
be issued when the applicant provides the borough with all of the following:
      (1)   A bona fide executed contract between the applicant and a
registered, licensed plumber to complete the necessary remedial work, with the
borough listed therein as a third-party beneficiary.
      (2)   Financial security or escrow with the amount set by resolution of
the Borough of Grove City is posted with the borough.
      (3)   An agreement by the purchaser to be responsible for all cost
overruns related to the remedial work, together with a right to the borough to
enter upon the property to complete work in case of default by the contractor.
The borough shall determine, by regulation, when such temporary document of
certification shall expire, at which time the financial security shall be
forfeited and the Borough may use the financial security or escrow to have the
necessary remedial work completed.
(Ord. 1492, passed 8-21-2023) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.143 SALE WITHOUT COMPLIANCE.
   After the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to sell or purchase real estate or transfer real estate to another for
minor consideration which requires a change in names on the deed within the
Borough of Grove City on which a building or improvement exists, without first
obtaining a document of certification or temporary document of certification
from the proper officers of the Borough of Grove City. A deed change is deemed
not to have occurred for (i) the sale or transfer of real estate between
spouses in the event of marriage, divorce or death; and (ii) the transfer of
real estate into a trust in which the current owner(s) is exclusively named as
a beneficiary. It is also intended that the obligation to repair any defects or
violations run with the land and this obligation binds the purchaser and their
respective heirs and assigns.
(Ord. 1492, passed 8-21-2023) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.144 WATER DISCONNECTION FOR NON-COMPLIANCE.
   If the Borough of Grove City is made aware that a property has been
transferred as enumerated within §
53.143 that has not received the required document of certification or
temporary document of certification or has not completed the required repairs/
replacement/testing and the temporary document of certification has expired,
the borough shall have the right to disconnect water service subject to the
following procedures:
   (A)   The borough shall provide the property owner with a 14-day notice of
water termination due to non-compliance with the borough's sewer lateral
inspection requirements as set forth within this chapter. This notice shall be
sent by certified mail, posted on the property or hand delivered.
   (B)   Fourteen days after receipt of said notice, receipt shall be assumed
if the property is posted as of the day of posting, and the property owner has
not received a document of certification or temporary document of certification
from the Borough of Grove City, water service shall be disconnected. Following
disconnection, water shall not be reconnected until a document of certification
is issued. The property owner shall be responsible for all reconnect fees as
established by the Borough of Grove City when water service is reconnected.
Furthermore, disconnection of water service shall not preclude the borough from
civil violations as set forth in §
53.999.
(Ord. 1492, passed 8-21-2023) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.145 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Borough Public Works Director is hereby authorized, empowered and
directed to make reasonable rules and regulations for the operation and
enforcement of this subchapter as he or she deems necessary, which shall
include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Establishing acceptable forms of financial security or guarantees.
      (2)   Acceptable testing methods.
      (3)   Establishing the forms of applications, purchaser acknowledgments
and plumber certifications.
      (4)   Limiting the times of year in which temporary documents of
certification are available for reasons of weather.
       (5)   Although this subchapter describes a process that is generally
triggered through the real estate transaction process, the Borough Public Works
Director hereby retains the ability to require a lateral test in accordance
with this subchapter and require compliance with the Grove City sewer lateral
inspection standards when, in his or her sole discretion, there is just cause
or suspicion of illegal stormwater or surface water connections tributary to
the borough's sanitary sewer system, even though said parcel(s) is not
undergoing a transaction described in §
53.141 or §
53.143 identified herein.
   (B)   All rules and regulations issued pursuant to this section shall be in
writing and be approved by resolution of Borough Council and contained with the
aforementioned Grove City sewer lateral inspection as defined.
(Ord. 1492, passed 8-21-2023) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of this
chapter or any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto shall, for each and
every such violation, upon conviction thereof be sentenced to pay a fine of not
less than $75 nor more than $500 for the first two uncorrected violations of
the same section on the same property and not less than $150 nor more than
$1,000 for the third uncorrected violation of the same section of the code on
the same property, plus court costs and any expenses incurred by Borough of
Grove City for remediation thereof. Every section of this part that is violated
shall constitute a separate offense punishable by a separate fine as set forth
herein. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served
shall be deemed a separate offense punishable by a separate fine as set forth
herein.
(Ord. 1492, passed 8-21-2023)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATIONS; INDUSTRIAL SEWER CONNECTION
   APPLICATION WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT
   Attachment 1
   INDUSTRIAL SEWER CONNECTION APPLICATION
Company Name                  ________________________________________________
Address                        ________________________________________________
Authorized Representative
(print)         ________________________________________________
Title                         ________________________________________________
Signature                        ________________________________________________
Telephone                     ________________________________________________
Date                        ________________________________________________
The above-named individual being the duly authorized representative of the above named
Company does hereby request a permit to discharge industrial wastewater into the sanitary
sewer system/wastewater treatment facility of the Borough of Grove City, Mercer County,
Pennsylvania. The Company is engaged in
_________________________________________________________________________________________
   type of manufacturing
________________________________________________________________________________________
   at the above location.
In support of this application, the following are attached hereto and made a part hereof:
1. A plan to the property showing accurately all sewers and drains now existing is
attached hereto as Exhibit “A”.
2. Plans and specifications covering any work proposed to be performed under this permit
is attached hereunto as Exhibit “B”.
3. A complete schedule of all process waters and industrial wastes produced or expected
to be produced at said property, including a description of the character of each waste,
the daily volume and maximum rates of discharge, representative analyses, and compliance
with any applicable Pretreatment Standard or Requirements, is attached hereunto as
Exhibit “C”.
4. The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the work covered by this
permit is
__________________________________________________________________________________
In consideration of the granting of this permit, the applicant agrees;
1. To furnish any additional information relating to the installation or use of the
industrial sewer for which this permit is sought as may be requested by the Borough of
Grove City.
2. To accept and abide by all provisions of Ord. 1226 of the Borough of Grove City, and
of all other pertinent ordinances or regulations that may be adopted in the future.
3. To operate and maintain any waste pretreatment facilities, as may he required as a
condition of the acceptance into the wastewater treatment system of the industrial wastes
involved, in an efficient manner at all times, and at no expense to the Borough of Grove
City.
4. To cooperate at all times with the Borough of Grove City and its representatives in
their inspecting, sampling, and study of the industrial wastes, and any facilities
provided for pretreatment.
5. To notify the Borough of Grove City immediately in the event of any accident or other
occurrence that occasions contribution to the wastewater treatment system of any
wastewater or substances prohibited or not covered by this permit.
 
   Attachment 2
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT
Permit No.                   ________________________________________________
Company                   ________________________________________________
Address                      ________________________________________________
In accordance with all terms and conditions of the Borough of Grove City and
any applicable provisions of State and/or Federal law or regulation, permission
is hereby granted to the above-identified Company to discharge wastewater into
the sanitary sewer system and wastewater treatment facility of the Borough of
Grove City.
This permit is granted in accordance with the application filed on
______________ 20_____ in the office of the Borough Manager and in conformity
with plans, specifications, and other data submitted in support of the
application, all of which are filed with and considered as a part of this
permit, together with any and all attached named conditions and requirements.
_______________________________________________________________________________
Borough Manager
                              Effective this day of ______________ 20_____
                              To Expire _______ day of _________ 20_____
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 20, Appendix A)
CHAPTER 54: WATER
Section
Water Rates
   
54.001   Short title
   
54.002   Purpose
   
54.003   Condition of service
   
54.004   Monthly debt service and readiness-to-serve charges
   
54.005   Monthly consumption charge
   
54.006   Monthly multi-user charges
   
54.007   Monthly supplemental use charges
   
54.008   Water service during construction period
   
54.009   Procedure for termination of service
   
54.010   Application for service
   
54.011   Activation of service connection
Water Meters
   
54.020   Property owner responsible for meter installation
   
54.021   Billing for cost and installation of meter; discontinuance of service
for nonpayment
   
54.022   Approval of meter location
   
54.023   Necessity for remote water meter register
   
54.024   Meter testing
General Regulations
   
54.035   Water capacity tap fee
   
54.036   Charges for water connection taps
   
54.037   Care, protection, test and repair of meters
   
54.038   Service lines, connections and fittings - installation and
maintenance; waste of water unlawful
   
54.039   Separate connections, separate curb stop required for each separate
dwelling unit
   
54.040   Water Department agents and employees have access to premises
   
54.041   Grounds for discontinuance of service
   
54.042   Additional agreements not binding unless in writing and signed by
Borough Manager
   
54.043   Injury or interference with waterworks and facilities prohibited
   
54.044   Deposit required prior to construction of water lines
   
54.045   Conditions for return of deposit
   
54.046   Borough not required to construct water line following petition and
deposit
   
54.047   Connection required
   
54.048   Notice to connect; failure to comply
   
54.049   Individual wells and private water systems prohibited
   
54.050   Prohibition of lead pipes, solder and flux
Water Wells
   
54.060   Registration of existing wells
   
54.061   Future water wells
   
54.062   Inspection rights
   
54.063   Well shut-off
Bulk Water Sales
   
54.075   Purpose
   
54.076   Untreated water
   
54.077   Water supply
   
54.078   Water delivery
 
   
54.999   Penalty
WATER RATES
§ 54.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Grove City Borough Water Rates
Ordinance”.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 1, § 1) (Ord. 1116, passed 1-2-1981, § 1)
§ 54.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish standard rates for the sale of
water by the borough to residents and nonresidents of the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 1, § 2) (Ord. 1116, passed 1-2-1981, § 2)
§ 54.003 CONDITION OF SERVICE.
   The recorded owner of property shall be responsible for all charges for
service used on the owner’s property. Property owners shall be required to sign
the necessary documents acknowledging their ownership and their obligation to
pay for the service rendered by the borough prior to institution of service by
the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 1, § 3) (Ord. 1116, passed 1-2-1981, § 3)
§ 54.004 MONTHLY DEBT SERVICE AND READINESS-TO-SERVE CHARGES.
   (A)   The following monthly charges for debt service shall be made per
meter:
Monthly Debt Service by Meter Size (in inches) Minimum Charge
Monthly Debt Service by Meter Size (in inches) Minimum Charge
5/8 or 3/4                                     $18.07
1                                              $44.63
1-1/4                                          $75.17
1-1/2                                          $90.35
2                                              $144.56
3                                              $271.04
4                                              $421.56
6                                              $903.47
8                                              $1,445.56
 
   (B)   The following monthly charges for readiness-to-serve shall be made per
meter and include a 1,000 gallon water allowance:
Monthly Readiness-To-Serve by Meter Size (in inches) Minimum Charge
Monthly Readiness-To-Serve by Meter Size (in inches) Minimum Charge
5/8 or 3/4                                           $14.05
1                                                    $20.87
1-1/4                                                $34.93
1-1/2                                                $36.11
2                                                    $48.63
3                                                    $89.47
4                                                    $124.01
6                                                    $242.47
8                                                    $380.66
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 1, § 4) (Ord. 1116, passed 1-2-1981, § 4; Ord. 1133,
passed 1-8-1982, § 2; Ord. 1208, passed 11-20-1989, § 1; Ord. 1220, passed 12-
17-1990, § 1; Ord. 1253, passed 12-19-1994, § 1; Ord. 1286, passed 11-16-1998,
§ 1; Ord. 1316, passed 12-16-2002, § 2; Ord. 1347, passed 12-18-2006; Ord.
1408, passed 12-19-2011; Ord. 1420, passed 12-16-2013; Ord. 1441, passed 12-19-
2016; Ord. 1456, passed 12-17-2018, § 1; Ord. 1472, passed 12-21-2020, § 1;
Ord. 1481, passed 12-20-2021, § 1; Ord. 1487, passed 9-19-2022, § 1; Ord. 1489,
passed 12-19-2022, § 1; Ord. 1495, passed 12-18-2023, § 1)
§ 54.005 MONTHLY CONSUMPTION CHARGE.
   The following charges shall be made for additional water recorded on each
meter:
 
Next 9,000 gallons at $4.13 per thousand
Excess at             $4.13 per thousand
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 1, § 5) (Ord. 1116, passed 1-2-1981, § 5; Ord. 1133,
passed 1-8-1982, § 2; Ord. 1208, passed 11-20-1989, § 2; Ord. 1220, passed 12-
17-1990, § 2; Ord. 1253, passed 12-19-1994, § 2; Ord. 1286, passed 11-16-1998,
§ 2; Ord. 1316, passed 12-16-2002, § 2; Ord. 1347, passed 12-18-2006; Ord.
1408, passed 12-19-2011; Ord. 1420, passed 12-16-2013; Ord. 1441, passed 12-19-
2016; Ord. 1456, passed 12-17-2018, § 1)
§ 54.006 MONTHLY MULTI-USER CHARGES.
   The total monthly charge made on meters that serve more than one dwelling
unit and/or commercial user shall be based on water consumption and shall be
determined as follows: the total water use in gallons for each billing period
shall be divided by the number of dwelling units and/or commercial users served
by the meter. That average use of water shall be used in assessing charges by
applying the average water use in gallons to the five-eighths-inch meter size
rates set forth in this subchapter. The average water charge as so determined
shall then be multiplied by the number of dwelling units and/or commercial
users served by that meter to determine the total water charge per dwelling
unit. The total water charge per dwelling unit shall be billed to the customer
responsible for charge against the meter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 1, § 6) (Ord. 1418, passed 8-19-2013, § 1)
§ 54.007 MONTHLY SUPPLEMENTAL USE CHARGES.
   The following minimum monthly consumption charge, as set forth in §
54.005, will be charged to all customers who use water from private sources to
supplement metered borough water.
 
Meter Size (in inches) Charges
2                      $2.75
3                      $7.15
4                      $14.30
6                      $46.30
8                      92.50
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 1, § 7) (Ord. 1116, passed 1-2-1981, § 7; Ord. 1133,
passed 1-8-1982, § 2; Ord. 1316, passed 12-16-2002, § 2)
§ 54.008 WATER SERVICE DURING CONSTRUCTION PERIOD.
   (A)   No water shall be furnished to any building or structure during the
period of construction unless a water meter shall have been installed on the
premises to measure the flow of water to the said building or structure, or
unless a fee, at the following monthly rates, shall have been paid to the
Borough Secretary in advance of the furnishing of such service.
      (1)   For structures having a gross floor area of not more than 1,000
square feet, as shown in the application for a building permit: $25.
      (2)   For structures having a gross floor area of more than 1,000 square
feet but not more than 5,000 square feet, as shown on the application for a
building permit: $35.
      (3)   For structures having a gross floor area of more than 5,000 square
feet, as shown on the application for a building permit: $50.
   (B)   In the event that the applicant for such water service desires to have
a meter installed during the period of construction, he or she shall furnish a
meter pit dug to specifications provided by the Borough Engineer, in order to
protect the meter from damage by the elements or from construction work. Any
water supplied shall then be paid for at the rate prescribed in this chapter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 1, § 8) (Ord. 1116, passed 1-2-1981, § 8; Ord. 1133,
passed 1-8-1982, § 2; Ord. 1316, passed 12-16-2002, § 2) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.009 PROCEDURE FOR TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The borough shall be responsible for sending each utility consumer a
monthly billing statement for all utility services utilized by the said
consumer.
   (B)   The said monthly utility bill shall list a due date by which the
utility bill must be paid, said due date being not less than 15 days after the
date of mailing of said bill to the consumer.
   (C)   If the consumer does not pay the utility bill by the due date listed
on said billing, the utility bill shall automatically be increased by 5% of the
total amount of said monthly billing and the utility bill shall be considered
delinquent.
   (D)   As to any utility bill considered delinquent herein, the borough shall
notify said consumer that if said bill and penalty are not paid within ten days
of the date of the mailing of notice of delinquency, the consumer’s utilities
shall be subject to termination by the borough.
   (E)   If the consumer does not pay the said bill and penalty within the ten-
day period provided above, a representative of the borough shall attempt to
make personal contact with the consumer at the consumer’s residence and inform
the consumer that the utilities will be terminated five days thereafter unless
said bill and penalty are paid within that time-frame or unless the consumer,
within the said five days time-frame, contacts the Borough Manager and requests
a hearing with the Utilities Committee of the Borough Council.
   (F)   If the consumer is not present at the time the representative of the
borough attempts to personally contact the said individual, the said
representative shall leave a notice on the door of the said consumer as to the
pending actions of the borough and the rights of the consumer as set forth in
this subchapter.
   (G)   If the consumer does not pay his or her bill and penalty within the
aforesaid five day time-frame nor contacts the Borough Manager to request a
hearing with the Utilities Committee, the borough shall have the right to
terminate the consumer’s utility service.
   (H)   If a consumer requests a hearing with the Utilities Committee of the
Borough Council, it shall be conducted as follows.
      (1)   Within five days of a representative of the borough personally
contacting or posting notice of the pending termination of utilities, the
consumer must, in writing, request a hearing of the Utilities Committee of the
Borough Council through the office of the Borough Manager.
      (2)   A hearing date before the Utilities Committee of the borough shall
be promptly held; and the consumer shall be informed of the hearing date
personally or by certified mail at least three days prior thereto.
      (3)   The consumer may challenge said utility bill upon any of the
following grounds:
         (a)   The utility bill has been paid by the consumer;
         (b)   The utility bill is inaccurate;
         (c)   The termination of utility service is especially dangerous to
the health of the consumer or a member of his or her immediate family residing
therein and that the consumer is financially unable to pay for such service in
accord with the requirements of the utilities billing or that he or she is able
to pay for such service but only in installments;
         (d)   As to any claim to a particular illness or disease by a
consumer, a certified statement of the consumer’s physician must be presented
specifying the diagnosis and prognosis of the illness or disease and how the
termination of utility service would affect the same; and
         (e)   The borough does not have good cause to terminate utility
services.
      (4)   The Utilities Committee of the borough shall have the final
decision as to the termination of service and/or the method of payment by the
consumer for the same.
   (I)   If any portion or provision of this subchapter is held to be
unconstitutional or illegal, the remaining provisions and conditions of this
subchapter shall remain in effect and only that portion of the subchapter ruled
unconstitutional or illegal shall be affected thereby.
   (J)   If any federal or state law mandates further procedures to be complied
with prior to termination of utility service, the borough shall comply with
those requirements.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 1, § 10) (Ord. 1162, passed 6-18-1984; Ord. 1418,
passed 8-19-2013, § 3) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.010 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Any applicant who wishes to receive water service must contact the
borough and complete an application for service. Applications for service may
be made by completing a written application, telephoning the borough office, or
through an electronic application if available.
   (B)   Prior to providing service, the borough may require the applicant to
provide:
      (1)   Information that positively identifies him/herself;
      (2)   The name of an adult occupant whose name appears on the mortgage,
deed, or lease of the property for which the residential service is requested;
and/or
      (3)   The names of each adult occupant residing at the location, and
proof of their identity.
   (C)   Upon application for utility service, the borough will review utility
records to determine if the applicant has had service with the borough in the
past, and their payment history. If it is determined that the applicant had
vacated a dwelling unit in the borough leaving an unpaid utility balance,
service will be denied to the applicant.
   (D)   As property owners are responsible for utility debts of their tenants
pursuant to §
54.003, if the applicant is a tenant and shows proof of reimbursement to their
former landlord for the unpaid utilities that that landlord was required to
pay, and the prospective landlord agrees, the tenant applicant may be granted
service in their name; otherwise, the service must stay in the name of the
property owner.
   (E)   If an unpaid balance for utilities exists for a dwelling unit, no new
applications for service will be accepted at that address until the unpaid
balance is paid.
(Ord. 1487, passed 9-19-2022, § 2)
§ 54.011 ACTIVATION OF SERVICE CONNECTION.
   (A)   Whenever activating or restoring water service, the customer shall be
required to pay a charge as described in the fee schedule contained in §
38.01.
   (B)   The borough may require that the customer, or a responsible designee,
be present at the time service is activated.
(Ord. 1487, passed 9-19-2022, § 3)
WATER METERS
§ 54.020 PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR METER INSTALLATION.
   All owners of property shall be responsible for installation of water meters
and all such water meters installed in dwellings after January 1, 1974, shall
be remote register water meters and that installation shall be under the
supervision of the Water Superintendent of the borough. The number and size of
meters for a building shall be determined by the borough as a condition of
service.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 2, § 21) (Ord. 287, passed 3-4-1922, § 1; Ord. 967,
passed 1-21-1974, § 1; Ord. 1418, passed 8-19-2013, § 2)
§ 54.021 BILLING FOR COST AND INSTALLATION OF METER; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE
FOR NONPAYMENT.
   Upon completion of the installation of the said water meter, the borough
shall render to the said property owner a bill covering the cost of the said
water meter and the cost of installation thereof, which bill shall be due and
payable upon receipt. If the said bill remains unpaid for a period of 90 days
after it has been rendered, water service to the premises served by the said
meter may be terminated, and the said service shall be resumed only upon
payment of the bill.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 2, § 22) (Ord. 287, passed 3-4-1922, § 2; Ord. 709,
passed 1-30-1956, § 2)
§ 54.022 APPROVAL OF METER LOCATION.
   (A)   Before any water meter shall be located and installed in any structure
within the borough, the location of such water meter within such structure
shall be first determined or approved by the Water Superintendent or other duly
appointed representative of the borough.
   (B)   The borough may require an outdoor meter installation in a meter box
or vault. Meter boxes/vaults shall be installed and maintained by the borough,
at the customer’s expense. The meter box/vault shall be placed immediately
after the curb cock or curb stop and shall be of a type and size adequate to
give access to the meter and permit its installation or removal.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 2, § 24) (Ord. 853, passed 9-14-1966, § 2; Ord. 1487,
passed 9-19-2022, § 4)
§ 54.023 NECESSITY FOR REMOTE WATER METER REGISTER.
   In the event that the borough representatives shall be unable to enter any
structure within the borough for the purpose of making water meter readings for
a period of not less than three consecutive billing periods the owner of such
structure may be required to install a remote water meter register at the
owner’s expense within a period of 30 days from and after notice to install
such remote register given by the Borough Manager or his or her duly appointed
representative by registered mail to such owner.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 2, § 25) (Ord. 853, passed 9-14-1966, § 3)
§ 54.024 METER TESTING.
   (A)   Meters shall be tested for accuracy and adjustment made according to
rules of the State Public Utility Commission.
   (B)   Whenever a meter fails during any period to register correctly, the
customer shall pay for such period an estimated amount based either upon the
determination obtained from the meter test or upon the consumption during a
similar period or upon both of these methods combined.
   (C)   In case of dispute of an account involving the accuracy of the
registration of a meter, the meter will be tested by the borough on payment by
the applicant of a testing charge of $20, which will be returned to the
applicant in case the meter is found to over-register 2% or more. In case of
such over-registering, or if the meter is under-registering 2% or more, the
registering shall be adjusted to correspond and the bill upon which complaint
was made corrected accordingly or proper credit shall be applied to ensuing
bills.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 2, § 26) (Ord. 1134, passed 1-8-1982, § 11)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 54.035 WATER CAPACITY TAP FEE.
   The following water capacity tap fee shall be paid for each new metered
location. The capacity tap fee shall be in addition to any distribution tap
fee, which is the cost to connect a new user to the system. The distribution
tap fee is provided in §
54.036. Payment of the capacity and distribution tap fees shall accompany each
application for new water service.
Meter Size EDU Ratio Water Capacity Tap Fee
Meter Size                                EDU Ratio Water Capacity Tap Fee
Multi-residential dwelling unit, per unit 0.62      $480
5/8-inch                                  1.0       $775
1-inch                                    1.4       $1,085
1-1/2-inch                                1.8       $1,395
2-inch                                    2.9       $2,248
3-inch                                    11.0      $8,525
4-inch                                    14.0      $10,850
6-inch                                    21.0      $16,275
8-inch                                    29.0      $22,475
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 3, § 41) (Ord. 1208, passed 11-20-1989, § 4; Ord.
1210, passed 2-19-1990, § 1; Ord. 1323, passed 10-20-2003, § 3; Ord. 1487,
passed 9-19-2022, § 5)
§ 54.036 CHARGES FOR WATER CONNECTION TAPS.
   The fee for a water distribution system connection tap shall be as follows:
   (A)   The estimated sum equal to all of the costs of the water tap
construction including, but not limited to, labor, materials, equipment fees,
state permit fees, excavation, asphalt restoration and/or contractor charges
plus an administrative charge in the amount of 10%.
   (B)   The borough or its designee shall make all connections to water mains,
unless otherwise approved by the borough. Upon approval of an application for
water service and upon payment of a water capacity tap fee as set forth in §
54.035, and the estimated water connection/distribution system tap fee set
forth in division (A) above, the borough, its designee, authorized agent, or a
designated contractor will tap the main, insert corporation cock, install a
service line to the curb, or if no curb, to the property line, and install a
curb stop with curb box; all of which facilities shall be and shall remain the
property of the borough, and shall be maintained by the borough or its
designee. Upon completion, the borough will calculate the actual cost of
construction and invoice the property owner for any additional billing.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 3, § 42) (Ord. 637, passed 12-3-1951, § 1; Ord. 853,
passed 9-14-1966, § 1; Ord. 972, passed 1-21-1974; Ord. 1109, passed 8-18-1980;
Ord. 1323, passed 10-20-2003, § 4; Ord. 1487, passed 9-19-2022, § 6)
§ 54.037 CARE, PROTECTION, TEST AND REPAIR OF METERS.
   Every consumer shall properly protect the meter on the property owned or
occupied by him or her from frost and injury, and in case of failure so to do,
the Water Department shall make any necessary repairs at the consumer’s cost
and expense, and the consumer shall pay the cost thereof promptly upon
presentation of the bill of the borough therefor. No plumber or other person
except an authorized agent of the borough shall at any time be allowed to
repair or replace a meter. Any agent or employee of the Water Department shall
have authority to disconnect or remove any meter for the purpose of testing the
accuracy thereof, and in case it is necessary to repair any meter following any
such test, the cost of repair may be charged to the consumer.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 3, § 43) (Ord. 453, passed 2-14-1936, Article II, § 1;
Ord. 767, passed 11-20-1958, § 1)
§ 54.038 SERVICE LINES, CONNECTIONS AND FITTINGS - INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE; WASTE OF WATER UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   All service lines shall be laid from the curb, subject to the approval
of the Water Superintendent or other duly appointed borough representative, by
the consumer at his or her own expense. All connections, service lines and
fixtures shall be kept in good repair by the owner or occupant of the premises
in order to prevent waste of water.
   (B)   No consumer shall waste water through improper or imperfect pipes or
fixtures, or otherwise. Failure of a consumer to properly install or maintain a
service line, including replacement, shall constitute grounds for the borough
to initiate termination of the consumer’s water service and to seek recovery
for any damage caused to the borough’s facilities by the improperly functioning
service line and to recover the cost for unmetered water loss.
   (C)   Standard residential fittings, including corporation cocks, curb stops
and boxes shall be furnished by the borough at the customer’s expense, and the
corporation cock shall be inserted in the main by the borough Water Department.
   (D)   No service line shall be laid after the enactment of this chapter less
than three-quarters inch in diameter and such line must be Type K copper.
   (E)   Service lines that exceed 100 feet in length shall be required to
include an outdoor meter installation (meter box/vault). Meter boxes/vaults
shall be installed by the borough at the consumer’s expense. The meter box/
vault shall be placed immediately after the curb stop and shall be of a type
and size adequate to give access to the meter and permit its installation or
removal.
   (F)   No service line shall be laid in the same trench with a gas pipe,
sewer pipe, electric conductor, telephone cable, or any other facility of a
public service company, nor within three feet of any open excavation or vault.
   (G)   No fixture shall be attached to, or any branch made in the service
line between the meter and the street main. No extension of the service shall
be made by the consumer to provide service to another dwelling unit.
   (H)   The borough may disapprove of any plumbing materials used within the
dwelling unit to be supplied.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 3, § 44) (Ord. 453, passed 2-14-1936, Article II, § 2;
Ord. 767, passed 11-20-1958, § 2; Ord. 1487, passed 9-19-2022, § 7) Penalty,
see §
54.999
§ 54.039 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS, SEPARATE CURB STOP REQUIRED FOR EACH SEPARATE
DWELLING UNIT.
   (A)   Each separate dwelling unit must be provided with a curb stop at or
near the curb line, and no two dwelling units may be supplied through a single
service. Double houses shall be construed to be two dwelling units after the
passing of this chapter.
   (B)   In cases where an existing multiple dwelling unit building is serviced
by a single service line with a single water meter prior to the adoption of
this subchapter, the borough will treat each dwelling unit as a separate
consumer. The monthly charge for water service will be calculated as described
in §
54.006 and will be invoiced to the property owner; the borough will not invoice
tenants individually.
   (C)   In cases where an existing multi-dwelling unit building is serviced by
a single service line and each dwelling unit is metered individually, the
borough will treat each dwelling unit as a separate consumer. The monthly
charge for water service will be calculated as described in §
54.004 AND §
54.005 and the invoice may be sent to either the property owner or the tenant.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 3, § 45) (Ord. 453, passed 2-14-1936, Article II, § 3;
Ord. 1487, passed 9-19-2022, § 8) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.040 WATER DEPARTMENT AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES HAVE ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   The inspectors or other authorized agents or employees of the Water
Department shall have access at all reasonable hours to any premises supplied
with water from the mains of the Water Department, in order to ascertain that
these rules are observed and to make any necessary examination of plumbing or
water fixtures or meters.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 3, § 46) (Ord. 453, passed 2-14-1936, Article II, § 4)
Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.041 GROUNDS FOR DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The service may be discontinued for the violation of the application
of any rule of the Water Department. The service may also be discontinued in
case of vacancy of premises to which the water is being supplied.
   (B)   Whenever activating or restoring water service, the customer shall be
required to pay a charge as described in the fee schedule contained in §
38.01.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 3, § 47) (Ord. 453, passed 2-14-1936, Article II, § 5;
Ord. 1388, passed 10-19-2009, § 3; Ord. 1414, passed 12-17-2012, § 3; Ord.
1487, passed 9-19-2022, § 9)
§ 54.042 ADDITIONAL AGREEMENTS NOT BINDING UNLESS IN WRITING AND SIGNED BY
BOROUGH MANAGER.
   No agent or employee of the borough shall have authority to bind the borough
by any promise, agreement or representation, relating to the Water Department,
and not provided in this or any other ordinance of the borough, unless such
authority is in writing, and signed by the Borough Manager.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 3, § 48) (Ord. 453, passed 2-14-1936, Article II, § 6;
Ord. 767, passed 11-20-1958, § 3)
§ 54.043 INJURY OR INTERFERENCE WITH WATERWORKS AND FACILITIES PROHIBITED.
   No person or persons, unless authorized by the borough, shall in any manner
injure or interfere with the waterworks, reservoir or any pipe, branch, fire
hydrant or any property or material belonging or appertaining to the
waterworks.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 3, § 49) (Ord. 453, passed 2-14-1936, Article II, § 7;
Ord. 767, passed 11-20-1958, § 4; Ord. 968, passed 1-21-1974) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.044 DEPOSIT REQUIRED PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION OF WATER LINES.
   Water lines be constructed only after the parties petitioning for the
construction of the water line deposit with the borough an amount equal to the
cost of constructing that portion of the said line which serves the land owned
by the petitioners.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 3, § 50) (Res. 4/16/1951, passed 4-16-1951, § 1)
§ 54.045 CONDITIONS FOR RETURN OF DEPOSIT.
   The said deposit shall be returned to the depositor in proportionate amounts
as water taps are made to completed homes in the development; provided,
however, that deposits for persons building single houses on more than one lot
shall be refunded only on the basis of two lots.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 3, § 51) (Res. 4/16/1951, passed 4-16-1951, § 1)
§ 54.046 BOROUGH NOT REQUIRED TO CONSTRUCT WATER LINE FOLLOWING PETITION AND
DEPOSIT.
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to require the said borough to
construct a sewer or water line merely because of a petitioner’s compliance
with the provisions of this resolution.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 3, § 52) (Res. 4/16/1951, passed 4-16-1951, § 4)
§ 54.047 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   Any owner of property abutting upon any street, alley, right-of-way or
easement in which there is a water main constructed or acquired by the Borough
shall make connection with the waterline for the purpose of supplying water to
such property.
Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.048 NOTICE TO CONNECT; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any owner not complying with the above requirement shall be given 45-days'
notice that such water connection is required, and, upon failure of the owner
to make such connection, the borough may make the same and collect the cost
thereof from the owner by a municipal claim or an action of assumpsit.
Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.049 INDIVIDUAL WELLS AND PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS PROHIBITED.
   No person, partnership or corporation owning property within the borough,
which is now or which hereinafter may be connected to the borough water system,
will be permitted to establish an individual well or private water system for
the supplying of water for human use and consumption.
Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.050 PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER AND FLUX.
   (A)   Lead service pipes and the use of lead containing plumbing materials
for the installation or repair of any residential or nonresidential facility
connected to the borough’s public water supply system is prohibited. For the
purposes of this section, solders and flux shall be consider lead free if they
contain less than 0.20% lead AND pipe and pipe fittings shall be considered
lead free if they contain less than 0.25% lead.
   (B)   If the borough discovers a service connection to an existing lead
service pipe or plumbing materials/fittings that contain lead, the property
owner shall be provided notice and the lead service pipe and/or lead containing
plumbing materials or fittings shall be replaced at the property owner’s
expense. Failure to remove the lead pipe or plumbing materials/fittings
containing lead shall constitute grounds for the borough to initiate
termination of the consumer’s water service.
(Ord. 1487, passed 9-19-2022, § 10)
WATER WELLS
§ 54.060 REGISTRATION OF EXISTING WELLS.
   Any person or entity which is the owner of property within the borough which
has an existing water well drilled thereon must register the existence of said
water well and obtain a permit from the Borough Manager after setting forth the
following information in their permit application:
   (A)   The approximate date of the drilling of the well;
   (B)   The purpose of the well;
   (C)   The location of the well;
   (D)   The current usage of the well, including the approximate number of
gallons utilized per day;
   (E)   The depth of the well;
   (F)   The manner in which water utilized from the well is drained from the
property; and
   (G)   Any other pertinent information requested by the borough for it to
determine the necessity and safety of the well.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 4, § 61) (Ord. 1337, passed 6-20-2005, § 1) Penalty,
see §
54.999
§ 54.061 FUTURE WATER WELLS.
   (A)   No person or entity shall drill or own a water well on property in the
borough without first obtaining the written approval of the Borough Council and
a permit from the Borough Manager.
   (B)   The following minimum information shall be given to the Borough
Council to assist it in determining whether such well shall be approved:
      (1)   The location of the well;
      (2)   The purpose of the well;
      (3)   The approximate date of the drilling of the well;
      (4)   The usage of the well, including the approximate number of gallons
per day to be utilized;
      (5)   The depth of the well;
      (6)   The manner in which water utilized from the well is drained from
the property;
      (7)   The technical features of the well including any safety or back
check devices to prevent water from reentering the aquifer; and
      (8)   Any other pertinent information requested by the borough for it to
determine the necessity and safety of the well.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 4, § 62) (Ord. 1337, passed 6-20-2005, § 2) Penalty,
see §
54.999
§ 54.062 INSPECTION RIGHTS.
   Borough officials shall have the right at any time to inspect the wells as a
condition of granting a permit to determine if the well is in compliance with
all safety requirements and in accord with information supplied herein.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 4, § 63) (Ord. 1337, passed 6-20-2005, § 3)
§ 54.063 WELL SHUT-OFF.
   The borough shall have the power to shut off and seal any well and revoke
the permit for the usage thereof which is not in compliance with the terms of
this subchapter, any safety requirements applicable thereto or if there is a
water shortage.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 4, § 64) (Ord. 1337, passed 6-20-2005, § 4)
BULK WATER SALES
§ 54.075 PURPOSE.
   The Borough Manager is authorized to sell water in bulk to the general
public from its well site located adjacent to Park Street for the sum of $0.016
per gallon.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 5, § 71) (Ord. 1378, passed 12-15-2008, § 1)
§ 54.076 UNTREATED WATER.
   The water being sold in bulk to the general public is untreated and shall
not be used for human consumption purposes.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 5, § 72) (Ord. 1378, passed 12-15-2008, § 2)
§ 54.077 WATER SUPPLY.
   The Borough Manager is hereby given the authority to suspend all such sales
of water in the event that the Borough Manager determines that the water supply
poses a risk in quantity or quality to the general public.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 5, § 73) (Ord. 1378, passed 12-15-2008, § 3)
§ 54.078 WATER DELIVERY.
   The Borough Manager shall be given authority to implement all terms and
conditions as to how the water shall be delivered to the general public from
the water well location.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 5, § 74) (Ord. 1378, passed 12-15-2008, § 4)
§ 54.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A penalty of 5% of the total net charge will be added to the
total net charge if the total net charge is not paid on or before the due date
stated on the monthly billing statement.
      (2)   Water service will be terminated upon the failure of any user to
pay the total amount due on any monthly billing statement within ten days of
the due date of the statement.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 1, § 9)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
54.020 through
54.024 shall, upon conviction thereof be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $300 and costs of prosecution, and in default of such fine and costs, to
imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 2, § 23)
   (D)   No person or persons, unless authorized by the borough, shall in any
manner injure or interfere with the waterworks, reservoir or any pipe, branch,
fire hydrant or any property or material belonging or appertaining to the
waterworks. Any person who shall violate any provision of §
54.043 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $300 and costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and
costs, to imprisonment for not more than 30 days; provided, the fact that a
violator has been penalized, after hearing, as herein provided, shall not
preclude the borough or other injured party from taking proper legal action to
recover damages resulting from such violation.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 3, § 49)
   (E)   Any person or entity violating the provisions of §§
54.060 through
54.063 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $300 per day for each day
such violation of §§
54.060 through
54.063 has occurred and/or imprisonment not to exceed ten days for each day
such violation has been in existence. It is the intent of §§
54.060 through
54.063 that each day shall be a separate violation subject to separate
penalties.
(1980 Code, Ch. 27, Part 4, § 65)
(Ord. 287, passed 3-4-1922, § 2; Ord. 453, passed 2-14-1936, Article II, § 7;
Ord. 709, passed 1-30-1956, § 1; Ord. 767, passed 11-20-1958, § 4; Ord. 967,
passed 1-21-1974, § 2; Ord. 968, passed 1-21-1974; Ord. 1116, passed 1-2-1981,
§ 9; Ord. 1337, passed 6-20-2005, § 5)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   SNOW AND ICE EMERGENCY
      
74.   REMOVING AND IMPOUNDING OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions and interpretation
   
70.02   Manner of adopting permanent traffic and parking regulations
   
70.03   Temporary and emergency regulations
   
70.04   Experimental regulations
   
70.05   Authority of peace officers
   
70.06   Speed timing devices
   
70.07   Severability
   
70.08   Provisions to be a continuation of existing regulations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Words and phrases, when used in this title, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in the Vehicle Code of Pennsylvania, as now in force, or as
hereafter amended, enacted or reenacted, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
   (B)   The term LEGAL HOLIDAYS as used in this title shall mean and include:
New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and
Christmas.
   (C)   In this title, the singular shall include the plural, the plural shall
include the singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine and the
neuter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 1, § 1) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article I, § 1)
§ 70.02 MANNER OF ADOPTING PERMANENT TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS.
   All traffic and parking regulations of a permanent nature shall be enacted
as ordinances or as parts of ordinances or as amendments to ordinances of the
borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 1, § 2) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article I, § 2)
§ 70.03 TEMPORARY AND EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor, the Chief of Police or any police officer designated by the
Mayor or Chief of Police shall have the following powers to regulate traffic
and parking temporarily and in time of emergency:
      (1)   In the case of fire, flood, storm or other emergency, to establish
temporary traffic and/or parking regulations; and
      (2)   In the case of emergency or to facilitate public works, or in the
conduct of parades, processions or public events, to restrict or prohibit
traffic and/or parking in limited areas for periods of not more than 72 hours.
   (B)   Such temporary and emergency regulations shall be enforced by the
Mayor and the Police Department in the same manner as permanent regulations.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 1, § 3) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article I, § 3;
Ord. 1334, passed 4-18-2005, § 1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   The Borough Council may, from time to time, designate places upon and along
the highways in the borough where, for a period of not more than 90 days,
specific traffic and/or parking regulations, prohibitions and restrictions
shall be in force and effect, and shall designate such locations by proper
signs and markings. Such regulations, prohibitions and restrictions shall be
effective just as if they had been specified in this section. No person shall
operate or park a vehicle or tractor in violation of any such regulation,
prohibition or restriction, and no person shall move, remove, destroy or deface
any sign or marking erected, posted or made by authority of this section.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 1, § 4) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article I, § 4)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 AUTHORITY OF PEACE OFFICERS.
   The peace officers of the borough are hereby given authority to direct
traffic on the highways of the borough, and at intersections thereof.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 1, § 5) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article I, § 5)
§ 70.06 SPEED TIMING DEVICES.
   (A)   The Borough Council hereby approves the usage of speed timing devices
within the municipal boundaries of the borough by police officers employed by
the borough.
   (B)   The borough police officers are permitted to use the following speed
timing devices within the boundaries of the borough:
      (1)   A speedometer located within a motor vehicle;
      (2)   Enradd, Model EJU-91 as manufactured by Y.I.S., Incorporated;
      (3)   VASCAR-plus as manufactured by Traffic Safety Systems, a division
of Power Systems & Controls, Incorporated;
      (4)   VASCAR-plus II as manufactured by Traffic Safety Systems, a
division of Power Systems & Controls, Incorporated;
      (5)   Electronic and mechanical stopwatches provided that the Department
of Transportation has approved these speed timing devices by submission of a
certificate of stopwatch accuracy indicating that the stopwatch has been
successfully tested in accordance with the requirements of 67 Pa. Code Chapter
105, Mechanical, Electrical and Electronic Speed Time Devices, or its
successors; and
      (6)   Any and all other speed timing devices approved by the Pennsylvania
Department of Transportation on or after the date of the enactment of this
section.
   (C)   The usage of such speed timing devices shall only occur in full
compliance with all statutes and regulations of the Commonwealth, including all
requirements for certification and calibration of all such equipment, timing
strips and/or devices.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 1, § 6) (Ord. 1275, passed 4-21-1997)
§ 70.07 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this title shall be severable, and if any of its
provisions shall be held to be unconstitutional, illegal or otherwise invalid,
such decision shall not affect the validity of any of the remaining provisions
of this title. It is hereby declared as a legislative intent that this title
would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or otherwise invalid
provision not been included herein.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 8, § 121) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article VIII, §
1)
§ 70.08 PROVISIONS TO BE A CONTINUATION OF EXISTING REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this title so far as they are the same as those of
ordinances and regulations in force immediately prior to the enactment of this
title, are intended as a continuation of such ordinances and regulations and
not as new enactments. The provisions of this title shall not affect any act
done or liability incurred, nor shall they affect any suit or prosecution
pending or to be instituted to enforce any of these repealed ordinances or
regulations.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 8, § 122)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this title, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall operate or park a vehicle or tractor in violation
of any such regulations as set out in §
70.03, or who shall move, remove, destroy, injure or deface any sign or marking
erected, posted or made to give notice of any such regulation, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be liable to the penalty set forth in the law or elsewhere
in §§
70.01 through
70.05,
70.07,
70.08,
71.01 through
71.03,
72.01 through
72.05,
73.01 through
73.03,
73.99,
74.01 through
74.10,
Ch. 75 Schedules I through
IX and
Ch. 76 Schedules I through
VI and
IX for a violation of such nature, and, in case of a violation for which no
specific penalty is set forth in the law or elsewhere in §§
70.01 through
70.05,
70.07,
70.08,
71.01 through
71.03,
72.01 through
72.05,
73.01 through
73.03,
73.99,
74.01 through
74.10,
Ch. 75 Schedules I through
IX and
Ch. 76 Schedules I through
IV and
IX, to a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $25 and costs of prosecution,
and, in default of payment of such fine and costs, to undergo imprisonment for
not more than five days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 1, § 3)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
70.04 shall, upon conviction thereof, be liable to the penalty set forth in the
law or elsewhere in this title for a violation of such nature, and in case of a
violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the law or elsewhere in
§§
70.01 through
70.05,
70.07,
70.08,
71.01 through
71.03,
72.01 through
72.05,
73.01 through
73.03,
73.99,
74.01 through
74.10,
Ch. 75 Schedules I through
IX and
Ch. 76 Schedules I through
VI and
IX, to a fine of not more than $10 and costs of prosecution, and, in default of
payment of such fine and costs, to undergo imprisonment for not more than five
days; provided, the purpose of this section is to allow for the test and
experimental determination of the feasibility and desirability of permanent
changes in the ordinances of the borough relative to traffic and parking.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 1, § 4)
(Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article I, §§ 3, 4; Ord. 1334, passed 4-18-2005, §
1)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Motor vehicles not to be driven on sidewalks
   
71.02   Unlawful to operate motor vehicles or tractors on highways closed for
construction or repair
   
71.03   Play highways established and authorized
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 MOTOR VEHICLES NOT TO BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or tractor upon any sidewalk in the
borough; nor shall any person operate a motor vehicle upon or across any
sidewalk except in order to gain access to or egress from a driveway or alley
at such locations where the curb, if such sidewalk is curbed, shall have been
properly cut down for the purpose. Any person violating any provision set forth
herein shall be subject to fines prescribed in the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code,
Title 75, as well as costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such
fines and costs, to undergo imprisonment for not more than five days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 2, § 11) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article II, § 1;
Ord. 1334, passed 4-18-2005, § 2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE MOTOR VEHICLES OR TRACTORS ON HIGHWAYS CLOSED FOR
CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle or tractor upon
any highway in the borough that is under construction, resurfacing or repair,
in disregard of any official sign, barricade or notice that the same is closed
to vehicular traffic.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 2, § 20) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article II, §
10) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 PLAY HIGHWAYS ESTABLISHED AND AUTHORIZED.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to designate as play highways, whenever he or
she shall deem such action advisable, and for whatever period of time directed
by him or her, any portion of any highway in the borough, whereon sledding and
coasting shall be permitted. Such highway shall be set apart for the purpose
under the direction of the Mayor. No person shall operate any motor vehicle or
tractor upon any play highway at any time when such highway shall be so
designated, except in case of emergency, with special permission of the Mayor
or the police officer in charge, who shall first clear such play highway of all
persons using such highway for the purpose for which it was set aside.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 2, § 21) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article II, §
11) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this title, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
71.02 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $25 and costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and
costs, to undergo imprisonment for not more than ten days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 2, § 20)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
71.03 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $10 and costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and
costs, to undergo imprisonment for not more than five days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 2, § 21)
(Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article II, §§ 10, 11)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Parking without lights authorized
   
72.02   Vehicles to be parked within marked spaces
   
72.03   Parking prohibited on all bridges
   
72.04   Parking prohibited in alleys 12 feet or less in width
   
72.05   Parking prohibited between 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   
72.06   Parking restrictions on tractor-trailers/trailers
   
72.07   Special parking permits
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 PARKING WITHOUT LIGHTS AUTHORIZED.
   The boundary limits of the borough are hereby established as a zone in which
motor vehicles may remain standing without lights, and all highways within such
boundary limits are hereby designated as highways where motor vehicles may
remain standing without lights.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 3, § 31) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article III, §
1)
§ 72.02 VEHICLES TO BE PARKED WITHIN MARKED SPACES.
   Wherever a space shall be marked off on any highway or public parking lot
for the parking of an individual vehicle, every vehicle there parked shall be
parked within the lines bounding such space.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 3, § 32) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article III, §
2; Ord. 1334, passed 4-18-2005, § 11) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PARKING PROHIBITED ON ALL BRIDGES.
   Parking is hereby prohibited on all bridges located in the borough at any
and all times.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 3, § 35) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article III, §
5) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PARKING PROHIBITED IN ALLEYS 12 FEET OR LESS IN WIDTH.
   Parking is hereby prohibited on all alleys 12 feet or less in width located
in the borough at any and all times.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 3, § 36) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article III, §
6) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING PROHIBITED BETWEEN 2:00 A.M. AND 6:00 A.M.
   Parking is hereby prohibited on all highways in the borough at any and all
times between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 3, § 37) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article III, §
7) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING RESTRICTIONS ON TRACTOR-TRAILERS/TRAILERS.
   (A)   Subject to the exceptions set forth within division (D) below, within
the streets, alleys, rights-of-way, paved or unpaved, of the borough, no
tractor-trailers, as a combination vehicle, shall park except for the temporary
requirement of loading and unloading, which period of time shall not exceed two
hours unless a special permit is obtained from the Borough Manager, issued
after it has been determined additional time is needed for such loading or
unloading. A tractor-trailer is defined herein as a combination vehicle which
has three or more axles or a combination vehicle which is more than 20 feet in
length or a combination vehicle which weighs more than 18,000 pounds.
   (B)   Subject to the exceptions set forth within division (D) below, within
the streets, alleys, rights-of-way, paved or unpaved, of the borough, no
trailer shall be parked that is 15 feet in length or longer, except for the
temporary requirement of loading and unloading, which period of time shall not
exceed two hours unless a special permit is obtained from the Borough Manager,
issued after it has been determined additional time is needed for such loading
or unloading.
   (C)   Subject to the exceptions set forth within division (D) below, within
the streets, alleys, rights-of-way, paved or unpaved, of the borough, no
tractor shall be parked except for the temporary requirement of hooking up to a
trailer or disconnection from a trailer, which period of time shall not exceed
two hours unless a special permit is obtained from the Borough Manager, issued
after it has been determined additional time is needed for such hooking or
unhooking from said trailer. A tractor is defined as a vehicle with a driver’s
cab and no body designed to haul or pull one or more large vans or trailers.
   (D)   Tractors, trailers and tractor-trailers may park at a work site where
their presence is directly related to the work being performed thereat or they
may park at a manufacturing plant where they are picking up or delivering
materials either manufactured at the said site or materials which are being
disposed from the said site; provided, further, that the parking shall not
exceed 12 hours in any 24-hour period unless a special permit is obtained from
the Borough Manger authorizing such parking.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 3, § 43) (Ord. 1241, passed 12-21-1992) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 SPECIAL PARKING PERMITS.
   The police shall have the authority to issue special parking permits upon
requests of residents. Any person having the need to park a vehicle in
violation of §
72.05 (no parking 2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.) or any other section of this chapter
is required to and shall obtain a permit to do so from the Chief of Police or
his or her designee. There will be no charge for this permit. The resident
shall appear at the Borough Police Department and complete the permit form
provided by police. This form will contain the resident’s name, address, phone
number, description of vehicle(s), including registration number and the date
(s) for which permission is requested and the reason. Once approved, the permit
will be kept on file at the Police Department. A copy of the parking permit
will also be issued to the resident for each request. This copy is required to
be displayed in the windshield of the vehicle at all times when the vehicle is
parked on the roadway between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. during the
allotted time on the permit. Failure to display the permit will result in a
ticket being issued if applicable. The police reserve the right to deny such
permits for safety reasons, weather conditions or any other just cause.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 3, § 46) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974; Ord. 1334,
passed 4-18-2005, § 19)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $5 nor more
than $25 and costs of prosecution and, in default of payment of such fine and
costs, to undergo imprisonment for not more than five days; provided, it shall
be the duty of the police officers of the borough to have available to the
Mayor all violations of any provision of this chapter indicating, in each case,
the section thereof violated, the license number of the vehicle involved in
such violation, the location where such violations took place, the time of such
violation and any other facts that might be necessary in order to secure a
clear understanding of the circumstances attending such violation.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 3, § 44)
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
72.06 set forth herein shall be subject to a fine not less than $10 but not
more than $300 for each day §
72.06 is violated.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 3, § 43)
(Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article III, § 11; Ord. 1012, passed 8-19-1974, §
1; Ord. 1139, passed 7-19-1982, § 8; Ord. 1241, passed 12-21-1992; Ord. 1273,
passed 3-17-1997, § 3; Ord. 1334, passed 4-18-2005, § 17)
CHAPTER 73: SNOW AND ICE EMERGENCY
Section
   
73.01   Declaration of snow and ice emergency
   
73.02   Parking prohibited on specific highways during emergency; restrictions
on operation of motor vehicles and tractors on such streets
   
73.03   Placement of signs along highways affected; information on existence of
emergency
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DECLARATION OF SNOW AND ICE EMERGENCY.
   In order to facilitate the movement of traffic and to combat the hazards of
excessive snow and ice on the highways or portions of highways named in
Ch. 76, Schedule VIII of this title, the Mayor, in his or her discretion, may
declare an emergency due to such hazards.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 6, § 91) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article VI, § 1)
§ 73.02 PARKING PROHIBITED ON SPECIFIC HIGHWAYS DURING EMERGENCY; RESTRICTIONS
ON OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRACTORS ON SUCH STREETS.
   After any such emergency shall have been declared, it shall be unlawful
during the period of such emergency for any person to park a motor vehicle or
tractor or to allow the same to remain parked, on any highway or portion
thereof named in
Ch. 76, Schedule VIII of this title, or to operate any motor vehicle or tractor
on any such highway or portion thereof unless such vehicle or tractor shall be
equipped with adequate equipment to provide sufficient traction to keep such
vehicle or tractor in motion so that other traffic on such highways will not be
blocked or seriously impeded.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 6, § 92) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article VI, § 2)
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 PLACEMENT OF SIGNS ALONG HIGHWAYS AFFECTED; INFORMATION ON EXISTENCE OF
EMERGENCY.
   (A)   In order to assist the operators of motor vehicles and tractors in
determining the highways affected by
Ch. 76, Schedule VIII of this title, the Mayor or the Chief of Police shall
place around the utility poles on the highways or portions thereof designated
in
Ch. 76, Schedule VIII of this title, signs reading as follows:
 
Snow Emergency Route
Snow Tires or Chains Required
No Parking During Emergency
Vehicles Towed Away
 
   (B)   The Mayor or the Chief of Police shall also, through radio, newspaper
or other available media, disseminate information as to the existence of such
emergency.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 6, § 93) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article VI, § 3)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   At any time during a period of emergency declared as provided in §
73.01, any person who shall park a motor vehicle or tractor anywhere upon or
along any of the highways or portions thereof listed in
Ch. 76, Schedule VIII of this title shall be guilty of a violation of this
chapter and, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not
less than $5 nor more than $25 and cost of prosecution and, in default of
payment of such fine and costs, to undergo imprisonment for not more than five
days.
   (B)   Any person who shall operate a vehicle or tractor upon any highway or
portion thereof listed in
Ch. 76, Schedule VIII of this title, if such vehicle or tractor shall become
stalled upon any of such streets during a period of emergency declared as
provided in §
73.01, if such stalling shall have been by reason of the failure to have such
vehicle or tractor equipped with the equipment hereinabove prescribed, shall be
guilty of a violation of this article, and, upon conviction thereof, such
person shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $25 and costs of
prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and costs, to undergo
imprisonment for not more than ten days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 6, § 95) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article VI, § 5;
Ord. 1273, passed 3-17-1997, § 4)
CHAPTER 74: REMOVING AND IMPOUNDING OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES
Section
   
74.01   Authority to remove and impound illegally parked vehicles
   
74.02   Approved storage garages designated
   
74.03   Garages to be bonded
   
74.04   Towing and storage charges
   
74.05   Notification of removal and impounding
   
74.06   Effect of payment of towing and impounding charges without protest
   
74.07   Effect of payment of charges under protest
   
74.08   Records of vehicles removed and impounded
   
74.09   Owner or operator of vehicle remains liable for fine or penalty
   
74.10   Restrictions upon removal of vehicles
   
74.11   Storage fees for impounded vehicles
§ 74.01 AUTHORITY TO REMOVE AND IMPOUND ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   The Chief of Police of the borough is hereby authorized to remove and
impound or to order the removal and impounding, of any vehicle parked on any of
the streets, highways or public property in the borough in violation of any
provision of the law or of any ordinance of the borough; provided, no such
vehicle shall be removed or impounded except in strict adherence to the
provisions of this chapter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 7, § 101) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article VII, §
1)
§ 74.02 APPROVED STORAGE GARAGES DESIGNATED.
   Council shall from time to time designate such approved storage garages as
pounds for the storage of such impounded vehicles.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 7, § 102) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article VII, §
2)
§ 74.03 GARAGES TO BE BONDED.
   Every such approved storage garage or pound shall be bonded in an amount to
be fixed by Council for the indemnifying of the owner of every such impounded
vehicle against the loss thereof, or injury or damage thereto, while in the
custody of such poundkeeper.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 7, § 103) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article VII, §
3)
§ 74.04 TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
   The towing charge and storage charge to be collected by every such
poundkeeper shall be a reasonable amount as set by Council.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 7, § 104) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article VII, §
4)
§ 74.05 NOTIFICATION OF REMOVAL AND IMPOUNDING.
   Within 12 hours from the time of removal of any vehicle under authority
granted by this chapter, notice of the fact that such vehicle has been
impounded shall be sent by the Chief of Police of the borough to the owner of
record of such vehicle. Such notice shall designate the place from which such
vehicle was removed, the reason for its removal and impounding, and the pound
in which it shall have been impounded.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 7, § 105) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article VII, §
5)
§ 74.06 EFFECT OF PAYMENT OF TOWING AND IMPOUNDING CHARGES WITHOUT PROTEST.
   The payment of any towing and impounding charges, authorized by this
chapter, shall, unless such payment shall have been made “under protest”, be
final and conclusive, and shall constitute a waiver of any right to recover the
money so paid.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 7, § 106) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article VII, §
6)
§ 74.07 EFFECT OF PAYMENT OF CHARGES UNDER PROTEST.
   In the event that any towing and impounding charges, so imposed, shall be
paid “under protest”, the offender shall be entitled to a hearing before a
magistrate or court of record having jurisdiction, in which case such defendant
shall be proceeded against and shall receive such notice as is provided in the
Vehicle Code in other cases of summary offenses, and shall have the same rights
as to appeal and waiver of hearing.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 7, § 107) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article VII, §
7)
§ 74.08 RECORDS OF VEHICLES REMOVED AND IMPOUNDED.
   The Chief of Police shall keep a record of all vehicles impounded and shall
be able at all reasonable times to furnish the owners or the agents of the
owners thereof with information as to the place of storage of such vehicles.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 7, § 108) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article VII, §
8)
§ 74.09 OWNER OR OPERATOR OF VEHICLE REMAINS LIABLE FOR FINE OR PENALTY.
   The payment of towing and storage charge authorized by this chapter shall
not operate to relieve the owner or operator of any vehicle from liability for
any fine or penalty for violation of any law or ordinance on account of which
such vehicle was removed and impounded.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 7, § 109) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article VII, §
9)
§ 74.10 RESTRICTIONS UPON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall be removed under the authority of this chapter if, at the
time of the intended removal thereof, the owner or person for the time being in
charge of such vehicle is present and expresses a willingness and intention to
remove such vehicle immediately.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 7, § 110) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article VII, §
10)
§ 74.11 STORAGE FEES FOR IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Subject. Any vehicle impounded by the Borough Police Department for
any cause pursuant to the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code or the Pennsylvania
Crimes Code shall be subject to a storage fee as set forth hereafter.
   (B)   Fee. The owner or claimant of such impounded vehicle shall be subject
to a storage fee in the amount of $15 per day, commencing 24 hours following
telephone notification, the date of mailing of a letter to the owner by regular
mail with proof of mailing or the date of posting notification of impoundment
at the owner’s residence, whichever method of notification the borough may
select.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 7, § 111) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article VII, §
11; Ord. 1299, passed 11-20-200-, §§ 1, 2)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits established
   
II.   One-way highways established
   
III.   Traffic to move in counter-clockwise direction around Hillcrest Circle
   
IV.   Through highways
   
V.   Stop intersections established
   
VI.   Yield-right-of-way intersections established
   
VII.   Trucks prohibited on certain highways
   
VIII.   Vehicle weight limits established
   
IX.   Limited exit restrictions
   
X.   Left turns prohibited at all times
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The following speed limits are hereby established:
Highway Between Speed Limit
Highway                   Between                    Speed Limit
                          Harvard Street to W.       25 mph
                          Washington Boulevard
Bessemer Avenue           Princeton Avenue to point  School speed zone 15 mph
                          300 feet east of Madison   school days 7:30 a.m. to
                          Avenue                     3:30 p.m.
                          Poplar Street and Spruce   25 mph
Broad Street              Street
                          Spruce Street and north    35 mph
                          borough line
                          Erie Street and Stewart    25 mph
Center Street             Street
                          Stewart Street and south   35 mph
                          borough line
College Avenue            S. Broad Street to Kinder  25 mph
                          Avenue
Columbia Avenue           Stockton Avenue to S.      25 mph
                          Center Street
Edgewood Avenue           Erie Street to north end   25 mph
Erie Street               Broad Street and Center    25 mph
                          Street
                          Beginning at a point 90
                          feet north of the north
George Junior Road        right-of-way line of       25 mph
                          Carrie Way, thence south a
                          distance of 540 feet
                          E. Main Street to Clark    25 mph
                          Street
Greenwood Drive           Clark Street through
                          Hunter Farm Park to end of 15 mph
                          street
                                                     25 mph
                          West Main Street to        School speed zone 15 mph
Highland Avenue           Stockton Avenue            school days 7:15 a.m. to
                                                     8:15 a.m.; 1:45 p.m. to 3:
                                                     15 p.m.
Liberty Street            E. Main Street and south   25 mph
                          borough line
Lincoln Avenue            N. Broad Street to         25 mph
                          Winfield Drive
                          E. Main Street north end   25 mph
Madison Avenue            Lincoln Avenue to Oakland  School speed zone 15 mph
                          Avenue                     school days 7:30 a.m. to
                                                     3:30 p.m.
                          S. Broad Street east to    25 mph
                          Summit Street
                          Summit Street east to      35 mph
E. Main Street            borough line
                          Campbell Drive to borough  School speed zone 15 mph
                          line                       7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m.; 2:
                                                     00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m.
                          S. Broad Street and        25 mph
                          Stewart Avenue
                          Stewart Avenue and Oak     25 mph
                          Street
                          Oak Street and west        35 mph
W. Main Street            borough line
                                                     School speed zone of 15
                          McDowell Street to Oak     mph on school days from 7:
                          Street                     15 a.m. to 8:15 a.m. and
                                                     from 2:45 p.m. until 3:15
                                                     p.m.
McConnell Street          Entire length (north to    25 mph
                          south)
North Center Street       Chestnut Street to         25 mph
                          Cranberry Road
Park roads                Entire length within the   15 mph
                          Grove City Memorial Park
                          Highland Avenue to S.      25 mph
W. Poplar Street          Broad Street
                          Highland Avenue West to    School speed zone 15 mph
                          High School
E. Poplar Street          S. Broad Street to         25 mph
                          Greenwood Drive
Pine Street               S. Broad Street to         25 mph
                          Winfield Drive
Spring Street             W. Main Street to Sunset   25 mph
                          Avenue
Stewart Avenue            College Avenue to S.       25 mph
                          Center Street
Tidball Avenue            S. Center Street to Nelson 25 mph
                          Street
                          Harvard Street to          25 mph
                          Enterprise Road
Woodland Avenue           Princeton Street to point  School speed zone 15 mph
                          300 feet east of Madison   school days 7:30 a.m. to
                          Avenue                     3:30 p.m.
All other borough streets Entire length              25 mph
(not specified above)
 
   (B)   Any person violating any provision set forth herein shall be subject
to fines prescribed in the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, Title 75, as well as
costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fines and costs, to
undergo imprisonment for not more than five days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 2, § 12) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article II, § 2;
Ord. 1193, passed 7-20-1987; Ord. 1194, passed 7-20-1987; Ord. 1273, passed 3-
17-1997, § 1; Ord. 1277, passed 10-20-1997, § 1; Ord. 1298, passed 9-18-2000, §
1; Ord. 1322, passed 10-20-2003, § 1; Ord. 1334, passed 4-18-2005, § 3; Ord.
1389, passed 11-16-2009, § 1; Ord. 1411, passed 3-19-2012, §§ 1—3; Ord. 1424,
passed 4-21-2014, § 1)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY HIGHWAYS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The following are hereby established as one-way highways:
Highway From To Direction of Travel
Highway            From               To                   Direction of Travel
Alley north of
Church of the      N. Broad Street    N. Center Street     Westbound
Beloved Disciple
Barmore Avenue     W. Poplar Street   Stewart Avenue       Southwesterly
Broad Street       W. Poplar Street   Blair Street         Northbound
Center Street      Blair Street       W. Poplar Street     Southbound
College Avenue     Elm Street         S. Center Street     Eastbound
                   A point 200 ft.
Grant Street       north of the north Blaine Street        Northbound
                   curb line of Elm
                   Street
North fork or      A point
Woodland Avenue    intersecting with  Oak Hill Drive       Westbound
around McCune      the south fork of
Circle             Woodland Avenue
South fork of                         A point intersecting
Woodland Avenue    Oak Hill Drive     with the north fork  Eastbound
around McCune                         of Woodland Avenue
Circle
U. P. Church Alley E. Main Street     E. Poplar Street     Southbound
Center Street      Blair Street       W. Main Street       Southbound
                                      Directly off Broad
Unnamed alley      Entire Length      Street and across    Westbound
                                      from Guthrie Theater
 
   (B)   Any person violating any provision set forth herein shall be subject
to fines prescribed in the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, Title 75, as well as
costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fines and costs, to
undergo imprisonment for not more than five days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 2, § 13) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article II, § 3;
Ord. 1022, passed 5-19-1975, § 1; Ord. 1334, passed 4-18-2005, § 4; Ord. 1358,
passed 7-16-2007, § 1; Ord. 1437, passed 3-21-2016, § 1)
SCHEDULE III. TRAFFIC TO MOVE IN COUNTER-CLOCKWISE DIRECTION AROUND HILLCREST
CIRCLE.
   All traffic shall move in a counter-clockwise direction only around
Hillcrest Circle. Any person violating any provision set forth herein shall be
subject to fines prescribed in the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, Title 75, as well
as costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fines and costs, to
undergo imprisonment for not more than five days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 2, § 14) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article II, § 4;
Ord. 1334, passed 4-18-2005, § 5)
SCHEDULE IV. THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   The following highways are hereby established as through highways, and
the operator of every vehicle or tractor upon approaching any such highway at
any intersection thereof (except for such intersections where there are now or
shall hereafter be located official traffic signals) shall come to a full stop,
within a reasonable distance, before entering any such through highway:
Highway Between
Highway         Between
Broad Street    Main Street and north borough line
Center Street   Main Street and south borough line
Liberty Street  E. Main Street and south borough line
Lincoln Avenue  Harvard Street and east borough line
Main Street     East Borough line and west borough line
North Street    N. Broad Street and east borough line
E. Pine Street  Madison Street and east borough line
Spring Street   W. Poplar Street and west borough line
Stewart Street  W. Poplar Street and S. Center Street
Superior Street W. Poplar Street and Columbia Avenue
 
   (B)   Any operator of a vehicle or tractor who shall fail to come to a full
stop, within a reasonable distance, upon entering any such throughway, as
herein above required, shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a
fine as prescribed in Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, Title 75, as well as costs of
prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fines and costs, to undergo
imprisonment for not more than three days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 2, § 15) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article II, § 5;
Ord. 1334, passed 4-18-2005, § 6)
SCHEDULE V. STOP INTERSECTIONS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The following intersections, in addition to highways intersecting with
the through highways established by
Ch. 75, Schedule IV, are hereby established as stop intersections, and official
stop signs shall be erected (or are hereby confirmed if heretofore erected) in
such a position as to face traffic approaching the second-named highway upon
the first-named highway, in the direction or directions hereby indicated. All
vehicles and tractors approaching any such intersection upon the first-named
highway, in the direction or directions hereby indicated in each case, shall
come to a full stop, within a reasonable distance, before entering any such
intersection:
Stop Highway Through Highway Direction of Travel
Stop Highway               Through Highway           Direction of Travel
                           Harvard Street            Westbound
Bessemer Avenue            Madison Street            Eastbound and westbound
                           Princeton Street          Eastbound and westbound
Blaine Street              Edgewood Avenue           Eastbound and westbound
                           N. Center Street          Eastbound and westbound
Blair Street               Center Street             Eastbound and westbound
                           Mill Street               Westbound
Bluff Street               Harvard Street            Eastbound
S. Broad Street Ext.       W. Poplar Street          Northbound
Carrie Way                 Republic Road             Westbound
Cedar Avenue               Martin Street             Westbound
                           Tidball Avenue            Eastbound
                           Chestnut Street           Northbound and southbound
                           Cranberry Road            Northbound
N. Center Street           Erie Street               Southbound
                           Gilmore Street            Northbound and southbound
                           Spruce Street             Northbound and southbound
Chestnut Street            Bluff Street              Eastbound
                           N. Center Street          Eastbound and westbound
                           Elm Street                Eastbound
College Avenue             Kinder Street             Eastbound
                           S. Center Street          Eastbound and westbound
Columbia Avenue            Stockton Avenue           Northbound
Craig Street               Tidball Avenue            Eastbound and westbound
                           W. Poplar Street          Eastbound
                           Erie Street               Eastbound
Edgewood Avenue            Gilmore Street            Northbound and southbound
                           Hill Avenue               Southbound
                           Hillcrest Avenue          Northbound
Elm Street                 College Avenue            Northbound
Enclave Drive              Middle School Drive       Eastbound and westbound
                           SR 73                     Westbound
Erie Street                Mill Street               Eastbound and westbound
                           N. Center Street          Eastbound and westbound
                           Spring Street             Eastbound and westbound
Euclid Avenue              Superior Street           Eastbound and westbound
                           Stewart Avenue            Eastbound
                           Bessemer Avenue           Northbound and southbound
Forest Drive               Oak Hill Drive            Northbound and southbound
                           Woodland Avenue           Northbound and southbound
Franklin Place             Terrace Avenue            Northbound
Garden Avenue              Beatty Avenue             Northbound and southbound
                           Graig Street              Northbound
                           Edgewood Avenue           Eastbound and westbound
Gilmore Street             N. Center Street          Eastbound and westbound
                           State Street              Eastbound and westbound
Grace Street               E. Pine Street            Northbound
Harvard Street             E. Pine Street            Southbound
                           Lincoln Avenue            Northbound and southbound
Highland Avenue            Stockton Avenue           Southbound
Hill Avenue                Edgewood Avenue           Eastbound
Hillcrest Avenue           N. Center Street          Eastbound
Jackson Street             College Avenue            Westbound
                           S. Center Street          Eastbound
Kinder Street              College Avenue            Northbound
Limberg Way                E. Pine Street            Southbound
Lincoln Avenue             Harvard Avenue            Eastbound and westbound
                           Bessemer Avenue           Northbound and southbound
Madison Street             E. Pine Street            Northbound and southbound
                           Woodland Avenue           Northbound and southbound
McConnell Street           Chestnut Street           Northbound and southbound
Memorial Avenue Ext.       Summit Street             Eastbound
Middle School Drive        E. Main Street            Northbound
                           Enclave Drive             Southbound
Mill Street                Jackson Street            Southbound
Monroe Street              E. Pine Street            Southbound
Oakland Avenue             Madison Street            Eastbound and westbound
                           Princeton Street          Westbound
Opre Avenue                Princeton Street          Eastbound and westbound
                           Harvard Street            Eastbound and westbound
Park Avenue                Monroe Street             Eastbound and westbound
                           Penn Grove Alley          Westbound
Penn Grove Alley           East Pine Street          Southbound
                           Park Avenue               Northbound
E. Pine Street             Madison Street            Eastbound and westbound
E. Poplar Street           Walnut Street             Eastbound and westbound
                           Highland Avenue           Westbound
W. Poplar Street           Spring Street             Eastbound and westbound
                           Stewart Street            Eastbound and westbound
Princeton Street           Bessemer Avenue           Northbound and southbound
                           Woodland Avenue           Northbound
Rebecca Avenue             Highland Avenue           Westbound
                           Spring Street             Eastbound
Ridgeway Avenue            Cedar Avenue              Northbound and southbound
Shady Drive                Woodland Avenue           Southbound
                           W. Poplar Street          Northbound and southbound
Spring Street              Rebecca Street            Northbound and southbound
                           Euclid Avenue             Both
                           Sunset Avenue             Southbound
Spruce Street              N. Center Street          Eastbound and westbound
                           State Street              Eastbound and westbound
                           Blaine Street             Southbound
State Street               Cranberry Road            Northbound
                           Gilmore Street            Northbound and southbound
                           Spruce Street             Northbound and southbound
                           College Avenue            Northbound and southbound
Stewart Street             Jackson Street            Northbound
                           W. Poplar Street          Northbound and southbound
Sunset Avenue              Stockton Avenue           Northbound
                           Columbia Avenue           Northbound and southbound
Superior Street            W. Poplar Street          Northbound
                           Euclid Avenue             Northbound and southbound
                           Stockton Avenue           Northbound and southbound
Tidball Avenue             Beatty Avenue             Northbound and southbound
                           Linden Street             Both
Walnut Street              E. Poplar Street          Northbound and southbound
W. Washington Blvd.        Terrace Avenue            Northbound
                           Woodland Avenue           Northbound and southbound
                           E. Washington Blvd.       Eastbound and westbound
Woodland Avenue            Madison Street            Eastbound and westbound
                           Princeton Street          Eastbound and westbound
Unnamed alley running east
and west between Barmore   Unnamed alley running
Avenue and Stewart Avenue  north and south in the    Eastbound and westbound
in the block between W.    block between Stewart
Poplar Street and Stockton Avenue and Barmore Avenue
Avenue
 
   (B)   Any operator of a vehicle or tractor who shall fail to come to a full
stop, within a reasonable distance, before entering any stop intersection, as
herein above required, shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a
fine as prescribed in Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, Title 75, as well as costs of
prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fines and costs, to undergo
imprisonment for not more than three days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 2, § 16) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article II, § 6;
Ord. 1022, passed 5-19-1975, § 2; Ord. 1240, passed 12-21-1992; Ord. 1261,
passed 9-18-1995, § 1; Ord. 1263, passed 11-20-1995, § 1; Ord. 1274, passed 4-
21-1997, § 1; Ord. 1285, passed 10-19-1998, § 1; Ord. 1296, passed 11-15-1999,
§ 1; Ord. 1334, passed 4-18-2005, § 7; Ord. 1364, passed 2-18-2008, § 1; Ord.
1371, passed 7-21-2008, § 1; Ord. 1387, passed 8-17-2009, § 1; Ord. 1411,
passed 3-19-2012, §§ 4—6; Ord. 1424, passed 4-21-2014, § 2; Ord. 1431, passed
3-16-2015, § 1; Ord. 1463, passed 6-17-2019, § 1)
SCHEDULE VI. YIELD-RIGHT-OF-WAY INTERSECTIONS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The following intersections are hereby established as yield-right-of-
way intersections and official yield signs shall be erected (or are hereby
ratified if heretofore erected) in such a position as to face traffic
approaching the second-named highway from the first-named highway, in the
direction or directions hereby indicated. All vehicles and tractors approaching
any such intersection upon the first-named highway, in the direction or
directions hereby indicated, shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching the second-named highway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time that the operator of such
vehicle or tractor is moving across or within such intersection:
 
Yield Highway                    Through Highway Direction of Travel
Elm Street                       College Avenue  Southbound
                                 W. Pine Street  Northbound
Northwest fork of Tidball Avenue Tidball Avenue  Eastbound
W. Pine Street                   College Avenue  Westbound
 
   (B)   Any person violating any provision set forth herein shall be subject
to fines prescribed in the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, Title 75, as well as
costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fines and costs, to
undergo imprisonment for not more than five days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 2, § 17) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article II, § 7;
Ord. 1218, passed 9-17-1990, § 1; Ord. 1334, passed 4-18-2005, § 8)
SCHEDULE VII. TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any truck, which shall
mean any vehicle for the transportation of freight or merchandise, upon any of
the following portions of the highways in the borough:
Highway Between
Highway          Between
N. Center Street Erie Street and north borough line
Columbia Avenue  Stockton Avenue and S. Center Street
Elm Street       College Avenue to W. Poplar Street
Highland Avenue  Rebecca Avenue and Stockton Street
Jackson Street   Mill Street and College Avenue
Kinder Avenue    W. Main Street to College Avenue
W. Pine Street   Center Street to College Avenue
W. Poplar Street Highland Avenue and S. Center Street
Princeton Street North Street and Lincoln Avenue
Stewart Avenue   College Avenue to S. Center Street
Sunset Avenue    Stockton Avenue and S. Center Street
 
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this section shall, upon
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $50 and costs
of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and costs, to undergo
imprisonment for not more than ten days; provided, nothing herein shall
prohibit the operation of any truck upon any highway or portion thereof listed
hereinabove where such operation thereon shall be necessary in order to pick up
or deliver any goods, wares, merchandise or material from or to any premises
located upon any such highway or portion thereof.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 2, § 18) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article II, § 8;
Ord. 1334, passed 4-18-2005, § 9)
SCHEDULE VIII. VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle or
other vehicle, tractor, trailer or tractor-trailer combination, having a gross
weight in excess of 18,000 pounds, on any highway in the borough, except:
Highway Between
Highway             Between
Breckenridge Street W. Main Street and north borough line
Erie Street         N. Center Street and west borough line
Industrial Drive    W. Main Street and north borough line
Lincoln Avenue      N. Broad Street and Madison Street
Madison Street      E. Main Street and north borough line
Pine Street         S. Center Street and east borough line
Cranberry Road      North Broad Street and west to the borough line
 
   (B)   Such highways hereby being designated as “truck routes”.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this schedule shall,
upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of $50 and costs of
prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and costs, to undergo
imprisonment for not more than ten days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 2, § 19) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article II, § 9;
Ord. 1394, passed 6-21-2010, § 4; Ord. 1411, passed 3-19-2012, § 7)
SCHEDULE IX. LIMITED EXIT RESTRICTIONS.
   No vehicle shall exit from Middle School Drive onto East Main Street between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:15 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. until 3:15 p.m., Monday
through Friday, between September 1 and June 15 of every year.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 2, § 22) (Ord. 1389, passed 11-16-2009, § 2; Ord.
1405, passed 9-19-2011, § 1; Ord. 1411, passed 3-19-2012, § 8; Ord. 1431,
passed 3-16-2015, § 2) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE X. LEFT TURNS PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   Left turns in the following locations shall be prohibited at all times:
 
Street        On To
Kinder Avenue West Main Street
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 2, § 23) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974; Ord. 1255,
passed 2-20-1995, § 1) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited at all times in certain locations
   
II.   Parking prohibited in specific locations certain days and hours
   
III.   Parking time limited in specific locations certain days and hours
   
IV.   Parking lots established
   
V.   Parking lot time limits established
   
VI.   Loading and unloading zone
   
VII.   Wrong way parking
   
VIII.   Snow and ice emergency; highways affected
   
IX.   Angle parking permitted on portions of certain highways
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   Parking shall be prohibited at all times in the following locations:
Highway Side Between
Highway                             Side  Between
Arnold Avenue                       North Walnut Street and S. Broad Street
Barmore Avenue                      East  W. Poplar Street and Stewart Street
Barr Avenue                         West  W. Main to end
Beatty Street                       South Tidball Avenue to Garden Avenue
Bessemer Avenue                     North Harvard Street and Madison Street
                                    North Madison Ave. and W. Washington Blvd.
Blaine Street                       North N. Broad Street and Edgewood Avenue
Blair Street                        South Mill Street and S. Center Street
Bluff Street                        Both  Monroe Street and Harvard Street
Breckenridge                        Both  W. Main to north end
                                          Erie Street and a point 200 feet
                                    East  north of Gilmore Street
N. Broad Street                           Point 75 feet south of Chestnut
                                          Street and borough line
                                    West  Erie Street and north borough line
                                    East  Main Street and a point 78 feet south
S. Broad Street                           of Main Street
                                    West  East Main Street and a point 200 feet
                                          south of E. Main Street
Bryant Avenue                       North Tidball Avenue to Ketler Drive
Carrie Way                          North Ivan Drive and Republic Road
N. Center Street                    Both  Erie Street and Chestnut Street
                                    West  Chestnut Street and Cranberry Road
                                    Both  W. Pine Street and Stewart Street
                                          Blair Street and a point 125 feet
                                          south of Blair Street
                                    East  A point 245 feet north of W. Pine
S. Center Street                          Street and a point 60 feet north of
                                          W. Pine Street
                                          Blair Street and West Pine Street
                                    West  W. Pine Street and a point 140 feet
                                          north of W. Pine Street
Chestnut Street                     Both  State Street and the bridge
Clark Street                        South Tidball Avenue to Greenwood Drive
                                    Both  Elm Street and Kinder Street
                                    North Kinder Street and the west end
                                          S. Center Street and Elm Street
College Avenue                            S. Center Street and a point 206 feet
                                    South west of S. Center Street
                                          S. Broad Street and South Center
                                          Street
Columbia Avenue                     East  South Center Street and Stockton
                                          Avenue
Craig Street                        North Opposite Garden Avenue
                                    South W. Poplar Street and Ridgeway Avenue
Dale Street                         South N. Broad Street and McConnell Street
Edgewood Avenue                     East  Erie Street and the north end
Ellwood Avenue                      East  Cedar Avenue to end
                                    East  W. Poplar Street and College Avenue
Elm Street                                Point 200 feet south of W. Main
                                    West  Street and a point 50 feet north of
                                          W. Main Street
                                    South Liberty Street to point 100 feet east
Enclave Drive                             of Middle School Drive
                                    North Liberty Street to east end of street
Erie Street                         Both  N. Broad Street and Edgewood Avenue
Euclid Avenue                       North Stewart Avenue to west end
                                          E. Main Street and the first alley
                                    Both  south of and parallel to E. Main
Flower Avenue                             Street
                                    West  E. Main Street and south end of
                                          roadway
Forest Drive                        West  Lincoln Avenue to borough line
Garden Avenue                       East  Craig Street to Moreland Avenue
Gilmore Street                      North N. Broad Street and Edgewood Avenue
                                    South N. Broad Street and N. Center Street
Grace Street                        Both  E. Pine Street and the end
Grant Street                        West  Erie Street and Blaine Street
Greenwood Drive                     Both  E. Main Street and the south end
Harvard Street                      Both  E. Pine Street and Bluff Street
Highland Avenue                     Both  Rebecca Street and Stockton Avenue
                                    West  West Main Street and Rebecca Street
Hill Street                         South Edgewood Avenue to end
Hunter Farm Lane                    Both  N. Liberty Road east 500 feet
Industrial Drive                    Both  W. Main Street to north end
Ivan Drive                          Both  W. Main Street to Carrie Way
Jackson Street                      North S. Center Street and College Avenue
Ketler Drive                        West  Tidball Avenue to end
Kinder Street                       Both  W. Main Street and College Avenue
Kocher Drive                        Both  Liberty Street east a distance of 341
                                          feet
Liberty Street                      Both  E. Main Street and south borough line
                                    East  E. Pine Street to north end
Limberg Way                         West  E. Pine Street and a point 420 feet
                                          north of E. Pine Street
Lincoln Avenue                      North N. Broad Street and the east end
                                    Both  N. Broad Street and Madison Avenue
Linden Street                       North Tidball Avenue to Ridgeway Avenue
E. Main Street                      Both  Greenwood Drive and east borough line
W. Main Street                      Both  Broad Street and west borough line
                                          S. Broad Street east to borough line
Madison Avenue                      Both  E. Main Street to railroad tracks
                                    East  E. Main Street and the south end
Maple Street                              E. Main Street and the first alley
                                    Both  south of and parallel to E. Main
                                          Street
Martin Street                       East  S. Center Street to Cedar Avenue
McConnell Street                    East  North Street and the south end
                                          E. Main Street and the first alley
Memorial Avenue                     Both  south of and parallel to E. Main
                                          Street
Mill Street                         Both  Jackson Street and Blair Street
Miller Avenue                       North Liberty Street and a point 50 feet
                                          west of Liberty Street
                                    South Liberty Street and Orchard Street
Monroe Street                       West  E. Pine Street and Park Street
Moreland Avenue                     North Tidball Avenue to end
Municipal Building/Library Entrance East  West Main Street 200 feet north
Drive
Nelson Avenue                       North Tidball Avenue to Ketler Drive
Oak Street                          East  W. Main Street to end
Oakland Avenue                      North Princeton Avenue to Oak Hill Drive
Opre Avenue                         North Riverside Avenue to Madison Avenue
Overhill Street                     West  Lincoln Avenue to E. Pine Street
Park Avenue                         North The east end and the west end
                                          S. Broad Street and Limberg Way
E. Pine Street                      North E. Pine Street between the bridge
                                         crossing over Wolf Creek and Madison
                                          Avenue
                                    South S. Broad Street and Madison Avenue
                                    North S. Broad Street and Filer Alley
W. Pine Street                            S. Center Street and College Avenue
                                    South S. Broad Street and a point 180 feet
                                          west of S. Center Street
                                          Greenwood Drive and S. Center Street
                                    Both  Highland Avenue and the Grove City
                                          High School
Poplar Street                       North S. Center Street and a point 100 feet
                                          west of S. Center Street
                                    South S. Center Street and the Grove City
                                          High School
Princeton Street                    Both  Lincoln Avenue to North Street
                                          E. Main Street and the first alley
                                    East  south of and parallel to E. Main
Rainey Avenue                             Street
                                    West  East Main Street south a distance of
                                          750 feet
Rebecca Avenue                      North Spring Street to Highland Avenue
Ridgeway Avenue                     East  Craig Street to end
Riverside Avenue                    East  Opre Avenue to North Street
Sawardekar Lane                     Both  West Main Street, north to end
Spring Street                       East  W. Main Street and Columbia Avenue
Spruce Street                       North N. Broad Street and Edgewood Avenue
State Street                        East  Hillcrest Avenue and Chestnut Street
                                    West  Blaine Street and Cranberry Road
                                    East  Jackson Street and S. Center Street
Stewart Street                            A point 100 feet north of W. Main
                                    West  Street and a point 100 feet south of
                                          W. Main Street
Stockton Avenue                     Both  S. Center Street to Superior Street
                                    South Superior Street to Highland Avenue
Stowe Street                        North Greenwood Drive west to end
                                          E. Main Street and the first alley
Summit Street                       East  south of and parallel to E. Main
                                          Street
                                    West  E. Main Street and Rainey Avenue
Sunset Avenue                       West  S. Center Street to Stockton Avenue
Superior Street                     East  W. Poplar Street and Columbia Avenue
Terrace Avenue                      South Lincoln Avenue to E. Washington
                                          Boulevard
Tidball Avenue                      Both  S. Center Street and Craig Street
                                    East  Craig Street to Nelson Street
Uber Way                            West  S. Center Street to Cedar Avenue
Unnamed Alley                       East  East Pine Street and Park Avenue
Walnut Street                       Both  E. Main Street and E. Poplar Street
E. and W. Washington Boulevard      Both  On bend of horseshoe end
Winfield Drive                      West  Lincoln Avenue to E. Pine Street
Woodland Avenue                     North Harvard Street to Shady Drive
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 3, § 34) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article III, §
4; Ord. 1022, passed 5-19-1975, §§ 3—5; Ord. 1086A, passed 8-20-1979, § 1; Ord.
1122, passed 2-16-1981, § 1; Ord. 1124, passed 5-15-1981, §§ 1, 2; Ord. 1139,
passed 7-19-1982, §§ 1—3; Ord. 1170, passed 8-19-1985; Ord. 1181, passed 6-2-
1986, § 5; Ord. 1199, passed 5-16-1988; Ord. 1258, passed 6-5-1995, §§ 1, 2;
Ord. 1260, passed 8-21-1995, § 1; Ord. 1273, passed 3-17-1997, § 2; Ord. 1277,
passed 10-20-1997, § 2; Ord. 1285, passed 10-19-1998, § 2; Ord. 1290, passed
12-20-1999, § 1; Ord. 1293, passed 5-17-1999, § 1; Ord. 1301, passed 11-20-
2000, § 1; Ord. 1310, passed 7-15-2002, § 1; Ord. 1320, passed 4-21-2003, § 1;
Ord. 1334, passed 4-18-2005, § 13; Ord. 1364, passed 2-18-2008, § 3; Ord. 1389,
passed 11-16-2009, § 4; Ord. 1394, passed 6-21-2010, § 3; Ord. 1411, passed 3-
19-2012, §§ 9—13; Ord. 1431, passed 3-16-2015, § 3) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIC LOCATIONS CERTAIN DAYS AND HOURS.
   (A)   Generally. Parking shall be prohibited in the following locations at
all times on the days (except Sundays and legal holidays) and between the hours
hereby indicated:
Highway Side Between Days Hours
Highway            Side  Between             Days           Hours
Jackson Street     South S. Center Street    Every day      7:00 a.m. to 5:00
                         and College Avenue                 p.m.
                         A point 100 feet
W. Poplar Street   North west of S. Center   Every day      7:00 a.m. to 5:00
                         Street and Spring                  p.m.
                         Street
Highland Avenue    East  W. Main Street and  Monday through 7:00 a.m. to 3:30
                         Rebecca Street      Friday         p.m.
Tower Presbyterian North Along Broad Street  Every day      2:00 a.m. to 6:00
Church Parking Lot                                          a.m.
                         Greenwood Drive and                All times except
Poplar Street      North Walnut Street       Every day      Sunday 6:00 a.m. to
                                                            2:00 p.m.
South Broad Street N/A   Entire lot          Every day      2:00 a.m. to 6:00
Lot                                                         a.m.
Methodist Church   N/A   Entire lot          Every day      2:00 a.m. to 6:00
Lot                                                         a.m.
 
   (B)   Parking lot.
      (1)   Methodist Church lot. Public parking is prohibited at all times in
the spaces along the south side of the parking lot which have been reserved and
posted for church staff and designated person.
      (2)   East Main United Presbyterian lot. Parking is limited to church use
only on Sundays from 8:00 a.m. until 12:00 noon.
      (3)   College Avenue lot. Public parking is prohibited at all times in
the spaces designated and posted for borough employee and officials parking.
   (C)   Unlimited parking permits. Owners of parking lots designated for
public use (Grace United Methodist Church, Tower Presbyterian Church and East
Main United Presbyterian Church) will be allowed unlimited parking permits as
follows.
      (1)   Parking permit tags must be displayed on rearview mirror.
      (2)   The cost to print tags will be borne by the lot owner.
      (3)   The tags will be designed and issued to lot owner by the Police
Department.
      (4)   Tags will be consecutively numbered and the lot owner will be
responsible for keeping a record of who the tags are issued to.
      (5)   There will be no forgiveness of parking fines when a tag is not
displayed.
      (6)   No such tag shall be given to a landlord for use by a tenant.
      (7)   All such tags are to be used only for church-sponsored or related
activities.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 3, § 38) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article III, §
8; Ord. 1334, passed 4-18-2005, § 14; Ord. 1355, passed 7-16-2007, § 1; Ord.
1356, passed 7-16-2007, § 1; Ord. 1389, passed 11-16-2009, § 5) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. PARKING TIME LIMITED IN SPECIFIC LOCATIONS CERTAIN DAYS AND
HOURS.
   Except as provided in
Ch. 76, Sch. I, no person shall park a vehicle, or allow the same to remain
parked, for longer than the time herein indicated, in any of the following
locations, at any time on the days (except Sundays and legal holidays) and
between the hours herein indicated:
Highway Side Between Days Hours Parking Time Limit
Highway         Side  Between          Days      Hours             Parking Time
                                                                   Limit
                      Madison Street             From 6:00 a.m. to
Bessemer Avenue South and Harvard      Every day 6:00 p.m.         2 hours
                      Street
Blaine Street   South N. Broad Street  Every day From 6:00 a.m. to 4 hours
                      and Grant Street           6:00 p.m.
Blair Street    North Broad Street to  Every day From 6:00 a.m. to 2 hours
                      Center Street              6:00 p.m.
Blair Street    South Broad Street to  Every day From 6:00 a.m. to 10 hours
                      Center Street              6:00 p.m.
Blair Street    North Mill Street and  Every day From 6:00 a.m. to 2 hours
                      Center Street              6:00 p.m.
                      A point 200 feet
N. Broad Street East  north of Gilmore Every day From 6:00 a.m. to 2 hours
                      Street and Dale            6:00 p.m.
                      Street
S. Broad Street Both  Poplar Street    Every day From 6:00 a.m. to 2 hours
                      and Blair Street           6:00 p.m.
                      From a point 148
Center Street   East  feet south of    Every day From 6:00 a.m. to 2 hours
                      Blair Street and           6:00 p.m.
                      W. Pine Street
College Avenue  South S. Broad Street  Every day From 6:00 a.m. to 2 hours
                      and east end               6:00 p.m.
College Avenue  North S. Broad and S.  Every day From 6:00 a.m. to 2 hours
                      Center                     6:00 p.m.
                      Point 30 feet
                      south of College           From 6:00 a.m. to
Elm Street      West  Avenue and point Every day 6:00 p.m.         2 hours
                      50 feet north of
                      W. Main Street
                      First alley                From 6:00 a.m. to
Flower Avenue   East  south of E. Main           6:00 p.m.         2 hours
                      Street to end
                      North Center               From 6:00 a.m. to
Gilmore Street  South Street and       Every day 6:00 p.m.         2 hours
                      Edgewood Avenue
                      From a point 420
Limberg Way     West  feet north of E. Every day From 6:00 a.m. to 10 hours
                      Pine Street                6:00 p.m.
                      north 140 feet
                      Lincoln Avenue             From 6:00 a.m. to
Madison Street  Both  and Woodland     Every day 6:00 p.m.         2 hours
                      Avenue
                      E. Main Street             From 6:00 a.m. to
Maple Street    West  and the south    Every day 6:00 p.m.         2 hours
                      end
Park Avenue     South Harvard Street   Every day From 6:00 a.m. to 2 hours
                      and the west end           6:00 p.m.
                      Monroe Street              From 6:00 a.m. to
                South and Harvard      Every day 6:00 p.m.         2 hours
E. Pine Street        Street
                North Limberg Way and  Every day From 6:00 a.m. to 15 minutes
                      the bridge                 6:00 p.m.
                North Filer Avenue and Every day From 6:00 a.m. to 2 hours
                      Center Street              6:00 p.m.
W. Pine Street        Elm Street and a
                South point 175 feet   Every day From 6:00 a.m. to 2 hours
                      west of S.                 6:00 p.m.
                      Center Street
                      E. Main Street             From 6:00 a.m. to
Rainey Avenue   West  and Summit       Every day 6:00 p.m.         2 hours
                      Street
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 3, § 39) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article III, §
9; Ord. 1022, passed 5-19-1975, § 6; Ord. 1127, passed 10-12-1981, § 1; Ord.
1139, passed 7-19-1982, §§ 4, 5; Ord. 1157, passed 2-20-1984; Ord. 1198, passed
5-16-1987; Ord. 1251, passed 8-15-1994, § 1; Ord. 1258, passed 6-5-1995, §§ 3,
4, 7; Ord. 1334, passed 4-18-2005, § 15; Ord. 1389, passed 11-16-2009, § 6;
Ord. 1394, passed 6-21-2010, §§ 1, 2) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. PARKING LOTS ESTABLISHED.
   The following are hereby established as parking lots operated by the
borough:
   (A)   Center Street lot. Situated on the east side of S. Center Street from
120 feet north of W. Pine Street to 247 feet north of W. Pine Street;
   (B)   College Avenue lot. Situated on the south side of College Avenue at
its intersection with S. Center Street and on the east side of South Center
Street;
   (C)   East Main United Presbyterian Church lot. Situated on the west side of
Walnut Street, the south side of Arnold Avenue, and the north side of E. Poplar
Street;
   (D)   Methodist Church lot. Situated on the east side of Grace Street and
its intersection with E. Pine Street and on the south side of E. Pine Street;
   (E)   South Broad Street lot. Situated on the east side of South Broad
Street, 250 feet north of the intersection of South Broad Street and East Pine
Street, 150 feet south of the intersection of South Broad Street and Limberg
Way, and bounded on the east by Limberg Way and on the west by South Broad
Street;
   (F)   Tower Church lot. Situated on the east side of South Broad Street and
on the north side of the Tower Church; and
   (G)   Community Library Parking lot. Situated on the north side of the
Community Library/Municipal Building complex.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 3, § 40) (Ord. 1139, passed 7-19-1982, § 6; Ord. 1258,
passed 6-5-1995, § 5; Ord. 1335, passed 5-16-2005, § 1; Ord. 1351, passed 4-16-
2007, § 1) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. PARKING LOT TIME LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   The time limits for parking on the lots established in
Ch. 76 Sch. IV shall be as follows:
 
Center Street lot                        10 hours
College Avenue lot                       10 hours
Community Library parking lot            2 hours
East Main United Presbyterian Church lot 10 hours
Methodist Church lot                     4 hours
South Broad Street lot                   4 hours
Tower Church lot                         10 hours
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 3, § 41) (Ord. 1139, passed 7-19-1982, § 7; Ord. 1161,
passed 5-21-1984; Ord. 1258, passed 6-5-1995, § 6; Ord. 1294, passed 12-20-
1999, § 1; Ord. 1320, passed 4-21-2003, § 2; Ord. 1335, passed 5-16-2005, § 2;
Ord. 1357, passed 7-16-2007, § 1; Ord. 1389, passed 11-16-2009, § 7) Penalty,
see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI. LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONE.
   Notwithstanding the provision of
Ch. 76 Sch. 1, there is hereby established a 30 minute loading/unloading zone
in the following location:
 
Highway        Side  Between
E. Pine Street South A point 30 feet east of S. Broad Street and a point
                     directly across from Limberg Way
Madison Avenue West  Bessemer Avenue to Woodland Avenue (school loading zone)
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 3, § 42) (Ord. 1152, passed 12-19-1983; Ord. 1334,
passed 4-18-2005, § 16; Ord. 1351, passed 4-16-2007, § 2; Ord. 1389, passed 11-
16-2009, § 8; Ord. 1411, passed 3-19-2012, § 14) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VII. WRONG WAY PARKING.
   (A)   Two-way highways. Except as otherwise provided in this section, every
vehicle standing or parked upon a two-way highway shall be positioned parallel
to and with the right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or,
in the absence of a curb, as close as practicable to the right edge of the
right-hand shoulder.
   (B)   One-way highways. Except as otherwise provided in this section, every
vehicle standing or parked upon a one-way highway shall be positioned parallel
to the curb or edge of the highway in the direction of authorized traffic
movement with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or,
in the absence of a curb, as close as practicable to the right edge of the
right-hand shoulder, or with its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-
hand curb or, in the absence of a curb, as close as practicable to the left
edge of the left-hand shoulder.
   (C)   East Pine Street. All vehicles parking on the north side of the 500
block of East Pine Street and both sides of the street on West Washington
Boulevard between East Pine Street and Terrace Avenue must park within the
marked parking lanes so that the vehicle is positioned parallel to and with the
passenger side wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb, or, in the
absence of a curb, as close as practical to the right edge of the right-hand
shoulder.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision set forth herein shall be
subject to fines prescribed in the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, Title 75, as well
as costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fines and costs, to
undergo imprisonment for not more than five days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 3, § 45) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974; Ord. 1334,
passed 4-18-2005, § 18; Ord. 1411, passed 3-19-2012, § 15)
SCHEDULE VIII. SNOW AND ICE EMERGENCY; HIGHWAYS AFFECTED.
   The highways or portions thereof to which the provisions of
Ch. 73 of this title shall be applicable during all periods of emergency
declared as provided in §
73.01:
   (A)   Broad Street, from Poplar Street to the north borough line;
   (B)   Center Street, from Erie Street to the west borough line;
   (C)   Erie Street, from North Broad Street to North Center Street;
   (D)   Liberty Street, from East Main Street to the south borough line;
   (E)   Main Street, from the east borough line to the west borough line;
   (F)   North Street, from North Broad Street to the east borough line; and
   (G)   West Poplar Street, from South Center Street to South Broad Street.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 6, § 94) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article VI, § 4)
Penalty, see §
73.99
SCHEDULE IX: ANGLE PARKING PERMITTED ON PORTIONS OF CERTAIN HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Only angle parking shall be permitted on the following portions of the
highway:
 
Highway         Side  Between
Blair Street    North S. Broad Street and Mill Street
                South S. Broad Street to S. Center Street
S. Broad Street West  East Main Street to College Avenue
                West  College Avenue and Main Street
College Avenue  South S. Broad Street to east end
Walnut Street   West  E. Poplar Street and Arnold Avenue
 
   (B)   On all highways or portions thereof where angle parking is now or
shall hereafter be authorized, all vehicles parked hereon shall be parked with
the front thereof nearest the curb.
(1980 Code, Ch. 17, Part 3, § 33) (Ord. 998, passed 1-21-1974, Article III, §
3; Ord. 1334, passed 4-18-2005, § 12; Ord. 1364, passed 2-18-2008, § 2; Ord.
1389, passed 11-16-2009, § 3) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND FIRE PROTECTION
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   LIBRARY
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
96.   TREES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Animal Regulations
   
90.01   Pigs not to be kept in borough
   
90.02   Keeping of horses regulated
   
90.03   Animal noise
   
90.04   Animal defecation
Seizure and Detention of Dogs
   
90.15   Seizure of dog
   
90.16   Detention of dog
Dog Leash Law
   
90.30   Dog leash
   
90.31   Unleashed areas
   
90.32   Fine
   
90.33   Savings clause
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Additional animal prohibitions, see §
151.02(J)
 and §
156.146, household pets.
   Numerical limits, see §
156.146, kennel.
ANIMAL REGULATIONS
§ 90.01 PIGS NOT TO BE KEPT IN BOROUGH.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall keep any pig or hog at any place
within the borough, nor shall any person, firm or corporation maintain any pig
pen or hog pen at any place within the said borough, under penalty.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, an exception for Vietnamese
potbellied pigs is hereby established so that residents of the borough may own
and keep said Vietnamese potbellied pigs at their residences provided the
following provisions are met.
      (1)   The pig must be a registered Vietnamese potbellied pig.
      (2)   There is a limit of one Vietnamese potbellied pig per household.
      (3)   The Vietnamese potbellied pig must be spayed, neutered, given all
shots as required by a veterinarian and cannot pose a public health threat
whatsoever.
      (4)   The Vietnamese potbellied pig cannot weigh more than 100 pounds.
      (5)   The Vietnamese potbellied pig shall be subject to all leash
controls which govern dogs under state and local law.
(1980 Code, Ch. 3, Part 1, § 1) (Ord. 786, passed 11-20-1958; Ord. 1246, passed
9-20-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 KEEPING OF HORSES REGULATED.
   No person or persons, firm or corporations shall keep any horse at any place
in the borough except where a barn or other building shall be provided as a
shelter therefor, and such shelter shall not be located within 100 feet of any
street in the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 3, Part 1, § 2) (Ord. 787, passed 11-20-1958) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Horses on public property, see §
94.02
§ 90.03 ANIMAL NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person having custody of any dog, cat
or animal to harbor or to permit said dog, cat or animal to frequently or
habitually bark, howl, screech, yelp or bay in or any way or manner injure or
disturb the quiet of any person or which disturbs or endangers the comfort,
welfare of person and that such is hereby declared to be committing a nuisance.
(1980 Code, Ch. 3, Part 1, § 3) (Ord. 1197, passed 1-18-1988, § 1) Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.04 ANIMAL DEFECATION.
   Any dog, cat or other animal which defecates upon any property, public or
private, other than the property of the owner or person in charge or control of
such animal, is hereby declared to be a nuisance for which the owner or person
in control thereof shall be liable hereunder; provided further, where the owner
or person in charge or control of such dog, cat or animal immediately removes
all feces deposited by such dog, cat or animal and immediately disposes of the
same in sanitary manner, such nuisance shall be considered abated.
(1980 Code, Ch. 3, Part 1, § 4) (Ord. 1197, passed 1-18-1988, § 2) Penalty, see
§
90.99
SEIZURE AND DETENTION OF DOGS
§ 90.15 SEIZURE OF DOG.
   Any licensed or unlicensed dog which is found running at large, either upon
the public streets or highways of the borough, or upon the property of a person
other than the owner of such dog and unaccompanied by the owner or keeper may
be properly seized and detained by any police officer of the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 3, Part 2, § 11) (Ord. 1300, passed 11-20-2000, § 1) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.16 DETENTION OF DOG.
   The Borough Police Department shall cause any dog so seized and detained to
be properly kept and fed and shall immediately notify the person in whose name
the license was procured, or his or her agent, to claim such dog, such notice
to be given by telephone, by regular mail with a proof of mailing receipt or by
posting notice at the owner’s home, whichever method of notification the
borough may select.
(1980 Code, Ch. 3, Part 2, § 12) (Ord. 1300, passed 11-20-2000, § 2) Penalty,
see §
90.99
DOG LEASH LAW
§ 90.30 DOG LEASH.
   Any owner of any dog and/or any person possessing, caring for or in control
of any dog shall be responsible for such dog if the dog is found to be off the
property upon which the owner, possessor, caretaker or person in control of the
said dog resides, whether said dog is off such property by acts of such person
intentionally or unintentionally, or by acts of omission or commission by such
person, unless such dog is on a leash not in excess of nine feet, which leash,
connected to the dog, is in the possession and control of the said owner,
possessor, caretaker or person in charge of the said dog. The liability
hereunder may be joint or several if multiple people own, possess, care for or
control the said dog. Regardless of the circumstances, an owner or possessor of
said dog shall have absolute responsibility for the whereabouts and control of
the said dog and the leash requirements set forth herein.
(1980 Code, Ch. 3, Part 3, § 21) (Ord. 1395, passed 8-16-2010, § 1) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.31 UNLEASHED AREAS.
   The Borough Council shall have the authority to designate certain areas of
the borough where dogs may be present free of the leash requirements set forth
herein, provided that the owner of any such dog and/or any person possessing,
caring for or in control of any such dog shall be present thereat with the said
dog and have responsibility to ensure the good behavior of said dog.
(1980 Code, Ch. 3, Part 3, § 22) (Ord. 1395, passed 8-16-2010, § 2)
§ 90.32 FINE.
   The owner, possessor, caretaker and/or person in control of the said dog at
the time it is found to be off the property which the owner, possessor,
caretaker or person in control of the said dog resides and the said dog is
found not to be on such a leash, which leash is in the control of the said
owner, possessor, caretaker and/or person in control of the said dog, or any
dog is found to be in an authorized unleashed area without the owner,
possessor, caretaker and/or a person in control of said dog present thereat.
(1980 Code, Ch. 3, Part 3, § 23) (Ord. 1395, passed 8-16-2010, § 3)
§ 90.33 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Any provision of this law in conflict with the laws of the Commonwealth
governing control of dogs shall be deemed to be repealed, but all other
provisions of this subchapter shall remain in full force and effect.
(1980 Code, Ch. 3, Part 3, § 24) (Ord. 1395, passed 8-16-2010, § 4)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
90.01, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $50 and costs of
prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and costs, in imprisonment
in the county jail for not more than ten days; provided, each day’s continuance
of a violation of any of the provisions of §
90.01 shall constitute a separate offense.
(1980 Code, Ch. 3, Part 1, § 1)
   (C)   Any person or persons, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §
90.02 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $50 and costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and
costs, to imprisonment in the county jail for not more than ten day(s);
provided, each day’s continuance of a violation of any of the provisions of §
90.02 shall constitute a separate offense.
(1980 Code, Ch. 3, Part 1, § 2)
   (D)   Any person violating §§
90.03 and 90.04 shall be subject to a fine and penalty of not more than $300
and in default thereof shall undergo imprisonment for a period not exceeding
ten days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 3, Part 1, § 5)
   (E)   For §§
90.15 and 90.16, the owner or claimant of a dog so detained shall pay a fee of
$15 plus $5 per day for each day following the first day that the dog is
sheltered by the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 3, Part 2, § 13)
   (F)   The said owner, possessor, caretaker and/or person in control of the
said dog shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $300 and court costs per
incident violating §§
90.30 through
90.33. The fine and court costs may be imposed upon one or more individuals if
it is found that one or more individuals own, possess, care for or control the
said dog and had joint or several responsibility for said dog at the time it is
found to be off the applicable premises.
(1980 Code, Ch. 3, Part 3, § 23)
(Ord. 786, passed 11-20-1958; Ord. 787, passed 11-20-1958; Ord. 1197, passed 1-
18-1988, § 3; Ord. 1246, passed 9-20-1993; Ord. 1300, passed 11-20-2000, § 3;
Ord. 1395, passed 8-16-2010, § 3)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION AND FIRE PROTECTION
Section
Fire Prevention Code
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   General restrictions
   
91.03   Exceptions
   
91.04   Required precautions
Volunteer Firefighters
   
91.25   Purpose
   
91.26   Cause of employment
   
91.27   Limits on authority
 
   
91.99   Penalty
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BARBEQUE GRILL/PIT. Devices and/or equipment that are solely utilized and
designed for the cooking of food. Barbeque grills/pits can be constructed to be
portable, permanent or in-ground equipment. In-ground pits shall be below grade
level and not be larger than 25 square feet in area.
   BONFIRE.  An outdoor fire utilized for ceremonial purposes.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of materials wherein products of combustion are
emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a stack or
chimney from an enclosed chamber. OPEN BURNING does not include road flares,
smudge-pots and similar devices associated with safety or occupational uses
typically considered open flames or recreational fires. For the purposes of
this definition, a chamber shall be regarded as enclosed when, during the time
combustion occurs, only apertures, ducts, stacks, flues or chimneys necessary
to provide combustion air and permit the escape of exhaust gas are open.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE.  An outdoor fire, burning materials other than trash or
rubbish, where the fuel is being burned for pleasure, religious, ceremonial,
cooking, warmth or similar purposes, which is not contained in an incinerator,
outdoor fireplace, barbeque grill or barbeque pit and has a total area of three
feet or less in diameter and two feet or less in height
(Ord. 1491, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 91.02 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.
   A person shall not kindle or maintain or authorize to be kindled or
maintained any open burning unless conducted and approved in accordance with
this chapter.
(Ord. 1491, passed 7-17-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Recreational fires.
      (1)   Recreational fires shall not exceed three feet in width and two
feet in height and must be contained in a fire ring, fire pit or other similar
containment device.
      (2)   Recreational fires shall have a supervising adult present at all
times.
      (3)   Recreational fires shall be completely extinguished before the
supervising adult leaves the fire location.
      (4)   Recreational fires are limited to dry and seasoned tree wood which
is not rotted or rotting or construction wood which is not chemically preserved
or treated, in order to avoid smoldering or offensive odors.
      (5)   Recreational fires shall not be burned between 12:00 midnight and
11:00 a.m., and all fires shall be contained via a fire ring or similar
structure. Burn barrels shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Fires may be set in the performance of official duties by the Fire
Chief or his or her designee when necessary for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   For the abatement of a fire hazard which cannot be abated by other
means.
      (2)   For training in firefighting or for research in control of fires
under supervision of the Fire Chief or his or her designee.
      (3)   In an emergency or other extraordinary circumstances when open
burning is determined by the Fire Chief to be in the public interest.
   (C)   Other open burning allowed.
      (1)   Open burning shall be allowed for kindling a fire for recognized
silvicultural or range or wildlife management practices, prevention or control
of disease or pests on recognized agricultural property or other locations as
approved by the Borough of Grove City.
      (2)   Open burning for the removal of felled trees for land development
purposes shall be allowed through the use of air curtain destructor or other
approved methods of land clearing as permitted by the Pennsylvania DEP and EPA
after obtaining written approval from the Borough of Grove City.
      (3)   Open burning of trees and tree debris shall be permitted by the
Borough of Grove City under special circumstances such as extensive storm
damage and the like. All persons conducting open burning for storm damage
reasons shall do so only after announcement from the Borough of Grove City that
such burning is allowed due to a storm event.
      (4)   Open burning of bonfires for ceremonial purposes by recognized
organizations within the Borough of Grove City after receiving approval via a
burning permit from the Zoning and Code Enforcement Officer.
      (5)   Nothing in this Part shall allow open burning in violation of
burning bans imposed by the State of Pennsylvania or any other prohibitions
enacted by the State of Pennsylvania, the County of Mercer, or the Borough of
Grove City.
   (D)   Use of burn barrels. Burn barrels shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 1491, passed 7-17-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 REQUIRED PRECAUTIONS.
   (A)   Adequate means for extinguishing fires shall be within reasonable
distance from any fire and shall be there for the duration of the fire.
   (B)   Fires shall not be burned during periods of high wind or extreme
drought nor when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires
hazardous.
   (C)   Fires shall be prohibited if conditions are such that burning would be
hazardous to the health, safety and general welfare of persons or property in
the community, including but not limited to smoke or odor emissions that are
considered to be offensive. Any person who refuses to extinguish such a fire
after being informed by a borough firefighter, police officer, code officer or
other Borough of Grove City officer or employee shall be in violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1491, passed 7-17-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS
§ 91.25 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to clarify those situations under which
volunteer firefighters are deemed to be performing work within the course of
their employment as volunteer firefighters.
(1980 Code, Ch. 9, Part 2, § 21) (Ord. 1148, passed 4-18-1983, § 1)
§ 91.26 CAUSE OF EMPLOYMENT.
   Volunteer firefighters shall be deemed to be performing work within the
course of their employment as volunteer firefighters when engaged in the
following activities:
   (A)   An activity specifically defined under the Workmen’s Compensation Act,
77 P.S. § 1031, and as it may be amended thereafter;
   (B)   Education of citizenry on fire prevention matters at the specific
direction of the Fire Chief;
   (C)   Attendance at educational seminars and sessions related to fire
prevention or fire suppression or engaged in the acquisition of fire equipment,
provided further that the attendance or acquisition activities are at the
specific direction of the Fire Chief;
   (D)   Attendance at memorial services for firefighters killed while
suppressing a fire;
   (E)   Directly participating in one of the following activities within the
borough at the specific direction of the Fire Chief:
      (1)   Flagpole duties;
      (2)   Community parade; and
      (3)   Fund-raising activities.
   (F)   Attendance at parades outside the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 9, Part 2, § 22) (Ord. 1148, passed 4-18-1983, § 2)
§ 91.27 LIMITS ON AUTHORITY.
   Any other activity performed by a volunteer firefighter shall be deemed not
to be within the course of employment as a volunteer firefighter unless the
activity has been directed to be performed by the Fire Chief with the prior
approval of the Borough Council.
(1980 Code, Ch. 9, Part 2, § 23) (Ord. 1148, passed 4-18-1983, § 3)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter, upon conviction thereof in an action brought before a district judge
in the manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses under the
Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of
not more than $500, plus costs. Each day that a violation of this chapter
continues or each section of this chapter which shall be found to have been
violated shall constitute a separate offense. This chapter may be enforced by a
Borough of Grove City Police Officer, the Borough Manager or designee, Borough
of Grove City Zoning Officer or a Borough of Grove City Code Enforcement
Officer.
(1980 Code, Ch. 9, Part 1, § 7) (Ord. 1491, passed 7-17-2023)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Generally
   
92.01   Unlawful to permit weeds and other uncultivated growth to remain on
property or adjacent grassplots
   
92.02   Weeds and other uncultivated growth to be cut or trimmed
   
92.03   Notice to cut or trim
   
92.04   Authority for borough to cut or trim and collect cost plus additional
amount
   
92.05   Abandoned or junked automobile, truck or vehicle
   
92.06   Prohibition of abandoned or junked vehicles
   
92.07   Exclusion
Nuisances
   
92.25   General provisions
   
92.26   Definitions
   
92.27   Duties of owners, occupants and operators
   
92.28   Determinations of a violation
   
92.29   Enforcement procedure
   
92.30   Borough’s available remedies upon failure of owner, occupant or
operator to timely abate nuisance
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERALLY
§ 92.01 UNLAWFUL TO PERMIT WEEDS AND OTHER UNCULTIVATED GROWTH TO REMAIN ON
PROPERTY OR ADJACENT GRASSPLOTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning or having a
present interest in any real property to permit weeds, brush or other
uncultivated growth, not edible or planted for some useful or ornamental
purpose, to grow or remain on any real property owned by him, her or it, or
upon any right-of-way areas abutting such property, within the borough. This
shall include all property in adjacent street and utility right-of-ways. The
owner shall be responsible for weed and brush growth from the edge of their
property limits to the paved area of the street.
(1980 Code, Ch. 12, § 1) (Ord. 716, passed 6-4-1956, § 1; Ord. 779, passed 11-
20-1958, § 1; Ord. 1485, passed 4-18-2022, § 1) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 WEEDS AND OTHER UNCULTIVATED GROWTH TO BE CUT OR TRIMMED.
   It shall be the duty of all owners of real property or other persons having
an interest in such real property as defined in §
92.01 to cause such weeds, brush and other uncultivated growth to be cut or
trimmed at least once each year and at such other times as may be required by
the borough to a height not to exceed six inches.
(1980 Code, Ch. 12, § 2) (Ord. 716, passed 6-4-1956, § 3; Ord. 1485, passed 4-
18-2022, § 1) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 NOTICE TO CUT OR TRIM.
   In the event that the owner or other person having an interest in such real
property fails to keep such weeds, brush or other uncultivated growth properly
trimmed, the Borough of Grove City shall serve upon them or any of them a
notice in writing, by mail or posted upon the property, requiring that within
one week from the date thereof they cause such growth to be cut or trimmed in
accordance with the provisions of §
92.04.
(1980 Code, Ch. 12, § 3) (Ord. 716, passed 6-4-1956, § 4; Ord. 1485, passed 4-
18-2022, § 1)
§ 92.04 AUTHORITY FOR BOROUGH TO CUT OR TRIM AND COLLECT COST PLUS ADDITIONAL
AMOUNT.
   If the person or persons upon whom the said notice has been served as
provided in §
92.03 fail to comply with it within the time specified, the Borough of Grove
City may cause the necessary cutting or trimming to be done, and the cost
thereof, together with a charge of 10% for overhead with a minimum charge to be
set by resolution of the Borough of Grove City Council. This minimum charge
shall not be set below $300, shall be immediately due and payable to the
borough and shall become a lien against the real property in question.
(1980 Code, Ch. 12, § 4) (Ord. 716, passed 6-4-1956, § 5; Ord. 1485, passed 4-
18-2022, § 1)
§ 92.05 ABANDONED OR JUNKED AUTOMOBILE, TRUCK OR VEHICLE.
   Any vehicle found on public or private property not within a completely
enclosed structure or building such as a garage or accessory building which can
easily be secured against potential health and safety hazards, and is found to
be either:
   (A)   A vehicle for which a certificate of junk has been issued by the
Pennsylvania Secretary of Revenue or the official designated by any other state
to issue such certificate; or
   (B)   Any vehicle in or on which it is found that any of the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Its engine or motor or any other essential part is inoperable or
has been removed for more than 30 days;
      (2)   Its tires or any tire has been deflated or its wheel or wheels have
been removed for more than 30 days; or
      (3)   It bears no official inspection sticker or any such sticker has not
been current for 30 days or more.
(1980 Code, Ch. 12, § 6) (Ord. 1126, passed 8-17-1981, § 1; Ord. 1485, passed
4-18-2022, § 1)
§ 92.06 PROHIBITION OF ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to store or deposit an abandoned or junked vehicle, or
parts thereof, on any public or private property, vacant or occupied.
(1980 Code, Ch. 12, § 7) (Ord. 1126, passed 8-17-1981, § 2; Ord. 1485, passed
4-18-2022, § 1) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 EXCLUSION.
   The terms and conditions of this subchapter shall exempt a commercial
business where property involved is used on an exclusive and full-time basis
for services related to automobile sales or repair for a period of 90 days for
each vehicle that constitutes a junk vehicle as defined within §
92.05. After this 90-day period, if the vehicle is still present at the
business, it shall constitute a junk vehicle under this subchapter and shall be
subject to notice and penalties as defined.
(1980 Code, Ch. 12, § 8) (Ord. 1126, passed 8-17-1981, § 4; Ord. 1485, passed
4-18-2022, § 1)
NUISANCES
§ 92.25 GENERAL PROVISIONS
   (A)   Short title. This subchapter shall be known as and may be cited as the
"Borough of Grove City Property Nuisance Ordinance."
   (B)   Statement of findings. The governing body of the borough finds that:
      (1)   The borough recognizes the need to establish certain minimum
health, safety and welfare requirements for certain conditions, buildings,
structures or properties so as not to constitute a nuisance;
      (2)   Potentially hazardous or dangerous conditions to the general public
which interfere with normal use and enjoyment of property in the borough may
exist within the borough or may come to exist in the future so as to constitute
a nuisance; and
      (3)   The Pennsylvania General Assembly, through enactment of the Borough
Code, has vested the Council with the power to regulate the foregoing pursuant
to 8 Pa.C.S. § 1202.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to promote health, safety,
and welfare within the borough by codifying:
      (1)   The duty of private property owners to ensure that their properties
do not present a material interference with or danger to public health, public
safety, public welfare, public comfort or public convenience so as to
constitute a nuisance;
      (2)   The procedure for determination that a condition on, in or of a
property or the property itself is a nuisance which must be abated;
      (3)   The procedure for notifying the property owner and others of the
determination that his or her property has been determined to be a nuisance,
and providing him or her with an opportunity to abate the condition; and
      (4)   The remedies and measures available to the Borough Council should
the nuisance remain unabated after the notice period has expired.
   (D)   Statutory authority. The Borough Council is empowered to enact this
subchapter by the Borough Code at 8 Pa.C.S. § 1202, which grants specific
powers to Pennsylvania boroughs, including but not limited to, the power to
prohibit and remove any nuisance or dangerous structure on public or private
grounds, and the power to make regulations as may be necessary for the health,
safety, morals, general welfare and cleanliness and beauty, convenience,
comfort and safety of the borough and its residents.
(Ord. 1443, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 92.26 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   NON-CUSTOMARY OUTDOOR STORAGE. The accumulation of items in excess of what
is reasonable and customarily necessary for the use of real property and which
by its placement and/or condition has the potential to (1) cause, through
visual blight or odor, impairment of the use or enjoyment of neighboring
properties, (2) pose a risk to public health by creating conditions favorable
for the harboring of vermin, (3) pose a risk of environmental contamination or
(4) pose a risk to public health or safety, including any condition which
substantially obstructs or impedes access to any occupied structure by police,
fire or rescue personnel. Such material accumulation may include, but is not
limited to, junk and debris; rubbish, garbage or refuse; vehicle parts;
construction materials not incidental to an active permitted construction
project on site; outdoor storage of yard maintenance equipment such as lawn
mowers, hedge clippers, tree trimmers; vehicle parts, recreational equipment or
lawn furniture in number or variety beyond customarily necessary for the use of
the property; any item in a visible state of deterioration as reasonably
evidenced by rust or other deteriorated condition; abandoned, discarded, or
unused objects or equipment, not customarily stored outside such as indoor
furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, washers/dryers or other appliances,
electronic equipment, boxes and other containers; clothing; or any combination
thereof.
   NUISANCE. Any existing or imminently threatened condition or activity
existing or occurring on any property, as defined herein, that causes the
property or any structure to be unfit for its intended purpose or human
habitation, that creates a risk of bodily harm or other physical injury,
including, but not limited to, conditions which cause or can significantly
contribute to accidents, infection, illness, mutilation or death, or
constitutes an attractive nuisance under law, or which interferes with or is
offensive or dangerous to the reasonable comfort, safety or convenience of the
general public or individuals. It shall be a nuisance to accumulate or allow to
be accumulated non-customary outdoor storage objects on private property as
defined above except in an approved landfill or premises properly zoned for and
engaged in the business of a junk yard, salvage yard or recycling center. A
NUISANCE may include, but shall in no way be limited to: attractive nuisances;
dangerous structures; unsanitary conditions; fire damaged or dilapidated
structures where the structural integrity of the building/structure has been
destroyed or significantly compromised; structural integrity, including, but
not limited to, the foundation, the roof, walls, flooring, the electrical
system, the heating and plumbing systems; accumulation of garbage and rubbish;
the storage of abandoned or junked automobiles; and obstructions or nuisances
in the streets of the borough.
   OFFICER. The Borough Code Enforcement and Zoning Officer.
   OCCUPANT. A person residing at or in possession of a property as defined
herein.
   OPERATOR. A person in charge of any commercial, residential, institutional
or other enterprise or operation carried on at a property as defined herein.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, jointly or severally, firm, corporation or
other entity which, either by conveyance or inheritance or otherwise, is vested
with the title to property, as defined herein, or who retains the exclusive
control or custody of such property, in his or her capacity as legal
representative, such as an administrator, trustee or executor.
   PROPERTY. Any real property, including any improvements or structures
constructed upon real property, within the borough.
(Ord. 1443, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 92.27 DUTIES OF OWNERS, OCCUPANTS AND OPERATORS.
   All owners, occupants and/or operators, as applicable, must comply with
provisions of this subchapter, must keep their property free from nuisances
and, should a condition or activity constituting a nuisance occur on, in, or of
a property, must abate such condition immediately. In addition to the owner, an
occupant and/or operator shall have a duty to comply with this section. If a
property is owned by more than one owner, each owner shall be severally subject
to this subchapter.
(Ord. 1443, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 92.28 DETERMINATION OF VIOLATION.
   If a complaint or report is received alleging that a nuisance exists on, in
or of a property, or the presence of a condition which may constitute a
nuisance is otherwise identified or discovered by the borough, the Officer
shall inspect the condition and/or property and shall examine other available
evidence in order to assess the condition and conclude whether it constitutes a
nuisance. Any evidence presented by the owner, occupant or operator shall also
be considered by the Officer.
(Ord. 1443, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 92.29 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice of violation, contents, time for abatement and right to
hearing. If the Officer determines that the premises or condition constitutes a
health or safety hazard or is otherwise in violation of this subchapter so as
to constitute a nuisance as defined in §
92.26, above, he or she shall issue a dated, written notice to the owner,
occupant and/or operator requiring compliance with the notice within a
specified deadline. The notice shall:
      (1)   State the reasons why it is issued.
      (2)   State the steps required to be taken to come into compliance,
including his or her reasons why the property should be vacated, repaired and/
or demolished, and the time within which the action must be completed.
      (3)   The notice shall contain the following:
   “The Borough Code Enforcement and Zoning Officer of Borough of Grove City
has determined the property and/or condition described herein is in violation
of the requirements of the Borough of Grove City Property Nuisance Ordinance
and constitutes a nuisance, and has required that the property and/or condition
be brought into compliance within forty-five (45) days or less as determined by
the Officer from the date of this notice. Unless a hearing is requested as set
forth below, this determination shall become final thirty (30) days after the
date of this notice.
   The violation, the remedial action to be undertaken, the time requirements
for compliance, and the reason therefor is:
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                         
   Any party who has received this notice and who may feel aggrieved by the
said determination may contest the determination by requesting a public hearing
before the Borough Council pursuant to the Local Agency Law. All requests for
hearings must be in writing and must be filed with the Borough Secretary within
thirty (30) days of the date that this notice was posted or mailed to the
Owner, Occupant or Operator. Failure to file a request for a hearing as set
forth above may result in the loss of any opportunity to contest the
determination of the Borough Code Enforcement and Zoning Officer.”
      (4)   The notice shall set forth a repair or removal deadline of less
than 45 days and/or a hearing request period of less than 30 days if the
Officer finds that a shorter timeframe for vacation/repair/remediation/
demolition and/or hearing request period is necessary and essential to protect
the occupants or public from the nuisance posed by the property's noncompliance
with the requirements of this subchapter.
      (5)   The notice shall be given in writing by regular mail with proof of
mailing, and by registered or certified mail return receipt requested, to the
last known address of the owner and occupants of said structure, if known, and
shall also be posted in two places upon the property determined to be in
noncompliance with this subchapter. Notice shall be deemed to have been given
on the date of mailing or, where no address is known or where such notice is
not delivered or accepted, on the day when posted on the property. A copy of
such notice shall likewise be given to any mortgagee, lessee or occupant of the
property by regular mail with proof of mailing.
      (6)   Within not less than five days nor more than 30 days from the date
of a request for a hearing, the Borough Council shall hold a hearing and hear
such testimony under oath as the owner, occupant, operator, mortgagee, lessee
or other person having an interest in said condition or structure or property
shall offer related to the alleged nuisance.
      (7)   Within 30 days of such hearing, the Borough Council, upon majority
vote of the members present at the said hearing, shall adopt written findings
of fact from the testimony offered at the hearing as to whether or not the
condition, structure or property in question is a nuisance as defined under
this subchapter.
      (8)   Within 30 days following the hearing provided for herein, the
Borough Council, upon majority vote of the members present at the said hearing,
shall issue an order, based upon the written findings of fact, either
dismissing the Officer's decision or requiring the owner, occupant and/or
operator of said condition, structure or property to remedy, repair, demolish
or vacate such condition, structure or property found to be a nuisance under
this subchapter.
   (B)   Exception to notice and abatement period in the case of emergency.
Where, in the good faith judgment of the Officer, the nuisance represents an
immediate and substantial threat of physical harm to the public, the Borough
may exercise its police power to abate the nuisance without prior notice to the
owner, occupant, operator or others as required herein, in order to protect the
public health, safety and welfare of the general public. All such costs related
to the abatement of the nuisance shall be paid by the owner, occupant or
operator and collected as set forth in §
92.30, below.
(Ord. 1443, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 92.30 BOROUGH'S AVAILABLE REMEDIES UPON FAILURE OF OWNER, OCCUPANT OR
OPERATOR TO TIMELY ABATE NUISANCE.
   In the event that owner or occupant fails to correct or remedy the structure
or condition in accord with the notice sent by the officer, or Borough Council
if a hearing is held, the borough may elect to:
   (A)   Abate the nuisance or cause the nuisance to be abated. Where required,
abatement may include, among other potential remedies, the demolition of a
building, structure or other improvement, the borough is hereby authorized to
obtain proposals and/or advertise for bids for correction of the violation in
accordance with specifications as may be appropriate and reasonable according
to the Officer to achieve correction of the condition in an effective and
efficient manner, and to enter into a contract with the lowest responsible
offer and/or bidder, or if feasible, the work may be done in whole or in part
by borough employees whose hourly rate for labor with benefits and equipment
shall be assessed to the owner, operator and/or occupant. The Officer is also
authorized to enter, inspect and photograph the premises prior to corrective
action taken by the borough. The borough may charge the cost abatement to the
owner, occupant or operator, plus a penalty equal to 10% of the cost of
abatement, and such cost and penalty may be asserted by the borough as a
municipal claim or lien against the property in the Mercer County
Prothonotary's Office and/or the borough may collect the same by an action in
assumpsit; or
   (B)   Bring an action in equity seeking injunctive relief to compel the
owner, occupant or operator to abate the nuisance and pay all costs associated
therewith, including the court costs.
(Ord. 1443, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person failing to comply with a notice of violation or order
served in accordance with this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a civil
infraction as determined by the local municipality, and the violation shall be
deemed a strict liability offense. If the notice of violation is not complied
with, the Borough of Grove City shall institute the appropriate proceeding
under this chapter. Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.07 shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $75 nor more than $500
for the first two uncorrected violations of the same section on the same
property in the same calendar year and not less than $150 nor more than $1,000
for the third and any subsequent uncorrected violations of the same section of
the code on the same property in the same calendar year, plus court costs and
any expenses incurred by Grove City Borough for remediation thereof. Each day
that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a
separate offense punishable by a separate fine as set forth herein.
   (B)   Any owner, occupant or lessee who shall fail to comply with any notice
from the officer and/or order of the Borough Council to remedy, repair, vacate
or demolish any condition or structure found to be in violation of §§
92.25 to
92.30 or who violates any of the other provisions of §§
92.25 to
92.30 shall, upon conviction before a District Justice, be subject to a fine
not exceeding $300 plus costs, and in default of payment of the fine and costs,
shall be subject to imprisonment for a period not to exceed 30 days. Each day
of a violation shall be considered a separate violation and offense.
(Ord. 1485, passed 4-18-2022, § 2)
CHAPTER 93: LIBRARY
Section
   
93.01   Borough to assist in the maintenance
   
93.02   Representatives on the Board of Directors
   
93.03   Bond required of Board Treasurer
   
93.04   Board of Directors to prepare a budget and reports; free library
service
§ 93.01 BOROUGH TO ASSIST IN THE MAINTENANCE.
   The borough hereby agrees to assist in the maintenance of the Grove City
Community Public Library in accord with the provisions of 24 Pa.C.S. §§ 9351 to
9353.
(1980 Code, Ch. 14, § 1) (Res. 11/21/1972, passed 11-21-1972, Paragraph 1)
§ 93.02 REPRESENTATIVES ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   The Borough Council will appoint three persons to serve as its
representatives on the Board of Directors of the Grove City Community Public
Library.
(1980 Code, Ch. 14, § 2) (Res. 11/21/1972, passed 11-21-1972, Paragraph 2)
§ 93.03 BOND REQUIRED OF BOARD TREASURER.
   The Treasurer of the Board of Directors of the Library shall give bond to
the municipality with satisfactory surety in such amount as the Board of
Directors may determine.
(1980 Code, Ch. 14, § 3) (Res. 11/21/1972, passed 11-21-1972, Paragraph 3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 24 Pa.C.S. §§ 9351 to 9353
§ 93.04 BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO PREPARE A BUDGET AND REPORTS; FREE LIBRARY
SERVICE.
   The Board of Directors shall prepare and present to the Borough Council by
November 1 of each year a budget for the following year and such reports as are
required by 24 Pa.C.S. §§ 9351 to 9353 and shall give free library service to
the residents and taxpayers as provided in 24 Pa.C.S. §§ 9351 to 9353.
(1980 Code, Ch. 14, § 4) (Res. 11/21/1972, passed 11-21-1972, Paragraph 4)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Municipal Parks
   
94.01   Hours when municipal parks open to public; permit for use at other
times
   
94.02   Horses and vehicles prohibited on public property except in designated
areas
   
94.03   Manager to designate special recreation areas
   
94.04   Alcoholic beverages prohibited in any park
   
94.05   Definition
   
94.06   Hours at Memorial Park
   
94.07   Policy regarding possession and discharge of weapons within park
   
94.08   Memorial Park picnic pavilions for community use
   
94.09   Hunting and tree stands
Grove City Memorial Park Swimming Pool
   
94.20   Admission rates
   
94.21   Rules and regulations
 
   
94.99   Penalty
MUNICIPAL PARKS
§ 94.01 HOURS WHEN MUNICIPAL PARKS OPEN TO PUBLIC; PERMIT FOR USE AT OTHER
TIMES.
   The Grove City Municipal Parks hours shall be set by resolution of the
Borough Council. All activities in the parks shall cease and all persons in the
parks shall leave on or before the closing time as set forth. No person, other
than municipal personnel, shall be in the parks at any time that the park is
closed; provided, a permit may be requested by an organized group desiring to
use a park for a legitimate purpose after the park is closed. Application must
be made ten days in advance of the proposed activity. The Borough Manager or
designated municipal official shall have the authority to grant or deny the
permit application. A certificate of liability insurance may be required.
(1980 Code, Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-101) (Ord. 1083, passed 7-16-1979; Ord. 1292,
passed 5-17-1999, § 1; Ord. 1480, passed 11-15-2021, § 1) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 HORSES AND VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC PROPERTY EXCEPT IN DESIGNATED
AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride any horse or operate any
motorcycle, mini-bike, trail bike, three-wheel all-terrain vehicle, four-wheel
all-terrain vehicle, snowmobile or any other motor vehicle or vehicles upon
public property, including all property within the boundaries of Grove City
Municipal Parks and the borough other than on conventional roads, highways or
streets except areas specifically designated and posted by the Borough Manager
or his or her designated representative as being available for a particular
purpose; provided further, this section shall not apply to any emergency
vehicles in the performance of their official duties, including police patrol,
response to any emergencies and any other duties of emergency response
agencies.
(1980 Code, Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-103) (Ord. 1083, passed 7-16-1979; Ord. 1350,
passed 4-16-2007, § 1) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 MANAGER TO DESIGNATE SPECIAL RECREATION AREAS.
   The Borough Manager is hereby authorized to designate special recreation
areas on the public lands of the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-104) (Ord. 1083, passed 7-16-1979)
§ 94.04 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED IN ANY PARK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring any alcoholic beverage into any
park or to possess any alcoholic beverage in any park or to consume or dispose
of any alcoholic beverage in any park.
(1980 Code, Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-106) (Ord. 1083, passed 7-16-1979) Penalty,
see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful to possess alcoholic beverages in public places, see §
132.02
§ 94.05 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this chapter, the term MUNICIPAL PARK shall include Grove
City Community Park, Hunter Farm, Stewart Avenue Playground, Rainey Avenue
Playground, Union Street Playground, Terrace Avenue Playground, Meadows Parks
and Grove City Recreation Center, South Broad Street Park and Cunningham Mill
Park.
(1980 Code, Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-107) (Ord. 1083, passed 7-16-1979; Ord. 1327,
passed 10-18-2004, § 1)
§ 94.06 HOURS AT MEMORIAL PARK.
   The hours and regulations at Memorial Park shall be the same as set forth at
§
94.01.
(1980 Code, Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-108) (Ord. 1083, passed 7-16-1979; Ord. 1086-
B, passed 10-23-1979, § 1; Ord. 1174, passed 1-20-1986, § 1; Ord. 1292, passed
5-17-1999, § 2) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 POLICY REGARDING POSSESSION AND DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS WITHIN PARK.
   (A)   The municipal parks established, operated, maintained and regulated by
borough, its agents or assigns, are hereby dedicated to be municipal parks,
said plan of dedication with the legal boundaries thereon being available for
review at the office of the Borough Manager.
   (B)   This section shall apply to the said dedicated municipal parks of the
borough including Grove City Memorial Park, Hunter Farm Park, Cunningham Mill
Park, Greenwood Drive Park, Rainey Avenue, Playground Park, Union Street
Playground Park, Terrace Avenue Playground Park, Stewart Avenue Playground
Park, Hillcrest Circle Park, Meadows Park and all other parks dedicated and set
apart to the use of the public and upon which persons congregate in the open in
quest of health, recreation or pleasure, now in existence or hereinafter
dedicated a park by said borough.
   (C)   Within the aforesaid municipal parks of the borough, it shall be
unlawful, except in the defense of person or property, in accord with the laws
of the Commonwealth, to fire or discharge projectiles from firearms of any
description, air rifles, archery equipment, slings or any form of weapon
potentially inimical and dangerous to human safety or to fire or discharge
projectiles from any of the above said weapons into said parks from beyond the
boundaries of the parks.
   (D)   Within the boundaries of said parks, as defined in division (B) above,
it shall be unlawful, except in the act of defending person or property, in
accord with the laws of the state, for a person to have ammunition placed in a
magazine, chamber or barrel of a firearm which is on or about the person’s body
or on or in the person’s vehicle, provided further that this section shall not
apply to those who are duly licensed to carry weapons under the law of the
United States or the Commonwealth.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to place or set any trapping device within said
parks.
   (F)   The Borough Manager shall have the responsibility of duly informing
the public of this section as required by law.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to law enforcement officers or members of
the Armed Forces of the United States of America or the Commonwealth acting
within the scope of their duty.
   (H)   The Borough Manager shall have the power to grant written exceptions
to this section upon good cause being shown related to areas of weapon
education and training and human and animal safety after obtaining the advice
and consent of the Borough Council.
   (I)   If any division of this section or provision thereof is held
unconstitutional or in violation of any law of the Commonwealth, the remaining
divisions of this section or provisions thereof shall be saved and remain in
effect, valid and enforceable.
(1980 Code, Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-110) (Ord. 1083, passed 7-16-1979; Ord. 1150,
passed 11-7-1983) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Weapons regulations, see
Ch. 133
§ 94.08 MEMORIAL PARK PICNIC PAVILIONS FOR COMMUNITY USE.
   The borough maintains Picnic Pavilions in Memorial Park for community use.
These Pavilions may be reserved by contacting the Borough Secretary. Fees for
exclusive use shall be set by resolution by Borough Council.
(1980 Code, Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-111) (Ord. 1083, passed 7-16-1979; Ord. 1402,
passed 6-20-2011, § 1)
§ 94.09 HUNTING AND TREE STANDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt game or wildlife with the
purpose of injuring or killing such within the boundaries of any of the
municipal parks of Grove City Borough as defined in §
94.05. It shall also be unlawful for any person to construct or attach to any
tree any device commonly known as a tree stand within the said boundaries of
the municipal parks of the borough. Borough officials also reserve the right to
remove any tree stand installed or constructed in violation of this division.
   (B)   The Borough shall post "No Hunting" signs at the point of any road or
driveway access to the municipal park.
(Ord. 1444, passed 2-20-2017) Penalty, see §
94.99
GROVE CITY MEMORIAL PARK SWIMMING POOL
§ 94.20 ADMISSION RATES.
   The borough maintains a public swimming pool in Memorial Park for community
use. Management of this facility will be awarded by agreement to an
organization selected by Borough Council on an annual basis. Rates shall be
charged for admission to the Memorial Park swimming pool, with a schedule of
rates approved by Borough Council on an annual basis.
(1980 Code, Ch. 18, Part 2, § 18-201) (Ord. 1099, passed 4-26-1980, § 1; Ord.
1156, passed 1-3-1984; Ord. 1402, passed 6-20-2011, § 2)
§ 94.21 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Borough Manager shall submit to Borough Council for adoption such rules
and regulations as are necessary for the efficient and safe management and
operation of the swimming pool. Such rules and regulations may specify
conditions under which the rates set forth in §
94.20 shall be waived.
(1980 Code, Ch. 18, Part 2, § 18-203) (Ord. 1099, passed 4-26-1980, § 3)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Penalty for violation of park hours. Any person who shall violate any
of the provisions of §
94.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $100 and cost of prosecution, for each and every offense, and, in default
of payment of such fine and costs, to imprisonment in the county jail for not
more than ten days; provided, each day’s violation of any of the provisions of
§
94.01 shall constitute a separate offense.
(1980 Code, Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-102)
   (C)   Penalty for unlawful riding of horses and vehicles. Any person in
violation of §
94.02 shall, upon conviction thereof, pay a fine of not less than $100 nor more
than $300, plus costs of prosecution and/or be sentenced to imprisonment for a
period of time not to exceed 90 days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-105)
   (D)   Alcoholic beverages prohibited in any park. Any person in violation of
§
94.04 shall, upon conviction thereof, pay a fine of not more than $100 and
costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fines and costs, to
imprisonment for not more than ten days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-106)
   (E)   Enforcement of seasonal closing (Grove City Memorial Park). Any person
in violation of §
94.06 shall, upon conviction thereof, pay a fine of not more than $100 and
costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and costs, to
imprisonment for not more than ten days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-109)
   (F)   Possession and discharge of weapons within park. A violation of §
94.07 shall carry a prison term not to exceed 90 days in jail and/or a fine not
to exceed $300.
(1980 Code, Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-110)
   (G)   Any person in violation of §
94.09(A), upon conviction thereof, pay a fine of not more than $300 plus costs
of prosecution and/or be sentenced to imprisonment for a period not to exceed
90 days.
(Ord. 1083, passed 7-16-1979; Ord. 1086-B, passed 10-23-1979, § 2; Ord. 1150,
passed 11-7-1983; Ord. 1350, passed 4-16-2007, § 2; Ord. 1444, passed 2-20-
2017)
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Sidewalks
Part A: Sidewalk Construction and Repair
   
95.001   Definitions
   
95.002   Specifications for new and existing sidewalks
   
95.003   Property owner may do work on own initiative
   
95.004   Criteria for repair
   
95.005   Time limit for work
   
95.006   Sidewalk maintenance responsibilities and authority for borough to
complete work following notice
   
95.007   Liability
   
95.008   Property line to be marked on sidewalk if solid surface extends beyond
property line
Part B: Snow and Ice on Sidewalks
   
95.020   Responsibility for removal of snow and ice; time limit
   
95.021   Authority for borough to remove snow and ice and collect cost plus 10%
Streets and Sidewalks
Part A: Excavations and Openings
   
95.035   Definitions
   
95.036   Inspector
   
95.037   Street excavation permit
   
95.038   Permit fees, inspection fees, degradation fees and performance
guarantees
   
95.039   Enforcement procedures
   
95.040   Inspection
   
95.041   Insurance
   
95.042   Emergency situations
   
95.043   Exceptions
   
95.044   Validity
   
95.045   General permit specifications
   
95.046   Pavement cut, excavation and backfill
   
95.047   Restoration of bituminous pavement
   
95.048   Restoration of other surfaces
   
95.049   Standards for the installation of pipe and other utilities
   
95.050   Fee structure
Part B: Assessments for Improvements
   
95.060   Petition by property owner; front-foot assessment
   
95.061   Corner lot costs paid by borough
   
95.062   Borough initiative; partial cost paid by borough
 
   
95.999   Penalty
Cross-references:
   General curbs and sidewalk design standards, see §
155.084
   General street design standards, see §
155.081
   Tampering with streets, sidewalks and the like, see
Ch. 131
SIDEWALKS
PART A: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
§ 95.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OCCUPANT.
      (1)   A person who is in physical possession of a property; or
      (2)   A person who has responsibility for, and control over, the
condition of a property, the activities conducted on that property and the
persons allowed to enter that property.
   OWNER.
      (1)   In the case of land, any person who is recorded on the tax rolls as
the owner of land.
      (2)   In the case of property other than land, any person who is in
lawful possession thereof.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, corporation, society, association,
partnership or firm, and the successor or the heir, executor, administrators of
other legal representatives of a person.
   SIDEWALK. The part of a highway especially adapted to the use of or
ordinarily used by pedestrians and includes that part of the highway between
the curb line (or the edge of the roadway where there is no curb line) and the
adjacent property line, whether or not paved or improved.
(1980 Code, Ch. 22, Part 2A, § 55.1) (Ord. 1052, passed 3-23-1977; Ord. 1312,
passed 10-21-2002, § 1)
§ 95.002 SPECIFICATIONS FOR NEW AND EXISTING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   New sidewalks constructed on streets of the borough shall be of one-
course concrete construction. Sidewalks shall be built as a series of
independent sections, in general not more than six feet in length. Sections of
all sidewalks shall be separated by a vertical joint for the full width of slab
and for the full thickness of the sidewalk. A one-half inch expansion joint
shall be provided at least once in every five sections of sidewalk, and shall
be filled with approved joint filler. A joint shall be provided where the
sidewalk meets a curb and at such other places as may be directed by the
Borough Manager or other person designated by Council.
   (B)   The thickness of all finished walks shall be at least four inches
except that at driveways four inch with reinforcing or six-inch thickness shall
be provided.
   (C)   One-course sidewalks shall be six bag mix concrete.
   (D)   The grade of each sidewalk slab shall not exceed one-eighth inch per
foot except where the conformation of the land prohibits.
   (E)   Provided, existing sidewalks, lawfully constructed of brick, stone or
other material than concrete may be continued to be maintained and may be
repaired with the material of which such sidewalks are constructed, but if the
condition of any such sidewalk becomes such that, in the judgment of the
Borough Manager, reconstruction would be necessary in order to restore such
walk to safe condition, such sidewalk shall be reconstructed of concrete and
shall conform in every respect to the provisions of this section applicable to
new sidewalks.
(1980 Code, Ch. 22, Part 2A, § 56) (Ord. 1052, passed 3-23-1977, § 1; Ord.
1076, passed 12-1-1978, § 1) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.003 PROPERTY OWNER MAY DO WORK ON OWN INITIATIVE.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed so as to prevent any owner or
owners of property from personally laying or repairing curb and/or sidewalk in
front of or alongside of their property, provided that they comply with the
terms of this subchapter and all other ordinances of the borough, and provided
that before any sidewalk is constructed or before any repair involving the
replacement of five or more sidewalk slabs is commenced the property owner must
notify the Borough Manager or a person designated by the Borough Manager and
obtain from him or her a permit.
(1980 Code, Ch. 22, Part 2A, § 57) (Ord. 1052, passed 3-23-1977, § 2; Ord.
1076, passed 12-1-1978, § 2)
§ 95.004 CRITERIA FOR REPAIR.
   In determining whether a sidewalk is in need of repair the Borough Manager
shall apply the following criteria:
   (A)   A sidewalk slab that is experiencing spalling or deterioration of
concrete;
   (B)   A sidewalk slab that is missing;
   (C)   A sidewalk slab that is raised or lowered exposing a one and one-half
inch or more lip;
   (D)   A sidewalk slab containing a hole two inches or more in diameter and
one-half inch or more deep; and
   (E)   A sidewalk slab that is cracked one-half inch offset or more.
(1980 Code, Ch. 22, Part 2A, § 57.1) (Ord. 1052, passed 3-23-1977, § 3; Ord.
1076, passed 12-1-1978, § 3)
§ 95.005 TIME LIMIT FOR WORK.
   Sidewalks shall be built by property owners upon 30 days’ notice to the
owner and shall be repaired upon 30 days’ notice. Council may upon 24-hour
notice cause emergency repairs to be made where a proper officer of the borough
deems it necessary.
(1980 Code, Ch. 22, Part 2A, § 58) (Ord. 1052, passed 3-23-1977, § 4) Penalty,
see §
95.999
§ 95.006 SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITY FOR BOROUGH TO
COMPLETE WORK FOLLOWING NOTICE.
   Whereas, every occupant, owner or person of every house, shop, building,
lot, parcel of land, or other property that adjoins or is abutting to or on a
sidewalk in the borough shall be charged with the responsibility to keep such
sidewalk in a good state of repair and free from defects and debris. This shall
also include any stairs or other similar fixtures that have been constructed
within the street right-of-way that abuts or adjoins their property. Failure to
repair a sidewalk or fixture or cause the same to be done, within the time
specified in the notice, as herein provided, shall result in the borough having
the necessary work be done either by an independent contractor or by borough
employees; and the borough shall collect the cost of such work, together with
any additional amount allowed by law, from such person.
(1980 Code, Ch. 22, Part 2A, § 59) (Ord. 1052, passed 3-23-1977, § 5; Ord.
1312, passed 10-21-2002, § 1; Ord. 1484, passed 4-18-2022, § 1)
§ 95.007 LIABILITY.
   On any claim presented for bodily injury or property damage on the sidewalk,
the adjoining or abutting property owner shall be held liable in tort for such
damages to another. Alternatively, should the borough be called upon to make
such payment to a third party, the borough will look to the adjoining/abutting
landowner for contribution and indemnity.
(1980 Code, Ch. 22, Part 2A, § 59.1) (Ord. 1052, passed 3-23-1977; Ord. 1312,
passed 10-21-2002, § 1)
§ 95.008 PROPERTY LINE TO BE MARKED ON SIDEWALK IF SOLID SURFACE EXTENDS BEYOND
PROPERTY LINE.
   Where property owners have constructed a solid surface from the curb line to
a point on his or her property beyond the property line, said owner shall by an
appropriate marking, which marking should be legible and distinct at all times,
show the sidewalk lines on the surface. Said line shall be indicated in
concrete walks by a vertical joint and on all other surfaces shall be indicated
by a white painted line which must be at all times kept in such condition as to
be clear and distinct.
(1980 Code, Ch. 22, Part 2A, § 60) (Ord. 1052, passed 3-23-1977, § 6)
PART B: SNOW AND ICE ON SIDEWALKS
§ 95.020 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE; TIME LIMIT.
   The owner, occupant or tenant of every property fronting upon or alongside
of any of the streets in the borough, is hereby required to remove or cause to
be removed from all of the sidewalks in front of or alongside, of such property
all snow or ice thereon fallen or formed, within five hours after the same
shall have ceased to fall or to form; provided, snow or ice that has ceased to
fall or to be formed after 6:00 p.m. of any evening may be removed at any time
before 10:00 a.m. of the next morning; provided further, the owner of a
property shall be responsible for conforming to the requirements of this
section where such property is occupied by the owner, or is vacant or
unoccupied, or is a multiple-business or multiple-dwelling property, designed
for occupancy by more than one occupant or tenant; the tenant or occupier
thereof shall be responsible therefor (where such property is composed of a
single unit, occupied by such tenant or occupier only).
(1980 Code, Ch. 22, Part 2B, § 71) (Ord. 793, passed 11-20-1958, § 1) Penalty,
see §
95.999
Cross-reference:
   Parking during snow/ice emergency, see
Ch. 76, Sch. VIII
§ 95.021 AUTHORITY FOR BOROUGH TO REMOVE SNOW AND ICE AND COLLECT COST PLUS
10%.
   In any case where the owner, occupant or tenant, as aforesaid, shall fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with any of the provisions of § 95.020 within the
time limit prescribed therein, the borough authorities may proceed immediately
to clear all snow and/or ice from the sidewalk of such delinquent, and to
collect the expenses thereof, with an additional charge of 10%, from such
owner, occupant or tenant, as the case may be, which may be in addition to any
fine or penalty imposed under §
95.999
(1980 Code, Ch. 22, Part 2B, § 72) (Ord. 793, passed 11-20-1958, § 2) Penalty,
see §
95.999
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
PART A: EXCAVATIONS AND OPENINGS
§ 95.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense shall include the future. The singular number shall
include the plural, and the plural the singular. The word "shall" is mandatory
and not permissive.
   APPLICANT. Any person, partnership or corporation who makes application for
a permit.
   BACKFILL. Approved material used to fill a trench or other excavation, or
the process of doing so.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Grove City, its officers, employees and officials.
   BOROUGH ROAD. Any road which has been dedicated to and accepted by the
borough for use as a public road. See also CARTWAY.
   CARTWAY. Paved area of the road within which vehicles are permitted,
including curbs and shoulders.
   CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE. Certificate provided by the applicant which
verifies that the applicant carried the minimum insurance coverage(s) as
stipulated in this chapter.
   COUNCIL. Borough of Grove City Council.
   DEGRADATION FEE. A fee determined by formula found in §
95.050. This fee is imposed on any person, partnership or corporation which
obtains a street excavation permit, and the work to be performed includes open
cutting any borough road.
   DRIVEWAY. Private roadway providing access for vehicles to a parking space,
garage, dwelling or other structure.
   EMERGENCY SITUATION. A situation or event, such as breakage of a utility
line, which presents an imminent hazard to the public health, safety and
welfare. Not included in this definition is the routine placement or
replacement of service facilities which are being constructed or replaced as
part of normal expansion or routine maintenance activities.
   EXCAVATION. Removal of soil, rocks, sidewalk, driveway or cartway material
for the purpose of installing, replacing, repairing or removing underground
facilities.
   EXCEPTION. Any deviation from the literal terms of this chapter which has
been approved by the Borough Manager.
   FINAL COMPLETION CERTIFICATE. Certificate issued by the borough certifying
that all work has been completed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT. Borough of Grove City Fire Department.
   INSPECTION FEE. Fee established by the Borough of Grove City Council for the
purpose of performing inspections of a work site that has obtained a permit.
   INSPECTOR. The designated official appointed by the Borough Manager whose
duty it is to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   NORMAL FLOW. The direction, intensity and volume of stormwater runoff
typically present during various precipitation events.
   PAVEMENT CUTS. Open cutting of a cartway, sidewalk or driveway.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES. Security submitted to the borough which guarantees
that all work required as part of an approved permit will be satisfactorily
completed. An acceptable security can be a bond, letter of credit or certified
check. Said security must be made payable to the Borough of Grove City.
   PERMIT FEE. Fee established by the Borough of Grove City Council for the
purpose of covering administration costs incurred for the issuance of permits.
   PERMITEE. Any person, partnership or corporation to whom a permit is issued.
   PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT. Borough of Grove City Public Works Department.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., except
designated holidays.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land under the control of the borough which contains city
roads, sidewalks, driveways, driveway aprons, and other non-paved portions of
land which may or may not contain above ground or underground utilities.
   SIDEWALK. A paved, surfaced or leveled area, paralleling and usually
separated from the cartway, used as a pedestrian walkway, to include curb.
   SITE PLAN. A plan of the area to be worked upon which shows all pertinent
information including but not limited to right-of-way lines, street locations,
sidewalk locations and any existing subsurface and above ground utilities which
may be impacted by the work to be performed.
   STREET EXCAVATION PERMIT. A permit which, when issued, permits the permittee
to open cut any borough road, sidewalk or driveway or tunnel under any borough
road, sidewalk or driveway.
   SUBSURFACE FACILITIES. Any public utility or private transmission lines
which are located below grade.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-18-2022, § 2)
§ 95.036 INSPECTOR.
   This chapter shall be administered by the Borough Manager; the Manager may
delegate administration functions and inspection functions as he or she deems
appropriate. In general, permit issuance shall be handled by the Code
Department and inspections completed by the Borough of Grove City Department of
Public Works.
   (A)   The Manager shall designate an inspector to enforce the provisions of
this chapter in accordance with its literal terms and the inspector shall not
have the power to permit any construction which does not conform to this
chapter.
   (B)   The Code Department will administer permits and shall issue street
excavation permits.
   (C)   The inspector shall perform all necessary inspections and recommend to
the borough any enforcement proceedings which are necessary to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Enforcement of this chapter shall be undertaken by the Manager, Public
Works Department, Police Department and the Code Department.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-18-2022, § 2)
§ 95.037 STREET EXCAVATION PERMIT.
   (A)   A street excavation permit shall be obtained before any person,
partnership or corporation may:
      (1)   Open cut any borough road;
      (2)   Open cut, disturb or replace any sidewalk or curb;
      (3)   Open cut any driveway;
      (4)   Utilize any type of device or equipment which tunnels under any
borough road; or
      (5)   Utilize any type of device or equipment which tunnels under any
sidewalk, driveway or driveway apron.
   (B)   Application for a street excavation permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   A completed and signed application form;
      (2)   The required permit and inspection fee;
      (3)   The required degradation fee, if necessary;
      (4)   The required performance guarantee as described;
      (5)   A site plan as defined;
      (6)   A location plan which generally indicates the distance the street
excavation will occur from the nearest intersecting street;
      (7)   A profile indicating the elevation(s) of the subsurface facilities
which are being removed, repaired, or constructed. This profile shall indicate
the depth below the roadway surface at which the work is going to be performed;
and
      (8)   Additional documentation as the borough may require.
   (C)   The completed application shall be submitted to the borough at the
municipal building. Upon receipt, the borough shall:
      (1)   Review all documentation for completeness and accuracy; and
      (2)   Review and render a decision regarding the application within ten
working days of receipt of said application.
   (D)   Upon approval of an application, the borough shall provide the
applicant with two signed copies of the permit. The applicant must maintain one
copy of the approved application at the job site.
   (E)   The granting of any street excavation permit shall confer a right upon
the permittee, subject to the terms and conditions of the permit, to
temporarily occupy and use the street surface during the course of construction
work covered by the permit, and to thereafter occupy the space within which the
work is to be located, subject in every case to the specific right of the
borough to require temporary or permanent relocation or removal of any of the
facilities entirely at the permittee's expense in the event said facilities are
in conflict with the borough's interest or the public interest in the use of
the street.
   (F)   In granting any permit, the borough may attach such special conditions
thereto as may be reasonably necessary to protect public and private property.
   (G)   By accepting the permit, the applicant agrees to perform the work in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the permit, and of any special
conditions which may be attached thereto, and to save and hold harmless the
borough, its officers, employees and agents from any costs, damages and
liabilities which may accrue by reason of the work.
   (H)   Every permit issued hereunder shall expire 60 days after it is issued.
If the permittee shall be unable to complete the work within the specific time,
he or she shall, prior to expiration of the permit, present in writing to the
borough a request for an extension of time, setting forth therein the reasons
for the requested extension. If, in the opinion of the borough, such an
extension is necessary, the permittee may be granted additional time for the
completion of the work.
   (I)   The applicant must notify the borough and Public Works Department at
least 24 hours before work is commenced and shall not backfill any open cut
before the inspector has inspected the site.
   (J)   The borough may revoke any permit issued under the provisions of this
subchapter if it deems that the terms of the permit are being violated. Upon
revocation of the permit, the borough shall provide the permittee with a
written explanation of the terms of the permit which are being violated and
establish a time frame under which the permittee must complete all necessary
reparations to bring the job into compliance with the provisions of the permit.
   (K)   If final paving repairs are not completed to the satisfaction of the
borough, the borough reserves the right, after notice to the permittee, to
complete final paving repairs, including the removal of substandard work. These
repairs will be funded by the performance guarantee which the permittee must
provide. Upon the satisfactory completion of all work, the borough shall issue
a final completion certificate and return the required performance guarantee or
portion thereof.
   (L)   By accepting the permit, the applicant agrees to perform the work in
accordance with PennDOT's Publication 213 - Work Zone Traffic Control
Guidelines.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-18-2022, § 2)
§ 95.038 PERMIT FEES, INSPECTION FEES, DEGRADATION FEES AND PERFORMANCE
GUARANTEES.
   (A)   A permit fee and an inspection fee shall be charged for each
application under this chapter. The fees shall be established by resolution of
the Borough of Grove Council, as set forth in §
95.050.
   (B)   Performance guarantees shall be provided for street excavations in the
following manner:
      (1)   A bond or cashier’s check of $1,000 shall be provided at the date
of the first application for a street excavation permit in a calendar year.
This bond will be returned when all work is performed satisfactorily.
      (2)   A bond or cashier’s check in the amount of $10,000 shall be
provided to the city on the date of the second street excavation permit
application for that calendar year. This guarantee shall be good for the entire
year in which it is issued.
      (3)   The guarantee will cover all additional street excavation
activities during that calendar year. This guarantee will be returned when all
jobs started in that calendar year are completed satisfactorily.
   (C)   Degradation fee. A degradation fee shall be charged to parties that
apply for a permit to excavate in a cartway that was repaved within five
calendar years of the permit application date. This fee shall be established by
this subchapter and modified from time to time by resolution of the Borough of
Grove Council.
   (D)   These fees and performance guarantee requirements may be changed by
resolution of the Borough of Grove City Council.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-18-2022, § 2)
§ 95.039 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Manager, inspector, Public Works Department, Police Department or
other official designated by the Manager may prevent or restrain any work which
is proceeding without benefit of a street excavation permit. If this situation
occurs, the person, partnership or corporation performing the work must
immediately apply for a permit and must perform any task needed to ensure a
safe condition for motorists and pedestrians as the inspector, Public Works
Department or other official may require. In addition, a permit must be applied
for and obtained before work can continue.
   (B)   The borough, upon discovery that work is being performed on a site for
which a permit has been issued which is not in compliance with the provisions
of such permit, may take corrective action as it deems necessary including, but
not limited to, preventing or restraining any additional work until any
necessary repairs are completed. Under no circumstances shall the job site be
left in an unsafe or hazardous condition.
   (C)   In the event that the permittee does not take the necessary corrective
actions within the time frame the borough establishes, the borough may utilize
the performance guarantee and take any necessary measures to correct the
problem.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-18-2022, § 2)
§ 95.040 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The work shall be subject at all times to inspection by the inspector.
Under no circumstances shall a trench be backfilled without prior inspection of
the work by the inspector or his or her designee.
   (B)   After final inspection and acceptance of the work, and after payment
of any refund or collection of any insufficiency due, the borough shall issue a
final completion certificate. The applicant shall be strictly liable for all
repairs to any property made necessary by the work within the first 18 months
following issuance of the final completion certificate. All such repairs shall
be made immediately upon request by the inspector or other borough official.
Failure to perform repairs determined necessary by the inspector or other
borough official will result in completion of repairs by the borough. The
borough will recover all funds expended in performing said repairs by providing
the permittee with an itemized bill listing all costs the borough incurs. The
borough reserves the right to deny any new permit applications submitted by the
permittee or his or her assigns until these costs or any other funds due to the
borough are remitted to the borough.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-18-2022, § 2)
§ 95.041 INSURANCE.
   An applicant shall provide a certificate of insurance to the borough and
have said certificate properly executed by the applicant's insurance carrier.
Properly executed certificates of insurance shall be filed with the borough and
verify that the applicant is insured against all claims which may arise from or
out of the performance of the excavation work, whether such performance be by
the applicant or anyone directly or indirectly employed by him or her. Such
insurance shall include protection against liability arising from completed
operations, underground utility damage and collapse of any property. Liability
insurance for bodily injury shall be in an amount not less than $300,000 for
each person, $300,000 for each accident, and for property damages an amount not
less than $100,000. Failure of an applicant to file a certificate of insurance
shall be a sufficient reason for denying a permit. The applicant shall save and
hold harmless the borough from any and all damages and liability by reason of
personal injury or property damage arising from work done by the applicant
under the provisions of this chapter. Borough of Grove City, its employees and
designated agents shall be listed as additional insured on the insurance
certificate provided with the permit application.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-18-2022, § 2)
§ 95.042 EMERGENCY SITUATIONS.
   Any person, partnership or corporation performing work without a permit
because of an emergency situation as defined shall verify the emergency nature
of the circumstances in writing to the borough within the first regular
business day after such emergency occurs. All work performed in an emergency
situation must be done in compliance with the requirements of this chapter, and
a permit must be applied for on the first regular business day following the
date the emergency occurred. All fees and performance guarantees will be
required to be provided with the application form. Prior to commencing work in
an emergency situation, the person, partnership or corporation performing the
work must notify the borough of the nature of the emergency.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-18-2022, § 2)
§ 95.043 EXCEPTIONS.
   The Borough of Grove City as owner of all borough streets shall be
explicitly exempt from all requirements within this chapter. The borough shall
use its own best practices for excavation and restoration. Additional
exceptions to the requirements of this chapter shall not be permitted except
upon written request by the applicant and approval by the Borough Manager.
Exceptions shall be granted only upon a showing by the applicant that the
proposed work is minor in nature and poses a minimal risk to public health and
safety. The Borough Manager may request and utilize the recommendation of the
inspector with respect to any exception request. The borough may impose any
reasonable conditions to the granting of an exception.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-18-2022, § 2)
§ 95.044 VALIDITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are severable. If any section, clause,
sentence, part or provision thereof shall be held illegal, invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision of the
court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining sections, clauses,
sentences, parts or provisions of this chapter. It is hereby declared to be the
intent of the Borough Council that this chapter would have been adopted, if
such illegal, invalid or unconstitutional section, clause, sentence, part or
provision had not been included herein. This chapter may be included in a
general codification of the Borough of Grove City ordinances. The section
numbers may be amended to accommodate such codification.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-18-2022, § 2)
§ 95.045 GENERAL PERMIT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Unless specifically permitted by the borough:
      (1)   No street opening shall extend across more than one-half of the
cartway at one time.
      (2)   Two-way traffic shall be maintained.
      (3)   Access to driveways and/or buildings abutting the street shall be
maintained.
      (4)   Not more than 250 lineal feet of any street shall be opened at any
time.
      (5)   No excavated materials or backfill materials shall be stockpiled on
the roadway surface or sidewalk.
   (B)   The permittee shall locate in advance of excavation all surface and
subsurface utility lines and structures, as required by Pennsylvania Act 172,
also known as the PA One-Call System. The permittee shall take all precautions
necessary to avoid damage to other utility lines including loop detectors, and
to public and private property. In the event damage does occur to the property
of others, the permittee shall promptly and satisfactorily repair all damages
and restore the property to a satisfactory condition.
   (C)   Provisions shall be made to accommodate the flow of storm drainage,
and no excavated material or trench shall be permitted to interfere with the
normal flow of surface water. Erosion and sedimentation controls shall be
installed as needed.
   (D)   Traffic control shall be maintained in accordance with Pennsylvania
Department of Transportation requirements, and the permittee shall furnish and
maintain upon the work site such signs, barricades, lights and flaggers as may
be necessary to insure safe travel for vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   (E)   No blasting may be performed without a blasting plan approved by the
borough. If approval is granted by the borough for blasting activities, such
operations shall be performed by persons authorized by all federal, state,
county, and local authorities to undertake such activities and shall be carried
out in strict accordance with federal, state, county and municipal laws or
regulations governing the same.
   (F)   Appropriate measures must be taken to provide access for emergency
vehicles and to all properties affected by the work.
   (G)   Notification requirements. Any party that submits a permit application
for planned excavation that includes greater than 100 square feet of
disturbance shall be subject to the following notification requirements:
      (1)   All residents within 500 feet in all directions of the start and
end of excavation shall be notified in writing of the planned excavation. The
written notification shall be provided to impacted residents at least seven
days prior to the scheduled excavation and shall contain a phone number that is
answered directly by a person and does not require the selection of menu
options or is otherwise computerized that can be utilized for questions or
concerns regarding the project. This notification may be posted on individual
properties or sent by U.S. mail; if sent by mail, notices must be sent at least
ten days prior to the scheduled excavation to ensure that residents receive
said notices at least seven days prior to the scheduled excavation.
      (2)   Emergency work shall be exempt from the seven-day notification
timeline; however, if said emergency work contains greater than 100 square feet
in excavation, the same written notification requirements as detailed in
division (G)(1) above shall apply and notification shall be made within two
business days of the start of said emergency work. For purposes of this
section, said emergency work shall be defined as a sudden or unforeseen
occurrence involving a clear and immediate danger to life, property and the
environment, including, but not limited to, serious breaks or defects in a
facility owner's lines. This definition being the same as defined within
Pennsylvania Act 50 of 2017. Emergency work shall require an emergency one call
ticket through the Pennsylvania One Call System. If work does not meet this
definition and an emergency one call ticket as described has not been
submitted, the notification requirements within division (G)(1) shall apply
fully to the project.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-18-2022, § 2; Ord. 1501, passed 7-15-2024, § 1)
§ 95.046 PAVEMENT CUT, EXCAVATION AND BACKFILL.
   (A)   Cuts through bituminous wearing surfaces shall be scored on a neat,
straight line to the full trench width, using either a pneumatic spade or a
concrete saw. Cuts through Portland cement concrete shall be sawed to a
sufficient depth to enable removal of concrete with a clean, straight break.
   (B)   Excavated material shall be removed immediately or laid compactly off
the roadway surface to cause as little inconvenience as possible to public
travel. Pedestrian sidewalks shall be kept clean and free of obstructions, and,
where necessary, temporary bridging or plank walkways shall be provided.
Excavated material not suitable for backfill shall be immediately removed as
excavation is in progress. Construction material shall not be stored in the
public street except immediately in advance of installation. Loose earth and
stone shall be promptly cleaned from the streets and sidewalks, and dust shall
be regularly swept up and removed.
   (C)   Sidewalls of a trench under four feet in depth shall be kept as nearly
vertical as possible. When over four feet in depth, the trench shall comply
with the requirements established by Occupational Safety and Health
Administration standards.
   (D)   Backfilling. An opening shall be backfilled by the permittee in
accordance with the following:
      (1)   The opening may first be backfilled with fine aggregate materials,
meeting the requirements of the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation as
detailed within Publication 408, or granular material to protect the facility,
placed to a height not to exceed one foot over the top of the facility, if the
material is compacted in not more than four-inch loose layers or as authorized
under Publications 408. To help protect its facility from future excavations,
the permittee is required to place a permanent ribbon colored under this
division at least one foot above its facility. If the facility is nonmetallic,
the permittee is also required to place a metallic ribbon at a depth from which
the ribbon can be sensed by typical metal locating instruments.
      (2)   The opening shall then be backfilled with select granular material,
unless retained suitable materials, as defined within the Pennsylvania
Department of Transportation Publication 408, is authorized or other coarse
aggregate material meeting the requirements of Publication 408 is specified in
the permit. Select granular material or other aggregate material will be
required for use as backfill of openings in pavements, paved shoulders and
improved (for example, oil and chip) shoulders as well as unimproved (for
example, stabilized or earth surface) shoulders within three feet of the edge
of pavement. Retained suitable material will normally be authorized for use as
backfill of openings outside shoulders and in unimproved shoulders more than
three feet outside the edge of pavement and up to within three feet of the
surface.
      (3)   Backfill shall be compacted as follows:
         (a)   General rule. Except as provided in division (b) below, backfill
material shall be placed in loose layers not to exceed eight inches if
vibratory compaction equipment is used or as authorized under Pennsylvania
Department of Transportation Publication 408. Each layer shall be thoroughly
compacted to preclude subsidence, under Publication 408.
         (b)   Compaction outside pavement and shoulders. At least 15 days
prior to the start of work, the applicant may submit its written compaction
plan to the borough requesting backfill in an opening outside the pavement and
shoulder to be placed in layers thicker than eight inches prior to compaction.
The compaction plan shall include full details of equipment, materials and work
methods as well as the permittee's acknowledgment of its obligation and
commitment to regularly monitor the restored surface until two years after the
acknowledged completion of the permitted work and to promptly correct failure
or subsidence of the highway.
         (c)   Existing pavement elevation. Compaction shall be completed to
the bottom elevation of the existing pavement.
      (4)   The borough may require the permittee to have material proposed for
use as backfill and compacted material tested, at the expense of the permittee,
for conformance to the applicable gradation and compaction requirements of
Publication 408.
      (5)   Test holes shall be backfilled, as soon as safely possible, with
existing type material or other material authorized by the Department, and
sealed under subsection (o) of Publication 408. The borough may authorize test
holes in the pavement or shoulder to be restored without a one-foot cutback of
the surrounding surface.
   (E)   All cuts, excavation and backfill shall be performed to the
satisfaction of the inspector, who may in consultation with the borough develop
additional work standards.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-18-2022, § 2)
§ 95.047 RESTORATION OF BITUMINOUS PAVEMENT.
   (A)   Temporary repairs to bituminous pavement shall consist of the trench
being backfilled with select granular material and topped with at least three
and one-half inches of cold patch. In all cases, the permittee is responsible
for maintaining temporary pavement repairs in good condition, free of chuck-
holes and soft spots, and to clean the street surface of any debris or earth
which may be carried over the street.
   (B)   Final pavement restoration shall be made only when weather conditions
are suitable. If, because of weather conditions or time of year, temporary
paving and natural stone or gravel are utilized, these temporary materials must
be removed to a depth of at least 13 inches below finished street paving grade.
All temporary materials shall be removed and replaced with permanent repairs as
soon as weather conditions permit.
      (1)   Permanent pavement restoration requirements shall be as follows:
         (a)   In cases in which the street has been paved within the last two
years, the pavement restoration requirements shall be: the entire pavement
width (curb-to curb width) of the affected street shall be milled to a depth of
one and one-half inches and repaved after the trench has been properly
backfilled and binder installed. All paving shall run from intersection to
intersection of the closest borough street in both directions from the
disturbed pavement and be properly keyed in and sealed. In cases in which there
is a dispute regarding the location of the identified intersections, the
Borough Manager shall determine their location and his/her decision shall be
binding upon the permitted party.
         (b)   In cases in which the street has not been paved within the last
two years, the pavement restoration requirements shall be: if the trench does
not cross the center line of the cartway, the entire disturbed lane shall be
milled to a depth of one and one-half inches and repaved after the trench has
been properly backfilled and binder installed. In areas where the trench runs
along or crosses the center line of the cartway the entire pavement width
(curb-to curb width) of the affected street shall be milled (as needed) and
repaved with wearing. All paving shall run a length of at least one foot in
excess of trench length on each side of the disturbed area and be properly
keyed in and sealed.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, a LANE is defined as the greater of
the distance from the centerline to the curb, or from the centerline to the
point where the previous pavement ended.
   (C)   All restoration of bituminous pavement shall be performed to the
satisfaction of the Inspector, who may in consultation with the borough develop
additional work standards that shall be binding upon the permitted party.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-18-2022, § 2; Ord. 1501, passed 7-15-2024, § 2)
§ 95.048 RESTORATION OF OTHER SURFACES.
   (A)   Requirements for permanent repairs to surfaces other than bituminous
pavement will be determined by the inspector, who may in consultation with the
borough develop additional work standards. In general, final restorations in
any case shall be equal to the original surface.
   (B)   Sidewalks must be replaced to meet criteria developed by the inspector
in consultation with the borough prior to pouring the concrete. The sidewalk
sub base and forms must be inspected and approved.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-18-2022, § 2)
§ 95.049 STANDARDS FOR THE INSTALLATION OF PIPE AND OTHER UTILITIES.
   All work shall be completed as per the standards approved by the Borough of
Grove City and be in conformance with Penn DOT Publication 408, PA PUG and PA
DEP Standards.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-18-2022, § 2)
§ 95.050 FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Street excavation under this section shall include all excavation of
or tunneling under any street owned by the Borough of Grove City. The fee for
street excavation shall be as follows:
      (1)   A permit fee of $50 shall be charged for each street excavation. A
degradation fee shall also be charged for each street excavation as provided
below.
      (2)   An inspection fee of $2 for each foot in length (the longest
dimension) of each proposed street excavation shall be charged for each
excavation.
      (3)   Performance guarantees shall be required for all street excavations
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Right-of-way excavation under this section shall include all
excavation of or work in any right-of-way of the Borough of Grove City other
than a street, including but not limited to sidewalks and driveways. The fee
for right-of-way excavation shall be as follows:
      (1)   A permit fee of $50 shall be charged for each right-of-way
excavation.
      (2)   An inspection fee of $1 for each foot in length (the longest
dimension) of each proposed right-of-way shall be charged for each right-of-way
excavation.
      (3)   A separate permit application and fee shall be required for each
proposed right-of-way excavation.
   (C)   If a single owner proposes to do work that constitutes both a street
excavation and a right-of-way excavation, the owner shall be liable for fees
under divisions (A) and (B) where applicable.
   (D)   All fees established above may be changed by resolution of the Borough
of Grove City Council. If any part of this section is held illegal or
unconstitutional, it is intended that the remaining parts continue in force.
   (E)   Degradation fee schedule. The degradation fee schedule is below and
applies to work as detailed within §
95.038. This fee schedule may be changed by resolution of the Borough of Grove
City Council.
 
   Degradation Fee Schedule
                       Rate of Fee*
Pavement Structure  Less than 1 year 1 to 2 years 3 to 5 years Greater than 5
                                                               years
Concrete foundation
with asphalt or     $20              $16          $8           $0
concrete surface
Granular or
bituminous base     $18              $14          $7           $0
with bituminous
seal coat surface
Granular or
bituminous base     $12              $10          $5           $0
with bituminous
seal coat surface
* In dollars per square yard of streets constructed, reconstructed or
resurfaced within the following number of years prior to issue date of permit
 
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-18-2022, § 2)
PART B: ASSESSMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS
§ 95.060 PETITION BY PROPERTY OWNER; FRONT-FOOT ASSESSMENT.
   When a property owner (or owners) petitions the Borough Council, to pave
and/or curb streets and/or install sidewalks on an unimproved street, the
borough shall assess the total cost of the project less street intersections
and paving and/or curbing of streets and/or sidewalk paralleling the side of
corner lots to all of the benefitting property owners on a proportionate front-
foot basis.
(1980 Code, Ch. 22, Part 3B, § 151) (Ord. 1024, passed 6-16-1975, § 1)
§ 95.061 CORNER LOT COSTS PAID BY BOROUGH.
   When a property owner (or owners) petition the Borough Council pursuant to §
95.061, the costs for paving and/or curbing streets and/or sidewalks
paralleling the side of corner lots on an unimproved street shall not be
assessed to the corner lot owner but shall be paid for by the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 22, Part 3B, § 152) (Ord. 1024, passed 6-16-1975, § 2; Ord.
1101, passed 5-5-1980, § 1)
§ 95.062 BOROUGH INITIATIVE; PARTIAL COST PAID BY BOROUGH.
   Where the borough initiates forced paving and/or curbing of streets, and/or
sidewalks the above method of assessing property owners shall be used, except
that the borough shall pay one-third of the total project costs where the
borough performs the work by its own employees or by an independent contractor.
Where the work is done by the property owner according to borough
specifications the borough shall reimburse the property owner one-third of the
costs to the property owner, not to exceed one-third of the established costs
where the borough has performed a portion of the project work. Where the
borough performs no work on the project, reasonable costs of the project shall
be established by the Borough Manager.
(1980 Code, Ch. 22, Part 3B, § 153) (Ord. 1024, passed 6-16-1975, § 3; Ord.
1039, passed 4-28-1976, § 1; Ord. 1101, passed 5-5-1980, § 2)
§ 95.999 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating a provision of this chapter shall be
sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $75 nor more than $500 for the first
two uncorrected violations of the same section on the same property and not
less than $150 nor more than $1,000 for the third uncorrected violation of the
same section of this chapter on the same property, plus court costs and any
expenses incurred by Grove City Borough for remediation thereof. Every section
of this chapter that is violated shall constitute a separate offense punishable
by a separate fine as set forth herein. Each day that a violation continues
after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense punishable
by a separate fine as set forth herein.
(Ord. 1484, passed 4-18-2022, § 3)
CHAPTER 96: TREES
Section
Tree Planting
   
96.01   Planting of trees and shrubs within street lines restricted
   
96.02   Failure to remove unlawful trees and shrubs after notice
Removal of Diseased Trees
   
96.15   Office of Tree Inspector established
   
96.16   Notice to remove diseased tree or shrub
   
96.17   Authority for borough to do work and collect cost
   
96.18   Cost to constitute lien on premises
   
96.19   Collection of liens
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Forestry, see §
156.113
TREE PLANTING
§ 96.01 PLANTING OF TREES AND SHRUBS WITHIN STREET LINES RESTRICTED.
   The planting of trees or shrubs within the street line of any street in the
borough is hereby prohibited except with the written permission of the Borough
Manager and in accordance with the Borough Tree Planting Plan when established.
(1980 Code, Ch. 26, Part 1, § 1) (Ord. 628, passed 9-17-1951, § 1; Ord. 922,
passed 12-20-1971, § 1) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 FAILURE TO REMOVE UNLAWFUL TREES AND SHRUBS AFTER NOTICE.
   Any failure to remove such tree or shrub planted in violation of this
subchapter after ten days’ notice, shall constitute a violation of this
subchapter and shall be punishable according to its provisions.
(1980 Code, Ch. 26, Part 1, § 3) (Ord. 628, passed 9-17-1951, § 3; Ord. 922,
passed 12-20-1971, § 3) Penalty, see §
96.99
REMOVAL OF DISEASED TREES
§ 96.15 OFFICE OF TREE INSPECTOR ESTABLISHED.
   In accordance with the authority delegated to the Borough Council, 8 Pa.C.S.
§ 1202 and 8 Pa.C.S. Ch. 27, the office of Tree Inspector is established.
(1980 Code, Ch. 26, Part 2, § 31) (Ord. 1004, passed 5-29-1974, § 1)
§ 96.16 NOTICE TO REMOVE DISEASED TREE OR SHRUB.
   Whenever the Tree Inspector shall observe any dead tree or any plant, shrub
or tree afflicted with the Dutch elm or other disease which threatens to injure
or destroy plants, shrubs or shade trees, the Tree Inspector shall give the
owner of the land written notice to remove the tree within 30 days of such
notice.
(1980 Code, Ch. 26, Part 2, § 32) (Ord. 1004, passed 5-29-1974, § 2)
§ 96.17 AUTHORITY FOR BOROUGH TO DO WORK AND COLLECT COST.
   Upon failure of any such owner to comply with such notice, the borough may
cause the work to be done by the borough, and levy and collect the cost thereof
from the owner of the property.
(1980 Code, Ch. 26, Part 2, § 33) (Ord. 1004, passed 5-29-1974, § 3)
§ 96.18 COST TO CONSTITUTE LIEN ON PREMISES.
   The cost of such work shall be a lien upon the premises from the time of the
commencement of the work, which date shall be fixed by the Borough Engineer and
shall be filed with the Borough Secretary.
(1980 Code, Ch. 26, Part 2, § 34) (Ord. 1004, passed 5-29-1974, § 4)
§ 96.19 COLLECTION OF LIENS.
   Any such lien may be collected by action in assumpsit or by lien filed in
the manner provided by law for the filing and collection of municipal claims.
(1980 Code, Ch. 26, Part 2, § 35) (Ord. 1004, passed 5-29-1974, § 5)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons or associations or corporations violating §
96.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than
$100.
(1980 Code, Ch. 26, Part 1, § 2) (Ord. 628, passed 9-17-1951, § 2; Ord. 922,
passed 12-20-1971, § 2)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   AMUSEMENTS AND AMUSEMENT RIDES
      
111.   TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESS
      
112.   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES
      
113.   POOL HALLS/AMUSEMENT HALLS
      
114.   GARAGE SALES, PORCH SALES, YARD SALES, LAWN SALES AND SIMILAR ACTIVITIES
      
115.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
116.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
CHAPTER 110: AMUSEMENTS AND AMUSEMENT RIDES
Section
   
110.01   Definition and interpretation
   
110.02   Circuses, carnivals, rodeos and amusement rides to be licensed
   
110.03   Permit required to conduct parade in connection with show held outside
borough
   
110.04   Issuance of license or permit; applicability; renewal
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Mechanical amusement devices, see
Ch. 112
   Permit fees for amusements, see §
38.01
   Pool halls/amusement halls, see
Ch. 113
§ 110.01 DEFINITION AND INTERPRETATION.
   The word PERSON, as used in this chapter, shall mean any natural person,
partnership, association, firm or corporation. The singular shall include the
plural and the masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 1, § 1) (Ord. 792, passed 11-20-1958, § 1)
§ 110.02 CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS, RODEOS AND AMUSEMENT RIDES TO BE LICENSED.
   No person shall exhibit, show, conduct or operate, at any place within the
borough, or cause or permit to be exhibited, shown, conducted or operated at
any place within the borough, owned, leased, managed or controlled by him or
her, any circus, carnival, rodeo or similar show, or any merry-go-round, Ferris
wheel or other mechanical ride, for which an admission fee is charged, unless
the same shall first have been licensed according to the provisions of this
chapter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 1, § 2) (Ord. 792, passed 11-20-1958, § 2) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.03 PERMIT REQUIRED TO CONDUCT PARADE IN CONNECTION WITH SHOW HELD OUTSIDE
BOROUGH.
   No person, holding any circus, carnival, rodeo or similar show at any place
outside the borough, shall conduct any parade upon any of the borough streets
without first having received a permit according to the provisions of this
chapter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 1, § 3) (Ord. 792, passed 11-20-1958, § 3) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; APPLICABILITY; RENEWAL.
   Every license or permit required under this chapter shall be issued by the
Borough Manager, and the fee therefor shall be as set by resolution of the
Borough Council from time to time. Provided, any license issued under the
provisions of §
110.02 shall apply to as many of the types of shows or mechanical rides
mentioned in that section as are conducted on the same premises by the person
to whom such license is issued. Provided, further, it shall be unlawful to
continue to conduct any activity or to operate any type of mechanical ride for
which a license or permit is required under this chapter after the expiration
of any such license or permit without first having renewed such license or
permit for the additional period of time for which the same shall be required,
and without first having paid the fee as set by resolution of the Borough
Council from time to time.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 1, § 4) (Ord. 792, passed 11-20-1958, § 4) Penalty,
see §
110.99
Cross-reference:
   Fees for licenses, see §
38.01
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $100 and
costs of prosecution, for each and every such violation, and, in default of
payment thereof, to imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 30 days;
provided, each day’s violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 1, § 5) (Ord. 792, passed 11-20-1958, § 5)
CHAPTER 111: TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions and interpretation
   
111.02   License required; fee; conditions thereof
   
111.03   Application for license
   
111.04   Issuance of license; information thereon; custody and display or
exhibit thereof
   
111.05   Denial of application
   
111.06   Prohibited acts
   
111.07   Restrictions
   
111.08   Severability
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PERSON. Any natural person, association, partnership or corporation.
      TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESS. Includes the following:
         (a)   Engaging in canvassing, soliciting or taking orders, either by
sample or otherwise, for any goods, wares or merchandise, upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or public ground, or from house to house, within the borough;
and
         (b)   Selling, soliciting or taking orders for any goods, wares or
merchandise, from a fixed location within the borough, on a temporary basis,
which shall include, but shall not be limited to, such activities conducted at
the time of special occasions or celebrations, for seasonal purposes, or for or
in advance of specific yearly holidays.
   (B)   In this chapter, the singular shall include the plural, the plural
shall include the singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine and
the neuter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 2, § 21) (Ord. 997, passed 1-21-1974, § 1)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; CONDITIONS THEREOF.
   (A)   No person shall engage in transient retail business within the borough
without first having obtained a license, for which a fee shall be charged, said
fee to be adopted by resolution of he Borough Council and may be amended from
time to time; provided, no license fee shall be charged under this section:
      (1)   To farmers selling their own produce;
      (2)   For the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, donated by the owners
thereof, the proceeds whereof are to be applied to any charitable organization
or philanthropic purpose; and
      (3)   To any manufacturer or producer in the sale of milk or milk
products, bread and bakery products, or meat or meat products, but all persons
exempted hereby from the payment of the license fee shall be required to
register with the borough and obtain a license without fee.
   (B)   Provided further, any person dealing in one or more of the above
mentioned exempted categories, and dealing with other goods, wares or
merchandise not so exempted, shall be subject to the payment of the license fee
fixed by this section for his or her activities in connection with the sale of
goods, wares and merchandise not in such exempted categories; provided further,
the borough may similarly exempt from the payment of the license fee, but not
from registering with him or her, persons working without compensation and
selling goods, wares or merchandise for the sole benefit of any nonprofit
corporation or association; provided further, every license issued under the
provisions of this chapter shall be issued on an individual basis to persons
engaging in such business; every individual shall obtain a separate license,
issued to him or her in his or her name, and the license fee hereby imposed
shall be applicable to every such individual license, except in the case of
persons working without compensation and selling goods, wares and merchandise
for the sole benefit of any nonprofit corporation or association in which case
only the nonprofit corporation or association need register and get a license
in its name only.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 2, § 22) (Ord. 997, passed 1-21-1974, § 2; Ord. 1021,
passed 5-19-1975, § 1; Ord. 1125, passed 8-3-1981, § 1; Ord. 1163, passed 7-16-
1984) Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Fees, see §
38.01
§ 111.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person desiring a license under this chapter shall first make
application at the Office of Borough Secretary. If such persons shall also be
required to obtain a license from any state or county officer, he or she shall,
when making such application, exhibit a valid license from such state or county
officer.
   (B)   The applicant shall give his or her name and address; his or her
previous criminal record, if any; the name of the person by whom he or she is
employed; the type of goods, wares and merchandise he or she wishes to deal
with in such transient retail business; the length of time for which license is
to be issued; and the type of vehicle to be used, if any. In the case of a
nonprofit corporation or association shall give to the borough the names and
addresses and other required information as stated above concerning all persons
who will be working or soliciting or selling for the corporation or
association. One license shall thereupon be issued to the corporation or
association.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 2, § 23) (Ord. 997, passed 1-21-1974, § 3; Ord. 1021,
passed 5-19-1975, § 2)
§ 111.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; INFORMATION THEREON; CUSTODY AND DISPLAY OR
EXHIBIT THEREOF.
   Upon receipt of such application and the prescribed fee and finding such
application to be in order, the Borough Secretary shall transmit the
application to the Borough Manager who shall license such applicant unless he
or she shall determine the issuance would be detrimental to the health, safety
and/or welfare of the citizens of the borough for any of the reasons specified
below. The Borough Manager shall make such additional investigations, including
the securing of additional information from the applicant, as shall be
reasonably necessary and relevant to such determination. The Manager shall
either license the applicant or send a notice of rejection of the application
to the applicant within ten days after the date on which the application is
filed with the Borough Secretary. Notice of rejection shall state the reason or
reasons therefor.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 2, § 24) (Ord. 997, passed 1-21-1974, § 4)
§ 111.05 DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   Licenses may be denied, and licenses approved under the terms of this
chapter may be revoked, by the Borough Manager (or his or her delegate) for any
of the following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for authorization.
   (B)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of the
business of the person authorized or seeking authorization.
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude.
   (E)   Past or present conduct of a person authorized or seeking
authorization in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a
breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general
welfare of the public.
§ 111.06 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person engaged in any transient retail business shall:
   (A)   Sell any product or type of product no mentioned in his or her
license;
   (B)   Hawk or cry his or her wares upon any of the streets, alleys,
sidewalks or public grounds in the borough;
   (C)   When operating from a vehicle, stop or park such vehicle upon any of
the streets or alleys in the borough for longer than necessary in order to sell
therefrom to persons residing in the immediate vicinity;
   (D)   Park any vehicle upon any of the streets or alleys in the borough for
the purpose of sorting, rearranging or cleaning any of his or her goods, wares
or merchandise or of disposing of any carton, wrapping material or of any stock
or wares or foodstuffs which have become unsaleable through handling, age or
otherwise;
   (E)   Engage in any business activity prohibited in the borough by general
or special law applicable thereto;
   (F)   Engage in any house-to-house activity, except by prior appointment, at
any time on a Sunday or legal holiday (such legal holidays to include New
Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and
Christmas), or at any time after 9:00 p.m. on any day of the week other than a
Sunday or said legal holiday.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 2, § 25) (Ord. 997, passed 1-21-1974, § 5; Ord. 1235,
passed 9-21-1992, § 1) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   All transient retail business must obtain a list of residents of the
borough and commercial entities of the borough who do not wish to be solicited/
canvassed from the Borough Manager before the issuance of a license to the
licensee. Within the borough no transient retail business shall at any time, or
within the time so indicated, solicit, canvass or take orders, either by sample
or otherwise, for any goods, wares, merchandise or political cause from a
resident or commercial entity within the borough who have submitted their names
and addresses to the Borough Manager to prevent said solicitation/canvassing.
Transient retail business as defined herein shall mean and include the
following: engaging in canvassing, solicitation or taking orders, either by
sample or otherwise, for any goods, wares, merchandise or political cause
directly, in person, from any resident or commercial entity within the borough.
   (B)   The residents of the borough and the commercial entities of the
borough shall submit their names and addresses to the Borough Manager if they
desire not to be solicited/canvassed at any time or they may indicate specific
times in which they desire not to be solicited/canvassed.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 2, § 25.1) (Ord. 997, passed 1-21-1974; Ord. 1236,
passed 9-21-1992, § 1) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be severable, and if any section, part
of section or provision thereof shall be held to be unconstitutional, illegal
or otherwise invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of any of the
remaining sections, parts of sections or provisions of this chapter. It is
hereby declared as a legislative intent that this chapter would have been
adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or otherwise invalid provision not
been a part hereof.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 2, § 28) (Ord. 997, passed 1-21-1974, § 8)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, for every such violation, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a
fine of nor more than $300 and costs of prosecution, and in default of payment
of such fine and costs, to imprisonment for not more than 30 days; provided,
each day’s violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute
a separate violation.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 2, § 27)
   (C)   Any transient retail business who violates the provisions of §
111.07 set forth shall be subject to a fine not less than $10 but not more than
$300 per violation of §
111.07.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 2, § 25.1)
(Ord. 997, passed 1-21-1974, § 7; Ord. 1236, passed 9-21-1992, § 1)
CHAPTER 112: MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Application for license
   
112.04   License fee
   
112.05   Waiting period and investigation of application
   
112.06   Display of license
   
112.07   Inapplicable to gambling devices
   
112.08   Repeal of conflicting ordinance
   
112.09   Severability of provisions
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Amusements and amusement rides, see
Ch. 110
   Permit fees for amusements, see §
38.01
   Pool halls/amusement halls, see
Ch. 113
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVICE. Any mechanical amusement device licensed under this chapter
excluding, however, juke boxes.
   JUKE BOX. Any music vending machine or contrivance operated through the
insertion of a coin or disk.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any device other than a juke box which, upon
insertion of a coin or disk, may be operated for use as a game, entertainment
or amusement, whether or not registering a score and whether or not a prize is
offered.
   PERSON, FIRM, CORPORATION or ASSOCIATION. Includes the following: any
person, firm, corporation or association in whose place of business any such
machine is placed for use by the public; and the person, firm, corporation or
association having control over such machine; provided, however, that the
payment of such fee by any person, firm, corporation or association enumerated
herein shall be deemed in compliance with this chapter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 4, § 61) (Ord. 1103, passed 6-26-1980, § 1)
Cross-reference:
   Amusement and amusement devices, see
Ch. 110
   Pool halls/amusement halls, see
Ch. 113
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or association to
possess a mechanical amusement device, as above defined, in the borough,
without first procuring a license for it from the Borough Manager.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 4, § 62) (Ord. 1103, passed 6-26-1980, § 2) Penalty,
see §
112.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Any person so possessing such a device shall make application for a license
with the Borough Manager in writing and under oath, setting forth:
   (A)   His or her present and previous occupations;
   (B)   The length and place of his or her present and previous residences;
   (C)   The name and address of the owner of the premises where the devices
are to be used;
   (D)   If the owner of the premises is not the applicant, the length of the
term of the lease for the premises;
   (E)   If the possessor is not the owner of the device, the name and address
of the owner of the said device;
   (F)   The location where the machine or device is to be displayed or
operated and the business conducted at that place; and
   (G)   The type and serial number of the device sought to be licensed.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 4, § 63) (Ord. 1103, passed 6-26-1980, § 3)
§ 112.04 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee shall be $50 a year for each machine licensed, the year
commencing to run from the date of the issuance of the license.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 4, § 64) (Ord. 1107, passed 6-26-1980, § 4; Ord. 1134,
passed 1-8-1982, § 8)
§ 112.05 WAITING PERIOD AND INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION.
   No license shall be granted until seven days after application is made to
the Borough Manager during which time the Borough Manager may investigate the
facts set forth in the application.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 4, § 65) (Ord. 1103, passed 6-26-1980, § 5)
§ 112.06 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The license or licenses herein provided for shall be posted
permanently and conspicuously at the location of the machine and the premises
wherein the device is to be operated.
   (B)   A license may be transferred from one machine or device to another
similar device upon application to the Borough Manager to such effect and the
giving of a description and the serial number of the new device. Not more than
one device shall be operated under one license and the licensee shall be
required to secure a license for each and every machine displayed or operated
by him or her.
   (C)   A license shall not be transferable from person to person or place to
place and shall be usable only at the place and by the person designated in the
license.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 4, § 66) (Ord. 1103, passed 6-26-1980, § 6) Penalty,
see §
112.99
§ 112.07 INAPPLICABLE TO GAMBLING DEVICES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall, in any way, be construed to authorize,
license or permit any gambling device whatsoever as defined by the Pennsylvania
Crimes Code, 18 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq..
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 4, § 68) (Ord. 1103, passed 6-26-1980, § 8)
§ 112.08 REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCE.
   All existing ordinances are hereby repealed insofar as they may be
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 4, § 69) (Ord. 1103, passed 6-26-1980, § 9)
§ 112.09 SEVERABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   It is the intention of the Council that each separate provision of this
chapter shall be deemed independent of all other provisions herein, and it is
further the intention of the Council that if any provision of this chapter be
declared invalid, all other provisions thereof shall remain valid and
enforceable.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 4, § 70) (Ord. 1103, passed 6-26-1980, § 10)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation or association violating any provision
of this chapter, or failing to carry out any provision or requirement of this
chapter, or neglecting, failing or refusing to furnish correct and complete
reports, or to pay the license fee specified by this chapter at the time
required, or who knowingly makes any incomplete, false or fraudulent report or
attempts to do anything whatever to avoid the payment of the whole, or any
part, of the license fee, shall be liable upon conviction to pay a fine of not
less than $100 or more than $300 for each and every offense, and to pay the
costs of prosecution, and to have any and all licenses issued hereunder revoked
and in default of payment of the fine and costs, to undergo imprisonment for
not more than 30 days.
   (B)   Each day that any machine or device to which this chapter applies is
operated and used in violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense under this chapter and shall be subject to separate and
distinct penalties.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 4, § 67) (Ord. 1107, passed 6-26-1980, § 7)
CHAPTER 113: POOL HALLS/AMUSEMENT HALLS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Age limits
   
113.03   Hours
   
113.04   Posting of signs
   
113.05   Duty to ascertain age
   
113.06   Maintenance
   
113.07   Savings clause
   
113.08   Conflicting sections
   
113.09   Curfew conflict
 
   
113.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Amusements and amusement rides, see
Ch. 110
   Mechanical amusement devices, see
Ch. 112
   Permit fees for amusements, see §
38.01
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT HALL. Any amusement or recreational establishment wherein
mechanical amusement devices are provided for hire or for profit.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any device other than a juke box, which, upon
insertion of a coin or disk, may be operated for use as a game, entertainment
or amusement, whether or not registering a score and whether or not a prize is
offered.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, association, partnership or corporation.
   POOL HALL. Any recreational or amusement establishment wherein pool tables
are provided for hire or profit, either by the insertion of a coin or token or
payment of money to any person for profit or in any other manner.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 5, § 71) (Ord. 1102, passed 5-19-1980, § 1)
§ 113.02 AGE LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person 11 years of age and under to enter any
pool hall or amusement hall within the borough, unless accompanied by an adult,
who shall always remain present with any person 11 years of age and under; and
it shall be unlawful for the proprietor, owner and/or manager of any such pool
hall or amusement hall to permit any person 11 years of age and under to enter
said establishment, unless accompanied by an adult. As to any person who is 12
years of age but less than 15 years of age, such person shall not be permitted
in any pool hall or amusement hall within the borough unless a parent of such
child has signed a permission slip and personally delivered the permission slip
to the proprietor, owner or manager of such pool hall or amusement hall
permitting said child in such hall; provided, further, that under no
circumstance shall any child who is 12 years of age but less than 15 years of
age be permitted in such hall past 8:00 p.m. unless accompanied by an adult.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 5, § 72) (Ord. 1102, passed 5-19-1980, § 2; Ord. 1330,
passed 2-21-2005, § 1) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain any pool hall or amusement hall open for
business at any time other than the times of 11:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m., Monday
through Thursday; 12:00 noon to 12:00 midnight on Friday and Saturday; and 2:00
p.m. to 11:00 p.m. on Sunday.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 5, § 73) (Ord. 1102, passed 5-19-1980, § 3; Ord. 1330,
passed 2-21-2005, § 2) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   The proprietor, owner or manager of a pool hall or amusement hall shall post
a sign in said pool hall or amusement hall clearly visible to patrons
indicating the age and hour limitations contained in this chapter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 5, § 74) (Ord. 1102, passed 5-19-1980, § 4)
§ 113.05 DUTY TO ASCERTAIN AGE.
   It shall be the responsibility of the proprietor, owner and manager of a
pool hall or amusement hall to make reasonable and diligent inquiry of all
patrons entering the said pool hall or amusement hall to ascertain their proper
age and to require anyone in violation of this chapter to leave if they are not
of proper age. If the proprietor, owner and manager of a pool hall or amusement
hall has reasonable grounds to believe that a patron violates the age
requirements of this chapter, he or she shall require the said person to leave
the pool hall or amusement hall and not allow said person to enter said pool
hall or amusement hall unless the said person produces sufficient
identification to cause the proprietor, owner or manager to reasonably believe
that he or she is of sufficient age to be in the said halls under the terms and
conditions of this chapter
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 5, § 75) (Ord. 1102, passed 5-19-1980, § 5)
§ 113.06 MAINTENANCE.
   The proprietor, owner or manager of a pool hall or amusement hall shall keep
said establishment in a clean, sanitary condition; and every such pool hall or
amusement hall shall have a front window that allows an unobstructed view of
the interior of the premises from the outside.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 5, § 76) (Ord. 1102, passed 5-14-1980, § 6) Penalty,
see §
113.99
§ 113.07 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   The provisions of this chapter are severable and if any portion, or portions
thereof, shall be declared to be invalid for any reason, such decision shall
not affect the remaining portions of this chapter, it being the express intent
that all other provisions of this chapter would have been adopted regardless of
the inclusion of the invalid portion or portions.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 5, § 78) (Ord. 1102, passed 5-19-1980, § 8)
§ 113.08 CONFLICTING SECTIONS.
   All other ordinances or portions thereof in conflict with this chapter are
hereby declared repealed to the extent of the conflict.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 5, § 79) (Ord. 1102, passed 5-19-1980, § 9)
§ 113.09 CURFEW CONFLICT.
   It is expressly declared that this chapter shall in no way affect any of the
provisions of the borough curfew provisions.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 5, § 80) (Ord. 1102, passed 5-19-1980, § 10)
Cross-reference:
   Curfew regulations, see §§
132.30 et seq.
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof in summary proceedings before any justice of the peace,
be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $100 plus costs, and not more than
$300 plus costs, to be paid to the borough, or in default thereof, shall be
confined to the county jail for a period of not more than 30 days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 5, § 77) (Ord. 1102, passed 5-19-1980, § 7)
CHAPTER 114: GARAGE SALES, PORCH SALES, YARD SALES, LAWN SALES AND SIMILAR
ACTIVITIES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Duration and limitations
 
   
114.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Flea markets, see §
156.082
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE. A public sale of goods conducted in a residentially associated
garage.
   PERSON. Any person, association, partnership, firm or corporation.
   PORCH SALE, YARD SALE, LAWN SALE AND SIMILAR ACTIVITIES. An outdoor sale of
goods on residential property.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 6, § 81) (Ord. 1262, passed 10-16-1995, § 1)
§ 114.02 DURATION AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   A garage sale, porch sale, yard sale, lawn sale and similar activity
may be conducted for three consecutive days.
   (B)   Garage sale, porch sale, yard sale, lawn sale or similar activity
shall be limited to two sales per calendar year per residence.
   (C)   All signs advertising a sale must be removed within 24 hours following
the final day of the sale.
   (D)   Sales may be held between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
   (E)   Sales may not encroach on the public right-of-way (street or
sidewalk).
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 6, § 82) (Ord. 1262, passed 10-16-1995, § 2) Penalty,
see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed $500 for each separate
offense.
(1980 Code, Ch. 15, Part 6, § 83) (Ord. 1262, passed 10-16-1995, § 3)
CHAPTER 115: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
115.01   Purpose and findings
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   License required
   
115.04   Issuance of license
   
115.05   Fees
   
115.06   Inspection
   
115.07   Expiration of license
   
115.08   Suspension
   
115.09   Revocations and appeals of denials, suspensions or revocations
   
115.10   Transfer of license
   
115.11   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films,
videos or live entertainment in viewing rooms
   
115.12   Additional regulations for escort agencies or nude model studios
   
115.13   Additional regulations concerning public nudity
   
115.14   Prohibition against children in a sexually oriented business
   
115.15   Hours of operation
   
115.16   Exemptions
 
   
115.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Public indecency, see §§
132.15 et seq.
   Zoning for sexually oriented businesses, see §
156.083
§ 115.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Pursuant to the authority granted in the Borough Code to prohibit
nuisances; to promote the health, welfare, cleanliness, comfort and safety of
the citizens of Grove City Borough; and to regulate the time of opening and
closing, and the conduct of places of public entertainment, amusement and
recreation, the borough enacts this chapter to minimize and control the adverse
secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses and thereby protect the
health, safety and welfare of its citizens; protect the citizens from increased
crime; preserve the quality of life; preserve the property values and character
of surrounding neighborhoods; and deter the spread of blight.
      (2)   The Council has determined that licensing is a legitimate and
reasonable means of accountability to insure that operators of sexually
oriented businesses comply with reasonable regulations and to insure that
operators do not knowingly allow their establishments to be used as places of
illegal sexual activity or solicitation.
      (3)   The Council does not intend this chapter to suppress any speech
activities protected by the First Amendment, but to enact a content neutral
ordinance which addresses the secondary effects of sexually oriented
businesses.
   (B)   Legislative findings. Based upon a public meeting conducted by the
borough, the Council finds:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses have adverse secondary effects which
should be regulated to protect the public health, safety and welfare. These
secondary effects include, but are not limited to the spread of communicable
diseases, performance of sexual acts in public places, presence of discarded
sexually oriented material on public and private property, sexual harassment,
obscenity, prostitution and other illegal sexual activities, crime and
neighborhood deterioration.
      (2)   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to
place the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators
of the sexually oriented businesses. Further, such a licensing procedure will
place a heretofore nonexistent incentive on the operators to see that the
sexually oriented business is run in a manner consistent with the health,
safety and welfare of its patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the
Borough. It is appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee
is the actual operator of the sexually oriented business, fully in possession
and control of the premises and activities occurring therein.
      (3)   Removal of doors of viewing booths and requiring sufficient
lighting on premises with viewing booths advances a substantial governmental
interest in discouraging the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring
in adult theaters.
      (4)   Requiring licensees of sexually oriented businesses to keep
information regarding current employees and certain past employees will help
reduce the incident of certain types of criminal behavior by facilitating the
identification of potential witnesses or suspects and by preventing minors from
working in such establishments.
      (5)   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day-to-day operation and maintenance of the sexually
oriented business will help limit and control the adverse secondary effects of
such businesses.
      (6)   It is desirable in the prevention of the spread of communicable
diseases to obtain a limited amount of information regarding certain employees
who may engage in the conduct which this chapter is designed to prevent or who
are likely to be witnesses to such activity.
      (7)   The fact that an applicant for a sexually oriented business license
has been convicted of a sexually related crime leads to the rational assumption
that the applicant is likely to engage in that conduct in contravention of this
chapter.
      (8)   The barring of such individuals from the management of sexually
oriented businesses for a period of years serves as a deterrent to and prevents
conduct which leads to the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases.
      (9)   The general welfare, health and safety of the citizens of the
borough will be promoted by the enactment of this chapter.
      (10)   Limitation of operating hours of sexually oriented businesses and
closure of such businesses on Sundays and holidays reduces the adverse
secondary effects of such businesses, including particularly, but not limited
to late night noise levels, crime and sexually offensive materials and
activities in public areas, and promotes the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 1454, passed 12-17-2018, § 1)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated, slug-operated, or for any form of consideration, or
electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion
picture machines, projectors, video or laser disc players, or other image-
producing devices are maintained, not located within viewing booths, to show
images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by the depicting or
describing of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial
establishment which, as one of its principal business purposes, offers for sale
or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, CD ROM discs or other computer software, or other visual
representations which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"; or
      (2)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with "specified sexual activities."
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or other commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity; or
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions or visual presentations of any other kind which are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas."
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions or visual presentations of any kind are regularly
shown which are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, dance hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state
of nudity or semi-nudity, or live performances which are characterized by the
exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities."
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full-time, part-time or contract basis, whether or not
the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent or
otherwise and whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or other
compensation by the operator of said business. EMPLOYEE does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Means and includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business or to a non-sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   KNOWINGLY. Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
ground for belief which warrants further inspection or inquiry of both:
      (1)   The character and content of any material or performance described
herein which is reasonably susceptible of examination by a license or person;
and
      (2)   The age of the minor, provided, however, that an honest mistake
shall constitute an excuse from liability hereunder if the licensee or person
made a reasonable bona fide attempt to ascertain the true age of such minor.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license; and in the case of an employee, a person in
whose name a license has been issued authorizing employment in a sexually
oriented business.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity or who displays "specified anatomical areas" and is provided to
be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. NUDE
MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the State of
Pennsylvania or a college, junior college or university supported entirely or
in part by public taxation; a private college or university which maintains and
operates educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college,
junior college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a
structure.
      (1)   That no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and
      (2)   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the premises
at any one time.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male
genitals in a discernible turgid state.
   PERSON.  An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association or other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE or IN A SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The state of dress in which clothing
partially or non-opaquely covers specified anatomical areas.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER.  A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex, or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-
nudity.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, adult
theater, escort agency, nude model studio or sexual encounter center or other
such business as may be defined by borough zoning.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Human genitals, pubic region, anus, buttocks,
female breast(s) below a point immediately above the top of the areola, or
human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.  Any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; engaging in organized
criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child; gambling; or
distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of other states or countries;
      (2)   For which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24- month
period.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant or a person residing with the
applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or
      (3)   Excretory functions as part of, or in connection with, any of the
activities set forth in (a) and (b) above.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Means and
includes any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
   VIEWING BOOTHS.  Booths, stalls, partitioned portions of a room, rooms or
other enclosures which are available for viewing (1) films, movies, videos or
visual reproductions of any kind depicting or describing "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas," or (2) persons who appear in a
state of nudity or semi-nudity or who offer performances or presentations
characterized by the exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or by "specified
sexual activities."
(Ord. 1454, passed 12-17-2018, § 2)
§ 115.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to operate a sexually oriented business without a
valid sexually oriented business license issued by the borough pursuant to this
chapter;
      (2)   For any person who operates a sexually oriented business to employ
a person to work for the sexually oriented business who is not licensed as a
sexually oriented business employee by the borough pursuant to this chapter;
      (3)   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually oriented
business without having secured a sexually oriented business employee license
pursuant to this chapter;
      (4)   Beginning on the sixtieth day after enactment of this chapter for
any person to continue to operate any sexually oriented business in operation
at the time of enactment of this chapter without a valid sexually oriented
business license pursuant to this chapter;
      (5)   Beginning on the sixtieth day after enactment of this chapter for
any person who operates a sexually oriented business in operation at the time
of enactment of this chapter to employ a person to work for the sexually
oriented business who is not licensed as a sexually oriented business employee
by the borough pursuant to this chapter;
      (6)   Beginning on the sixtieth day after enactment of this chapter for
any person to obtain employment with a sexually oriented business in operation
at the time of enactment of this chapter without having secured a sexually
oriented business employee license pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
borough.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as to enable the borough to determine
whether the applicant meets the qualifications established in this chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, the person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 20% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under the following section and each applicant shall be considered a
licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   The completed application for a sexually oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his/her legal name and
any aliases and submit proof that he or she is at least 18 years of age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
and the name of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation and qualified and
authorized to conduct business in Pennsylvania, the names and capacity of all
officers, directors and principal stockholders, and the names of the registered
corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service of
process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must state (a) the
sexually oriented business' fictitious name and (b) submit the required
registration documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity as defined in this chapter,
and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place and
jurisdiction of each.
      (4)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
had a previous license under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented
business ordinance from another municipality, state or county denied, suspended
or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually oriented business
for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of
denial, suspension or revocation, and whether the applicant or a person
residing with the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an officer,
director or principal stockholder of a corporation that is licensed under this
chapter whose license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked,
including the name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the
permit was denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial,
suspension or revocation.
      (5)   Whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant holds
any other licenses under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented
business ordinance from another municipality, state or county and, if so, the
names and locations of such other licensed businesses.
      (6)   The specific classification of sexually oriented use for which the
applicant is filing along with a detailed description of each and every
activity encompassed by the proposed sexually oriented business, which
description shall thoroughly demonstrate compliance and/or intended compliance
with all provisions of this chapter.
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address and telephone number(s), if
any.
      (8)   The applicant's mailing address and residential address.
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s).
      (10)   The applicant's driver's permit number, social security number,
and his or her state or federally issued tax identification number.
      (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
      (12)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within
the 30 days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the
property lines, the property to be certified; and
      (13)   If an applicant wishes to operate a sexually oriented business,
which includes viewing booths, then the applicant shall also comply with the
application requirements set forth in §
115.11 and shall separately apply for and obtain a building and occupancy
permit for the installation of the viewing booths.
      (14)   The application form shall inform the applicant that (1) separate
applications are required for any necessary zoning permits, subdivision and
land development approvals and building and occupancy permits and that the
applicant may apply for such permits by contacting the Borough Code Officer and
the Mercer County Planning Commission and (2) that Department of Labor an
Industry approval is required.
   (F)   Before any applicant may be issued a sexually oriented business
employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form to be provided by the
borough the following information:
      (1)   The applicant's name or any other name (including "stage" names) or
aliases used by the individual;
      (2)   Age, date and place of birth;
      (3)   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      (4)   Present residence address and telephone number;
      (5)   Present business address and telephone number;
      (6)   Date, issuing state and number of driver's license or other
identification card information;
      (7)   Social security number; and
      (8)   Proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age.
   (G)   Attached to the application form for a sexually oriented business
employee license as provided above, shall be the following:
      (1)   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant's
face, and the applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by any police
department. Any fees for photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant.
      (2)   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant previously operated or is seeking to operate,
in this or any other county, municipality, store or country any business or has
ever had a license, permit or authorization to do business denied, revoked or
suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation or suspension, state the
name, the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction and describe in full the
reason for the denial, revocation or suspension. A copy of any order of denial,
revocation or suspension shall be attached to the application.
      (3)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal activity as defined in this chapter and, if so, the specified criminal
activity involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each.
(Ord. 1454, passed 12-17-2018, § 3) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of said application in a fully completed form for a
sexually oriented business license or for a sexually oriented business employee
license, the application shall then be referred to the Borough Code Officer for
review and investigation. The Borough Code Officer shall utilize any available
resources through the Grove City Borough Police Department, Mercer County
Sheriffs Department, Pennsylvania State Police, the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania and/or other law enforcement agencies as may be necessary to
complete the review and investigation required by this chapter. Within 30 days
from the date the completed application is filed, the Borough Code Officer
shall issue a license, unless it is determined by the Borough Code Officer that
one or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      (2)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal activity"
as defined in this chapter;
      (4)   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter; or
      (5)   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee license
revoked by the borough within two years of the date of the current application.
If the sexually oriented business employee license is denied, the temporary
license previously issued is immediately deemed null and void. Denial,
suspension or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this subsection shall
be subject to appeal as set forth in §
115.09.
      (6)   The required application, investigation and license fees have not
been paid.
      (7)   An applicant's license to operate a sexually oriented business,
issued by any jurisdiction, has been revoked within the preceding 12 months.
      (8)   The proposed sexually oriented business is in violation of, or is
not in compliance with, any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to annual
renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by the
borough that the applicant has not been convicted of any specified criminal
activity as defined in this chapter or committed any act during the existence
of the previous license, which would be grounds to deny the initial license
application. The renewal of the license shall be subject to the payment of the
fee as set forth in §
115.05.
   (C)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of
the sexually oriented business and the specific classification of sexually
oriented use for which the license is issued. Licenses for sexually oriented
businesses shall state that the sexually oriented business shall not commence
until all necessary zoning, subdivision and land development, and/or building
code approvals and Department of Labor and Industry approvals are obtained. All
licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the
sexually oriented business so that they may be easily read at any time.
   (D)   Applications for building and occupancy permits shall be processed and
either denied or approved within 30 days of a complete application by the
borough.
   (E)   A sexually oriented business license shall issue for the specific
classification of sexually oriented use as permitted by ordinance and applied
for.
   (F)   A license denial shall conform to the provisions of §
115.09(D).
   (G)   Any person aggrieved by the grant of a license may appeal, in writing,
within ten days from the date of issuance of the license, to the Board of
Supervisors. The Council shall then hold a local agency law hearing within 20
days from the date of filing of the appeal and render a decision within ten
days from the end of the hearing. Appeals from a decision of the Council may be
taken to court subject to §
115.09(E).
(Ord. 1454, passed 12-17-2018, § 4) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 FEES.
   (A)   Every application for a sexually oriented business license (whether
for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied
by a non-refundable application and investigation fee in an amount set by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   In addition to the application and investigation fee required above,
every sexually oriented business that is granted a license (new or renewal)
shall pay to the borough an annual non-refundable license fee in an amount set
by resolution of the Council within 30 days of license issuance or renewal.
   (C)   Every application for a sexually oriented business employee license
(whether for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be
accompanied by an annual nonrefundable application, investigation and license
fee in an amount set by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
   (D)   All license applications and fees shall be submitted to the office of
the Borough Secretary/Treasurer, and, therefore, the applications shall be
forwarded to the Borough Code Officer for review and investigation and approval
of denial.
(Ord. 1454, passed 12-17-2018, § 5)
§ 115.06 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit authorized borough officials and
their agents or consultants to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented
business for the purpose of insuring compliance with the law, at any time it is
occupied or open for business.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his or her agent
or employee commits a violation of this chapter if he or she refuses to permit
such lawful inspection of the premises at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
(Ord. 1454, passed 12-17-2018, § 6)
§ 115.07 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided in §
115.03. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date,
the date of expiration of the license will not be extended.
   (B)   When the borough denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not
be issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the borough finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Ord. 1454, passed 12-17-2018, § 7)
§ 115.08 SUSPENSION.
   The Borough Code Officer shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed
30 days if he or she determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee
has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter; or
   (C)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises.
(Ord. 1454, passed 12-17-2018, § 8)
§ 115.09 REVOCATIONS AND APPEALS OF DENIALS, SUSPENSIONS OR REVOCATIONS.
   (A)   The Borough Code Officer shall revoke a license if a cause of
suspension in §
115.08 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   The Borough Code Officer shall revoke a license if he or she
determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse,
sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or other sex act to occur in or on the
license premises; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the borough for any
licensing fees past due.
   (C)   When the borough revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for
one year, and the license shall not be issued a sexually oriented business
license for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If,
subsequent to revocation, the borough finds that the basis for the revocation
has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at
least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
   (D)   All license application, renewal, suspension or revocation decisions
shall be sent in writing to the applicant or licensee. All such decisions which
deny, suspend or revoke a permit shall state specifically the ordinance
requirement not met and any other basis for the decision. After denial of an
application, or denial of a renewal of an application, or after suspension or
revocation of any license, the applicant or licensee may appeal pursuant to the
local agency law to the Board of Supervisors. The Council will then hold a
local agency law hearing within 20 days from the date the appeal is filed and
will render a written decision within ten days from the date such hearing
concludes. Any such appeal must be filed, in writing, with the Borough
Secretary/Treasurer within ten days from the date of mailing of the decision
appealed from. Failure to file said appeal with the Borough Secretary/Treasurer
within ten days from the date of the mailing of the decision appealed from
shall be deemed a conclusive determination as to the issues or matters
addressed by the written decision. In the case of a denial of a license
renewal, or in the case of a license suspension or revocation, the licensee may
continue to operate to the same extent as immediately prior to the suspension
or revocation until the earlier of: (1) the expiration of the ten-day appeal
period without filing of an appeal; or (2) the date of a decision dismissing
any appeal.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Council may appeal to a
court of competent jurisdiction. The borough shall, upon filing of such appeal,
consent to any request by a license applicant or licensee to the court to give
expedited review to such appeal. The borough shall certify any record to the
court to do so.
(Ord. 1454, passed 12-17-2018, § 9)
§ 115.10 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 1454, passed 12-17-2018, § 10)
§ 115.11 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS,
VIDEOS OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT IN VIEWING ROOMS.
   (A)   A person who operates viewing booths or causes them to be operated
shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented license, the application
shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan thereof
specifying the location of one or more manager's stations and the location of
all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises in
which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not exceed 32
square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place at which
the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared
diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall not be
required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to some
designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or with
marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all
areas of interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
The borough may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the
applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   It is the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure that at
least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station
at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (4)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from the manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager's stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view required in
this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager's station. In
addition, all viewing booths shall have at least one side fully open so that
all of the area inside the booth is open to the view of persons in the public
area of the establishment.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the licensees to ensure that the view area
specified in subsection (4) remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains,
partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials and, at all
times, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in
the application filed pursuant to subsection (1) of this section.
      (6)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      (7)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot candle, as measured at the
floor level.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the licensees to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (9)   No licensee shall allow openings of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
      (10)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
      (11)   The licensee shall, during each business day, regularly inspect
the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or holes
exist.
      (12)   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in viewing booths to
be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      (13)   The licensee shall cause all wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in
viewing booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by, nonporous,
easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board or other porous
material shall be used within 48 inches of the floor.
   (B)   A person having a duty under subsections (1) through (13) of
subsection (A) above commits a violation of this chapter if he or she knowingly
fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 1454, passed 12-17-2018, § 11) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.12 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES OR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years commits a violation of this chapter
if the person appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises
of a nude model studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this subsection if
the person under 18 years was in a restroom not open to public view or visible
to any other person.
   (C)   A person commits a violation of this chapter if the person appears in
a state of nudity, or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity
in an area of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from the public
right-of-way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a recreation
room open to the public.
(Ord. 1454, passed 12-17-2018, § 12) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.13 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person to knowingly and
intentionally, in a public place:
      (1)   Engage in sexual intercourse or engage in deviate sexual
intercourse as defined by the Pennsylvania Crimes Code; or
      (2)   Appear in a state of nudity; or
      (3)   Fondle the genital of himself, herself or another person.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, PUBLIC PLACE includes all outdoor
areas owned by or open to the general public, and all buildings and enclosed
places owned by or open to the general public, including, but not limited to,
places of entertainment, taverns, restaurants, clubs, theaters, dance halls,
banquet halls, party rooms or halls limited to specific members, and party
rooms or halls restricted to adults or to patrons invited to attend, whether or
not an admission charge is levied. This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any child under ten years of age; or
      (2)   Any individual exposing a breast in the process of breastfeeding an
infant under two years of age; or
      (3)   The exercise of free speech or free expression in the form of
artistic and theatrical performances. It is the intention of the borough that
this section be construed, enforced and interpreted in such a manner as will
cause the least possible infringement of the constitutional rights of free
speech, free expression, due process, equal protection or other fundamental
rights.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person who knowingly or
intentionally in a sexually oriented business appears in a semi-nude condition
unless the person is an employee who, while semi-nude, shall be at least ten
feet from any patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet from the
floor.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for an employee, while semi-
nude in a sexually oriented business, to solicit any pay or gratuity from any
patron or customer or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity to
any employee, while said employee is semi-nude in a sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 1454, passed 12-17-2018, § 14) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.14 PROHIBITION AGAINST CHILDREN IN A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   A person commits a violation of this chapter if the person knowingly allows
a person under the age of 18 years on the premises of a sexually oriented
business.
(Ord. 1454, passed 12-17-2018, § 15) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.15 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business shall be open for business before 10:00 a.m.,
Monday through Saturday, or after 10:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday. Sexually
oriented businesses shall be closed at all times on Sundays and legal holidays.
For the purposes of this chapter, legal holidays shall include Christmas Day,
New Year's Day, Thanksgiving Day, Memorial Day, Labor Day, July 4th, and Martin
Luther King Day.
(Ord. 1454, passed 12-17-2018, § 16) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.16 EXEMPTIONS.
   It is a defense to prosecution under §
115.13 that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class
operated:
   (A)   By a proprietary school, licensed or recognized as such by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, a college, junior college or university supported
entirely or partly by taxation;
   (B)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (C)   In a structure:
      (1)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing; and
      (2)   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
(Ord. 1454, passed 12-17-2018, § 17)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates or permits the violation
of any provisions of this chapter or the rules and regulations approved and
hereinafter adopted shall pay a fine not exceeding $1,000 for each violation.
Whenever such person shall have been officially notified by the borough that he
or she is committing a violation of this chapter or the rules and regulations
approved and hereinafter adopted, each day that he or she shall continue such
violation after such notification shall constitute a separate violation
punishable by a like fine. Any person who violates or permits the violation of
this chapter shall pay, in addition to the fine set forth above, all court
costs and reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the borough in connection with
any civil enforcement proceedings brought to enforce this chapter.
   (B)   The borough may commence civil enforcement proceedings to assess fines
for violations of this chapter. In addition to such civil enforcement
proceedings, the borough may commence, at any time, appropriate actions in
equity or otherwise to prevent, restrain, correct, enjoy or abate violations of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1454, passed 12-17-2018, § 18)
CHAPTER 116: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Scope
   
116.04   Applications for small wireless facilities
   
116.05   General requirements
   
116.06   Discontinuance
   
116.07   Indemnification
   
116.08   Standard permit conditions
   
116.09   Revocation of permit
   
116.10   Restoration
   
116.11   Violations
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   In the exercise of its police powers and pursuant to the authority granted
to the borough under Act 50 [the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, Act
of June 30, 2021, P.L. 232, No. 50], the borough has jurisdiction to regulate
uses of the right-of-way. The purpose of this chapter is to provide the borough
with a process for managing, and uniform standards for acting upon, requests
for the placement of small wireless facilities within the right-of-way
consistent with the borough's obligation to promote the public health, safety,
and welfare; to manage the right-of-way; and to ensure that the public's use is
not obstructed or disturbed by the use of the right-of-way for small wireless
facilities. The borough recognizes the importance of wireless
telecommunications facilities to provide high-quality communications and
internet access services to residents and businesses within the borough. The
borough also recognizes its obligation to comply with applicable federal and
state laws regarding the placement of wireless telecommunications facilities in
the right-of-way including, without limitation, the Telecommunications Act of
1996, 47 U.S.C. § 151, et seq., and Act 50, 53 P.S. §§ 11704.1 - 11704.11. This
chapter shall be interpreted consistent with those provisions.
(Ord. 1479, passed 10-18-2021, § 1)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural include the singular, and words in the
singular include the plural.
   ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT. Any equipment serving or being used in conjunction with
a small wireless facility or wireless support structure, including but not
limited to utility or transmission equipment, power supplies, generators,
batteries, cables, equipment buildings, cabinets, and storage sheds, shelters,
or similar structures.
   ANTENNA. Telecommunications equipment that transmits and receives
electromagnetic radio signals used in the provision of all types of wireless
telecommunications services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. All applicable federal and state laws, regulations and
standards that comply with Act 50. The term shall also include all ordinances,
resolutions, or policies of the borough regulating:
      (1)   Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or mechanical codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes enacted solely to address imminent threats of destruction of property or
injury to persons.
      (2)   Local zoning, land use, streets and sidewalks, right-of-way and
permitting ordinances or other local rules or regulations that comply with Act
50.
   APPLICANT. A communications service provider that submits an application.
   APPLICATION. A formal request, including all required and requested
documentation and information, submitted by an applicant to the borough for a
wireless permit.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Grove City, Mercer County, Pennsylvania.
   BOROUGH'S DESIGNEE. The person(s) or entity(s) selected by the borough as
responsible for initial processing of the application.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, or replace
small wireless facilities on an existing utility pole or other wireless support
structure.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A cable operator as defined in section 602(4) of the Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-549, 47 U.S.C. § 522(5)).
      (2)   A provider of information service as defined in section 3(20) of
the Communications Act of 1934 (48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 153(24)).
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier as defined in section 3(44) of the
Communications Act of 1934 (48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 153(51)).
      (4)   A wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT OR BUILDING. A building that is or a group of buildings,
properties or sites that are:
      (1)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National Register.
      (2)   Determined to be eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National
Register of Historic Places who has been delegated the authority by a federal
agency to list properties and determine their eligibility for the National
Register of Historic Places in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i-v of the
Nationwide Programmatic Agreement for Review Regarding the Section 106 National
Historic Preservation Act Review Process as specified under 47 CFR Pt. 1, App.
C (relating to Nationwide Programmatic Agreement Regarding the Section 106
National Historic Preservation Act Review Process).
      (3)   Marked as a historical site by the Pennsylvania Historical and
Museum Commission pursuant to 37 Pa.C.S. (relating to historical and museums).
      (4)   Within a historic district created pursuant to the act of June 13,
1961 (P.L. 282, No. 167), entitled "An act authorizing counties, cities,
boroughs, incorporated towns and townships to create historic districts within
their geographic boundaries; providing for the appointment of Boards of
Historical Architectural Review; empowering governing bodies of political
subdivisions to protect the distinctive historical character of these districts
and to regulate the erection, reconstruction, alteration, restoration,
demolition or razing of buildings within the historic districts."
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that:
      (1)   Does not exceed two cubic feet in volume; and
      (2)   Has an exterior antenna no longer than 11 inches.
   MODIFICATION or MODIFY. The improvement, upgrade or replacement of a small
wireless facility or an existing utility pole that does not substantially
change, as defined in 47 CFR 1.6100(b)(7) (relating to wireless facility
modifications), the physical dimension of the small wireless facility or
utility pole.
   MUNICIPAL POLE. A utility pole owned, managed, or operated by or on behalf
of the borough.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, company, association, trust,
corporation, or other legal entity. The singular shall include the plural, the
plural shall include the singular; and the masculine shall include the feminine
and the neuter, whatever appropriate.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway, street,
sidewalk, alley, utility easement or similar property. The term does not
include a federal interstate highway.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. The equipment and network components, including
antennas, transmitters, and receivers, used by a wireless provider that meet
the following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna associated with the deployment is no more than three
cubic feet in volume.
      (2)   The volume of all other equipment associated with the wireless
facility, whether ground-mounted or pole-mounted, is cumulatively no more than
28 cubic feet. Any equipment used solely for the concealment of the small
wireless facility shall not be included in the calculation of equipment volume
under this paragraph.
   TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE. Means that, by virtue of engineering or spectrum
usage, the proposed placement for a small wireless facility or its design or
site location can be implemented without a material reduction in the
functionality of the small wireless facility.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is or may be used, in whole
or in part, by or for telecommunications, electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, signage or a similar function or for collocation. The term
includes the vertical support structure for traffic lights but does not include
wireless support structures or horizontal structures to which signal lights or
other traffic control devices are attached.
   WIRELESS FACILITY is defined as follows:
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless service between
user equipment and a communications network, including any of the following:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless services.
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber optic cables,
regular and backup power supplies, or comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
      (2)   The term includes a small wireless facility.
      (3)   The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under or within which the
equipment is collocated.
          (b)   The coaxial or fiber optic cables that are not immediately
adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. A person authorized by the Pennsylvania
Public Utility Commission to provide telecommunications service in this
Commonwealth that builds or installs wireless communication transmission
equipment, wireless facilities or wireless support structures but is not a
wireless services provider.
   WIRELESS PERMIT or PERMIT. A permit issued by the borough pursuant to this
chapter and authorizing the placement or modification of a small wireless
facility of a design specified in the permit at a particular location within
the right-of-way, and the placement or modification of any existing wireless
support structure to which the small wireless facility is proposed to be
attached.
   WIRELESS PERMITTEE or PERMITTEE. The lawful holder of a wireless permit.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Services, whether at a fixed location or mobile, using a
licensed or unlicensed spectrum, provided to the public using wireless
facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person or entity which provides wireless
services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, including a utility
pole, municipal pole, or other existing or proposed freestanding structure that
could support the placement or installation of a wireless facility if approved
by the borough.
(Ord. 1479, passed 10-18-2021, § 1)
§ 116.03 SCOPE.
   (A)   Applicability. Unless otherwise exempted, every applicant who wishes
to place a small wireless facility in the right-of-way or modify an existing
small wireless facility in the right-of-way must obtain a wireless permit under
this chapter.
   (B)   Exempt facilities. The borough shall not require an application for
the following unless the work involves excavation, closure of a sidewalk, or
closure of a vehicular lane in which case a permit shall still be required:
      (1)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement
of micro wireless facilities that are strung on cables between existing utility
poles by or for a communications service provider authorized to occupy the
right-of-way, in compliance with the National Electrical Safety Code. However,
a micro wireless facility owner shall comply with all applicable codes, and
shall provide the borough with written notice at least 90 days prior to the
installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement of a micro
wireless facility. While an application is not required for a micro wireless
facility, they shall be subject to all other provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Routine maintenance or repair work.
      (3)   The replacement of small wireless facilities with small wireless
facilities that are substantially similar or the same size or smaller and still
qualify as a small wireless facility.
   The exemptions from applications provided for herein shall not relieve the
party performing such work from compliance with the permitting or application
requirements that may otherwise apply pursuant to the applicable codes of the
borough including, but not limited to, permits for excavation-related work.
(Ord. 1479, passed 10-18-2021, § 1)
§ 116.04 APPLICATIONS FOR SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Application process.
      (1)   Small wireless facilities shall be treated as a permitted use in
all areas of the borough, except underground districts as established and
designated by the borough from time-to-time, and shall be reviewed by the
borough for conformity with all applicable codes.
      (2)   Applications for small wireless facilities shall be submitted to
the borough, or, if applicable, the borough's designee. All applicants shall
submit both a paper copy and an electronic copy (in a searchable format) of any
application, as well as any amendments or supplements to the application or
responses to requests for information regarding an application. An application
is not complete until both the paper and electronic copies are received.
      (3)   A single applicant seeking to collocate is permitted to submit a
consolidated application for collocation of up to 20 small wireless facilities.
An applicant, however, may not submit more than one consolidated or 20 single
applications for collocated small wireless facilities in a 30-day period. If
the borough receives more than one consolidated application or 20 single
applications within a 45-day period, then the applicable timeframe for
processing applications specified in this chapter shall be extended by 15 days.
      (4)   Applications are public records that may be subject to disclosure
under the Pennsylvania Right-to-Know Law. The applicant must designate any
portions of the application materials that it reasonably believes contain
proprietary or confidential information by clearly and conspicuously marking
each portion of such materials accordingly. If the borough determines that the
information is subject to disclosure, such determination shall be conclusive.
If the borough determines that a right-to-know request asks for proprietary or
confidential information regarding a small wireless facility, then the borough
shall notify the relevant applicant within five days of receiving said request
pursuant to the Right-to-Know Law. The applicant and borough shall use all
reasonable efforts to coordinate a response pursuant to the Right-to-Know Law.
If the applicant determines that the requested information is considered
confidential or proprietary information as defined by the Right-to-Know Law, or
that any other exemption applies, then the applicant shall notify the borough
within five days of it receiving notification from the borough, however all
requests made under the Right-to-Know Law shall be decided by the borough. If
the applicant requests that the borough deny a request pursuant to the Right-
to-Know Law, then the applicant shall be required to enter into an agreement
with the borough indemnifying the borough for any and all legal expenses
incurred by the borough as a result of any challenge to the denial.
      (5)   Applicant must pay an application fee for each application or
consolidated application pursuant to a fee schedule adopted by the borough as
amended from time-to-time by resolution or otherwise. Where no such fee
schedule has been adopted, the applicant shall pay:
         (a)   Five hundred dollars for an application seeking approval for no
more than five collocated small wireless facilities and $100 for each
collocated small wireless facility beyond five.
         (b)   One thousand dollars for an application seeking approval of a
small wireless facility that requires the installation of a new or replacement
utility pole.
   Application fees are non-refundable and will not be returned to the
applicant even where applicant chooses not to proceed with construction or
installation of the small wireless facility.
      (6)   In addition to the application process set forth herein, the
applicant shall be responsible, as may be required by law, to obtain any other
governmental or regulatory permits and approvals required for the installation
or modification of a small wireless facility. The borough shall not be liable
as a result of accepting an application or issuing a permit in the event that
an applicant is prevented from placing and/or maintaining its small wireless
facility pursuant to this chapter.
      (7)   Applications for small wireless facilities shall include the
following:
         (a)   Full and complete payment of all applicable permit application
fees.
         (b)   A completed application form, to the extent the borough may
adopt the same from time-to-time, signed by an authorized representative of the
applicant and made subject to all standard permit conditions specified in this
chapter.
         (c)   In the absence of an application form, the applicant shall
submit an application packet consisting of a cover letter and all required
supporting documentation. The applicant shall detail the location of the
proposed site(s), all equipment and accessory equipment being proposed as part
of the small wireless facility, and shall certify that the applicant has
included all information required by the borough and by all applicable codes.
The application packet shall be signed by an authorized representative of the
applicant. The cover letter shall also include the applicant's name (including
any corporate or trade name), and the name, address, email address, and
telephone number of a local representative responsible for the application. If
the applicant is a wireless infrastructure provider, the name and contact
information for all wireless service providers that will use the proposed small
wireless facility must be provided. The applicant shall also self-certify
subject to 18 Pa.C.S. § 4904 that the filing and approval of the application is
required by the wireless provider to provide additional capacity or coverage
for wireless services.
         (d)   The applicant's construction plans and drawings shall include,
but not be limited to, a description of the required work and renderings of the
proposed small wireless facility and the proposed site. The plans and drawings
shall show all equipment being proposed as part of the small wireless facility,
detailed site plans showing the location of the small wireless facility, and
details regarding proposed construction and/or excavations, if any. Photo
simulations depicting the small wireless facility from at least three locations
near the proposed site shall also be included.
            1.   If the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation on
an existing or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure that
currently supports existing attachments, the depiction shall show the location
and dimensions of all such attachments.
            2.   If the proposed small wireless facility will be installed on a
new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure, the depiction
shall include the color, dimensions, material, and type of utility pole or
wireless support structure proposed.
            3.   The applicant's construction plans and drawings shall also
comply with and include any information required by the borough's Wireless
Facilities Design Manual.
         (e)   The manufacturer and model, proposed location, and physical
dimensions, including weight and volume, of each piece of equipment proposed as
part of the small wireless facility.
         (f)   A written certification by a structural engineer licensed in the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania confirming that the proposed small wireless
facility and wireless support structure are structurally sound and shall not
endanger public health and safety.
          (g)   A seal and signature of a professional engineer, licensed in
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and certifying compliance with all local,
state, and federal laws and regulations applicable to the proposed small
wireless facility, including applicable standards for radiofrequency emissions.
         (h)   Certification of the application's compliance with all
requirements of this chapter.
         (i)   Proof that the applicant has mailed to the owners of all
property within 150 feet of the proposed small wireless facility a notice that
the applicant is submitting an application to the borough for placement or
modification of a small wireless facility in the right-of-way, which notice
must include:
            1.   the proposed location of the small wireless facility, and
            2.   a description and scale image of the proposed small wireless
facility consistent with that contained in the application.
         (j)   A detailed request for and, explanation of the justification in
support of, any waiver requested from the requirements of this chapter. Any
waiver hereunder shall be granted or denied by the Borough Council.
         (k)   Where an application is made to install a small wireless
facility with a new utility pole, the application must include sufficient
information to demonstrate that an applicant cannot meet the service
reliability and functional objectives of the application by collocating on an
existing utility pole or municipal pole instead of installing a new utility
pole. To demonstrate this requirement, the applicant may submit with its
application a certification that it has made this determination in good faith
and shall also provide a supporting documented summary of the basis for the
determination. The applicant's determination in this regard shall be based on
whether the wireless provider can meet the service objectives of the
application by collocating on an existing utility pole or municipal pole on
which:
            1.   the applicant has the right to collocation;
            2.   the collocation is technically feasible and would not impose
substantial additional cost; and
            3.   the collocation would not obstruct or hinder travel or have a
negative impact on public safety.
   An application shall not be administratively complete unless all of the
required elements set forth above are included in the application.
       (8)   Timing of application review.
         (a)   Within ten business days of receiving an application, the
borough will determine and notify the applicant in writing whether the
application is incomplete. If the borough determines that an application is
incomplete, the written notice will specifically identify the information not
included with the application. The time for the borough to process the
application shall restart on the date the applicant provides all of the
information required to complete the application. The processing deadline may
be tolled or extended by a written agreement of the applicant and the borough.
Receipt of an application may occur on any business day of the borough.
         (b)   The borough shall process applications on a nondiscriminatory
basis and applications shall be deemed approved if the borough fails to approve
or deny the application within 60 days of receipt of a complete application to
collocate and within 90 days of receipt of a complete application to replace an
existing utility pole or install a new utility pole with small wireless
facilities attached. A permit associated with an application deemed approved
under this subsection shall be deemed approved if the borough fails to approve
or deny the permit within seven business days after the date of filing the
permit application with the borough unless there is a public safety reason for
the delay. An applicant shall provide written notice to the borough within 72
hours of when it discovers that a deemed approval has occurred. Written notice
may be received by USPS or courier.
         (c)   Where the borough denies an application because of defects found
therein, the applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the borough and
resubmit the application within 30 days of receiving the written basis for the
denial. No permit application fee is required for an application resubmitted
pursuant to this section. Following resubmission, the borough shall approve or
deny the application within 30 days of the resubmission date. An applicant
shall not be entitled to more than one submission.
      (9)   Once approved, the applicant shall be required to coordinate
installation of the small wireless facility to result in the least interference
with the public use of the right-of-way as possible.
   (B)   Placement. Small wireless facilities and accessory equipment shall be
located so as not to cause any physical or visual obstruction to pedestrian or
vehicular traffic, create safety hazards to pedestrians and/or motorists, or to
otherwise inconvenience public use of the right-of-way as determined by the
borough in its sole discretion.
   (C)   Deadlines for completion. Any permittee granted a permit pursuant to
this chapter for purposes of collocation, modification, or replacement of a
small wireless facility, including installation of a new wireless support
structure with a small wireless facility attached shall complete the
construction work that is the subject of said permit within one year of the
date the permit is issued. The borough and any applicant or permittee may agree
in writing to extend the period of construction for a period of greater than
one year.
   (D)   Compensation for right-of-way use. The holder of any permit issued for
a small wireless facility pursuant to this chapter shall pay the borough an
annual fee for use and occupancy of the right-of-way. The fee shall be
established pursuant to a fee schedule adopted by the borough as amended from
time-to-time by resolution or otherwise. Where no such fee schedule has been
adopted, the fee shall be $270 per small wireless facility or $270 per new
utility pole with a small wireless facility.
   The permittee and/or owner of each small wireless facility shall be invoiced
for the first annual fee on the date the permit is issued, prorated based on
the proportion of the calendar year then remaining. Subsequent invoicing shall
be prospective and occur each January. Said invoices shall be paid within 30
days of receipt thereof. Any unpaid invoice shall be subject to interest
accruing on the unpaid amount at 18% per annum beginning on the thirty-first
day from the date of invoice until paid.
   (E)   Design guidelines and aesthetic requirements. Small wireless
facilities shall be designed, installed, operated, and maintained in compliance
with all design guidelines, aesthetic requirements, or concealment measures
adopted or amended by the borough from time-to-time. Such requirements, if any,
are contained in the Wireless Facilities Design Manual, a copy of which shall
be kept on file in the borough office. The applicant's design shall comply with
all other applicable codes of the borough including the borough's Zoning
Ordinance. The Wireless Facilities Design Manual may be amended by resolution
from time-to-time by a resolution of the Borough Council.
(Ord. 1479, passed 10-18-2021, § 1)
§ 116.05 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compliance.
      (1)   The small wireless facility applicant shall submit proof of
compliance with all applicable codes, including but not limited to Act 50 and
those established by the FCC, as part of any complete small wireless facility
application.
      (2)   If such applicable codes are modified, the permittee of the small
wireless facility shall bring such small wireless facility into compliance with
the modified applicable codes within three months of the effective date of such
applicable codes unless a different compliance term is required by the
controlling state or federal agency. Failure to bring such small wireless
facilities into compliance shall constitute grounds for revocation of a permit
and the removal of the small wireless facility at the permittee's expense.
      (3)   All small wireless facilities shall meet or exceed all applicable
standards set forth by the state or federal government, as well as any
applicable industry standard. In case of conflict, the most stringent
requirements shall prevail. All necessary certifications shall be obtained by
the applicant or permittee, as applicable, and shall be provided to the
borough.
      (4)   Small wireless facilities shall be installed and modified in a
manner that:
         (a)   Ensures that placement of small wireless facilities on existing
structures is within the tolerance of those structures.
         (b)   Ensures that the applicant's or permittee's use does not
inconvenience the public, interfere with the primary uses of the right-of-way,
or hinder the ability of the borough or other government entities to improve,
modify, relocate, abandon, or vacate the right-of-way or any portion thereof,
or to cause the improvement, modification, relocation, vacation, or abandonment
of facilities in the right-of-way.
         (c)   Ensures that the applicant's or permittee's use does not
obstruct, endanger, or hinder travel or public safety within a right-of-way,
damage or interfere with other utility facilities located within a right-of-way
or obstruct or interfere with the legal use of the right-of-way by the borough
or other utility.
         (d)   Ensures that the borough bears no risk or liability because of
the installation or modification of a small wireless facility.
      (5)   Small wireless facilities in the public right-of-way requiring the
installation of a new wireless support structure shall not be located
immediately in front of any building entrance or exit.
      (6)   All small wireless facilities shall comply with all applicable
requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act and all applicable codes,
including those applicable to streets and sidewalks.
      (7)   No small wireless facility shall be installed, modified, placed,
operated, repaired, or maintained in a manner that causes, or is likely to
cause, interference with the borough's infrastructure, equipment, or services.
Said infrastructure, equipment, and services include, but are not limited to,
the borough's traffic signal system, public safety radio system, electric
distribution system, or borough communications system. If a small wireless
facility causes such interference, then the permittee, at its own expense,
shall take all steps necessary to immediately correct and eliminate the
interference. The borough may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the interference is not remedied by the
permittee.
   (B)   Attachment to municipal structures. Subject to the requirements and
processes of this chapter, Act 50, and all applicable codes, applicants are
permitted to collocate small wireless facilities on municipal poles. The
borough will allow collocation on municipal poles using the process required
under Act 50 and applicable codes unless:
      (1)   The small wireless facility would cause structural or safety
deficiencies to the municipal pole, in which case the borough and applicant
shall work together for any make-ready work or modifications or replacements
that are needed to accommodate the small wireless facility as otherwise
required in this chapter; or
      (2)   The borough has reserved the space on the municipal pole for other
public purposes.
      (3)   The borough shall allow the collocation of small wireless
facilities to structures owned by the borough in the following preferred order,
from most to least preferable:
         (a)   Traffic signage poles without traffic signals;
         (b)   Traffic signage poles with traffic signals;
         (c)   Non-decorative light poles;
         (d)   Telecommunications poles;
         (e)   Electric distribution poles;
         (f)   Decorative light poles.
   If the small wireless facility applicant is proposing the collocation of a
small wireless facility on a lower preference structure, it shall be a
condition to the approval of the application that the small wireless facility
applicant provide evidence that collocation on a higher preference structure or
wireless support structure owned by a third-party is not technically feasible.
The cost of collocating on a higher preference structure or wireless support
structure shall not be included in evaluating technical feasibility.
Collocation of a small wireless facility on a municipal pole shall not create
or vest in any applicant, wireless provider, or wireless service provider any
ownership or property rights in such municipal poles except as expressly
provided for in this chapter or pursuant to applicable law.
   This chapter shall not be construed to require the borough to construct,
retain, extend, place, or maintain any municipal pole or other municipal
facilities not needed for the borough's own utility service requirements.
   An applicant has no right to object to the borough granting permission to
any party regarding use of a municipal pole.
   Where applicable, an applicant's collocation of a small wireless facility on
a municipal pole shall be placed and maintained at all times in accordance with
the requirements, specifications, rules and regulations of the latest edition
of the National Electrical Safety Code and subsequent revisions thereof, any
governing authority having jurisdiction, this chapter, and any reasonable
design standards and rules governing pole attachments in the borough as the
borough may adopt from time-to-time, and shall be otherwise consistent with
generally accepted industry standards.
   If requested by the borough, each small wireless facility collocated on a
municipal pole shall be identified at all times by an identifying marker/band/
tag stating the name of the person holding the permit. The marker/band/tag
shall, at a minimum, (a) be reasonably durable under the typical weather
conditions in the area and (b) have coloring unique to the person holding the
permit. If the borough elects to require marking/banding/tagging by the
wireless permittee, the borough shall provide the permittee information
concerning the type and color of marker/band/tag to be used in satisfying the
requirements of this section. Such markers/bands/tags shall also be capable of
being read unaided from the ground by an adult of typical height and vision.
   Make-ready work shall be performed as specified in §
116.08.
   (C)   Insurance. Each permittee and any person who owns or operates a small
wireless facility shall annually provide the borough with a certificate of
insurance, in a form satisfactory to the Borough Solicitor, evidencing general
liability coverage in the minimum amount of $1,000,000 per occurrence and
property damage coverage in the minimum amount of $1,000,000 per occurrence
covering the small wireless facility and naming the borough as an additional
insured on each insurance policy. All permits issued for location of a small
wireless facility pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to be revoked in the
event said insurance policy is cancelled, expires, or ceases to exist.
   (D)   Outdated equipment. As part of the construction, modification, or
replacement of a small wireless facility, the permittee shall remove any
obsolete or abandoned equipment from the wireless support structure or utility
pole.
   (E)   Weather. All small wireless facilities shall be designed to withstand
the effects of wind, ice, water, and heat to the standard designed by the
American National Standards Institute as prepared by the engineering
departments of the Electronics Industry Association, and Telecommunications
Industry Association (ANSI/TIA-222, as amended), or to the industry standard
applicable to the structure.
   (F)   Inspection reports. All permittees shall submit inspection reports to
the borough upon request to ensure structural integrity and compliance with all
applicable codes. Inspection reports shall be delivered to the borough by the
permittee within 30 days of request by the borough. These inspection reports
may include, but are not limited to, descriptions of routine maintenance or
repair work, and descriptions of the physical degradation of a small wireless
facility.
   (G)   Maintenance. The following maintenance requirements shall apply:
      (1)   All small wireless facilities shall be fully automated and
unattended on a daily basis and shall be visited only for maintenance, repair,
or replacement.
      (2)   Such maintenance shall be performed to ensure the upkeep of the
small wireless facility, to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of
the borough's residents, and to remain compliant with all applicable codes.
      (3)   All maintenance activities shall utilize nothing less than the best
available technology in accordance with the applicable standard in the industry
for preventing failures and accidents. Maintenance logs shall be timely
provided to the borough upon request.
   (H)   Historic districts. No small wireless facility may be located within
75 feet of any property, or on a building or structure that is listed on either
the National or Pennsylvania Registers of Historic Places, or eligible to be so
listed under the Pennsylvania Historic District Act, located within a historic
district, or is included in the official historic structures list maintained by
the borough.
(Ord. 1479, passed 10-18-2021, § 1)
§ 116.06 DISCONTINUANCE.
   (A)   Process. If use of a small wireless facility and/or its dedicated
accessory equipment is to be discontinued, the permittee shall provide written
notice to the borough of its intent to discontinue use and the date when the
use shall be discontinued. A small wireless facility and/or dedicated accessory
equipment not operated for a period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned.
Discontinued or abandoned small wireless facilities, or portions of small
wireless facilities, shall be removed as follows:
      (1)   All abandoned or unused small wireless facilities and accessory
equipment shall be removed within 90 days of the cessation of operations at the
site or receipt of notice that the small wireless facility has been deemed
abandoned by the borough unless a time extension is approved by the borough.
      (2)   If the small wireless facility or accessory equipment is not
removed within 90 days of the cessation of operations at a site, or within any
longer period approved by the borough, the small wireless facility and/or
associated facilities and equipment may be removed by the borough and the cost
of removal assessed against the owner of the small wireless facility regardless
of the owner's or operator's intent to operate the small wireless facility in
the future.
      (3)   The borough reserves the right to pursue all available remedies
under the law to ensure removal of the small wireless facility and restoration
of the site at the expense of the permittee. Any delay by the borough in taking
action shall not invalidate the borough's right to take action.
   With respect to a small wireless facility collocated on a municipal pole,
the borough may abandon a municipal pole upon 30 days' notice to the permittee.
The permittee must remove or transfer all facilities from abandoned municipal
poles within the same 30 days unless granted additional time by the borough.
The borough will not unreasonably withhold consent of such request for
additional time. The permittee shall post a decommissioning bond in the amount
of 100% of the total cost of decommissioning with the borough. If the borough
has no attachment(s) on said municipal poles and the permittee has not removed
or transferred its facilities therefrom, the borough may, in its sole
discretion: (1) revoke the permit for that municipal pole; or (2) remove the
small wireless facilities at the permit holder's expense, with no liability
falling on the borough except in the case of gross negligence or willful
misconduct.
   (B)   Required discontinuance. The borough may require the discontinuance of
a small wireless facility if:
      (1)   The borough determines that the space is needed for public purpose;
or
      (2)   The borough desires to decommission the utility pole; or
      (3)   The borough designates the area of the subject utility pole or
wireless support structure as an underground district.
   Within 90 days of receipt of a notice of discontinuance from the borough,
the permittee shall remove the small wireless facility and any accessory
equipment, including the utility pole and any wireless support structures if
the permittee's small wireless facilities and accessory equipment are the only
wireless facilities on the utility pole. The borough shall not be liable to the
permittee or applicant as a result of requiring the discontinuance of a small
wireless facility in the event that an applicant or permittee is prevented from
placing and/or maintaining its small wireless facility pursuant to this
section.
(Ord. 1479, passed 10-18-2021, § 1)
§ 116.07 INDEMNIFICATION.
   Each person that owns or operates a small wireless facility shall, at its
sole cost and expense, indemnify, defend and hold harmless the borough, its
elected and appointed officials, employees and agents, at all times against any
and all claims for personal injury, including death, and property damage
arising in whole or in part from, caused by or connected with any act or
omission of the person, its officers, agents, employees or contractors arising
out of, but not limited to, the construction, installation, operation,
maintenance or removal of the small wireless facility. Each person that owns or
operates a small wireless facility, or holds a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter, shall defend any actions or proceedings against the borough in which
it is claimed that personal injury, including death, or property damage was
caused by the permitting, construction, installation, operation, maintenance,
and/or removal of a small wireless facility. The obligation to indemnify, hold
harmless and defend shall include, but not be limited to, the obligation to pay
judgments, verdicts, injuries, liabilities, damages, reasonable attorneys'
fees, reasonable expert fees, court costs and all other costs of
indemnification.
   Further, a permittee shall repair all damage to the right-of-way or any
other land so disturbed, directly caused by the activities of the permittee or
the permittee's contractors and return the right-of-way in as good of condition
as it existed prior to any work being done in the right-of-way by the
permittee. If the permittee fails to make the repairs required by the borough
within 30 days after written notice, the borough may perform those repairs and
charge the permittee the reasonable, documented cost of the repairs plus a
penalty of $500. In the event an applicant or permittee has failed to pay any
costs invoiced by the borough for repair work or penalties charged pursuant to
this section, the borough shall not process any further applications unless or
until the applicant or permittee has paid the amount assessed for the repair
costs and the assessed penalty. Any unpaid invoice shall be subject to interest
accruing on the unpaid amount at 18% per annum beginning on the thirty-first
day from the date of invoice until paid.
(Ord. 1479, passed 10-18-2021, § 1)
§ 116.08 STANDARD PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   All wireless permits under this chapter are issued subject to the following
minimum conditions:
   (A)   The permittee shall at all times maintain compliance with this chapter
and all applicable codes.
   (B)   The permittee shall at all times maintain with the borough accurate
contact information for the permittee and all wireless service providers making
use of the small wireless facility, which shall include, at minimum, a name,
phone number, mailing address, and email address for at least one natural
person.
   (C)   The borough shall have the right to support, repair, disable, or
remove any components of a small wireless facility if the small wireless
facility threatens imminent harm to persons or property.
   (D)   The permittee shall undertake all reasonable efforts to avoid undue
adverse impacts to adjacent persons, properties and/or uses that may arise from
the construction, operation, maintenance, modification, or removal of the small
wireless facility.
   (E)   The permittee shall maintain all small wireless facilities and any
associated structures in a good condition and in a neat and clean manner in
accordance with all approved application documents and conditions of approval.
   (F)   The permittee shall retain full and complete copies of all permits,
applications, and other regulatory approvals issued in connection with the
facility, which includes without limitation all conditions of approval,
approved plans, resolutions, and other documentation associated with the permit
or regulatory approval. In the event the borough cannot locate any such full
and complete permits, applications, or other regulatory approvals in its own
official records, and the permittee fails to retain full and complete records
in the permittee's files, any ambiguities or uncertainties that would be
resolved through an examination of the missing documents will be presumed
resolved against the permittee.
   (G)   Every small wireless facility shall at all times comply with
applicable FCC regulations governing radio frequency emissions, and failure to
comply with such regulations shall be treated as a material violation of the
terms of the permit.
   (H)   Make-ready work. For any municipal pole collocation application, the
borough shall provide a good faith estimate for any make-ready work, including
any make ready engineering costs, necessary to enable a municipal pole to
support the requested collocation by a wireless provider, including pole
replacement, if necessary, within 60 days after receipt of a complete
application. The borough shall also provide the applicant with a schedule for
completing any make-ready work. Make-ready work, including pole replacement,
shall be completed within 60 days of written acceptance of the good faith
estimate by the applicant. Any unpaid invoice sent by the borough to an
applicant for fees for make-ready work shall be subject to interest accruing on
the unpaid amount at 18% per annum beginning on the thirty-first day from the
date of invoice until paid.
   (I)   Future use. The borough may reserve space on an existing municipal
pole for future public uses in a documented and approved plan as adopted at the
time an application is filed. A reservation of space shall not preclude
collocation, the replacement of an existing utility pole or the installation of
a new utility pole. If the replacement of a municipal pole is necessary to
accommodate collocation and the reserved future use, the wireless provider
shall pay for the replacement municipal pole and the municipal pole shall
accommodate the future use.
   (J)   An applicant or the applicant's designee shall ensure that a
contractor or subcontractor performing construction, reconstruction,
demolition, repair, or maintenance work on a small wireless facility deployed
under this chapter meets and attests to all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Maintain all valid licenses, registrations or certificates required
by the federal government, the commonwealth or the applicable local government
entity that is necessary to do business or perform applicable work.
      (2)   Maintain compliance with the act of June 2, 1915 (P.L. 736, No.
338), known as the Workers' Compensation Act, the act of December 5, 1936 (2nd
Sp. Sess., 1937 P.L. 2897, No. 1), known as the Unemployment Compensation Law,
and bonding and liability insurance requirements as specified in the contract
for the project.
      (3)   Has not defaulted on a project or been suspended on a project by
the federal government, the commonwealth, or a local government entity within
the previous three years.
      (4)   Has not been convicted of a misdemeanor or felony relating to the
performance or operation of the business of the contractor or subcontractor
within the previous ten years.
      (5)   Has completed the United States Occupational Safety and Health
Administration's ten-hour safety training course or similar training sufficient
to prepare workers for any hazards that may be encountered during their work on
the small wireless facility.
      (6)   Prior to the commencement of work, the contractor and/or
subcontractor shall provide the borough with a certificate of insurance, in a
form satisfactory to the Borough Solicitor, evidencing general liability
coverage in the minimum amount of $1,000,000 per occurrence and property damage
coverage in the minimum amount of $1,000,000 per occurrence covering the small
wireless facility and naming the borough as an additional insured on each
insurance policy. All permits issued for location of a small wireless facility
pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to be revoked in the event said
insurance policy is cancelled, expires, or ceases to exist.
      (7)   The contractor and/or subcontractor shall, at its sole cost and
expense, indemnify, defend and hold harmless the borough, its elected and
appointed officials, employees and agents, at all times against any and all
claims for personal injury, including death, and property damage arising in
whole or in part from, caused by or connected with any act or omission of the
contractor and/or subcontractor, its officers, agents, employees or contractors
arising out of, but not limited to, the construction, installation, operation,
maintenance or removal of the small wireless facility. The obligation to
indemnify, hold harmless and defend shall include, but not be limited to, the
obligation to pay judgments, verdicts, injuries, liabilities, damages,
reasonable attorneys' fees, reasonable expert fees, court costs and all other
costs of indemnification.
   (K)   A permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be assigned or
otherwise transferred without the prior written approval of the borough.
   (L)   Approval of an application shall authorize the applicant to, subject
to the permit requirements and the applicant's right to terminate at any time,
operate and maintain small wireless facilities and any accessory equipment on a
utility pole covered by the permit for a period of not less than five years,
which shall be renewed for two additional five-year periods if the applicant is
in compliance with the criteria set forth in Act 50 or applicable codes
consistent with Act 50 and the applicant has obtained all necessary consent
from the utility pole owner.
(Ord. 1479, passed 10-18-2021, § 1)
§ 116.09 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The borough may revoke a wireless permit for failure to comply with the
conditions of the permit or applicable codes after providing adequate notice to
the permittee and allowing the permittee an opportunity to cure any
noncompliance. Within 60 days of suspension or revocation of a permit due to
noncompliance with Act 50 or other applicable codes, the applicant shall remove
the small wireless facility and any accessory equipment, including the utility
pole and any wireless support structures if the applicant's small wireless
facilities and accessory equipment are the only wireless facilities on the
utility pole. Within 90 days of the end of a permit term or an extension of the
permit term, the applicant shall remove the small wireless facility and any
accessory equipment, including the utility pole and any wireless support
structures if the applicant's small wireless facilities and accessory equipment
are the only wireless facilities on the utility pole.
(Ord. 1479, passed 10-18-2021, § 1)
§ 116.10 RESTORATION.
   If a permittee removes or relocates a small wireless facility from the
right-of-way under this chapter, the permittee must restore the right-of-way to
its prior condition in accordance with borough specifications. If the permittee
fails to make the restorations required by this chapter, the borough at its
option may do such work. In that event, the permittee shall pay to the borough,
within 30 days of billing thereof, all costs and expenses incurred by the
borough in restoring the right-of-way. Any unpaid invoice shall be subject to
interest accruing on the unpaid amount at 18% per annum beginning on the
thirty-first day from the date of invoice until paid.
(Ord. 1479, passed 10-18-2021, § 1)
§ 116.11 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by the Zoning and Code Enforcement
Officer of the borough. If the Zoning and Code Enforcement Officer determines
that any person has violated this chapter, then a notice of violation shall be
issued by the Zoning and Code Enforcement Officer describing the violation and
a time period for compliance. If the person to whom the notice of violation is
issued fails to comply as directed, the Zoning and Code Enforcement Officer
shall order the discontinuance of noncompliance and may pursue any other
enforcement remedies available at law or equity.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the borough from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 1479, passed 10-18-2021, § 1)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who has violated the provisions of this chapter, upon being found
liable therefor in a civil enforcement proceeding commenced by the Borough,
shall pay a judgment of not more than $600 plus all court costs, including
reasonable attorney fees incurred by the borough as a result thereof. No
judgment shall commence or be imposed, levied or payable until the date of the
determination of a violation by the Magisterial District Judge. If the
defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the borough may enforce
the judgment pursuant to the applicable rules of civil procedure. Each day that
a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 1479, passed 10-18-2021, § 1)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
133.   WEAPONS
      
134.   SKATEBOARDING
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Disorderly conduct is hereby prohibited within the borough.
   (B)   A person is guilty of disorderly conduct if, with intent to cause
public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, or recklessly creating a risk
thereof, he or she:
      (1)   Engages in fighting or threatening, or in violent or tumultuous
behavior;
      (2)   Makes unreasonable noise;
      (3)   Uses obscene language, or makes any obscene gesture; or
      (4)   Creates a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act
which serves no legitimate purpose of the actor.
   (C)   As used in this section, the word PUBLIC means affecting or likely to
affect persons in a place to which the public or a substantial group has
access; among the places included are streets, alleys and sidewalks, transport
facilities, schools, prisons, apartment houses, places of business or
amusement, any neighborhood, or any premises which are open to the public.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 1, § 1) (Ord. 993, passed 1-21-1974, § 1) Penalty, see
§
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
130.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $300 and costs of prosecution and, in default of payment of such fine and
costs, to imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 1, § 2) (Ord. 993, passed 1-21-1974, § 2)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Unlawful to tamper with public property or property on street, alley
or public ground
   
131.02   Unlawful to tamper with stakes, posts and monuments
   
131.03   Unlawful to tamper with warning lamps, signs or barricades
   
131.04   Unlawful to take material from street, alley or public ground
   
131.05   Exceptions to provisions relating to tampering with, injuring or
removing certain property
   
131.06   Parking lot restrictions
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 UNLAWFUL TO TAMPER WITH PUBLIC PROPERTY OR PROPERTY ON STREET, ALLEY
OR PUBLIC GROUND.
   No person or persons shall destroy or injure in any way whatsoever, or
tamper with or deface any public property of the borough, within or without the
borough, or any grass, walk, lamp, ornamental work, building, street light,
fire hydrant or water stop box on or in any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks
or public grounds in the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 1, § 6) (Ord. 995, passed 1-21-1974, § 1) Penalty, see
§
131.99
§ 131.02 UNLAWFUL TO TAMPER WITH STAKES, POSTS AND MONUMENTS.
   No person or persons shall in any manner interfere with or meddle with or
pull, drive, change, alter or destroy any stake, post, monument or other
evidence of any elevation, grade, line, location, corner or angle in the
borough, made, placed or set, or hereafter made, placed or set, or caused to be
done by the authorities of the borough in any survey of or in any street, alley
or public ground in the borough, to evidence the location, elevation, line,
grade, corner or angle of any public street, alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter,
drain or other public work, matter or thing.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 1, § 7) (Ord. 995, passed 1-21-1974, § 2) Penalty, see
§
131.99
§ 131.03 UNLAWFUL TO TAMPER WITH WARNING LAMPS, SIGNS OR BARRICADES.
   No person or persons shall willfully or maliciously destroy or remove or
deface or obliterate or cover up any lamp, warning sign or barricade erected by
the authorities of the borough or by any person, firm or corporation doing work
by permission of the authorities of the borough on any of the streets, alleys,
sidewalks or bridges in the borough or on any public grounds of the borough,
within or without the borough, as a warning of danger.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 1, § 8) (Ord. 995, passed 1-21-1974, § 3) Penalty, see
§
131.99
§ 131.04 UNLAWFUL TO TAKE MATERIAL FROM STREET, ALLEY OR PUBLIC GROUND.
   No person or persons shall take any earth, stone or other material from any
of the streets, alleys or public grounds in the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 1, § 9) (Ord. 995, passed 1-21-1974, § 4) Penalty, see
§
131.99
§ 131.05 EXCEPTIONS TO PROVISIONS RELATING TO TAMPERING WITH, INJURING OR
REMOVING CERTAIN PROPERTY.
   This chapter shall not apply to normal activities in connection with the
construction, maintenance and repair of streets, alleys, sidewalks and public
grounds and the structures and fixtures located thereon, or to incidental
results of work done thereon or therein upon permit from or by authority of the
borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 1, § 10) (Ord. 995, passed 1-21-1974, § 5)
§ 131.06 PARKING LOT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Within the confines of all parking lots operated by the borough as
established in
Ch. 76, Sch. IV, it shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, loaf, wander,
stroll, idle, stand or congregate either alone and/or in concert with others in
such a manner as to obstruct, hinder, impede or tend to obstruct, hinder or
impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians.
   (B)   When any person causes or commits any violation as set forth herein,
the police officer shall first order that person to stop causing or committing
such condition and to move on or disperse; and the failure of the said person
to obey said order shall cause the said person to be guilty of a violation of
this section.
   (C)   Each request by a police officer of an individual to stop causing or
committing such condition and to move on or disperse shall be a separate
offense under this section, provided further that the police officer shall warn
the said person that each separate request by the police officer is considered
a separate offense.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 1, § 15) (Ord. 1200, passed 10-17-1988, §§ 1—3)
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
131.01 through
131.05 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $300 and costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and
costs, to imprisonment for not more than 30 days; provided, the fact that a
violator has been penalized, after hearing, as herein provided, shall not
preclude the borough or other injured party from taking proper legal action to
recover damages resulting from such violation.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 1, § 11)
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
131.06 shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $300 or by imprisonment not
exceeding 90 days or both for each such violation committed hereunder.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 1, § 15)
(Ord. 995, passed 1-21-1974, § 6; Ord. 1200, passed 10-17-1988, § 4)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
Alcoholic Beverages
   
132.01   Definitions relating to alcoholic beverages
   
132.02   Unlawful to possess alcoholic beverages in public places
Public Indecency
   
132.15   Definitions
   
132.16   Committing public indecency/exception
   
132.17   Abatement of nuisances
Curfew
   
132.30   Curfew established for children under the age of 18
   
132.31   Prohibited acts
   
132.32   Enforcement
   
132.33   Proceedings for repeat violators
 
   
132.99   Penalty
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 132.01 DEFINITIONS RELATING TO ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Any alcoholic liquid as so defined by the Pennsylvania
Liquor Code, 47 P.S. §1-102, including, among others, alcohol, liquor, malted
or brewed beverages, potable distilled spirits, whiskey or wine.
   CONTAINER. Includes any bottle, can, cup or glass receptacle suitable for or
used to hold any liquid.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A place to which the public or a group of persons has access,
including, but not limited to, any highway, street, road, alley, bypass,
sidewalk, parking area, shopping area, playground, park or recreation facility
located within municipal limits, except that the definition of a PUBLIC PLACE
shall not include those premises duly licensed for the sale and consumption of
alcoholic beverages on the premises or within and on private property that is
not a PUBLIC PLACE as defined.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 1, § 12) (Ord. 1142, passed 9-20-1982, § 1)
§ 132.02 UNLAWFUL TO POSSESS ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall carry, transport or have in his or her possession in any
public place any open or resealed bottle, can, container or similar article
containing an alcoholic beverage.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 1, § 13) (Ord. 1142, passed 9-20-1982, § 2) Penalty,
see §
132.99
PUBLIC INDECENCY
§ 132.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genital, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering; the showing of the female
breast with less than opaque covering of any part of the nipple; the exposure
of any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance or simulates the
genitals, pubic hair, perineum, anal region or the exposure of any device worn
as a cover over the nipples and/or areola of the female breast, which device
simulates and gives the realistic appearance of nipples and/or areola.
   PUBLIC PLACE. All outdoor places owned by or open to the general public, and
all buildings and enclosed places owned by or open to the general public,
including such places of entertainment, restaurants, clubs, theaters, dance
halls, banquet halls, party rooms or halls limited to specific members,
restricted to adults or to patrons invited to attend, whether or not an
admission charge is levied.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 2, § 21) (Ord. 1268, passed 9-16-1996, § 1)
§ 132.16 COMMITTING PUBLIC INDECENCY/EXCEPTION.
   (A)   A person who knowingly or intentionally does any of the following in a
public place commits public indecency, a summary offense:
      (1)   Engages in sexual intercourse;
      (2)   Engages in deviate sexual intercourse as defined by the
Pennsylvania Crimes Code, 18 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.;
      (3)   Appears in a state of nudity; and
      (4)   Fondles the genitals of himself, herself or another person.
   (B)   A person who knowingly or intentionally promotes or maintains any act
of public indecency as a property owner, proprietor or manager of a business,
commits public indecency, a summary offense.
   (C)   The prohibition set forth in division (A)(3) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any child under seven years of age; or
      (2)   Any mother breastfeeding her child in any location where the mother
is otherwise authorized to be.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 2, § 22) (Ord. 1268, passed 9-16-1996, § 2) Penalty,
see §
132.99
§ 132.17 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   In addition to the specific penalties provided in this subchapter, it is
hereby declared that any building, portion of building or enclosed place
regularly used for prohibited display of public nudity is a public nuisance,
subjecting the owner, proprietor or other operator thereof to any and all
actions authorized by the Commonwealth for the abatement of public nuisances.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 2, § 23) (Ord. 1268, passed 9-16-1996, § 3) Penalty,
see §
132.99
CURFEW
§ 132.30 CURFEW ESTABLISHED FOR CHILDREN UNDER THE AGE OF 18.
   It shall be unlawful for any child under the age of 18 years (such persons
being referred to hereafter as “child”) to be or remain in or upon, as a
pedestrian or in a vehicle, any of the streets, alleys and sidewalks, except
those sidewalks in front of the child’s home, parks or public places in the
borough, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday,
and similarly prohibited from 12:00 midnight until 5:00 a.m. for the period
Friday and Saturday, unless such child is accompanied by a parent, guardian or
other person having the legal custody of such child. This subchapter shall not
apply to any child who is returning directly home from employment, or who is
engaged in activity with a volunteer fire company and possesses an affidavit or
certificate of authorization signed by the child’s Fire Chief or supervisor, or
a child who has written verification from parents for attendance at a
recognized school or church event and is directly homeward bound from the said
event within 30 minutes of the conclusion of said event, on an errand at the
direction of the minor’s parent or guardian without any detour or stop, in a
motor vehicle involved in interstate travel, or any child who is involved in an
emergency incident which requires the presence of the said child at said
location.
(1980 Code, Ch. 7, § 1) (Ord. 830, passed 9-21-1964, § 1; Ord. 981, passed 1-
21-1974, § 2; Ord. 1341, passed 1-16-2006, § 1) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.31 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Parents, guardians and other legal custodians of children under age of
18. It is hereby unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having the
legal care or custody of any child under the age designated above, to allow or
permit any such child, to go or be in or upon, as a pedestrian or in a vehicle,
any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks, parks or public places in the borough
between the hours specified in §
132.30, except as therein provided.
   (B)   Children under the age of 18. It is hereby unlawful for any child
under the age of 18 years to go or be in or upon, as a pedestrian or in a
vehicle, any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks, parks or places in the borough
between the hours specified in §
132.30, except as therein provided.
   (C)   Accomplice. It shall be unlawful for any person to aid or abet any
child to violate the terms and conditions of this subchapter and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
132.99 hereof.
(1980 Code, Ch. 7, § 2) (Ord. 830, passed 9-21-1964, § 2; Ord. 1341, passed 1-
16-2006, § 2) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.32 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any police officer that finds a child violating any provisions of §
132.30 shall obtain information from such child as to his or her name, address,
age and the name of his or her parent or parents, or person having legal
custody. The child shall thereupon either be transported to the residence if
within the jurisdiction of the borough police and released to an adult or
brought to the police station until he or she can be released to a parent or
guardian or other person having legal custody.
   (B)   The above information obtained on the child shall be forwarded to the
Chief of Police or his or her designee, who shall cause a written notice to be
mailed to the parent or parents, or person having legal custody of the child at
his or her last known address, advising of the violation of §
132.30.
(1980 Code, Ch. 7, § 3)
§ 132.33 PROCEEDINGS FOR REPEAT VIOLATORS.
   Any child who shall violate this subchapter more than three times shall be
reported to the proper juvenile authorities for further action.
(1980 Code, Ch. 7, § 4) (Ord. 830, passed 9-21-1964, § 2; Ord. 1341, passed 1-
16-2006, § 4)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Alcoholic beverages. Any person committing an offense against any
provision of §§
132.01 and
132.02 shall be guilty of a violation punishable by a fine not exceeding the
sum of $300 or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days, or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 1, § 14)
   (C)   Public indecency. Whoever violates any provision of §§
132.15 through
132.17, either by commission of a public indecency or by the promotion or
maintenance of public indecency as property owner, proprietor or manager of a
business, shall be guilty of a summary offense and, upon conviction, shall be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $1,000 or shall be imprisoned for not
more than 90 days or both. Each day such violation continues is a separate
offense.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 2, § 24)
   (D)   Curfew.
      (1)   Any parent or person having legal custody of such child who shall
violate any provision of §
132.31 after having received notice of a prior violation shall, upon conviction
thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $300, and costs of
prosecution, and in default of payment of such fine and costs, to be imprisoned
for not more than five days, and a like fine or imprisonment shall be imposed
upon any person aiding or abetting in the violation of the intent and purpose
of §§
132.30 through
132.33.
      (2)   Any child who shall violate any provision of §
132.30, after having had one prior incident, shall, upon conviction thereof, be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $100, and costs of prosecution.
(1980 Code, Ch. 7, § 3)
(Ord. 830, passed 9-21-1964, § 1; Ord. 981, passed 1-21-1974, § 2; Ord. 1142,
passed 9-20-1982, § 3; Ord. 1268, passed 9-16-1996, § 5; Ord. 1341, passed 1-
16-2006, § 3)
CHAPTER 133: WEAPONS
Section
   
133.01   Discharge of firearms prohibited
   
133.02   Use of air rifles or similar devices restricted
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except in necessary defense of person or property, it shall be
unlawful, within the borough, for any person to use, fire or discharge any gun
or other firearm.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed so as to prohibit:
      (1)   Any sworn law enforcement officer from discharging a firearm in the
performance of official duties including practice and/or firearms qualification
activities;
      (2)   Any person using, as intended, any device used for the firing of
stud cartridges, explosive rivets or similar industrial ammunition;
      (3)   Any person using a weapon or other instrument used to fire blank
ammunition for a lawful purpose.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 1, § 3) (Ord. 994, passed 1-21-1974, § 1) Penalty, see
§
133.99
§ 133.02 USE OF AIR RIFLES OR SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any air rifle, air pistol,
spring gun, spring pistol, BB gun, slingshot or similar device from or across
any highway or public land or any public place, except on a properly
constructed target range.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 1, § 4) (Ord. 994, passed 1-21-1974, § 2) Penalty, see
§
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $300 and costs
of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and costs, to
imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 1, § 5) (Ord. 994, passed 1-21-1974, § 3)
CHAPTER 134: SKATEBOARDING
Section
   
134.01   Skateboard defined
   
134.02   Offenses defined
   
134.03   Rules and regulations
   
134.04   Right-of-way to pedestrians
   
134.05   Right-of-way to motor vehicles
   
134.06   Ramps and devices
   
134.07   Private property
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 SKATEBOARD DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SKATEBOARD. A vehicle propelled by human power and gravity consisting of
material or portion of material formed in a thin firm sheet with wheels
attached to the underside.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 3, § 31) (Ord. 1308, passed 10-15-2001, § 1)
§ 134.02 OFFENSES DEFINED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to ride, propel or otherwise operate a
skateboard upon the following streets and adjoining sidewalks within the
borough:
      (1)   Broad Street between West Main Street on the south and Erie Street
on the north;
      (2)   Pine Street between College Avenue on the west and Grace Street on
the east; and
      (3)   College Avenue between South Center Street and South Broad Street.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to ride, propel or otherwise operate a
skateboard upon the roadway, excluding the sidewalks, of the following streets:
      (1)   South Center Street;
      (2)   East Main Street;
      (3)   West Main Street;
      (4)   North Broad Street; and
      (5)   Liberty Street.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 3, § 32) (Ord. 1308, passed 10-15-2001, § 2; Ord. 1321,
passed 7-21-2003, § 1) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any person engaged in skateboarding shall obey the instructions of the
police officer or other appropriately attired person authorized to direct,
control or regulate traffic.
   (B)   Any person engaged in skateboarding shall obey traffic and pedestrian
control signals as provided under the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, 75
Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq..
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 3, § 33) (Ord. 1308, passed 10-15-2001, § 4) Penalty,
see §
134.99
§ 134.04 RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PEDESTRIANS.
   A person engaged in skateboarding shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian and may not overtake or pass a pedestrian while riding upon or
propelling the skateboard. The operator of such skateboard shall dismount from
the skateboard and shall pass or overtake the pedestrian on foot, or wait until
the pedestrian passes, prior to remounting the skateboard.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 3, § 34) (Ord. 1308, passed 10-15-2001, § 5) Penalty,
see §
134.99
§ 134.05 RIGHT-OF-WAY TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person engaged in skateboarding shall suddenly leave a curb, sidewalk,
berm or street or any other place of safety and ride upon or propel any
skateboard into or toward the path of a vehicle which is so close as to
constitute a hazard.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 3, § 35) (Ord. 1308, passed 10-15-2001, § 6) Penalty,
see §
134.99
§ 134.06 RAMPS AND DEVICES.
   No person shall place a ramp, half-pipe or other structure used for
skateboarding in a public thoroughfare, street, alley or sidewalk within the
borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 3, § 36) (Ord. 1308, passed 10-15-2001, § 7) Penalty,
see §
134.99
§ 134.07 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall ride a skateboard on private property when that person has
been instructed, orally or in writing, by the owner or owner’s agent, that
skateboarding is prohibited.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 3, § 37) (Ord. 1308, passed 10-15-2001, § 8) Penalty,
see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   Upon conviction, the skateboard used in violation of this chapter may be
impounded by the Police Department of the borough for a period not to exceed 30
days and/or the person shall be fined not more than $100.
(1980 Code, Ch. 6, Part 3, § 38) (Ord. 1308, passed 10-15-2001, § 9)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS
      
151.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
      
152.   FLOODPLAINS
      
153.   MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
154.   SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
      
155.   SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
      
156.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Permit required
   
150.02   Demolition permit application
   
150.03   Application fee
   
150.04   Insurance coverages; bond
   
150.05   Disconnection of utility services; inspection
   
150.06   Municipal liens
   
150.07   Issuance of permit
   
150.08   Expiration of permit; extension
   
150.09   Protection of people and adjacent properties
   
150.10   Completion of demolition; restoration of site
   
150.11   Conflict with other provisions
Uniform Construction Code
   
150.25   Adoption of the Uniform Construction Code
   
150.26   Adoption of State Standards for Use and Occupancy of Uncertified
Buildings
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Floodplains, see
Ch. 152
   Property Maintenance, see
Ch. 151
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall demolish, remove or relocate any structure or any portion
thereof without a valid demolition permit.
§ 150.02 DEMOLITION PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Any person seeking to obtain a demolition permit shall submit an application
to the borough's approved designee on a form provided by the borough. However,
only the owner of a structure may apply for a demolition permit, and if there
exist multiple owners of a structure, all owners must sign the application. The
application shall identify the following:
   (A)   Type of structure to be demolished.
   (B)   Location of structure.
   (C)   Owner(s) of structure.
   (D)   Deed recording information, including deed book volume and page
number, for demolition site.
   (E)   Name of person to perform demolition of the structure.
   (F)   Proposed date of commencement of demolition.
   (G)   Anticipated time to complete demolition.
   (H)   Anticipated cost to complete demolition.
   (I)   Demolition procedure.
   (J)   Proposed restoration.
   (K)   Other such information as the borough from time to time deems
appropriate and necessary.
§ 150.03 APPLICATION FEE.
   An applicant for a demolition permit shall submit with the application a
nonrefundable fee to be set from time to time by resolution by the borough for
the cost of administering the provisions of this chapter. The borough's
appointed designee shall approve or disapprove the application within 60 days
of its submission. If the application is amended or resubmitted prior to its
initial approval or disapproval, there shall be no additional fee. Failure to
approve or disapprove the application within the time allotted shall not be
deemed an approval of the application, and unless the applicant agrees in
writing to extend the time for an additional 30 days for approval or
disapproval, the application shall be deemed denied and the application fee
shall be refunded to the applicant.
Cross-reference:
   Fees, see §
38.01
§ 150.04 INSURANCE COVERAGES; BOND.
   Upon approval of the application for a demolition permit, the applicant
shall provide to the borough's appointed designee proof of public liability
insurance in an amount equal to at least $1,000,000 for injury or death to any
number of persons and for property damage. A certificate of insurance naming
the borough as an additional insured shall be submitted to the borough's
appointed designee.
§ 150.05 DISCONNECTION OF UTILITY SERVICES; INSPECTION.
   Prior to the issuance of a demolition permit, all utility services must be
disconnected between the street curb and sidewalk. If the water and/or sanitary
sewer services are disconnected and capped by any person other than by the
borough, the work must be inspected and approved by the borough's appointed
designee. Inspection by the borough shall require a 24-hour notice, and the
inspection shall be conducted between 7:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m., Monday through
Friday.
§ 150.06 MUNICIPAL LIENS.
   Prior to the issuance of a demolition permit, the owner(s) of a structure
shall have paid all municipal taxes, utility bills and any other fees owed to
the borough.
§ 150.07 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   A demolition permit shall be issued by the borough's appointed designee upon
approval of the application and upon proof of liability insurance. Demolition
permits for commercial structures shall be issued by the borough's UCC
construction code official or third party inspection agency only after evidence
is submitted showing compliance with 35 P.S. § 4001, Air Pollution Control Act
and any other statutory requirements.
§ 150.08 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT; EXTENSION.
   A demolition permit issued by the borough shall expire 90 days after
demolition has commenced or 180 days after issuance of the permit, whichever
occurs earlier. If prior to expiration of the demolition permit, the applicant
requests in writing an extension of the demolition permit, the borough's
designated appointee, in its sole discretion, may extend the expiration date of
the permit.
§ 150.09 PROTECTION OF PEOPLE AND ADJACENT PROPERTIES.
   The applicant shall take all precautionary action necessary to adequately
protect the public and adjacent properties from debris, damage or harm
resulting from demolition of the structure. Such precautionary action may be
determined by the borough's appointed designee and shall be set forth in
writing prior to or in conjunction with the issuance of the demolition permit.
Nevertheless, at a minimum and where appropriate, the applicant must erect
barricades over abutting sidewalks and streets or portions thereof during
demolition of the structure.
§ 150.10 COMPLETION OF DEMOLITION; RESTORATION OF SITE.
   Demolition shall not be deemed to have been completed until and unless the
demolition site is in conformity with the following:
   (A)   All below grade masonry walls, floors and foundation material have
been removed from the site;
   (B)   The demolition site has been properly backfilled, graded and
resurfaced consistent with the proposed future use and restored to a neat,
clean and sanitary condition;
   (C)   All garbage, rubbish and debris has been removed from the demolition
site;
   (D)   All improvements, including but not limited to, sidewalks, walkways
and driveways, have been returned to a proper state of repair and free from
hazardous conditions.
§ 150.11 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In addition to the provisions of this chapter, all applicants must comply
with the Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code as it relates to demolition and
insofar as it does not conflict with the provisions of this chapter and with
all applicable ordinances and codes relative to restoration.
UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE
§ 150.25 ADOPTION OF THE UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE.
   (A)   The borough hereby elects to administer and enforce the provisions of
the Pennsylvania Construction Code Act, Act 45 of 1999, 35 P.S. §§ 7210.101
through 7210.1103, as amended from time to time, and its regulations.
   (B)   The Uniform Construction Code, contained in 34 Pa. Code Chapters 401
through 405, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated
herein by reference as the municipal Building Code of this borough.
   (C)   Administration and enforcement of the Code within the borough shall be
undertaken in any of the following ways as determined by the Borough Council
from time to time by resolution:
      (1)   By the designation of an employee of the borough to serve as the
municipal code official to act on behalf of the borough;
      (2)   By the retention of one or more construction code officials or
third-party agencies to act on behalf of the borough;
      (3)   By agreement with one or more other municipalities for the joint
administration and enforcement of this Act through an inter-municipal
agreement;
      (4)   By entering into a contract with another municipality for the
administration and enforcement of this Act on behalf of this borough; and
      (5)   By entering into an agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of
Labor and Industry for plan review, inspections and enforcement of structures
other than one-family or two-family dwelling units and utility and
miscellaneous use structures.
   (D)   A Board of Appeals shall be established by resolution of the governing
body of this borough in conformity with the requirements of the relevant
provisions of the Code, as amended from time to time, and for the purposes set
forth therein. If at any time enforcement and administration is undertaken
jointly with one or more other municipalities, said Board of Appeals shall be
established by joint action of the participating municipalities.
   (E)   (1)   All Building Code ordinances or portions of ordinances which
were adopted by this borough on or before July 1, 1999, and which equal or
exceed the requirements of the Code shall continue in full force and effect
until such time as such provisions fail to equal or exceed the minimum
requirements of the Code, as amended from time to time.
      (2)   All Building Code ordinances or portions of ordinances which are in
effect as of the effective date of this section and whose requirements are less
than the minimum requirements of the Code are hereby amended to conform with
the comparable provisions of the Code.
      (3)   All relevant ordinances, regulations and policies of this borough
not governed by the Code shall remain in full force and effect.
   (F)   Fees assessable by the borough for the administration and enforcement
undertaken pursuant to this section and the Code shall be established by the
governing body by resolution from time to time.
   (G)   This section shall be effective July 1, 2004.
   (H)   If any section, division, sentence or clause of this part is held, for
any reason, to be invalid, such decision or decisions shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this section.
(1980 Code, Ch. 5, Part 3, § 5-301) (Ord. 1325, passed 5-17-2004, § 1)
§ 150.26 ADOPTION OF STATE STANDARDS FOR USE AND OCCUPANCY OF UNCERTIFIED
BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The borough amends its adoption of the Pennsylvania Uniform
Construction Code by including the provisions of Act 95 of 2005, including §
902(b) of said Act as it pertains to uncertified buildings.
   (B)   The borough shall utilize the standards of § 902(b) of said Act in the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy to an uncertified building and does
hereby adopt the standards of issuance pursuant to the procedure set forth in §
503 of said Act.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the applicability
of all other provisions of the Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code.
(1980 Code, Ch. 5, Part 3, § 5-302) (Ord. 1344, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
150.25 and
150.26, or any provision of any rule or regulation adopted by the borough
pertaining to electricity shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than $300 and costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment
of such fine and costs, to imprisonment for not more than 30 days; provided,
each day’s continuance of a violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
150.01 to
150.11 shall be guilty of a violation of §§
150.01 to
150.11 and subject to a fine of $500 for each violation. Any violation of the
provisions of §§
150.01 to
150.11 on any day shall be a separate and distinct violation and subject the
violator to a separate and distinct penalty for each day.
(1980 Code, Ch. 5, Part 2, § 5-206) (Ord. 1047, passed 12-23-1976, § 8)
CHAPTER 151: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
151.01   Adoption of the International Property Maintenance Code
   
151.02   Revisions
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   That certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office
of the Borough Secretary of the Borough of Grove City, being marked and
designated as the International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 edition, as
published by the International Code Council, is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of the Borough of Grove City, in the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
   (B)   The purposes of the International Property Maintenance Code, 2018
edition, are:
      (1)   For regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all
property, buildings and structures, by providing the standards for supplied
utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to
ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use;
      (2)   The condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human
occupancy and use, and the demolition of such existing structures as herein
provided; and
      (3)   Providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor.
   (C)   Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of said International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 edition on file in
the office of the Borough Secretary are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a
part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes prescribed in §
151.02 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1469, passed 3-16-2020, § 1)
§ 151.02 REVISIONS.
   The following chapters/sections are hereby revised as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1 Title. Shall read: These requirements shall be known as
the International Property Maintenance Code of the Borough of Grove City,
hereinafter referred to as "this code."
   (B)   Section 103.1 General. Shall read: The department of property
maintenance inspection is hereby created to enforce the terms and conditions of
this ordinance and all powers thereunder shall vest with the Borough of Grove
City Zoning and Code Enforcement Officer or any deputies so appointed by the
Borough Council. The Zoning and Code Enforcement Officer and duly appointed
deputies will have all powers enacted and referenced within this code and will
henceforth be referred to as the code official.
   (C)   Section 103.5 Fees. Shall read: The fees for activities and services
performed by the department in carrying out its responsibilities under this
code shall be set by resolution of Borough of Grove City Council.
   (D)   Section 1043.1 Refusal of entry. Is added as follows:
   104.3.1 Refusal of entry. If any owner, occupant or other person in charge
of a structure subject to the provision of this code refuses, impedes,
inhibits, interferes with, restricts or obstructs entry and free access to any
part of the structure or premises where inspection authorized by this code is
sought, the code official may promptly apply for a search or inspection warrant
to a court of competent jurisdiction and shall supply all necessary affidavits
and testimony to indicate that there is a reasonable or probable cause to
conduct an inspection. For the purposes of this section, a reasonable or
probable cause to gain access for an inspection shall include, without being
limited to, the following:
      l.   That the inspection of the area is part of a planned routine
inspection being conducted pursuant to a systematic or concentrated code
enforcement program in that portion of the Borough; or
      2.   That the Code official, after investigation or upon information
received, has knowledge, information or a reasonable belief that a violation of
this code or other codes and ordinances of the Borough exist; or
      3.   That such entry is for the purpose of inspecting a previous notice
of violation; or
      4.   That the code official has received a verifiable complaint
concerning a violation on or within the premises; or
      5.   That such entry is necessary to determine if the building,
structure, premises, dwelling or dwelling units meet the standards of this code
and building, fire, and health codes and for the safety and welfare of the
public.
   (E)   Section 106.3 Prosecution of violation. Shall read: Any person failing
to comply with a notice of violation or order served in accordance with Section
107 shall be deemed guilty of a civil infraction as determined by the local
municipality, and the violation shall be deemed a strict liability offense. If
the notice of violation is not complied with, the code official shall institute
the appropriate proceeding under this ordinance and/or at law or in equity to
restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal or
termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the
provisions of this code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto, Any
fine, fees, or costs incurred by the code official, Grove City Borough or their
agents shall be charged against the real estate upon which the structure is
located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
   (F)   Section 106.4 Violation penalties. Shall read: Any person convicted of
violating a provision of this code shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $75 nor more than $500 for the first two uncorrected violations of the
same subsection on the same property and not less than $150 nor more than
$1,000 for the third uncorrected violation of the same subsection of the code
on the same property, plus court costs and any expenses incurred by Grove City
Borough for remediation thereof. Every section of this code that is violated
shall constitute a separate offense punishable by a separate fine as set forth
herein. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served
shall be deemed a separate offense punishable by a separate fine as set forth
herein.
   (G)   Section 111 shall be deleted and the following shall be inserted:
   Section 111
   Means of Appeal
   (A)   Creation. The Borough Council is hereby appointed to serve as the
Board of Appeals. The duty of said Board shall be to consider appeals from the
decisions of the officials charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Appeals. Appeals from the ruling of any official charged with the
enforcement of this chapter may be made to said Board within ten days of any
decision made by the Code Official or his or her deputies. The appellant shall
file with the code official or his or her authorized representative a notice of
appeal specifying the grounds therefor. With each notice of appeal filed there
shall be paid a fee, set by the Borough Council by resolution from time to
time, to cover the cost of the borough's handling such appeal; provided that
such fee may be returned or retained after the hearing in the discretion of the
Board. The official from whom said appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to
the Board a summary report of all previous action taken. The Board may at its
discretion call upon the official from whom the appeal is taken to explain his
or her action. The final disposition of such appeal shall be in the form of a
written decision with findings of fact and conclusions of law, either
reversing, modifying or affirming, wholly or partly, the decision or the
determination appealed from. Any decision rendered by the Board shall be by a
majority vote of a quorum of the Board who have heard the appeal and which
quorum shall consist of at least six members of the Grove City Borough Council.
   (C)   Hearings. The Board shall hold a hearing within forty-five days of the
receipt of any appeal and render its decision within thirty days of the
conclusion of such hearing unless such time frames are waived by the appellant
and agreed to by the Code Official, with due notice thereof to interested
parties. Within the limits of its jurisdiction, hereinabove prescribed, the
said Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, whole or in part or may make such
order, requirement, decision or determination as in its opinion ought to be
made in the premises, in accord with the provisions of this ordinance and to
that end shall have all the powers of the official from whom said appeal is
taken.
   (D)   Decisions. The decision of said Board shall be final except that said
Board or members thereof may be required under proper mandamus proceedings to
show cause why certain actions were taken or decisions rendered.
   (E)   Meeting and rules of procedure. Said Board of Appeals shall meet at
such times as the Board may determine. There shall be a fixed place of meeting
and all meetings shall be open to the public. The Board shall adopt its own
rules of procedure and keep a record of its proceedings, showing the action of
the Board.
   (F)   Notice. The Board of Appeals may prescribe such notice to any
interested person and the neighbors surrounding the structure in connection
with which the appeal is taken, as shall be deemed reasonable by said Board of
Appeals.
   (G)   All hearings shall be conducted so that all testimony is taken under
oath in front of a court stenographer whose fees shall be paid by the appellant
unless the Board rules otherwise.
   (H)   Section 112.4 Failure to comply. Shall read: Any person who shall
continue any work after having been served with a stop work order, except such
work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
condition, shall be liable to a fine of not less than 300 dollars or more than
500 dollars for each day of violation as assessed by the Code Official subject
to the appeal rights set forth herein.
   (I)   Section 202. Insert the following definition after the definition for
Bedroom:
   Blighted structure. A structure is blighted when it exhibits objectively
determinable signs of deterioration sufficient to constitute a threat to human
health, safety, and public welfare
   (J)   Section 302.1 Sanitation. Shall read: Exterior property and premises
shall be maintained in a clean, safe and sanitary condition. The occupant shall
keep that part of the exterior property that such occupant occupies or controls
in a clean and sanitary condition. No cow, calf, swine, sheep, goat, chickens,
geese or ducks shall be kept in any dwelling, part thereof, or yard.
   (K)   Delete Section 302.4 Weeds.
   (L)   Delete Section 302.8 Motor vehicles.
   (M)   Section 302.10 Trees, bushes and shrubs. Shall be added as follows:
All trees, bushes and shrubs shall be maintained to prevent the creation of a
dangerous condition as determined by the code official.
   (N)   Delete Section 304.14 Insect Screens.
   (O)   Section 308.3 Disposal of garbage. Shall read: Every occupant of a
structure shall dispose of garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing
such garbage in an approved garbage disposal facility or approved garbage
containers. Garbage containers shall not be set out to the street for
collection earlier than 6:00 p.m. the day before pickup. Containers must be
removed from the street the same day as pickup,
   (P)   Section 602.2 Residential occupancies. Shall read: Dwellings shall be
provided with heating facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of
68ºF (20ºC) in all habitable rooms. Cooking appliances shall not be used, nor
shall portable unvented fuel-burning space heaters be used, as a means to
provide required heating.
   (Q)   Section 602.3 Heat Supply. Shall read: Every owner and operator of any
building who rents, leases or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units
on terms, either expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof
shall supply heat during the period from October first to March thirty-first to
maintain a minimum temperature of 68ºF (20ºC) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms
and toilet rooms.
   (R)   Section 602.4 Occupiable work spaces. Shall read: Indoor occupiable
work spaces shall be supplied with heat during the period from October first to
March thirty-first to maintain a minimum temperature of 65ºF (18ºC) during the
period the spaces are occupied.
      a.   Exceptions:
         i.   l. Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling
or special temperature conditions.
         ii.   Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous
physical activities.
(Ord. 1469, passed 3-16-2020, § 2)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAINS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Statutory authorization
   
152.002   Intent
   
152.003   Applicability
   
152.004   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.005   Severability
   
152.006   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.007   Adoption
Administration
   
152.020   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.021   Permits required
   
152.022   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.023   Application procedures and requirements
   
152.024   Review by County Conservation District
   
152.025   Review of application by others
   
152.026   Changes
   
152.027   Placards
   
152.028   Start of construction
   
152.029   Enforcement
   
152.030   Appeals
Identification of Floodplain Areas
   
152.045   Identification
   
152.046   Description and special requirements of identified floodplain areas
   
152.047   Changes in identification of area
   
152.048   Boundary disputes
   
152.049   Jurisdictional boundary changes
Technical Provisions
   
152.060   General
   
152.061   Elevation and floodproofing requirements
   
152.062   Design and construction standards
   
152.063   Development which may endanger human life
   
152.064   Special requirements for subdivisions and development
   
152.065   Special requirements for manufactured homes
   
152.066   Special requirements for recreational vehicles
Activities Requiring Special Permits
   
152.080   General
   
152.081   Application requirements for special permits
   
152.082   Application review procedures
   
152.083   Special technical requirements
Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas
   
152.095   Existing structures
   
152.096   Improvements
Variances
   
152.110   General
   
152.111   Variance procedures and conditions
Definitions
   
152.125   General
   
152.126   Specific definitions
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has, by the passage of
the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act of 1978, 32 P.S. §§ 679.10 et seq.,
delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt floodplain
management regulations to promote public health, safety and the general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the Council of the borough does hereby order as
follows.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. I)
§ 152.002 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote the general health, welfare and safety of the community;
   (B)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future;
   (C)   Minimize danger to public health by protecting water supply and
natural drainage;
   (D)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units and its residents, by preventing excessive development in areas subject
to flooding; and
   (E)   Comply with federal and state floodplain management requirements.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. II, § 2.01)
§ 152.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or
corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any construction or
development anywhere within the borough unless a permit has been obtained from
the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   A permit shall not be required for minor repairs to existing buildings
or structures.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. II, § 2.02) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.004 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any other conflicting provisions which may be in
effect in identified floodplain areas. However, any other ordinance provisions
shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that those provisions are
more restrictive. If there is any conflict between any of the provisions of
this chapter, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. II, § 2.03)
§ 152.005 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter shall be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such a decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of the chapter, which shall remain in
full force and effect, and for this purpose the provisions of this chapter are
hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. II, § 2.04)
§ 152.006 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this
chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
accepted engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood heights
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside
any identified floodplain areas, or that land uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   (B)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the borough or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. II, § 2.05)
§ 152.007 ADOPTION.
   This chapter shall be effective on April 21, 2014 and shall remain in force
until modified, amended or rescinded by the borough.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. X, § 10.01)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.020 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   (1)   The Zoning Officer is hereby appointed to administer and enforce
this chapter and is referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator may:
         (a)   Fulfill the duties and responsibilities set forth in these
regulations;
         (b)   Delegate duties and responsibilities set forth in these
regulations to qualified technical personnel, plan examiners, inspectors and
other employees; or
         (c)   Enter into a written agreement or written contract with another
agency or private sector entity to administer specific provisions of these
regulations.
      (3)   Administration of any part of these regulations by another entity
shall not relieve the community of its responsibilities pursuant to the
participation requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program as set forth
in the Code of Federal Regulations at 44 C.F.R. § 59.22.
   (B)   In the absence of a designated Floodplain Administrator, the
Floodplain Administrator duties are to be fulfilled by the Borough Manager.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. III, § 3.01)
§ 152.021 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be required before any construction or development is
undertaken within any area of the borough.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. III, § 3.02)
§ 152.022 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit only after it has
been determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance
with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of any permit, the Floodplain Administrator
shall review the application for the permit to determine if all other necessary
government permits required by state and federal laws have been obtained, such
as those required by the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 1966-537, as
amended), 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 to 750.20; the Pennsylvania Dam Safety and
Encroachments Act (Act 1978-325, as amended), 32 P.S. §§ 693.1 to 693.27; the
Pennsylvania Clean Streams Act (Act 1937-394, as amended), 35 P.S. §§ 691.1 to
691.1001; and the U.S. Clean Water Act, § 404, 33 U.S.C. § 1344. No permit
shall be issued until this determination has been made.
   (C)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or other
authorized official shall inspect the premises to determine that the work is
progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable municipal laws and ordinances. He or she
shall make as many inspections during and upon completion of the work as are
necessary.
   (D)   In the discharge of his or her duties, the Floodplain Administrator
shall have the authority to enter any building, structure, premises or
development in the identified floodplain area, upon presentation of proper
credentials, at any reasonable hour to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does
not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances,
or that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant,
the Floodplain Administrator shall revoke the permit and report such fact to
the Council for whatever action it considers necessary.
   (F)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain in perpetuity all records
associated with the requirements of this chapter including, but not limited to,
finished construction elevation data, permitting, inspection and enforcement.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator is the official responsible for
submitting a biennial report to FEMA concerning community participation in the
National Flood Insurance Program.
   (H)   The responsibility, authority and means to implement the commitments
of the Floodplain Administrator can be delegated from the person identified.
However, the ultimate responsibility lies with the person identified in the
Floodplain Chapter as the Floodplain Administrator/Manager.
   (I)   The Floodplain Administrator shall consider the requirements of the 34
Pa. Code and the 2009 IBC and the 2009 IRC or latest revisions thereof.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. III, § 3.03)
§ 152.023 APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Application for such a permit shall be made, in writing, to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms supplied by the borough.
      (2)   Such application shall contain the following:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction
is to occur;
         (c)   Name and address of contractor;
         (d)   Site location including address;
         (e)   Listing of other permits required;
         (f)   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost, including
a breakout of flood-related cost and the market value of the building before
the flood damage occurred where appropriate; and
         (g)   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
   (B)   If any proposed construction or development is located entirely or
partially within any identified floodplain area, applicants for permits shall
provide all the necessary information in sufficient detail and clarity to
enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and conform with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes
and ordinances;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards;
      (4)   Structures will be anchored to prevent floatation, collapse or
lateral movement;
      (5)   Building materials are flood-resistant;
      (6)   Appropriate practices that minimize flood damage have been used;
and
      (7)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities have been designed and located to
prevent water entry or accumulation.
   (C)   Applicants shall file the following minimum information plus any other
pertinent information as may be required by the Floodplain Administrator to
make the above determination:
      (1)   A completed permit application form;
      (2)   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of
one inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
         (a)   North arrow, scale and date;
         (b)   Topographic contour lines, if available;
         (c)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures
and other improvements, including the location of any existing or proposed
subdivision and development;
         (d)   The location of all existing streets, drives and other
accessways; and
         (e)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
identified floodplain areas and, if available, information pertaining to the
floodway, and the flow of water including direction and velocities.
      (3)   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
         (a)   The proposed lowest floor elevation of any proposed building
based upon North American Vertical Datum of 1988;
         (b)   The elevation of the base flood; and
         (c)   Supplemental information as may be necessary under 34 Pa. Code,
the 2009 IBC or the 2009 IRC.
      (4)   The following data and documentation:
         (a)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing
measures and corresponding elevations;
         (b)   If available, information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with a base
flood; and Floodway Area (see §
152.046(A)) when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the base flood elevation at any point;
         (c)   Documentation, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, to show that the cumulative effect of any proposed development
within an AE Area/District without floodway (see §
152.046(B)) when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the base flood elevation more than one foot at any point
within the community;
         (d)   1.   A document, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, which states that the proposed construction or development has
been adequately designed to withstand the pressures, velocities, impact and
uplift forces associated with the base flood.
            2.   Such statement shall include a description of the type and
extent of floodproofing measures which have been incorporated into the design
of the structure and/or the development.
         (e)   Detailed information needed to determine compliance with §§
152.062(F) and
152.063, including:
            1.   The amount, location and purpose of any materials or
substances referred to in §§
152.062(F) and
152.063 which are intended to be used, produced, stored or otherwise maintained
on site; and
            2.   A description of the safeguards incorporated into the design
of the proposed structure to prevent leaks or spills of the dangerous materials
or substances listed in §
152.063 during a base flood.
         (f)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s Planning Module for Land Development; and
         (g)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection, to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control.
   (D)   Applications for permits shall be accompanied by a fee, payable to the
municipality based upon the estimated cost of the proposed construction as
determined by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. III, § 3.04) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.024 REVIEW BY COUNTY CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   A copy of all applications and plans for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval
shall be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to the County Conservation
District for review and comment prior to the issuance of a permit. The
recommendations of the Conservation District shall be considered by the
Floodplain Administrator for possible incorporation into the proposed plan.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. III, § 3.05)
§ 152.025 REVIEW OF APPLICATION BY OTHERS.
   A copy of all plans and applications for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval may
be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to any other appropriate agencies
and/or individuals (e.g., Planning Commission, Municipal Engineer and the like)
for review and comment.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. III, § 3.06)
§ 152.026 CHANGES.
   After the issuance of a permit by the Floodplain Administrator, no changes
of any kind shall be made to the application, permit or any of the plans,
specifications or other documents submitted with the application without the
written consent or approval of the Floodplain Administrator. Requests for any
such change shall be in writing, and shall be submitted by the applicant to
Floodplain Administrator for consideration.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. III, § 3.07)
§ 152.027 PLACARDS.
   In addition to the permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a
placard which shall be displayed on the premises during the time construction
is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the permit, the date of
its issuance and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. III, § 3.08)
§ 152.028 START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Work on the proposed construction or development shall begin within
180 days after the date of issuance of the development permit. Work shall also
be completed within 12 months after the date of issuance of the permit or the
permit shall expire unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the
Floodplain Administrator. The issuance of development permit does not refer to
the zoning approval.
   (B)   The ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT, the actual start of construction means the first,
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   (C)   Time extensions shall be granted only if a written request is
submitted by the applicant, who sets forth sufficient and reasonable cause for
the Floodplain Administrator to approve such a request and the original permit
is compliant with the chapter and FIRM/FIS in effect at the time the extension
is granted.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. III, § 3.09)
§ 152.029 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized municipal
representative determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that
there has been a violation of any provisions of this chapter, or of any
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, the Floodplain Administrator shall give
notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time not to exceed a period of 30 days for the
performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or his or her agent as the case
may require; provided, however, that such notice or order shall be deemed to
have been properly served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been
served with such notice by any other method authorized or required by the laws
of this state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial actions which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. III, § 3.10)
§ 152.030 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any action or decision of the Floodplain
Administrator concerning the administration of the provisions of this chapter,
may appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board. Such appeal must be filed, in writing,
within 30 days after the decision, determination or action of the Floodplain
Administrator.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such appeal the Zoning Hearing Board shall consider
the appeal in accordance with the Municipal Planning Code and any other local
ordinance.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Zoning Hearing Board may
seek relief therefrom by appeal to court, as provided by the laws of this state
including the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. III, § 3.11)
IDENTIFICATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 152.045 IDENTIFICATION.
   The identified floodplain area shall be:
   (A)   Any areas of Borough of Grove City, classified as special flood hazard
areas (SFHAs) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and the accompanying Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) dated June 9, 2014 and issued by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or the most recent revision thereof,
including all digital data developed as part of the Flood Insurance Study; and
   (B)   The above referenced FIS and FIRMs, and any subsequent revisions and
amendments are hereby adopted by borough and declared to be a part of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. IV, § 4.01)
§ 152.046 DESCRIPTION AND SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS OF IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   The identified floodplain area shall consist of the following specific
areas.
   (A)   The Floodway Area shall be those areas identified in the FIS and the
FIRM as floodway and which represent the channel of a watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without increasing the water surface elevation by more than one foot at any
point. This term shall also include floodway areas which have been identified
in other available studies or sources of information for those special flood
hazard areas where no floodway has been identified in the FIS and FIRM.
      (1)   Within any floodway area, no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements or other development shall be permitted
unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed
encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within the
community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   Within any floodway area, no new construction or development shall
be allowed, unless the appropriate permit is obtained from the Department of
Environmental Protection Regional Office.
   (B)   (1)   The AE Area/District shall be those areas identified as an AE
Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which base flood
elevations have been provided.
      (2)   The AE Area adjacent to the floodway shall be those areas
identified as an AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for
which base flood elevations have been provided and a floodway has been
delineated.
   (C)   (1)   The A Area/District shall be those areas identified as an A Zone
on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no base flood
elevations have been provided. For these areas, elevation and floodway
information from other federal, state or other acceptable sources shall be used
when available. Where other acceptable information is not available, the base
flood elevation shall be determined by using the elevation of a point on the
boundary of the identified floodplain area which is nearest the construction
site.
      (2)   In lieu of the above, the municipality may require the applicant to
determine the elevation with hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques.
Hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by professional
engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the
technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
Studies, analyses, computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient
detail to allow a thorough technical review by the municipality.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. IV, § 4.02)
§ 152.047 CHANGES IN IDENTIFICATION OF AREA.
   The identified floodplain area may be revised or modified by the Council
where studies or information provided by a qualified agency or person documents
the need for such revision. However, prior to any such change to the special
flood hazard area, approval must be obtained from FEMA. Additionally, as soon
as practicable, but not later than six months after the date such information
becomes available, a community shall notify FEMA of the changes to the Special
Flood Hazard Area by submitting technical or scientific data. See §
152.060(B) for situations where FEMA notification is required.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. IV, § 4.03)
§ 152.048 BOUNDARY DISPUTES.
   Should a dispute concerning any identified floodplain boundary arise, an
initial determination shall be made by the borough and any party aggrieved by
this decision or determination may appeal to the Council. The burden of proof
shall be on the appellant.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. IV, § 4.04)
§ 152.049 JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARY CHANGES.
   Prior to development occurring in areas where annexation or other corporate
boundary changes are proposed or have occurred, the community shall review
flood hazard data affecting the lands subject to boundary changes. The
community shall adopt and enforce floodplain regulations in areas subject to
annexation or corporate boundary changes which meet or exceed those in 44
C.F.R. § 60.3.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. IV, § 4.05)
TECHNICAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.060 GENERAL.
   (A)   Alteration or relocation of watercourse.
      (1)   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected
by such action have been notified by the municipality, and until all required
permits or approvals have first been obtained from the Department of
Environmental Protection Regional Office.
      (2)   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse unless it can be shown that the activity will not
reduce or impede the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse in any way.
      (3)   In addition, FEMA and the Pennsylvania Department of Community and
Economic Development, shall be notified prior to any alteration or relocation
of any watercourse.
   (B)   Encroachments. When a community proposes to permit the following
encroachments:
      (1)   Any development that causes a rise in the base flood elevations
within the floodway;
      (2)   Any development occurring in Zones A1-30 and Zone AE without a
designated floodway, which will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base
flood elevation; or
      (3)   Alteration or relocation of a stream (including, but not limited
to, installing culverts and bridges), the applicant shall (as per 44 C.F.R.
Part 65.12):
         (a)   Apply to FEMA for conditional approval of such action prior to
permitting the encroachments to occur;
         (b)   Upon receipt of the Administrator’s conditional approval of map
change and prior to approving the proposed encroachments, a community shall
provide evidence to FEMA of the adoption of floodplain management ordinances
incorporating the increased base flood elevations and/or revised floodway
reflecting the post-project condition; and
         (c)   Upon completion of the proposed encroachments, a community shall
provide as-built certifications. FEMA will initiate a final map revision upon
receipt of such certifications in accordance with 44 C.F.R. Part 67.
   (C)   Strict compliance. Any new construction, development, uses or
activities allowed within any identified floodplain area shall be undertaken in
strict compliance with the provisions contained in this chapter and any other
applicable codes, ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. V, § 5.01)
§ 152.061 ELEVATION AND FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures.
      (1)   In AE, A1-30 and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated up to, or
above, the regulatory flood elevation.
      (2)   In A Zones, where there are no base flood elevations specified on
the FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood
elevation determined in accordance with §
152.046(C).
      (3)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405, as amended, shall be utilized, where they
are more restrictive.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   In AE, A1-30 and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement of a nonresidential structure shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood elevation,
or be designed and constructed so that the space enclosed below the regulatory
flood elevation:
         (a)   Is floodproofed so that the structure is water-tight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water; and
         (b)   Has structural components with the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   In A Zones, where no base flood elevations are specified on the
FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated or completely floodproofed up to, or above,
the regulatory flood elevation determined in accordance with §
152.046(C).
      (3)   Any nonresidential structure, or part thereof, made watertight
below the regulatory flood elevation shall be floodproofed in accordance with
the W1 or W2 space classification standards contained in the publication
entitled Floodproofing Regulations published by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers (June 1972, as amended March 1992) or with some other equivalent
standard. All plans and specifications for such floodproofing shall be
accompanied by a statement certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect which states that the proposed design and methods of construction are
in conformance with the above referenced standards.
      (4)   The design and construction standards and specifications contained
in the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405, as amended, shall be utilized, where they
are more restrictive.
   (C)   Space below the lowest floor.
      (1)   Fully enclosed space below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
which will be used solely for the parking of a vehicle, building access or
incidental storage in an area other than a basement, shall be designed and
constructed to allow for the automatic entry and exit of flood waters for the
purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on exterior walls. The term fully
enclosed space also includes crawl spaces.
      (2)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Historic structures. Historic structures undergoing repair or
rehabilitation that would constitute a substantial improvement as defined in
this chapter, must comply with all ordinance requirements that do not preclude
the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure. Documentation
that a specific ordinance requirement will cause removal of the structure from
the National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic
places must be obtained from the Secretary of the Interior or the State
Historic Preservation Officer. Any exemption from chapter requirements will be
the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
   (E)   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to a principal building
need not be elevated or floodproofed to remain dry, but shall comply, at a
minimum, with the following requirements:
      (1)   The structure shall not be designed or used for human habitation,
but shall be limited to the parking of vehicles, or to the storage of tools,
material, and equipment related to the principal use or activity;
      (2)   Floor area shall not exceed 600 square feet;
      (3)   The structure will have a low damage potential;
      (4)   The structure will be located on the site so as to cause the least
obstruction to the flow of flood waters;
      (5)   Power lines, wiring and outlets will be elevated to the regulatory
flood elevation;
      (6)   Permanently affixed utility equipment and appliances such as
furnaces, heaters, washers, dryers and the like are prohibited;
      (7)   Sanitary facilities are prohibited; and
      (8)   The structure shall be adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse and lateral movement and shall be designed to automatically provide
for the entry and exit of floodwater for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic
forces on the walls. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed
the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers and the like or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of flood waters.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. V, § 5.02)
§ 152.062 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The following minimum standards shall apply for all construction and
development proposed within any identified floodplain area.
   (A)   Fill. If fill is used, it shall:
      (1)   Extend laterally at least 15 feet beyond the building line from all
points;
      (2)   Consist of soil or small rock materials only. Sanitary landfills
shall not be permitted;
      (3)   Be compacted to provide the necessary permeability and resistance
to erosion, scouring or settling;
      (4)   Be no steeper than one vertical to two horizontal feet unless
substantiated data justifying steeper slopes are submitted to, and approved by
the Floodplain Administrator; and
      (5)   Be used to the extent to which it does not adversely affect
adjacent properties.
   (B)   Drainage facilities. Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to
convey the flow of stormwater runoff in a safe and efficient manner. The system
shall ensure proper drainage along streets, and provide positive drainage away
from buildings. The system shall also be designed to prevent the discharge of
excess runoff onto adjacent properties.
   (C)   Water and sanitary sewer facilities and systems.
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer facilities
and systems shall be located, designed and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damages and the infiltration of flood waters.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer facilities and systems shall be designed to prevent
the discharge of untreated sewage into flood waters.
      (3)   No part of any on-site waste disposal system shall be located
within any identified floodplain area except in strict compliance with all
state and local regulations for such systems. If any such system is permitted,
it shall be located so as to avoid impairment to it, or contamination from it,
during a flood.
      (4)   The design and construction provisions of the UCC and FEMA #348,
Protecting Building Utilities From Flood Damages and the International Private
Sewage Disposal Code shall be utilized.
   (D)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical and
telephone systems shall be located, elevated (where possible) and constructed
to minimize the chance of impairment during a flood.
   (E)   Streets. The finished elevation of all new streets shall be no more
than one foot below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (F)   Storage. All materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive or in
times of flooding, could be injurious to human, animal or plant life, and not
listed in §
152.063 shall be stored at or above the regulatory flood elevation or
floodproofed to the maximum extent possible.
   (G)   Placement of buildings and structures. All buildings and structures
shall be designed, located and constructed so as to offer the minimum
obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to have a minimum effect
upon the flow and height of flood water.
   (H)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, storage tanks and other similar objects
or components located below the regulatory flood elevation shall be securely
anchored or affixed to prevent flotation.
   (I)   Floors, walls and ceilings.
      (1)   Wood flooring used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be installed to accommodate a lateral expansion of the flooring, perpendicular
to the flooring grain without causing structural damage to the building.
      (2)   Plywood used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be of
a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
      (3)   Walls and ceilings at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be designed and constructed of materials that are “water-resistant” and will
withstand inundation.
      (4)   Windows, doors and other components at or below the regulatory
flood elevation shall be made of metal or other “water-resistant” material.
   (J)   Paints and adhesives.
      (1)   Paints and other finishes used at or below the regulatory flood
elevation shall be of “marine” or “water-resistant” quality.
      (2)   Adhesives used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
of a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
      (3)   All wooden components (doors, trim, cabinets and the like) used at
or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be finished with a “marine” or
“water-resistant” paint or other finishing material.
   (K)   Electrical components.
      (1)   Electrical distribution panels shall be at least three feet above
the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Separate electrical circuits shall serve lower levels and shall be
dropped from above.
   (L)   Equipment. Water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and ventilating
units, and other electrical, mechanical or utility equipment or apparatus shall
not be located below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (M)   Fuel supply systems. All gas and oil supply systems shall be designed
to prevent the infiltration of flood waters into the system and discharges from
the system into flood waters. Additional provisions shall be made for the
drainage of these systems in the event that flood water infiltration occurs.
   (N)   Uniform Construction Code coordination. The standards and
specifications contained 34 Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405), as amended and
not limited to the following provisions shall apply to the above and other
sections and divisions of this chapter, to the extent that they are more
restrictive and supplement the requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   International Building Code (IBC) 2009 or the latest edition
thereof: §§ 801, 1202, 1403, 1603, 1605, 1612, 3402 and Appendix G; and
      (2)   International Residential Building Code (IRC) 2009 or the latest
edition thereof: §§ R104, R105, R109, R322, Appendix E and Appendix J.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. V, § 5.03) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.063 DEVELOPMENT WHICH MAY ENDANGER HUMAN LIFE.
   (A)   In accordance with the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act, and the
regulations adopted by the Department of Community and Economic Development as
required by the Act, any new or substantially improved structure which:
      (1)   Will be used for the production or storage of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances;
      (2)   Will be used for any activity requiring the maintenance of a supply
of more than 550 gallons, or other comparable volume, of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances on the premises; or
      (3)   Will involve the production, storage or use of any amount of
radioactive substances; shall be subject to the provisions of this section, in
addition to all other applicable provisions. The following list of materials
and substances are considered dangerous to human life:
         (a)   Acetone;
         (b)   Ammonia;
         (c)   Benzene;
         (d)   Calcium carbide;
         (e)   Carbon disulfide;
         (f)   Celluloid;
         (g)   Chlorine;
         (h)   Hydrochloric acid;
         (i)   Hydrocyanic acid;
         (j)   Magnesium;
         (k)   Nitric acid and oxides of nitrogen;
         (l)   Petroleum products (gasoline, fuel oil and the like);
         (m)   Phosphorus;
         (n)   Potassium;
         (o)   Sodium;
         (p)   Sulphur and sulphur products;
         (q)   Pesticides (including insecticides, fungicides and
rodenticides); and
         (r)   Radioactive substances, insofar as such substances are not
otherwise regulated.
   (B)   Within any Floodway Area, any structure of the kind described in
division (A) above, shall be prohibited. Where permitted within any identified
floodplain area, any new or substantially improved residential structure of the
kind described in division (A), above, shall be elevated to remain completely
dry up to at least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation and built
in accordance with §§
152.060,
152.061 and 152.062.
   (C)   (1)   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, any new
or substantially improved nonresidential structure of the kind described in
division (A) above, shall be built in accordance with §§
152.060,
152.061 and 152.062 including:
         (a)   Elevated or designed and constructed to remain completely dry up
to at least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation; and
         (b)   Designed to prevent pollution from the structure or activity
during the course of a base flood.
      (2)   Any such structure, or part thereof, that will be built below the
regulatory flood elevation shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the standards for completely dry floodproofing contained in the publication
Floodproofing Regulations (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, June 1972, as amended
March 1992), or with some other equivalent water-tight standard.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. V, § 5.04)
§ 152.064 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISIONS AND DEVELOPMENT.
   All subdivision proposals and development proposals containing at least 50
lots or at least five acres, whichever is the lesser, in identified floodplain
areas where base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by
hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analyses that determine base flood
elevations and floodway information. The analyses shall be prepared by a
licensed professional engineer in a format required by FEMA for a conditional
letter of map revision and letter of map revision. Submittal requirements and
processing fees shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. V, § 5.05) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.065 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, all
manufactured homes, and any improvements thereto, shall be:
      (1)   Placed on a permanent foundation;
      (2)   Elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation; and
      (3)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
   (B)   Installation of manufactured homes shall be done in accordance with
the manufacturers’ installation instructions as provided by the manufacturer.
Where the applicant cannot provide the above information, the requirements of
Appendix E of the 2009 International Residential Building Code or the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Permanent Foundations for
Manufactured Housing, 1984 Edition, draft or latest revision thereto and 34 Pa.
Code Chapters 401 through 405 shall apply.
   (C)   Consideration shall be given to the installation requirements of the
2009 IBC, and the 2009 IRC or the most recent revisions thereto and 34 Pa.
Code, as amended where appropriate and/or applicable to units where the
manufacturers’ standards for anchoring cannot be provided or were not
established for the proposed unit(s) installation.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. V, § 5.06) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.066 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles in Zones A, A1-30, AH and AE must either:
   (A)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
   (B)   Meet the permit requirements for manufactured homes in §
152.065.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. V, § 5.07) Penalty, see §
152.999
ACTIVITIES REQUIRING SPECIAL PERMITS
§ 152.080 GENERAL.
   In accordance with the administrative regulations promulgated by the
Department of Community and Economic Development to implement the Pennsylvania
Floodplain Management Act, the following activities shall be prohibited within
any identified floodplain area unless a special permit has been issued by the
borough:
   (A)   The commencement of any of the following activities; or the
construction, enlargement or expansion of any structure used, or intended to be
used, for any of the following activities:
      (1)   Hospitals;
      (2)   Nursing homes; and
      (3)   Jails or prisons.
   (B)   The commencement of, or any construction of, a new manufactured home
park or manufactured home subdivision, or substantial improvement to an
existing manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. VI, § 6.01) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.081 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL PERMITS.
   Applicants for special permits shall provide five copies of the following
items:
   (A)   A written request including a completed permit application form;
   (B)   A small scale map showing the vicinity in which the proposed site is
located;
   (C)   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of one
inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
      (1)   North arrow, scale and date;
      (2)   Topography based upon the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of
1988, showing existing and proposed contours at intervals of two feet;
      (3)   All property and lot lines including dimensions, and the size of
the site expressed in acres or square feet;
      (4)   The location of all existing streets, drives, other accessways and
parking areas, with information concerning widths, pavement types and
construction, and elevations;
      (5)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
buildings, structures and other public or private facilities, including
railroad tracks and facilities, and any other natural and human-made features
affecting, or affected by, the proposed activity or development;
      (6)   The location of the floodplain boundary line, information and spot
elevations concerning the base flood elevation, and information concerning the
flow of water including direction and velocities;
      (7)   The location of all proposed buildings, structures, utilities and
any other improvements; and
      (8)   Any other information which the municipality considers necessary
for adequate review of the application.
   (D)   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
clearly and legibly drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
      (1)   Sufficiently detailed architectural or engineering drawings,
including floor plans, sections and exterior building elevations, as
appropriate;
      (2)   For any proposed building, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and, as required, the elevation of any other floor;
      (3)   Complete information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces, and other factors associated with the
base flood;
      (4)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing
measures;
      (5)   Cross section drawings for all proposed streets, drives, other
accessways and parking areas, showing all rights-of-way and pavement widths;
      (6)   Profile drawings for all proposed streets, drives and vehicular
accessways including existing and proposed grades; and
      (7)   Plans and profiles of all proposed sanitary and storm sewer
systems, water supply systems and any other utilities and facilities.
   (E)   The following data and documentation:
      (1)   Certification from the applicant that the site upon which the
activity or development is proposed is an existing separate and single parcel,
owned by the applicant or the client he or she represents;
      (2)   Certification from a registered professional engineer, architect or
landscape architect that the proposed construction has been adequately designed
to protect against damage from the base flood;
      (3)   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, landscape architect or other qualified person which contains a
complete and accurate description of the nature and extent of pollution that
might possibly occur from the development during the course of a base flood,
including a statement concerning the effects such pollution may have on human
life;
      (4)   A statement certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
description of the effects the proposed development will have on base flood
elevation and flows;
      (5)   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
description of the kinds and amounts of any loose buoyant materials or debris
that may possibly exist or be located on the site below the base flood
elevation and the effects such materials and debris may have on base flood
elevation and flows;
      (6)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s Planning Module for Land Development;
      (7)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control;
      (8)   Any other applicable permits such as, but not limited to, a permit
for any activity regulated by the Department of Environmental Protection under
§ 302 of Act 1978-166; and
      (9)   An evacuation plan which fully explains the manner in which the
site will be safely evacuated before or during the course of a base flood.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. VI, § 6.02)
§ 152.082 APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   Upon receipt of an application for a special permit by the borough the
following procedures shall apply in addition to those of §§
152.020 through
152.030.
   (A)   Within three working days following receipt of the application, a
complete copy of the application and all accompanying documentation shall be
forwarded to the County Planning Commission by registered or certified mail for
its review and recommendations. Copies of the application shall also be
forwarded to the Borough Planning Commission and Borough Engineer for review
and comment.
   (B)   If an application is received that is incomplete, the borough shall
notify the applicant in writing, stating in what respect the application is
deficient.
   (C)   If the borough decides to disapprove an application, it shall notify
the applicant, in writing, of the reasons for the disapproval.
   (D)   If the borough approves an application, it shall file written
notification, together with the application and all pertinent information, with
the Department of Community and Economic Development, by registered or
certified mail, within five working days after the date of approval.
   (E)   Before issuing the special permit, the borough shall allow the
Department of Community and Economic Development 30 days, after receipt of the
notification by the Department, to review the application and decision made by
the borough.
   (F)   If the borough does not receive any communication from the Department
of Community and Economic Development during the 30-day review period, it may
issue a special permit to the applicant.
   (G)   If the Department of Community and Economic Development should decide
to disapprove an application, it shall notify the borough and the applicant, in
writing, of the reasons for the disapproval, and the borough shall not issue
the special permit.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. VI, § 6.03)
§ 152.083 SPECIAL TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §§
152.060 through
152.066, the following minimum requirements shall also apply to any proposed
development requiring a special permit. If there is any conflict between any of
the following requirements and those in §§
152.060 through
152.066 or in any other code, ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
   (B)   No application for a special permit shall be approved unless it can be
determined that the structure or activity will be located, constructed and
maintained in a manner which will:
      (1)   Fully protect the health and safety of the general public and any
occupants of the structure. At a minimum, all new structures shall be designed,
located and constructed so that:
         (a)   The structure will survive inundation by waters of the base
flood without any lateral movement or damage to either the structure itself, or
to any of its equipment or contents below the BFE;
         (b)   The lowest floor (including basement) will be elevated to at
least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation; and
         (c)   The occupants of the structure can remain inside for an
indefinite period of time and be safely evacuated at any time during the base
flood.
      (2)   Prevent any significant possibility of pollution, increased flood
levels or flows, or debris endangering life and property.
   (C)   All hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by
professional engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall
certify that the technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted
technical concepts. Studies, analyses, computations and the like shall be
submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the
borough and the Department of Community and Economic Development.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. VI, § 6.04)
EXISTING STRUCTURES IN IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 152.095 EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   The provisions of this chapter do not require any changes or improvements to
be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an improvement is made
to any existing structure, the provisions of §
152.096 shall apply.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. VII, § 7.01)
§ 152.096 IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following provisions shall apply whenever any improvement is made to an
existing structure located within any identified floodplain area.
   (A)   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within any Floodway Area/District that would cause any increase in BFE.
   (B)   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within AE Area/District without floodway that would, together with all other
existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE more than one foot at
any point.
   (C)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure to an extent or amount of 50% or more of its
market value, shall constitute a substantial improvement and shall be
undertaken only in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The above activity shall also address the requirements of the 34 Pa.
Code, as amended and the 2009 IBC and the 2009 IRC.
   (E)   Within any Floodway Area/District (see §
152.046(A)), no new construction or development shall be allowed, unless the
appropriate permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection
Regional Office.
   (F)   Within any AE Area/District without floodway (see §
152.046(B)), no new construction or development shall be located within the
area measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless
the appropriate permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental
Protection Regional Office.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. VII, § 7.02) Penalty, see §
152.999
VARIANCES
§ 152.110 GENERAL.
   If compliance with any of the requirements of this chapter would result in
an exceptional hardship to a prospective builder, developer or landowner, the
Borough Zoning Hearing Board, may, upon request, grant relief from the strict
application of the requirements.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. VIII, § 8.01)
§ 152.111 VARIANCE PROCEDURES AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Requests for variances shall be considered by the borough in
accordance with the procedures contained in §
152.030 and the following.
      (1)   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use
or activity within any Floodway Area/District that would cause any increase in
the BFE.
      (2)   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use
or activity within any AE Area/District without floodway that would, together
with all other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE more than
one foot at any point.
      (3)   Except for a possible modification of the regulatory flood
elevation requirement involved, no variance shall be granted for any of the
other requirements pertaining specifically to development regulated by special
permit (§§
152.080 through
152.083) or to development which may endanger human life (§
152.063).
      (4)   If granted, a variance shall involve only the least modification
necessary to provide relief.
      (5)   In granting any variance, the borough shall attach whatever
reasonable conditions and safeguards it considers necessary in order to protect
the public health, safety and welfare, and to achieve the objectives of this
chapter.
      (6)   Whenever a variance is granted, the borough shall notify the
applicant in writing that:
         (a)   The granting of the variance may result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance; and
         (b)   Such variances may increase the risks to life and property.
      (7)   In reviewing any request for a variance, the borough shall
consider, at a minimum, the following:
         (a)   There is good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship to the applicant;
         (c)   The granting of the variance will:
            1.   Neither result in an unacceptable or prohibited increase in
flood heights, additional threats to public safety or extraordinary public
expense; nor
            2.   Create nuisances, cause fraud on, or victimize the public, or
conflict with any other applicable state or local ordinances and regulations.
      (8)   A complete record of all variance requests and related actions
shall be maintained by the borough. In addition, a report of all variances
granted during the year shall be included in the annual report to the FEMA.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any of the above, however, all structures shall be
designed and constructed so as to have the capability of resisting the 1%
annual chance flood.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. VIII, § 8.02)
DEFINITIONS
§ 152.125 GENERAL.
   Unless specifically defined below, words and phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give this chapter its most reasonable
application.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. IX, § 9.01)
§ 152.126 SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD or 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD).
   BASE FLOOD DISCHARGE. The volume of water resulting from a base flood as it
passes a given location within a given time, usually expressed in cubic feet
per second (cfs).
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30 that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from a flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor below ground level on
all sides.
   BUILDING. A combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all manufactured homes and trailers to be
used for human habitation.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion or alteration of buildings or other structures; the placement
of manufactured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling, grading
and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of equipment or
materials; and the subdivision of land.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD. A temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency that includes flood profiles, the Flood Insurance
Rate Map, the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, and the water surface elevation
of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN AREA. A relatively flat or low land area which is subject to
partial or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river or
watercourse; and/or any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation that have been certified either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREA. This term is an umbrella term that includes all
of the areas within which the community has selected to enforce floodplain
regulations. It will always include the area identified as the special flood
hazard area on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Insurance Study, but may
include additional areas identified by the community. See §§
152.045 and 152.046 for the specifics on what areas the community has included
in the IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREA.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest fully enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished, flood resistant partially enclosed area, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access and incidental storage, in an area
other than a basement area is not considered the LOWEST FLOOR of a building,
provided that such space is not designed and built so that the structure is in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis, and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term includes
park trailers, travel trailers, recreational and other similar vehicles which
are placed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MINOR REPAIR. The replacement of existing work with equivalent materials for
the purpose of its routine maintenance and upkeep, but not including the
cutting away of any wall, partition or portion thereof, the removal or cutting
of any structural beam or bearing support, or the removal or change of any
required means of egress, or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting
the exitway requirements; nor shall minor repairs include addition to,
alteration of, replacement or relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer,
drainage, drain leader, gas, oil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric
wiring, mechanical or other work affecting public health or general safety.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective start date of this floodplain management chapter and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. Any construction
started after September 30, 1977 and before the effective start date of this
floodplain management chapter is subject to the ordinance in effect at the time
the permit was issued, provided the start of construction was within 180 days
of permit issuance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility or any other legal entity whatsoever, which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred after December 31, 1974 or on or after the community’s
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) dated September 30, 1977, whichever is
later, and, as such, would be required to be compliant with the regulations of
the National Flood Insurance Program.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A structure for which construction or substantial
improvement occurred on or before December 31, 1974 or before the community’s
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) dated September 30, 1977, whichever is
later, and, as such, would not be required to be compliant with the regulations
of the National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Not more than 400 square feet, measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Not designed for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) or estimated
flood height as determined using simplified methods plus a freeboard safety
factor of one and one-half feet.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). An area in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on the FIRM as
Zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99 or AH.
   SPECIAL PERMIT. A special approval which is required for hospitals, nursing
homes, jails and new manufactured home parks/ subdivisions and substantial
improvements to such existing parks, when such development is located in all,
or a designated portion of a floodplain.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the permit was issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days after the date of the permit
and shall be completed within 12 months after the date of issuance of the
permit unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain
Administrator. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or re-division of a lot, tract or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs, or
devisees, transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided,
however, that the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into
parcels of more than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of
access or any residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage from any cause sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% or more of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, of which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
   UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE (UCC). The statewide building code adopted by the
Pennsylvania General Assembly in 1999 applicable to new construction in all
municipalities whether administered by the municipality, a third party or the
Department of Labor and Industry. Applicable to residential and commercial
buildings, the Code adopted the International Residential Code (IRC) and the
International Building Code (IBC), by reference, as the construction standard
applicable with the state floodplain construction. For coordination purposes,
references to the above are made specifically to various sections of the IRC
and the IBC.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. IX, § 9.02)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or who fails or refuses to comply with any notice,
order of direction of the Floodplain Administrator or any other authorized
employee of the municipality shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall pay a fine to borough, of not less than $25 nor more than
$600, plus costs of prosecution. In addition to the above penalties all other
actions are hereby reserved including an action in equity for the proper
enforcement of this chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any
violation of, or noncompliance with this chapter shall not excuse the violation
or noncompliance or permit it to continue. All such persons shall be required
to correct or remedy such violations and noncompliance within a reasonable
time. Any development initiated or any structure or building constructed,
reconstructed, enlarged, altered or relocated, in noncompliance with this
chapter may be declared by the Council to be a public nuisance and abatable as
such.
(Ord. 1422, passed 4-21-2014, Art. III, § 3.10B)
CHAPTER 153: MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Permits
   
153.03   Removal of mobile home
   
153.04   Partial invalidity and severability
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable, single-family dwelling, which may be towed on
its own running gear, and which may be temporarily or permanently affixed to
real estate, by placement on blocks, foundation or similar construction, and
used for nontransient residential purpose, and constructed with the same, or
similar, electrical, plumbing and sanitary facilities as immobile housing.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land constructed with the necessary utility
connections, pad and other appurtenances necessary for the erection thereon of
a single mobile home, and the exclusive use of its occupants.
(1980 Code, Ch. 16, § 1) (Ord. 1129, passed 11-19-1981)
§ 153.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits required. It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
construct, alter or extend any mobile home within the limits of the borough
unless he or she holds a valid permit from the Commonwealth and the borough in
the name of such person for the specific construction, alteration or extension
proposed, issued by this municipality hereunder.
   (B)   Building permit. No mobile home shall be erected on a single lot
unless a building permit is first obtained in accordance with the borough
Zoning and Building Ordinance.
(1980 Code, Ch. 16, § 2) (Ord. 1129, passed 11-19-1981)
§ 153.03 REMOVAL OF MOBILE HOME.
   No mobile home shall be removed without first obtaining a permit from the
Borough Tax Collector as required by 53 Pa.C.S. § 8821. Such permit shall be
issued upon payment of a fee of $10 and payment of all municipal utilities and
real estate taxes assessed against the home and unpaid at time the permit is
requested.
(1980 Code, Ch. 16, § 4) (Ord. 1129, passed 11-19-1981) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04 PARTIAL INVALIDITY AND SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of
this chapter shall be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this chapter which shall remain in
full force and effect; and for this purpose the provisions of this chapter are
hereby declared to be severable.
   (B)   If any provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with any
other provision of the zoning, building, plumbing, electrical or fire
prevention code of the borough in force on the effective date of this chapter,
the provision which establishes the highest standard for the promotion of the
health and safety of the people shall prevail.
(1980 Code, Ch. 16, § 5) (Ord. 1129, passed 11-19-1981)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Summary offense. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a summary offense for each day of violation, and upon
conviction shall be required to pay a penalty for the use of the borough in a
sum not less than $10 nor more than $300, together with the costs of
prosecution, and in default of such payment, shall be imprisoned in county
prison for a term not to exceed five days.
   (B)   Revocation or suspension of permit. Upon repeated violations by the
same permittee, his or her right to the issuance of a permit, or to continued
operation under a permit, may be suspended for a fixed term, or permanently
revoked, after notice and hearing by the appropriate governing body or board.
(1980 Code, Ch. 16, § 6) (Ord. 1129, passed 11-19-1981)
CHAPTER 154: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
Section
Prohibiting the Posting of Signs
   
154.01   Sign prohibition
   
154.02   Borough usage
   
154.03   Authority to remove
 
   
154.99   Penalty
PROHIBITING THE POSTING OF SIGNS
§ 154.01 SIGN PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to attach any sign, placard,
notice or advertisement of any kind or description upon any signposts, trees,
fire hydrants, utility poles, traffic poles and streetlight poles which are
owned by the borough and are located adjacent to the public streets, alleys or
highways within the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 21, Part 1, § 21-101) (Ord. 1410, passed 12-19-2011, § 1)
Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.02 BOROUGH USAGE.
   This section shall not apply whatsoever to any signs posted upon said
facilities by the borough or any other appropriate governmental entity which
has the approval of the borough to aid or assist in the carrying out of a
governmental function such as the regulation of speed or traffic direction or
the identification of streets and alleys located within the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 21, Part 1, § 21-102) (Ord. 1410, passed 12-19-2011, § 2)
§ 154.03 AUTHORITY TO REMOVE.
   Borough officials are hereby given authority to immediately remove any sign,
placard, notice or advertisement of any kind or description from borough
property as described above upon discovery thereof.
(1980 Code, Ch. 21, Part 1, § 21-103) (Ord. 1410, passed 12-19-2011, § 3)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity who shall violate the provisions of this chapter shall
be guilty of a summary offense and be subject to a fine of not more than $300
for each date that the said person or entity is in violation of this chapter,
plus court costs.
(1980 Code, Ch. 21, Part 1, § 21-104) (Ord. 1410, passed 12-19-2011, § 4)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Short title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Authority of Planning Commission relative to this chapter
   
155.004   Scope of regulations
   
155.005   Exclusions
   
155.006   Legal standing
   
155.007   Unlawful recording or sale of lots
   
155.008   Effective date
Definitions
   
155.020   Purpose
   
155.021   Definitions
Plan Review Procedures
   
155.035   Introduction
   
155.036   Sketch plan pre-submissions
   
155.037   Preliminary plans and final plans
   
155.038   Time of submission
   
155.039   Number of copies; other information
   
155.040   Subdivision Administrator
   
155.041   Receipt
   
155.042   Time
   
155.043   Processing
   
155.044   Approval, disapproval or conditional approval
   
155.045   Recording of plan
   
155.046   Fees and processes subject to Municipalities Planning Code
Plan Requirements
   
155.060   Introduction
   
155.061   Sketch plan
   
155.062   Preliminary plan/final plan
   
155.063   Traffic study
Design Standards
   
155.075   Introduction
   
155.076   General site standards
   
155.077   Design standards for public and private improvements
   
155.078   Placement of buildings upon lots
   
155.079   Parking and vehicular access areas
   
155.080   General lot and parcel design standards
   
155.081   General street design standards
   
155.082   Universal landscaping design standards
   
155.083   Street trees universal design standard
   
155.084   General curbs and sidewalk design standards
   
155.085   General lighting design standards
   
155.086   General design standards for signs
   
155.087   Underground wiring
   
155.088   Water supply, sewage disposal and stormwater management
   
155.089   Stormwater management
   
155.090   Mobilehome park regulations
Improvements Guarantees
   
155.105   Guarantee of improvements installation required
   
155.106   Improvements to be provided by the applicant
   
155.107   Development agreement
   
155.108   Performance guarantee
   
155.109   Approval of improvements
   
155.110   Remedies to effect completion of improvements
   
155.111   Maintenance guarantee
Administration, Amendment and Modification
   
155.125   Amendments
   
155.126   Filing fees and review
   
155.127   Records
   
155.128   Preventive remedies
   
155.129   Modification of regulations
   
155.130   Conflict
   
155.131   Failure to complete improvements
   
155.132   Appeals
   
155.133   Interpretation
   
155.134   Validity
   
155.135   Copies
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Grove City Subdivision
and Land Development Ordinance.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 1, § 101)
§ 155.002 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted:
   (A)   To promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare;
   (B)   To assure that the arrangement of each subdivision or land development
furthers the safe, harmonious and orderly development of the borough;
   (C)   To guarantee that the streets in and bordering each subdivision or
land development are coordinated with the municipal circulation system and are
of such widths, grades, locations and construction as to accommodate
anticipated traffic and facilitate emergency service access;
   (D)   To ensure that public and private improvements necessary to support
orderly development are installed and that a means of financial security for
the quality of construction is established;
   (E)   To provide easements of adequate size and location for storm drainage
and other utilities;
   (F)   To curtail unnecessary destruction of natural plant materials or
excessive earth disturbance, minimize the impact of stormwater run-off on
drainage ways and downstream properties and to prevent destruction of valuable
wetland areas and farmland;
   (G)   To encourage development that relates to the neighborhood context;
   (H)   To establish a precise, simple, uniform and objective procedure for
review and disposition of subdivisions and land development plan proposals, and
to ease the process of conveyance of title to property;
   (I)   To complement the Borough Zoning Ordinance by ensuring that
subdivision and land development plans are consistent with current zoning
standards; and
   (J)   To implement the Wolf Creek Slippery Rock Creek Council of Governments
Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 1, § 102)
§ 155.003 AUTHORITY OF PLANNING COMMISSION RELATIVE TO THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of Article V (53 P.S. §§ 10501 to
10516) and § 501 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code (53 P.S. §
10105), the Council, does hereby designate the Borough Planning Commission as
the agency for the acceptance, review and/or approval of all subdivision and
land developments within the borough, and to have related authorities and
responsibilities as specified in this chapter.
   (B)   All subdivisions of land and land developments, within the borough are
regulated by the Borough Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance. It shall
not be lawful to record any plan required to be approved by the Planning
Commission in any public office unless the same shall bear, thereon by
endorsement, the approval of the Planning Commission. The disapproval of any
such plan by the Planning Commission shall be deemed a refusal of the privilege
to record said plan.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 1, § 103) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.004 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   On and after the effective date of this chapter, no lot in a
subdivision may be sold or leased, no permit to erect or move any building upon
land in a subdivision or land development plan may be issued, and no building,
permanent or temporary, may be erected in a subdivision or land development
plan unless and until a subdivision plan or a land development plan has been
approved in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and until the
improvements required by this chapter, if part of the approved plan, have
either been constructed or guaranteed by bond.
   (B)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter are held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the protection of
the public health, safety, morals and general welfare.
   (C)   This chapter shall not apply to any lot or lots, subdivision or land
development plan created and lawfully recorded prior to enactment of this
chapter. However, any lot, subdivision or development plan illegally recorded
or not lawfully recorded prior to enactment shall not be given legal status by
the enactment of this chapter.
   (D)   Any re-division or combining of lots or adjustment of lot lines within
a subdivision plan previously approved and/or recorded, or any rearrangement of
structures, parking areas, access points, graded land surfaces or other
elements within an already approved land development plan, shall be subject to
the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Applications for subdivision and land development shall be forwarded
upon receipt by the borough to the County Regional Planning Commission for
review and recommendations. Such municipalities shall not approve such
applications until the County Regional Planning Commission’s review is received
or until the expiration of 30 days from the date the application was forwarded
to the Planning Commission.
   (F)   Where differences occur between the standards of the Borough
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance and the standards outlined in the
zoning ordinance or other regulations relative to building development or
infrastructure, the more restrictive standards shall apply unless specifically
noted. The borough has also adopted a multi-municipal comprehensive plan and
zoning ordinance. The borough may use the Plan’s community development goals
and objectives in interpreting the standards of this chapter, and said goals
and objectives are adopted herein by reference.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 1, § 104) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.005 EXCLUSIONS.
   The Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code permits the exclusion of
certain developments from being enforced as a land development. Within the
borough the addition of an accessory building on a lot or lots subordinate to
an existing principal building is not considered a land development and is
excluded from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 1, § 105)
§ 155.006 LEGAL STANDING.
   (A)   If any section, clause, paragraph, regulation or provision of this
chapter is found invalid by a court of law, such judgment shall not affect,
impair, invalidate or nullify the remaining sections, clauses, paragraphs,
regulations or provisions.
   (B)   All ordinances or parts of ordinances or regulations in conflict with
this chapter or inconsistent with its provisions are hereby repealed to the
extent necessary to give this chapter full force and effect. In particular this
chapter repeals and replaces Ord. 719 of 1956.
   (C)   The adoption of this chapter does not make legitimate development
activity in the borough illegal under provisions of prior regulations, nor does
it annul any litigation currently being pursued in the future against such
illegal activity.
   (D)   The approval of any subdivision plan or land development shall not
constitute a representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind by the borough
or by any official or employee of the practicality or safety of the arrangement
of lots and improvements or other elements within the development covered by
the approval and shall create no liability upon the borough, its officials or
employees.
   (E)   Approval of any subdivision plan or land development is only approval
of the specifications and regulations governed by this chapter.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 1, § 106)
§ 155.007 UNLAWFUL RECORDING OR SALE OF LOTS.
   (A)   No plan of a subdivision or land development proposed within the
borough shall be recorded in any public office unless or until that plan has
been approved or reviewed by the Planning Commission, and shall bear the proper
certification of such action.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, trade or otherwise convey
any lot, parcel or tract of land as part of, or in conformity with, any plan,
plat or replat of any subdivision or land development unless and until said
plan, plat, replat or land development shall have been first recorded in the
office of the County Recorder of Deeds.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 1, § 107) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.008 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective five days from the date of its adoption.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 7, § 712)
DEFINITIONS
§ 155.020 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The following words or phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings given to them in this subchapter unless the context or
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247, as amended, indicates
otherwise. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall, for
the purpose of this chapter, have the meaning indicated. Words in the singular
include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular. The word
“person” includes an individual or any other legal entity including a
corporation, unincorporated association and a partnership. The words “shall”
and “will” are mandatory; the word “may” is permissive. An “agency” shall be
construed to include its successors or assigns.
   (B)   Words not defined in this subchapter or the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code shall have meanings as in a standard dictionary.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 2, § 201)
§ 155.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public or private street primarily designed to serve as secondary
access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal frontage is on
some other street.
   APPLICANT. A landowner or developer, hereinafter defined, who has filed an
application for a subdivision or land development including his or her
successors and assigns.
   APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT. Every application, whether preliminary,
tentative or final, required to be filed and approved prior to start of
construction or development, including, but not limited to, an application for
a building permit, for the approval of a subdivision or land development plan.
   ARTERIAL. A road designed to include highways that provide connections
between urban places and other traffic generators that develop substantial
volumes of traffic on an intercounty or inter-city basis where the average trip
lengths are usually five miles or greater.
   AVERAGE DAILY TRIPS (ADT). The average number of vehicular trips generated
by a land use over a 24-hour period during the week.
   BERM. A mound of soil, either natural or human-made, used to obstruct views.
   BOROUGH. The Borough of Grove City, Mercer County, Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
   BUFFER. An area within a property or site, generally adjacent to and
parallel with the property line, either consisting of natural existing
vegetation or created by the use of trees, shrubs, fences and/or berms,
designed to limit continuously the view of and/or sound from the site to
adjacent sites or properties.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods or materials of any kind.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is located.
   CALIPER. A measurement of the diameter of a trunk tree taken at four feet
from grade.
   CAPPED (DRY) SYSTEM. A completed water supply and/or sewage collection
system put in place for future use (contingent upon expansion), rather than to
meet immediate development needs.
   CARTWAY. The actual road surface area from curb line to curb line that may
include travel lanes, parking lanes and deceleration and acceleration lanes.
Where there are no curbs, the CARTWAY is that portion between the edges of the
paved, or hard surface width.
   COLLECTOR STREET. Those streets carrying considerable volumes of traffic
that, in addition to giving access to abutting properties, intercept local
streets and provide routes to community facilities to arterials and to state
highways.
   COMMISSION or PLANNING COMMISSION. The Borough Planning Commission unless
otherwise clearly stated.
   CONDOMINIUM. A building, or group of buildings, in which dwelling units,
offices or floor area are owned individually and the structure, common areas
and facilities are owned by all the owners on a proportional, undivided basis.
   CONTOUR. An imaginary line on the surface of the earth connecting all points
of equal height above some reference plane, usually sea level.
   CULVERT. A structure designed to convey a watercourse, not incorporated in a
closed drainage system, under a road or pedestrian walk.
   CURB. A vertical or sloping edge marking the edge of a cartway.
   DEAD-END STREET. A local street with only one outlet and having the other
end for the reversal of traffic movement. (See STREET.)
   DEDICATION. An act transmitting property or interest thereto.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. Standards that set forth specific improvement
requirements.
   DETENTION BASIN. A human-made or natural water collector facility designed
to collect surface and sub-surface water in order to impede its flow and to
release the same gradually, at a rate not greater than that prior to the
development of the property, into natural or human-made outlets.
   DEVELOPER. Any landowner, agent of such landowner, or tenant with permission
of such landowner, who makes, or causes to be made, a land development or a
subdivision of land.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, construction or improvements to buildings or
other structures, the placement of mobile homes, streets and other paving,
utilities, storm sewers, drains, improvements to watercourses, sidewalks,
street signs, crosswalks, shade trees, seeding, sodding, monuments or other
property markers, water supply facilities and sewage facilities; filling,
grading, excavation, mining, dredging or drilling operations, or change of use
as regulated by the Zoning Ordinance, when conducted within the context of
subdivision or land development activities, as defined by the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code.
   DRAINAGE. The removal of surface water or groundwater from land by drains,
grading or other means.
   DRAINAGE FACILITY. Any component of the drainage system.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The system, through which water flows from the land,
including all watercourses, water bodies and wetlands.
   DRIVEWAY. A private, paved or unpaved roadway, used for ingress or egress of
vehicles, and allowing access from a street to a property and any building or
other structure or facility on the property.
   DRY SYSTEM (LINES). See CAPPED SYSTEM.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, designed for residential occupancy.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EASEMENT. A grant of one or more property rights, usually in a defined area,
by the property owner to and/or for use by the public, a corporation, or
another person or entity.
   ENVIRONMENTAL CONSTRAINTS. Features, natural resources or land
characteristics that are sensitive to improvements and may require conservation
measures by the application of creative development techniques to prevent
degradation of the environment, or may require limited development, or in
certain instances may preclude development.
   EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT (EDU). A term used in planning for water and/or
sewer facilities to estimate the water used or generated by a particular use.
For residential planning, the term is literal, and typically a residential EDU
is estimated at 300 gallons per day. In commercial, industrial, institutional
or other nonresidential uses the EDU sanitary sewer flow is equal to 400
gallons per day.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments, or the
wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice or gravity.
   ESCROW. A financial guarantee permitted under § 509 of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code (53 P.S. § 10509).
   FAMILY. A group of individuals, not necessarily related by blood, marriage,
adoption or guardianship living together in a dwelling unit as a single
housekeeping unit.
   FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of wood, masonry, stone, wire,
metal or any other manufactured material or combination of materials.
   FINAL APPROVAL. The official action of the Planning Commission taken on a
minor subdivision or a preliminarily approved major subdivision or land
development plan after all conditions, engineering plans and other requirements
have been completed or fulfilled and the required improvements have been
installed or guarantees properly posed for their completion or approval
conditioned upon the posting of such guarantee.
   FINAL PLAN. The final map of all or a portion of a subdivision or land
development plan that is presented for final approval, and official recording
as required by statute.
   FLAG LOT. A lot not meeting the minimum frontage requirements of this
chapter and/or local regulations and where access to a public road is provided
by a narrow strip of land.
   FRONTAGE. See LOT FRONTAGE.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Borough Council of the Borough of Grove City.
   GRADE. The slope of a street or other public way specified in percentage
terms.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total area of a building measured by taking the
outside dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for occupancy
or storage.
   GROUND COVER. A planting of low-growing plants or sod that, in time, forms a
dense mat covering the area, preventing soil from being blown or washed away
and the growth of unwanted plants.
   HISTORIC SITE. A structure or place of historical significance. May be
designated as such by local, state or federal government.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A surface that has been compacted or covered with a
layer of material so that it is highly resistant to infiltration by water.
   IMPROVEMENT. Physical changes to the land, including, but not limited to,
construction of buildings, installation of a structure upon a lot or lots,
grading, paving, conversion or change of land use, curbs, gutters, storm sewers
and drains, alterations to existing watercourses, installation of sidewalks,
crosswalks, roads and streets street signs, monuments, parking lots, water
supply facilities and sewage disposal facilities.
   INDUSTRIAL STREET. A street designed to provide access from a collector or
arterial street to an industrial structure of 20,000 square feet or larger with
one or more loading docks.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT. As defined by the Municipalities Planning Code § 107 (53
P.S. § 10107), is any of the following activities:
      (1)   The improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots, tracts
or parcels of land for any purpose involving:
         (a)   A subdivision of land (provided that, for the purpose of this
chapter, the regulations governing subdivisions are separate from those
governing other types of land development);
         (b)   A group of two or more residential or nonresidential buildings,
whether proposed initially or cumulatively, or a single nonresidential building
on a lot or lots regardless of the number of occupants or tenure; or
         (c)   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially
or cumulatively, between or among two or more existing or prospective occupants
by means of, or for the purpose of streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups or other features.
      (2)   This definition also includes all development in accordance with §
503(1.1) of the Municipalities Planning Code (53 P.S. § 10503(1.1)).
   LOCAL STREET. Those streets used primarily to provide access to abutting
properties, to provide frontage for access to private lots and carry traffic
having destination or origin on the street itself.
   LOT. A tract or parcel of land, regardless of size, held in single or joint
ownership, which is occupied or capable of being occupied by buildings,
structures and accessory buildings, including such open spaces as are arranged,
designed or required. The term LOT shall also mean PARCEL, PLOT, SITE or
similar term.
   LOT AREA. The area contained within the lot lines of the individual parcels
of land as shown on a subdivision plan, excluding the area within the street
right-of-way or easement for overhead utility lines, but including any
subsurface easements, expressed in terms of acres or square feet.
   LOT CONSOLIDATION (ALSO UN-SUBDIVISION). The act of eliminating an existing
subdivision by combining lots or parcels of land into one deed describing the
entire tract as one lot or parcel. The procedure for a un-subdivision follows
that of a minor subdivision.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The portion of a lot extending along a street line.
   MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE. Any security that may be required and accepted by the
governing body of the local municipality to ensure that necessary improvements
will function as required for a specific period of time.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision that contains four or more lots with
access to an approved road, or requires the construction of new streets, or the
installation of water, sewer or similar infrastructure. The number of lots
shall be cumulative through all subdivisions occurring within the past ten
years.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A service street that runs parallel to a higher-
order street that, for purposes of safety, provides access to abutting
properties and separation from through traffic. May be designed as a local
street or collector as anticipated daily traffic dictates.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. A subdivision that contains less than four lots,
including the residual or parent parcel, with approved access to an existing
public street and meets all other requirement of this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable, single-family dwelling intended for permanent
occupancy, contained in one unit, or in two or more units designed to be joined
into one integral unit capable of again being separated for repeated towing,
that arrives at a site complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, and constructed so that it may be
used without a permanent foundation.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel or leased area of land in a mobile home park,
improved with the necessary utility connections and other appurtenances
necessary for the erections thereon of a single mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. The land development of a parcel or contiguous parcels of
land that have been so designated and improved that it contains two or more
mobile home lots for the placement thereon of mobile homes.
   MPC. The Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247 of 1968, (53
P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.) as subsequently re-enacted and amended.
   MUNICIPAL ENGINEER. A professional, licensed as such in the Commonwealth,
duly appointed as the engineer for the borough.
   NON-BUILDING LOT. A lot created for which there will be no construction of a
building, such as parkland, or forestry uses; or a lot only for construction of
essential services or public utilities, as defined by the borough Zoning
Ordinance.
   OFF-SITE. Located outside the lot lines of the lot in question but within
the property (of which the lot is a part) that is the subject of a development
application, or on a contiguous portion of a street or right-of-way.
   ON-LOT. Located on the property that is the subject of a development
application or on a contiguous portion of a street or right-of-way.
   ON-SITE. Located upon the lot in question, or upon an abutting public
street, alley, lot, easement or right-of-way.
   ON-STREET PARKING SPACE. A parking space that is located on a dedicated
street right-of-way.
   OPEN SPACE. Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved and
set aside, dedicated, designated or reserved for the public or private use
enjoyment or for the use and enjoyment of owners and occupants of land
adjoining or neighboring such open space.
   PARCEL. Any legally described piece of land under single ownership.
   PARKING LANE. A lane usually located on the sides of streets, designed to
provide on-street parking for vehicular traffic.
   PARKING SPACE. An area provided for the parking of a motor vehicle.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any security, consistent with the criteria of Article
V of the Municipalities Planning Code (53 P.S. §§ 10501 to 10516) that may be
accepted as a guarantee that the required improvements are satisfactorily
completed.
   PERVIOUS SURFACE. A surface that permits full or partial absorption of
stormwater.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Borough Planning Commission, unless otherwise
noted.
   PLAT. The map or plan of a subdivision or land development, whether
preliminary or final.
   POTABLE WATER SUPPLY. Water suitable for drinking or cooking purposes.
   PRELIMINARY APPROVAL. The conferral of certain rights prior to final
approval after specific elements of a land development plan or subdivision have
been agreed upon by the Planning Commission and the applicant.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN. A drawing indicating the proposed layout of a land
development or subdivision and related information that is submitted for
preliminary approval and meeting the requirements of this chapter.
   PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANTS. Persons who provide expert or professional advice,
including, but not limited to, architects, attorneys, certified public
accountants, engineers, geologists, land surveyors, landscape architects or
planners.
   PUBLIC HEARING. A formal meeting held pursuant to public notice by the
governing body or planning agency, intended to inform and obtain public
comment, prior to taking action in accordance with the chapter or the MPC.
   PUBLIC MEETING. A forum held pursuant to notice under the Act of July 3,
1986 (P.L. 388), No. 84), known as the “Sunshine Act” (65 Pa.C.S. §§ 701 et
seq.).
   PUBLIC NOTICE. Notice published once each week for two successive weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality. Such notice shall state
the time and place of the hearing and the particular nature of the matter to be
considered at the hearing. The first publication shall not be more than 30 days
and the second publication shall not be less than seven days from the date of
the hearing.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. An open space area conveyed or otherwise dedicated to the
local municipality, municipal agency, board of education, state or county
agency, conservancy or other public body for recreational or conservational
uses.
   RETAINING WALL. A structure erected between lands of different elevation to
protect structures and/or to prevent the washing down or erosion of earth from
the upper slope level.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, gas pipeline,
water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees or for another special
use.
   SCREEN. A structure or planting that may consist of fencing, berms and/or
evergreen trees or shrubs providing a continuous view obstruction within a site
or property.
   SEDIMENTATION. A deposit of soil that has been transported from its site of
origin by water, ice, wind, gravity or other natural means as a product of
erosion.
   SETBACK. The distance between the street right-of-way line and the front
line of a building or any projection thereof, excluding uncovered steps.
   SEWER. Any pipe conduit used to collect and carry away sewage or stormwater
runoff from the generating source to treatment plants or receiving streams.
   SHOULDER. The graded part of the right-of-way that lies between the edge of
the main pavement (main traveled way) and the curb line or drainage way.
   SIDEWALK. A paved path provided for pedestrian use and usually located at
the side of a road within the right-of-way.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. A triangular-shaped portion of land established at street
intersections in which nothing is erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow
in such a manner as to limit or obstruct the sight distance of motorists
entering or leaving the intersection.
   SITE PLAN. An accurately scaled land development plan that illustrates the
existing conditions on a land parcel as well as depicting details of a proposed
land development.
   SKETCH PLAN. A rough drawing of a proposed subdivision plan or land
development of sufficient accuracy to be used for the purpose of discussion and
applicability of this chapter.
   STORMWATER DETENTION. A provision for storage of stormwater runoff and the
controlled release of such runoff during and after a flood or storm.
   STREET. Includes street, avenue, boulevard, road, highway, freeway, parkway,
alley, viaduct, stub street and any other way used or intended to be used by
vehicular traffic or pedestrians, whether public or private. Collector and
arterial streets shall be determined as such by the Functional Class Maps for
Mercer County, the borough or the Wolf Creek Slippery Rock Creek Council of
Governments Multi-Municipal Comprehensive Plan.
   SUBDIVISION. A specific type of land development that includes the division
or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land by any means into two or more
lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land including changes in existing
lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of lease, partition by
the court for distribution to heirs or devisees, transfer of ownership, or
building or lot development; provided, however, that the subdivision by lease
of land for agricultural purposes into parcels of more than ten acres, not
involving any new street or easement of access or any residential dwelling,
shall be exempted.
   SUBGRADE. The natural ground lying beneath a road or other paved area.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected that requires location on the
ground or attached to something having location on the ground.
   TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS. An analysis prepared by a professional engineer of
anticipated or post development traffic generated by a new or expanded
development plan on roads that provide access to the development.
   TRIP. A single or one-way vehicle movement to or from a property or study
area. TRIPS can be added together to calculate the total number of vehicles
expected to enter and leave a specific land use or site over a designated
period of time.
   USGS. United States Geological Survey or the maps produced by that agency.
   YARD. An open space that lies between the principal building or buildings
and the nearest lot line.
   YARD, FRONT. A space extending the full width of the lot between any
building and the front lot line.
   YARD, REAR. A space extending the full width of the lot between any building
and the rear lot line.
   YARD, SIDE. A space extending from the front yard to the rear yard between
any building and the side lot line.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 2, § 202)
PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 155.035 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to set forth the procedures for the
submission of processing and approval of major subdivisions, minor
subdivisions, mobile home parks and minor or major land developments.
Generally, the processing of these developments will follow similar steps,
although the details on the specific information, drawing scale and other
details may vary. Determination shall be made by the borough, based upon
consistency with Table 156A and the definitions of this chapter and the MPC.
   (B)   For general information, the following is provided.
      (1)   Replat. A lot line revision is the adjustment of one or more lot
lines between two or more adjacent parcels and which does not result in the
creation of any new lot. Replats shall be considered minor subdivisions, and
may be considered for final plan approval.
      (2)   Minor subdivisions and minor land developments. Qualifying minor
subdivision may submit a final plan only. Generally, these involve small
developments along existing roads, changes of lot lines between adjoining
properties and smaller land developments. To qualify as such, no extension of
utilities or new roads may be involved except for extensions of approved
private driveways for right-of-way access. A one-step process may be permitted
starting with a combined preliminary and final plan. Minor subdivisions, lot
line revisions and minor land developments are also defined in §
155.021. All plans must be recorded or the approval is voided. Consideration as
a minor subdivision shall not include a subdivision or re-subdivision of any
lot, tract, parcel, site or other division of land or portion thereof that had
received previous approval as a subdivision within ten years prior to the
submission of the application, where the cumulative effect of combining said
current and prior subdivisions would result in a subdivision not meeting the
criteria of this section. If such prior approval has taken place, all
applications shall be considered a single application for purposes of
classification.
      (3)   Major subdivisions and land developments. Major subdivisions and
land developments (excluding minor land developments) involve a two-stage
process, using a preliminary and final plan. The purpose of the preliminary
plan is to set forth the proposed development in detail. This allows for a
comprehensive review of the proposed development to acquaint the developer with
any requirements that may have been missed. The final plan is the document to
be officially recorded. If any deficiencies have been corrected, the final plan
can be approved. After approval, the developer has 90 days to record the plan.
All plans must be recorded or the approval is voided. A final and preliminary
plan may be submitted at the same time only for major land developments only
when the sketch plan process outlined in §
155.036 has been submitted at the optional traditional neighborhood development
process under §
155.077 is employed.
 
Table 156A
Land Development Type  Definition
                       New construction of greater than 1,000 square feet gross
Major land development floor area or earth disturbance area of 1 acre or more
                       and or expected to generate a 100 or more vehicle trips
                       per day.
                       Creation of more than 4 lots or any subdivision
Major subdivision      requiring a new public street or public water or sewer
                       extension.
                       New construction of no greater than 1,000 square feet
Minor land development gross floor area or earth disturbance area of 1 acre or
                       less, and does not entail the conversion of a single-
                       family dwelling into 2 or more dwelling units.
                       Creation of no more than 4 lots, including residual, or
Minor subdivision      fewer than 4 lots requiring new public streets or public
                       water or sewer extension.
                       Transfer of land between adjacent lots where no new
Replat                 building lot is created, including the erasure of any
                       lot line where fewer lots are the result.
 
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 3, § 301)
§ 155.036 SKETCH PLAN PRE-SUBMISSIONS.
   A sketch plan/pre-submission conference is not required; however, it is
highly recommended. The purpose is to acquaint the developer with the
requirements of this chapter and to avoid unneeded processing or incorrectly
prepared plats. This step is also recommended for minor subdivisions, though
the developer or the developer’s surveyor should understand the requirements of
this chapter. Though no set format is required, such plans should be adequate
to show the primary elements of the proposed development.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 3, § 302)
§ 155.037 PRELIMINARY PLANS AND FINAL PLANS.
   (A)   Preliminary plans are required of all major subdivisions, mobile home
parks and major land developments. Preliminary plan approval shall precede
submission of a final plan. Lot line revisions or minor subdivision and land
developments may submit a combined preliminary/final plan document.
   (B)   Applicants submitting a sketch plan and meeting all standards of § 103
of the Traditional Neighborhood Development Design Manual may also submit a
combined preliminary/final plan document.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 3, § 303)
§ 155.038 TIME OF SUBMISSION.
   All plans must be submitted at least 14 calendar days prior to the meeting
of the Borough Planning Commission. The developer is strongly encouraged to
attend the Planning Commission meeting at which time the application is to be
considered. Non-attendance could result in time delays.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 3, § 304)
§ 155.039 NUMBER OF COPIES; OTHER INFORMATION.
   The borough prefers a submission of or four full size print copies and an
electronic PDF file. If all copies are paper, at least 12 copies of the plan
with all required exhibits and completed applications must be submitted. Or, as
an alternative, the developer may submit four full sized copies and nine
reduced size copies (11 by 17 inch format). Sections 155.060 through
155.063 detail the required size, scale and type of submission. The borough may
develop and include a formal application, which shall accompany all
submissions.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 3, § 305)
§ 155.040 SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATOR.
   All plans, exhibits, applications and correspondence shall be directed to
the Subdivision Administrator, who shall be selected by the borough. The
Subdivision Administrator is also responsible for all communications to the
developer, including notices of approval, disapproval and conditional approval.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 3, § 306)
§ 155.041 RECEIPT.
   (A)   The Subdivision Administrator shall receive submissions, provided the
required submission includes the appropriate number of plan copies, all fees
are paid, and the plan is submitted at least 14 days before the Planning
Commission meeting. Within ten business days of receipt, the Administrator, or
another person so appointed by the borough, shall review the application to
determine if all required information is complete. If the application is
incomplete, the agent shall notify the applicant in writing within three
business days of that decision. In this case, specific completion deficiencies
shall be specifically identified.
   (B)   The application shall not be considered complete for purposes of
review until all deficiencies of information are provided. If the submission is
complete, the Administrator shall notify the applicant and provide a receipt of
completion upon the applicant’s request.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 3, § 307)
§ 155.042 TIME.
   After receipt of a complete submission, the Borough Planning Commission
shall approve, disapprove or conditionally approve the submission within 90
days of the first meeting after determination that the submission is complete,
or within such time periods as permitted by the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, (whichever is greater).
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 3, § 308)
§ 155.043 PROCESSING.
   All plans, whether preliminary or final, shall be processed as follows.
   (A)   All application files and plats shall be sent by the Subdivision
Administrator or designee to the Borough Planning Commission. The Commission
shall review the plans for compliance with this chapter, any other pertinent
regulations and make a decision.
   (B)   The Subdivision Administrator shall forward one copy to the County
Regional Planning Commission for its review and comment. The subdivision shall
not be approved until comments are received from that agency or the expiration
of 30 days from the date the application was forwarded. If the county imposes a
fee for its review and report, the applicant shall pay that fee.
   (C)   Three copies of the approved plat shall be retained or supplied by the
developer to record approval, disapproval or conditional approval upon, of
which one copy shall be returned to the developer.
   (D)   A copy shall be sent to the Borough Engineer or another professional
consultant if necessary.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 3, § 309)
§ 155.044 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL OR CONDITIONAL APPROVAL.
   Upon review, the Borough Planning Commission shall:
   (A)   Approve the application as submitted;
   (B)   Disapprove the application as submitted. If the application is
disapproved, the Commission shall cite the deficiencies of the application and
identify appropriate sections of this chapter or another applicable ordinance
that the application or plat did not comply with;
   (C)   Conditional approval: the Commission may grant the application a
conditional approval. If so, it shall specify the defects found in the
application and those sections of this chapter or law involved, as appropriate,
and what other conditions must be met for approval. These conditions shall be
forwarded to the applicant and must be accepted by the applicant, in writing,
within 15 days of notice thereof. If not accepted in writing, or if rejected,
the conditional approval shall be rescinded and the development disapproved;
and/or
   (D)   Notice of action: the borough shall notify the applicant, in writing,
by first class mail, of the decision of the Planning Commission within 15 days
of the decision to approve, disapprove or conditionally approve.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 3, § 310)
§ 155.045 RECORDING OF PLAN.
   (A)   Upon approval of the final plan, the plan shall be recorded by the
developer with the County Record of Deeds. The final plan shall be recorded no
later than 90 days after the date of the final plan approval. Should the
developer fail to record the final plan within such a period, the approval
shall be considered null and void.
   (B)   The developer shall record the final plan with the County Recorder of
Deeds before proceeding with the sale of lots, and the borough shall require
receipt of recording before the issuance of zoning or building permits by the
borough The developer shall furnish the borough with a receipt of recording
within five business days of the recording. Failure to supply the borough with
such a receipt shall result in delay of other permits or approvals.
   (C)   Recording the final plan after approval shall have the effect of an
irrevocable offer to dedicate all public streets and other public ways to
public use, and to dedicate or reserve all park reservations, and school sites
and other public service areas as provided. Approval shall not impose any duty
upon the borough concerning maintenance, acceptance or improvement of any such
dedicated streets, parks areas or portions of improvements until the proper
authorities of the borough shall have made actual appropriation by ordinance of
acceptance.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 3, § 311)
§ 155.046 FEES AND PROCESSES SUBJECT TO MUNICIPALITIES PLANNING CODE.
   (A)   All processes and procedures shall follow the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code where not explicitly stated.
   (B)   Fees for the review and processing of subdivision and land development
plans will be charged at the time of application in accordance with the borough
fee resolution. The borough may amend these fees from time to time by
successive resolution. Fees charged for professional consultants shall be
consistent with § 503(1) of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code (53
P.S. § 10503(1)).
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 3, § 312)
PLAN REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.060 INTRODUCTION.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to detail what graphic and narrative
information must be depicted upon plans and plats required under this chapter.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 4, § 401)
§ 155.061 SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   Sketch plans should be legibly drawn on a County Tax Map, borough
zoning map, United States Geological Survey topographic map or similar property
line map.
   (B)   Sketch plans should include:
      (1)   Proposed development and land uses; and
      (2)   Proposed public improvements.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 4, § 402)
§ 155.062 PRELIMINARY PLAN/FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   Scale. The plan shall be drawn to scale based on the following.
      (1)   If the size of lots or development area is less than five acres,
the plan shall be drawn at one inch to 50 feet. If the average size of the
proposed lots (not including residue) in the subdivision is five acres or
greater, the plan shall be drawn to a scale of one inch equals 100 feet.
      (2)   The borough may accept alternative scales, if agreed to by the
Subdivision Administrator or Planning Commission during a sketch plan submittal
or pre-application conference, if the alternative will result in greater
clarity of information.
   (B)   Plan size and legibility.
      (1)   The subdivision plan submitted for preliminary approval shall be a
clear, legible black- or blue-line print on white paper, or suitable
equivalent.
      (2)   Preliminary plans shall be on sheets no larger than 24 by 36
inches. For small subdivisions, an alternate standard sheet size may be
accepted. Final plans drawn in two or more sections shall be accompanied by a
key diagram showing the relative location of the sections.
   (C)   Plan information. All plans shall show or be accompanied by the
following information as detailed in Table 156B:
Table 156B: Plan Content Requirements
     Complete or Not Applicable (For Administrator’s Acceptable/Unacceptable
Item Use)                                              (For Review/Approval
                                                       Use)
Table 156B: Plan Content Requirements
                                                                                                                                 Acceptable/
                                                                               Complete or Not Applicable (For Administrator’s Unacceptable
Item                                                                           Use)                                              (For Review/
                                                                                                                                 Approval
                                                                                                                                 Use)
Proposed subdivision name or identifying title
North point, scale, and county assessment lot number and date
A title/certificate block, containing the following:
   1. Name and address of owner of property and acknowledgment of subdivision
   2. Name and seal of registered design professional responsible for the plan
   3. Certificate of review by the County Regional Planning Commission
   4. Certificate of review and approval by Borough Planning Commission and
borough
Tract boundaries with bearings and distances and total acreage being
subdivided
Existing zoning districts, and any abutting zoning districts (if different
from subject parcel)
All proposed lots with size, setbacks and dimensional standards
Any proposed building placement (land developments) and existing or proposed
impervious surfaces
Proposed lighting and landscaping plans (land developments)
Contours at vertical intervals of 2 feet (major subdivisions and land
developments only)
All existing watercourses, lakes or ponds, floodways, floodplains, identified
wetlands and other environmentally sensitive areas (including any abutting
agricultural security areas)
All existing property lines, easements and rights-of-way, and the purpose for
which the easements or rights-of-way have been established
Existing or proposed buildings, sewers, water mains, culverts, petroleum or
gas wells or petroleum product lines, fire hydrants and other significant
human-made features. Gas wells shall be marked as active, capped or abandoned
All existing streets on or adjacent to the tract, including name, right-of-way
width and pavement width
Location, name and width of all proposed streets, alleys, rights-of-way and
easements; proposed lot lines with approximate dimensions; playgrounds, public
buildings, public areas and parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or
reserved for public use
The names of owners of all abutting land and the names of all abutting
subdivisions
Identify any areas where non-agricultural earth disturbance will occur,
including estimated acreage of disturbance
A map for the purpose of locating the site to be subdivided at a scale, which
illustrated the location of the site as it related to at least 3 existing
public streets
Location of any proposed parking areas, access points to existing roads or
streets, solid waste disposal areas, stormwater facilities and other public
and private improvements
Location of all permanent monuments and markers (final plan only)
Accurate bearings and dimensions for all lots (final subdivision plan only)
Section 420 Notice – PennDOT highway occupancy permit information (if needed)
 
   (D)   Preliminary plan inclusions. The preliminary plan shall include
therein or be accompanied by:
      (1)   All required permits and related documentation from the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (Pennsylvania DEP) and any
other Commonwealth agency, or from the county or borough where any alteration
or relocation of a stream or watercourse is proposed;
      (2)   Documentation indicating that all affected adjacent municipalities,
Pennsylvania DEP, the Department of Community and Economic Development, and the
Federal Insurance Administrator (flood insurance), have been notified whenever
any alteration or relocation of a stream or watercourse is proposed;
      (3)   Copies of the proposed deed restrictions, or private covenants, if
any, shall be attached to the preliminary plan;
      (4)   Proposed cross-sections, profiles and details of any new proposed
streets, sewer or waterlines, storm sewer facilities or any other public
improvement; and
      (5)   Where the preliminary plan covers only a part of the developer’s
entire abutting holdings, a statement on eventual development of those lands,
including a sketch plan of prospective eventual street layout shall be
provided.
   (E)   Final plan inclusions. The final plan shall include therein or be
accompanied by:
      (1)   Construction plans including, but not limited to, typical cross-
sections, street profiles and drainage details for all streets. Such profiles
shall show at least the following: existing (natural) grade along the proposed
street centerline; proposed finished centerline grade or proposed finished
grade; sanitary sewer and water mains and manholes; storm sewer mains, inlet,
manholes and culverts;
      (2)   Protective covenants, if any, in form for recording;
      (3)   Proof of approvals by all appropriate public and governmental
authorities or agencies where applicable including, but not limited to,
occupancy permits for any planned road entrances onto existing roads or
highways and permits or approvals from the Department of Environmental
Protection, the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation or other state or
local agencies relating to sewage facilities, water obstructions, air quality
and the like, as applicable; and
      (4)   If public or community water or sewer is proposed, a letter from
the agency providing said service that it can and will serve the proposed
development.
   (F)   Grading and drainage plan. A grading and drainage plan, that meets the
borough Stormwater Management Ordinance as applicable.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 4, § 402)
§ 155.063 TRAFFIC STUDY.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may require a traffic study for any
subdivision or land development which either:
      (1)   Creates 50 or more residential dwelling units;
      (2)   Creates 20,000 square feet or more of gross floor area of new or
expanded building space; and
      (3)   Any land use that can be expected to generate 750 or more vehicle
trips per day or 100 or more peak hour directional trips. Peak hours shall be
determined consistent with the most current edition of Trip Generation by the
Institute of Transportation Engineers.
   (B)   The Planning Commission also reserves the right to require a traffic
study in any other circumstances where they believe that a subdivision or land
development will result in an increase of congestion along a key transportation
corridor, or a significant decrease in level of service at any intersection.
   (C)   The need for a traffic study may be identified during preliminary plan
approval, using standard references (PennDOT or Institute of Transportation
Engineers ), or the developer may choose to prepare the study prior to
preliminary plan submission. Noncompliance with this section may be regarded by
the borough as a basis to not approve a subdivision or land development plan.
The Borough Traffic Engineer or other designee of the borough shall approve the
traffic study scope of work for completeness.
   (D)   Traffic study standards.
      (1)   A qualified traffic engineer shall conduct the study.
      (2)   The following represents a traffic study scope of services.
      (3)   The borough may waive some, or add to the requirements on a case-
by-case basis:
         (a)   Description of the proposed project in terms of land use type
and magnitude;
         (b)   An inventory of existing conditions in the site environs (three-
fourths- to one-mile radius);
         (c)   Roadway network and traffic control;
         (d)   Existing traffic volumes in terms of peak hours and average
daily traffic;
         (e)   Planned roadway improvements by others;
         (f)   Intersection levels of service;
         (g)   Roadway levels of service (where appropriate);
         (h)   Other measures of roadway adequacy (i.e., lane widths, traffic
signal warrants, vehicle delay studies and the like);
         (i)   An analysis of existing traffic conditions, including:
            1.   Intersection levels of service;
            2.   Roadway levels of service (where appropriate); and
            3.   Other measures of roadway adequacy (i.e., lane widths, traffic
signal warrants, vehicle delay studies and the like).
         (j)   Projected site - generated traffic volumes in terms of:
            1.   Peak hours and average daily traffic;
            2.   Approach/departure distribution including method of
determination;
            3.   Site traffic volumes on roadways; and
            4.   Comparison of existing zoning to proposed site generation.
         (k)   An analysis of future traffic conditions including:
            1.   Future design year (development fully completed) combined
volumes (site traffic plus future roadway traffic);
            2.   Intersection levels of service;
            3.   Roadway levels of service (where appropriate); and
            4.   Other measures of roadway adequacy (i.e., lane widths, traffic
signals warrants, vehicle delay studies and the like).
         (l)   A description of the recommended access plan and necessary
improvements, including:
            1.   Schematic plan of access and on-site circulation; and
            2.   General description of on-site improvements required to
maintain existing levels of service.
         (m)   When the results of traffic impact study warrant the
construction of on-site improvements, the Commission may require completion of
such on-site improvements by the developer as a condition of final approval, or
a fee in lieu of such completion, when agreed to by Borough Council.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 4, § 403)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 155.075 INTRODUCTION.
   The purpose of good subdivision and site design is to create a functional
and attractive development, to minimize adverse impacts upon adjacent
properties and neighborhoods, and to implement the objectives of the
Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Ordinance. To promote this purpose, all
subdivisions and/or site plans shall conform to the following standards which
are designed to result in a well-planned community without adding unnecessarily
to development costs.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 5, § 501)
§ 155.076 GENERAL SITE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Site analysis.
      (1)   To ensure that land is suitable for the proposed development, an
analysis shall be made of characteristics of the development site, such as site
context; soil; topography; and street networks; visual features; and past and
present use of the site.
      (2)   This analysis shall be submitted as a narrative report with any
necessary graphics and include:
         (a)   Topography including slopes and water features, including
wetland and floodplain;
         (b)   Existing vegetation, including trees;
         (c)   Geology, including any previously mined or industrial areas;
         (d)   Visual features; and
         (e)   Pedestrian and vehicular access to and from the site.
   (B)   Additional regulations.
      (1)   In addition to this chapter, there may be other ordinances, laws or
policies that regulate any proposed development. It is the sole responsibility
of the applicant or his or her agent to comply with such additional
regulations. The borough shall not approve any application which violates
another borough ordinance or regulation.
      (2)   Other applicable laws and regulations, may include, but are not
limited to:
         (a)   Regulations relative to water and sewer facilities as imposed by
Department of Environmental Protection, a municipality, a municipal authority
or a private utility;
         (b)   Other utilities (gas, electric, telephone, cable and the like);
         (c)   Regulations regarding surface waters such as wetlands and
floodplains;
         (d)   Habitats of endangered wildlife;
         (e)   Regulations concerning historic structures and historic
resources;
         (f)   Regulations relative to the access of local or state roads;
         (g)   Building codes and regulations, state and/or local;
         (h)   Erosion and sedimentation plans and possible other related
permits as administered by the County Conservation District; and
         (i)   Other regulations respective to zoning, property maintenance and
sewage facilities.
   (C)   Site design.
      (1)   Design of the development shall take into consideration all
existing local and regional plans for development in the surrounding community.
      (2)   Development of the site shall be based on the site analysis. To the
maximum extent practicable, development shall be located to preserve the
natural features of the site, to avoid areas of environmental sensitivity, and
to minimize negative impacts and alteration of natural features.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 5, § 502)
§ 155.077 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   In accordance with § 503 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code (53 P.S. § 10503), the borough has established minimum design standards to
ensure the layout or arrangement of all subdivisions or land development shall
conform to the Comprehensive Plan and to any regulations or maps adopted in
furtherance thereof (in particular the borough Zoning Ordinance). Because the
borough embodies a traditional neighborhood development as described under §
701-A of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code and wishes to encourage
flexibility, economy and ingenuity in land development, two levels of design
standards are established: traditional neighborhood development; and universal
standards. Universal standards must be met for all land development within the
borough. Traditional neighborhood development standards pursuant to § 708.1-
A of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code may be required or optional,
based upon the proposed location of the land development. Where there is a
conflict between the two, the more restrictive standards shall govern. Pursuant
to the authority of § 708-A of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, a
manual of written and graphic design standards has been adopted by the borough.
   (B)   Pursuant to the §
156.041 of the borough Zoning Ordinance (as codified in
Ch. 156), all land development within the C-1 District shall be subject to the
traditional neighborhood development design standards. These standards are
optional in all other areas of the borough. However, utilization of traditional
neighborhood development standards are encouraged through the utilization of
bonuses to encourage pedestrian friendly and context sensitive development.
Bonuses shall be granted by the Commission consistent with Table 156C. Where
various levels of bonuses are offered for the same practice, only the greater
of the option may be taken as a maximum.
 
Table 156C
Zone District TND Standard                     Eligible Bonus
                                               50% reduction in front yard
              Locate all off-street parking to setback and a 50% reduction in
C-2/HCLI      rear of building only            either the rear yard setback or
                                               one side yard setback and reduce
                                               required parking by 15%
C-2/HCLI      Locate all off-street parking to Reduce required on-lot parking
              side or rear of building         by 10%
              Locate all off-street parking to
              side or rear of building and
C-2/HCLI      limit the width of all driveway  Reduce required on-lot parking
              and curb cut throat to no        by 15%
              greater than 20 feet, with a
              pedestrian crosswalk
              Utilization of TND Graphic
C-2/HCLI      Design Manual for building       Increase lot coverage to 70%
              design, including no utilization
              of prohibited practices
              Utilization of Graphic Design
              Manual including no utilization
C2/HCLI       of prohibited practices and      Increase lot coverage to 75%
              installation of lighting and
              street furniture per the borough
              graphic design standards
 
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 5, § 503)
§ 155.078 PLACEMENT OF BUILDINGS UPON LOTS.
   (A)   Universal design standard. All proposed buildings shall be placed upon
lots within all required setbacks and yard areas of the borough Zoning
Ordinance.
   (B)   Traditional neighborhood development design standard. Proposed
buildings shall be set back from a public right-of-way minimum of zero feet and
a maximum of eight feet. When appropriate within this standard, the siting of
adjacent buildings should be considered when choosing the setback. A uniform
setback is desirable to establish a more consistent “street wall”; however, a
greater setback is allowed for the use of pedestrian pockets, and planned
public space that meets other design guidelines. (See Graphic Design Manual
sketches 1a, 1b and 1c for examples of zero feet setback, eight feet setback
and pedestrian pocket).
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 5, § 504)
§ 155.079 PARKING AND VEHICULAR ACCESS AREAS.
   (A)   Universal parking lot design standards.
      (1)   All automobile parking areas shall be paved and constructed in
accordance with the standards established by the borough.
      (2)   The layout of every parking area shall be such as to permit safe
and efficient internal circulation in accordance with accepted traffic
engineering principles and standards. Parking areas shall provide suitable
maneuvering room so that vehicles enter the street in a forward direction.
      (3)   Entrances and exits to and from off-street parking areas shall be
located so as to avoid interference with street traffic. Parking lots shall be
designed to prevent access at any point other than at designated access drives.
Continuous curb cuts shall be prohibited. No designated access point shall be
wider than 30 feet unless warranted by a traffic study approved by the borough,
or required by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation pursuant to a
highway occupancy permit.
      (4)   Every off-street parking area shall include sufficient reservoir
space to accommodate entering and exiting vehicles without overflowing onto
adjacent streets or service roadways.
      (5)   All artificial lighting used to illuminate any parking space or
spaces shall be so arranged that no direct rays from such lighting shall fall
upon any neighboring property or streets. All light standards shall be located
on the raised parking islands and not on the parking surface. Parking lot
lights must include full cut off features to minimize upward light dispersion.
      (6)   No more than 20 parking spaces may be located in an uninterrupted
row. If more than 20 parking spaces are located in a row, planting strips with
a minimum size of nine feet by length of a parking stall shall be located at
appropriate intervals to provide shading and visual interest. Such planting
strips shall contain a street tree of at least two-inch caliper. The borough
recognizes that trees grow better when planted in larger areas of soil and
would be willing to consider alternatives to mid aisle islands if the developer
wants to cluster larger islands with clusters of trees at the end of aisles as
long as the alternative achieves the goal of shading and visual interest within
the overall parking lot.
      (7)   Where a single row of parking spaces is located between two
driveways on a neighboring property, a planting strip shall be provided between
the row of parking spaces and one driveway.
      (8)   Aisle width: the width of aisles providing access to parking stalls
shall be in accordance with the chart below. Only one-way traffic shall be
permitted in aisles serving parking spaces placed at an angle other than 90
degrees.
 
Table 156D: Parking Aisle Width
Angle Aisle Width
30    12
45    13
60    18
90    22
 
      (9)   Surfacing: parking lots shall be paved with a permanent all-weather
surface, such as asphalt, tar and chip, pre-cast pavers or concrete. Permeable
paving is permitted.
      (10)   Interconnectivity: interconnection of parking areas for
nonresidential uses is strongly encouraged to avoid congestion on arterial
roads.
   (B)   Traditional neighborhood development parking design standard.
      (1)   Parking shall be located to the rear of buildings, from any “Main
Street”, defined herein as C-1 Zoned Areas of Pine Street, Broad Street, Blair
Street and Center Street. (See Graphic Design Manual sketch 2c.)
      (2)   In other areas, parking is strongly encouraged to the side or rear
of buildings, and is eligible for design bonuses under Table 156C.
      (3)   No curb cut to access a parking area or alley in a C-1 Zoning
District shall be wider than 20 feet.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 5, § 505) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.080 GENERAL LOT AND PARCEL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lot access. Every lot in a subdivision or land development shall abut
an existing road, or a road created in the plan containing the lot, or an
access strip abutting an existing road, or an access provided over another
parcel through an easement agreement or an approved private road or street as
provided for in §
155.081. All new lots shall also meet the following:
      (1)   Depth to width ratio. The depth of a lot shall not exceed four
times the width (4:1). The lot width shall be measured at the building setback
line.
         (a)   For irregularly shaped lots exceeding one acre, the lot depth
and width may be averaged to determine the ratio.
         (b)   When the width of a lot exceeds 450 feet, the regulation on
depth and width ratio shall be waived.
      (2)   Sidelines. Sidelines of lots shall generally be at right angles or
radial to streets centerlines.
      (3)   Replat/adjoiners. A proposed add-on lot not meeting the minimum lot
requirements of the Zoning Ordinance that must be conveyed and adjoined to an
adjacent property is permitted, provided that no lot from which land is taken
shall become a nonconforming lot.
         (a)    The following note shall be placed on the plan: Lot #__ is not
a separate building lot and is to be conveyed and become part of adjoining land
of (name of landowner).
         (b)   The owners of both lots must agree to the subdivision and must
sign the plans.
   (B)   Standards for specific lot types.
      (1)   Flag lots. Flag lots may be permitted in limited circumstances. If
a lot will not front on a private or public street or alley, then such lot or
lots shall have an access agreement through an easement or right-of-way.
      (2)   Cul-de-sac lots. Lots which abut cul-de-sac streets shall have a
minimum frontage at the setback line required for the zoning district.
      (3)   Corner lots. A corner lot shall maintain a front yard on all sides
that abut a public street. All other lot lines shall be regarded as side yard
lines.
      (4)   Through lots. On a through lot, front yard setbacks are required
along all street lines.
   (C)   Determination of lot lines. The property lines for a subdivision or
land development shall be determined on the ground by actual survey only, said
survey to be balanced and closed. Any plan showing said lines as otherwise
determined (i.e., taken from other drawings, deeds, records and the like, and
not actually having been determined by a survey made on the ground) will not be
acceptable to the borough.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 5, § 506) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.081 GENERAL STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   General. No subdivision shall be approved that does not connect to an
existing or proposed public street or road, or and approved private street.
      (1)   The arrangement of streets and access roads (driveways) shall
conform to the transportation requirements of any Comprehensive Plan or
official map for the borough.
      (2)   Proposed new streets shall provide for the appropriate extension or
interconnection of existing streets.
      (3)   When the subdivision adjoins un-subdivided acreage, new streets or
reserved rights-of-way may be required through the boundary lines of the
development. Such access and/or street openings shall not be less than 50 feet
in width.
   (B)   Street widths.
      (1)   Minimum street widths and cartway (roadway) widths shall be as
follows in Table 156D:
Table 156D
 Cartway with Curbs Cartway with no Curbs Right-of-Way
Table 156D
                Cartway with Curbs Cartway with no Curbs Right-of-Way
Arterial           As prescribed by the Pennsylvania Department of
                Transportation
Collector       28 ft.             24 ft.                60 ft. **
Cul-de-sac      22 ft.             20 ft.                50 ft. **
Industrial      28 ft.             24 ft.                60 ft. **
Local           22 ft.             20 ft.                50 ft. **
Marginal access 24 ft.             22 ft.                40 ft. **
Private         20 ft.             16 ft.                50 ft. **
**A utility easement of 10 ft. minimum width shall be provided on each side
of the street right-of-way.
 
      (2)   Additional right-of-way and cartway widths may be required by the
borough for the following purposes:
         (a)   To promote public safety and convenience;
         (b)   To provide parking space in commercial developments and in areas
of high-density residential development;
         (c)   Where on-street parking is provided on one or both sides of a
street; and
         (d)   To ensure uniformity with intersection or extended street
widths.
      (3)   Short extension of existing streets with lesser right-of-way and/or
cartway widths than prescribed in this section may be permitted, provided, that
no new section of the new right-of-way may be less than 50 feet in width.
   (C)   Street classification.
 
Table 156E
Street Type Daily Traffic Volume (ADT)
Private     0—40
Cul-de-sac  0—250
Local       0—1,000
Collector   1,000 +
 
   (D)   Residential trip generation rates.
 
Table 156F
Daily Vehicle Trips per Dwelling unit              Weekday Peak Hour
Multi-family (including apartments, townhouses and 6.00    0.55
condominiums
Single-family detached                             10.00   1.01
 
   (E)   Cul-de-sac streets.
      (1)   The total traffic volume on a cul-de-sac street shall not exceed
250 average daily trips (ADT).
      (2)   Cul-de-sacs, permanently designed as such, shall not exceed 1,000
feet in length, unless topography factors justify a greater distance or whereby
intersecting side streets provide additional access to this cul-de-sac street.
      (3)   Cul-de-sacs shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround
having a minimum radius to the outer cartway edge or curb line of 40 feet.
      (4)   Unless future extension is clearly impractical or undesirable, the
turnaround right-of-way shall be placed adjacent to property line and right-of-
way of the same width as the street shall be carried to the property line such
a way as to permit future extension of the street into the adjoining tract.
   (F)   Industrial streets.
      (1)   An industrial facility which is 20,000 square feet or larger with
one or more loading docks shall have access to a collector or arterial street.
The street providing access to such a facility shall be constructed to the
specifications of an industrial street as established in §
155.080.
      (2)   Industrial streets shall be constructed to either the preferred or
alternate specifications as established in §
155.080. According to the land use and PennDOT Publication 242, the borough
shall determine which construction specification, preferred or alternate, is
suitable for each particular industrial street following review and
recommendation by the Engineer.
   (G)   Street alignment and grades.
Table 156G
Design Criteria for Streets1 (Not to Include Intersections)
Type of Street
 Local Collector Industrial Cul-de-sac4 Private
Table 156G
Design Criteria for Streets1 (Not to Include Intersections)
Type of Street
                          Local   Collector Industrial Cul-de-sac4 Private
Maximum grade2            8.0%    6.0%      6.0%       6.0%        8.0%
Minimum centerline radius 150 ft. 300 ft.   300 ft.    150 ft.     150 ft.
Minimum grade5            1.0%    1.0%      1.0%       1.0%        1.0%
Minimum sight distance3   150 ft. 250 ft.   250 ft.    150 ft.     150 ft.
Tangent between curves    100 ft. 150 ft.   150 ft.    NA          100 ft.
1   For arterial roads, PennDOT standards will apply.
2   Grades in excess of the allowable percentage may be approved by the
Borough Engineer where it is clear that it is necessary and that no
traffic hazard is or will be created thereby.
3   Sight distance shall be measured along the centerline of the street
between points where a driver’s eyes at 3 ft. 6 in. in height can see an
object 6 in. high.
4   Cul-de-sac is the entire street not merely the vehicular turn-around.
5   Modifications to the minimum grade must be approved by the Borough
Engineer.
 
      (1)   Horizontal curves shall be laid on all deflecting angles along the
centerline of streets, and the degree of curvature shall be set at least to
assure the required sight distance.
      (2)   Vertical curves shall be used in changes of grade exceeding 1% and
shall be designed for maximum visibility.
   (H)   Street intersections.
      (1)   Streets shall be laid out to intersect as nearly as possible at
right angles. No street shall intersect another at an angle of less than 60
degrees.
      (2)   Multiple intersections involving the junction of more than two
streets shall be avoided. Where this proves impossible, a modification of this
provision shall be sought.
      (3)   Where the grade of any street, at the approach to an intersection
exceeds 7%, a leveling area shall be provided having not greater than 4% grades
for a distance of 50 feet measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the
intersecting street. The grade at actual intersection shall not exceed 2% in
any direction.
      (4)   Clear sight triangles of 75 feet measured along street centerlines
from their point of junction shall be provided at all intersections and no
structures or vegetation higher than three feet shall be permitted within such
triangles. The three-foot measurement shall begin from the elevation of the
road, where the topography within the triangle is higher than the road, the
following standards shall be used for measurement:
 
Table 156H
Topography Elevation                Allowable Structure or Vegetation Height
1 foot higher than the road         2 feet
2 feet higher than the road         1 foot
3 feet or more higher than the road No vegetation or structure shall be
                                    permitted within the sight triangle
 
      (5)   To the fullest extent possible, intersections with arterial streets
shall be located not less than 500 feet apart, measured from the centerline to
centerline.
      (6)   Intersecting streets shall be separated by 350 feet or more,
measured between their centerlines along the centerline of the intersected
street.
      (7)   Residential driveways shall be at least 30 feet from adjacent
driveways on the same side of the street and at least 50 feet from the
centerline of an intersecting street. For industrial development, there shall
be at least 70 feet between driveways on the same side of the street, and a at
least 90 feet between the closest intersection and any industrial driveway. For
commercial development, there shall be at least 50 feet between driveways on
the same side of the street and at least 70 feet between the closest radius of
the driveway and the intersecting street.
   (I)   Street construction standards. All streets shall be improved and
constructed consistent with any construction standards as adopted by the
borough by resolution from time to time.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 5, § 507) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.082 UNIVERSAL LANDSCAPING DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. Landscaping shall be provided as part of site plan design.
It shall be conceived in a total pattern throughout the site, integrating the
various elements of the site design, preserving and enhancing the particular
identity of the site, and creating a pleasing site character. Areas proposed
for landscaping shall clearly indicate their use as buffering or open space or
other purposes. Any proposed change to a landscaped area for other improvements
may require an amendment to the approved site plan.
   (B)   Examples of landscaping. Landscaping may include plant materials such
as trees, shrubs, ground covers, perennials and annuals, and other materials
such as rocks, water, sculpture, art, walls, fences, paving materials and
street furniture. However, no element of landscaping in any proposed land
development plan shall be construed to serve as a sign, as regulated by the
borough Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   Landscape plan. A landscape plan shall be submitted with each site
plan application, unless a modification is granted pursuant to this chapter.
The plan shall show where any existing vegetation is to be preserved and areas
proposed for additional landscaping or buffering improvements. Where existing
plantings are to be retained, the applicant shall include in the plans proposed
methods of protecting them during construction.
   (D)   Plants for screening. The length and positioning of the screen shall
be subject to review by the Planning Commission. Preferred species are those
that can withstand dense planting without losing lower branches as they grow.
Examples include, but are not limited to, northern cedar, Norway spruce,
arborvitae and blue spruce.
   (E)   Garbage and trash containers. All land development plans shall
identify trash collection areas of sufficient size for the proposed
development, unless the scale of development is so small that residential
curbside pickup is sufficient. Solid waste containment areas shall be tightly
covered and located in side or rear yards. Solid waste containment areas shall
be screened from public view and from adjacent properties by means of a solid
face fence or wall.
   (F)   Detailed landscaping plan requirements.
      (1)   The location of all buffer and screening areas;
      (2)   The plan shall include a plant material schedule showing scientific
and common names, specified sizes and quantities. Where appropriate, a
reference key designation shall be included;
      (3)   Mounding of soil is encouraged where screening value is enhanced,
aesthetic benefit is assured and the mound slopes do not create a slope or
stormwater runoff hazard for adjoining properties; and
      (4)   Vegetation is required to be a compatible mixture of species
providing, at maturity, an effective screen of interrupted view. The landscape
architect is encouraged to use native plant species and avoid any plants
identified as invasive. The following specifications shall be met for plantings
in the required buffer area:
         (a)   Where required for screening or buffering, the specified plant
material minimal sizes shall apply as follows:
Table 156I
Plant Material Sizes for Buffers and Street Trees
Type Caliper Height
Table 156I
Plant Material Sizes for Buffers and Street Trees
Type                                             Caliper Height
Evergreen trees (balled and burlapped)           NA      5 feet
Shade trees (balled and burlapped)               2 in.   10 ft.
Shrubs (balled and burlapped or container grown)
   Deciduous                                          36 inches
   Evergreen                                          30 inches
 
         (b)   All plant materials shall comply with the standards of the plant
industry issued as document ANSI Z60 by the American Association of Nurserymen.
   (G)   Buffering.
      (1)   Function and materials. Buffering shall provide a year-round visual
screen in order to minimize adverse impacts. It may consist of fencing, a mix
of evergreens and deciduous trees, berms, rocks, boulders, mounds or
combinations thereof to achieve the same objectives.
      (2)   When required. Every development shall provide sufficient buffering
when topographical or other barriers do not provide reasonable screening and
when the Commission determines that there is a need:
         (a)   To shield neighboring properties from any adverse external
effects of a development; or
         (b)   To shield the development from negative impacts of adjacent uses
such as streets. In high density developments, when building design and siting
do not provide privacy, the Commission may require landscaping, fences or walls
to screen dwelling units for privacy. Buffers shall be measured from side and
rear property lines, excluding driveways.
      (3)   Amount required.
         (a)   Where more intensive land uses abut less intensive uses, a
buffer strip 25 feet in width shall be required.
         (b)   Where residential subdivisions or developments abut higher order
streets (collectors or arterials), adjacent lots shall front on lower order
streets, and a landscaped buffer area may be required by the Commission along
the property line abutting the road. If required, the buffer strip shall be a
minimum of 25 feet wide or wider where necessary for the health and safety of
the residents. It shall include both trees and shrubs.
      (4)   Design. Arrangement of plantings in buffers shall provide maximum
protection to adjacent properties and avoid damage to existing plant material.
Possible arrangements include planting in parallel, serpentine or broken rows.
If planted berms are used, the minimum top width shall be four feet, and the
maximum side slope shall be 2:1.
      (5)   Planting specifications. Plant materials shall be sufficiently
large and planted in such a fashion that a year round screen at least eight
feet in height shall be produced within three growing seasons. All plantings
shall be installed according to accepted horticultural standards.
   (H)   Maintenance. Plantings shall be watered regularly and in a manner
appropriate for the specific plant species through the first growing season,
and dead and dying plants shall be replaced by the applicant during the next
planting season. No buildings, structures, storage of materials or parking
shall be permitted within the buffer area; buffer areas shall be maintained and
kept free of all debris, rubbish, weeds and tall grass.
   (I)   Parking lot landscaping.
      (1)   Amount required. In parking lots, of at least 40,000 square feet,
at least 5% of the interior parking area shall be landscaped with plantings,
and one tree for each ten spaces shall be installed. Parking lot street
frontage screening and perimeter screening shall be a minimum of five feet
wide. Planting required within the parking lot is exclusive of other planting
requirements.
      (2)   Location. The landscaping should be located in protected areas,
such as along walkways in center islands, at the ends of bays, or between
parking stalls. All landscaping in parking areas and on the street frontage
shall be placed so that it will not obstruct sight distance. At least 50% of
all planting shall occur between the front face of the structure and the right-
of-way line.
      (3)   Plant type. A mixture of hardy flowering and/or decorative
evergreen and deciduous trees may be planted. The evergreens should be used
along the perimeter of the lot for screening, and the deciduous trees for shade
within the lot. The area between trees shall be mulched, planted with shrubs or
ground cover, or covered with paving material. Any area that will be under the
overhang of vehicles shall be mulched or covered with paving material.
   (J)   Paving materials.
      (1)   Design and choice of paving materials used in pedestrian areas
shall consider such factors as function, climate, characteristics of users,
availability, cost, maintenance, glare, drainage, noise, appearance and
compatibility with surroundings.
      (2)   Acceptable materials shall include, but are not limited to,
concrete, brick, cement pavers, asphalt and stone.
   (K)   Walls and fences.
      (1)   Walls and fences may be erected where required for privacy,
screening, separation, security, erosion control or to serve other applicable
functions.
      (2)   The design and materials used shall be functional and compatible
with existing and proposed site architecture.
      (3)   No fence or wall shall be so constructed or installed as to
constitute a hazard to traffic or safety.
   (L)   Street furniture.
      (1)   Street furniture, such as, but not limited to, trash receptacles,
benches and decorative fences shall be located and sized in accordance with
function trash receptacles shall be located in side or rear yards and screened
from public access and view.
      (2)   The different street furniture components shall be compatible in
form, material and finish, and meet all applicable site context standards.
Design and materials shall be coordinated with existing and proposed site
architecture. Selection of street furniture shall take into consideration
function, durability, use of recyclables in manufacturing, maintenance and long
term cost.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 5, § 508) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.083 STREET TREES UNIVERSAL DESIGN STANDARD.
   To protect and enhance it visual and natural environment, the borough
encourages abundant and carefully designed landscaping, especially the planting
of shade trees that will create large canopies at maturity. Trees shall be
planted within the strip between the cartway edge and the required sidewalk.
Such trees shall be at least one and one-half inches to two and one-half inches
in caliper at breast height when planted. In concert with the Borough Public
Works Department and the Borough Street Tree Committee, the developer shall
analyze overhead utilizes and determine whether street trees will conflict with
overhead utilities. Species shall be selected, based upon areas where no
overhead utilities conflict with tree growth, and where overhead utilities call
for shorter trees.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 5, § 509) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.084 GENERAL CURBS AND SIDEWALK DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Curbs.
      (1)   Curbing shall be required for the purposes of drainage, safety and
delineation and protection of pavement edge.
      (2)   Mountable curbs are preferred, but flexibility regarding curb type
(mountable versus vertical) shall be permitted as long as the curb type
accommodates the system of drainage proposed.
      (3)   Curbing shall be designed to provide a ramp for bicycles and/or
wheelchairs as required by applicable PennDOT standards.
      (4)   Curbing shall be constructed of either portland cement concrete
with expansion joints every 20 feet and shall follow PennDOT standards where
applicable (see Curb Design Detail) or a bituminous concrete wedge curb which
is 18 inches wide by six inches high may be used.
      (5)   Local streets: minimum curb radii at street intersections shall be
20 feet.
      (6)   All other streets: minimum curb radii at street intersections shall
be 30 feet, or such greater radius as is suitable to the specific intersection.
   (B)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   The developer shall install sidewalks abutting any public or
private street. Such sidewalks may be constructed within the public right-of-
way, but shall remain the maintenance responsibility of the property owner. The
requirement of sidewalks may be modified in accordance with §
155.127, only where the proposed land use or traffic patterns would indicate
another paramount safety concern, such as heavy industrial development with
significant truck traffic or other hazards.
      (2)   Minimum widths for sidewalks along each type of public street shall
be four feet and shall follow specifications.
      (3)   Sidewalks shall be placed at least five feet from the cartway edge
unless already built to the cartway along abutting lots.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 5, § 510) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.085 GENERAL LIGHTING DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All land developments shall submit a plan showing the proposed location and
type of any exterior lighting.
   (A)   All lighting shall be aimed, located, designed, fitted and maintained
so as not to present a hazard to drivers or pedestrians by impairing their
ability to safely traverse and so as not to create a nuisance by projecting or
reflecting objectionable light onto a neighboring use or property. The
Commission may require additional information regarded the luminosity and
fixture type of any proposed outdoor lighting to ensure this standard is met.
   (B)   For the lighting of predominantly horizontal surfaces such as, but not
limited to, parking areas, roadways, vehicular and pedestrian passage areas,
merchandising and storage areas, automotive fuel dispensing facilities,
automotive sales areas, loading docks, cul-de-sacs, active and passive
recreational areas, building entrances, sidewalks, bicycle and pedestrian
paths, and site entrances, fixtures shall be aimed straight down and shall meet
Illuminating Engineer Society of North America (IESNA) full-cutoff criteria.
   (C)   For the lighting of predominantly non-horizontal surfaces such as, but
not limited to, stairways, facades, landscaping, signs, billboards, fountains,
displays and statuary, fixtures shall be fully shielded and shall be installed
and aimed so as to not project their output into the windows of neighboring
residences, adjacent uses, past the object being illuminated, skyward or onto a
public roadway.
   (D)   Directional fixtures such as floodlights and spotlights shall be so
shielded, installed and aimed that they do not project their output into the
windows of neighboring residences, adjacent uses, past the object being
illuminated, skyward or onto a public roadway or pedestrian way. Floodlights,
whether building mounted, placed upon a pole, or otherwise installed above
grade on residential properties, except when motion-sensor actuated, shall not
be aimed out more than 45 degrees from straight down. When a floodlight creates
glare as viewed from an adjacent residential property, the floodlight shall be
required to be re-aimed and/or fitted with a shielding device to block the view
of the glare source from that property.
   (E)   Electrical feeds for lighting standards shall be run underground, not
overhead and shall be in accordance with the National Electrical Code (NEC)
Handbook.
   (F)   Poles supporting lighting fixtures for the illumination of parking
areas and located directly behind parking spaces, or where they could be hit by
snow plows or wide-swinging vehicles, shall be placed a minimum of five feet
outside paved area or tire stops, or placed on concrete pedestals at least 30
inches high above the pavement, or suitably protected by other approved means.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 5, § 511) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.086 GENERAL DESIGN STANDARDS FOR SIGNS.
   (A)   Freestanding signs: land development plans subject to this chapter
shall illustrate the location of all freestanding signs upon the plan
submittal.
   (B)   Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) below must be complied with pursuant
to the land development process to ensure adequate sight distance, access to
light and air, and minimal uniform standards for proposed improvements.
      (1)   The development plan shall show precisely the location of all
freestanding sign structures relative to the location of ingress/egress areas,
buildings, parking, rights-of-way, utility easements and neighboring property
lines.
      (2)   To protect neighboring properties’ access to light and air, as well
as ensuring safe vehicular sight distances, all freestanding signs shall be set
back from utility easements at least ten feet. Freestanding signs shall meet
all dimensional requirements of the Zoning Ordinance.
      (3)   All sign locations as depicted upon a plat shall adhere to zoning
regulations of the borough.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 5, § 512) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.087 UNDERGROUND WIRING.
   (A)   All electric, telephone, television and other communication lines,
both main and service connections, servicing new developments shall be provided
by underground wiring within easements or dedicated public rights-of-way and
installed in accordance with the prevailing standards and practices of the
utility or other companies providing such services.
   (B)   Lots that abut existing easements or public rights-of-way where
overhead electric or telephone distribution supply lines and service
connections have previously been installed may be supplied with electric and
telephone service from those overhead lines, but the service connections from
the utilities’ overhead lines shall be installed underground.
   (C)   A road widening, extension of service or other such condition occur as
a result of the subdivision and necessitate the replacement or relocation of
such utilities such replacement or relocation shall be underground.
   (D)   Year-round screening of any utility apparatus appearing above the
surface of the ground, other than utility poles, shall be required.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 5, § 513) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.088 WATER SUPPLY, SEWAGE DISPOSAL AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit and each commercial business and every public or
semi-public building with electrical service shall be connected to the borough
water system and sewage disposal system.
   (B)   Water and sewage lines and systems shall be installed in accordance
with the stipulations of the borough who will assume maintenance of the lines
only upon satisfactory completion and inspection. Lateral lines shall remain
the responsibility of the property owner.
   (C)   Fire hydrants: fire hydrants shall be provided, spaced not farther
apart than a distance from which the applicable Fire Department can service.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 5, § 514) Penalty, see §
155.999
Cross-references:
   Stormwater management generally,
Ch. 52
§ 155.089 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   Storm sewers, culverts, sumps and related installations shall be provided to
permit the unimpeded flow of natural watercourses, to ensure the drainage of
all low points along the lines of streets and to intercept stormwater run-off
along streets at intervals reasonably related to the extent and grade of the
area drained. In designing the drainage system, the developer shall adhere to
the requirements of Ord. 1403 (
Ch. 52) for stormwater management.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 5, § 515) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.090 MOBILEHOME PARK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. Mobile home parks shall meet all standards contained in
this section.
   (B)   Plan requirements.
      (1)   No person, firm or corporation proposing to operate a mobile home
park in the county, shall proceed with any construction work on the proposed
park until they have obtained from the Planning Commission written approval of
the preliminary plan of the proposed park, according to procedures outlined
herein.
      (2)   Preliminary and final plans, as required, shall comply in form and
content to §§
155.060 through
155.063 of these regulations insofar as applicable and the standards set forth
herein.
   (C)   Pre-application procedure. The mobile home park developer should meet
with the Planning Commission, prior to formal application, to discuss his or
her plans and prepare a suitable sketch and plans sufficient to give a general
understanding of the proposal. The Planning Commission shall inform the
developer as to the general suitability of the plans and of any modifications
required by this chapter, if deemed advisable. This step is voluntary and will
never be considered as a formal plan submission.
   (D)   Preliminary plan.
      (1)   The developer shall then prepare and submit a preliminary plan,
together with improvement plans and other supplementary material, as required.
      (2)   Where a mobile home park is proposed for construction in a series
of stages, a preliminary plan for the development of the entire tract of land
shall be submitted along with the detailed plans and specifications for the
initial stage, as well as any subsequent stages.
   (E)   Design requirements.
      (1)   Length of residential occupancy. Parks shall be designed to serve
the long-term placement of mobile homes.
      (2)   Individual lots. The planning and location of individual lots shall
be guided by the following requirements.
         (a)   Access. Each lot shall be directly accessible from an approved
internal street without the necessity of crossing any other space.
         (b)   Size. Each mobile home lot shall have a minimum lot width of 50
feet and a minimum area of 5,000 square feet.
         (c)   Yard requirements.
            1.   Mobile homes shall be parked on each lot so that there will be
a minimum of ten feet between the mobile home, appurtenant structures and any
adjacent side or rear lot line.
            2.   There shall be a minimum of 20 feet between an individual
mobile home, attached structure and accessory structure, and the paved area or
cartway of a private interior park street or common parking area. The setback
from the right-of-way of any public street or highway shall be to 35 feet.
            3.   Mobile homes shall be located a minimum of 20 feet from any
structures on adjacent lots or common open space.
            4.   Secondary entranceways may utilize stoops, landings, patios or
awnings that may extend to a depth of five feet within the ten-foot yard
requirements.
         (d)   Identification. Each lot shall have a number placed on the lot
either in the form of a sign or directly on the mobile home. It shall be
arranged in such a way so that it is visible from the road on which the mobile
home or lot is fronting.
         (e)   Skirting. The plans shall specify that skirting shall be
provided on all mobile homes.
         (f)   Drainage. Drainage and stormwater management plans shall be
submitted with the preliminary plan.
      (3)   Mobile home stands.
         (a)   The location of each mobile home stand shall be at such
elevation, distance and angle in relation to the, access street so that the
removal of the mobile home is practical.
         (b)   The size of each mobile home stand shall be suitable for the
general market to be served by the individual park, be sufficient to fit the
dimensions of mobile homes anticipated, and sufficient to handle any
appurtenant structures and appendages, including prefabricated “Florida rooms”,
car ports and storage structures.
         (c)   A 1% to 5% gradient longitudinal crown or cross gradient for
surface drainage shall be provided.
         (d)   Mobile home stands shall be either concrete pads or piers. The
piers shall be set at least 36 inches deep.
         (e)   Each mobile home shall follow national and manufacturer’s
standards for tie downs.
      (4)   Internal street system. The internal street system in privately
owned mobile home parks shall be privately owned, constructed and maintained in
accordance with the applicable sections set forth in §§
155.075 through
155.090, except street widths, which shall be governed by the following minimum
requirements:
 
Table 156J
Interior Street                                Cartway Width
One- or two-way, with no parking               22 feet
One- or two-way, with parking on one side only 28 feet
One- or two-way, with parking on both sides    34 feet
 
      (5)   Street widths at access points. At points where general traffic
enters or leaves the park, streets shall be 35 feet in width within 20 feet of
the existing public street to permit free movement from or to the public
street, and no parking shall be permitted that in any way interferes with such
free movement.
      (6)   Cul-de-sac streets. Shall be provided with a turnaround having an
outside roadway diameter of at least 80 feet.
      (7)   Parking spaces. Car parking spaces, at a minimum size of eight by
18 feet, shall be provided in sufficient number to meet the needs of the
occupants of the property and their guests without interference with normal
movement of traffic. Such facilities shall be provided at the rate of at least
two parking spaces for each mobile home lot, located in adjacent parking bays.
If no on-street parking is permitted, then an additional parking space for each
four lots shall be provided for guest parking and for delivery and service
vehicles. Required car parking spaces shall be located for convenient access to
the mobile home.
   (F)   Utility and fire requirements.
      (1)   General. In accordance with the rules and regulations,
Commonwealth, Department of Environmental Protection, provisions for all sewage
disposal and treatment of water supply, including plumbing, refuse disposal and
such other information required by the Department of Environmental Protection,
shall be shown on plans and submitted to and approved by the Department of
Environmental Protection.
      (2)   Electric. All electrical facilities shall be installed and
inspected according to the standards set forth in the latest edition of the
National Electrical Code and the local power company regulations. All
electrical facilities shall be inspected as required by the Commonwealth
Electric Inspection, Middle Department Inspection Agency, Atlantic-Inland Inc.
or other inspection companies acceptable and approved by the Commonwealth.
      (3)   Exterior lighting. Adequate lights shall be provided to illuminate
streets, driveways and walkways for the safe movement of vehicles and
pedestrians at night. Lighting fixtures shall generate a minimum illumination
of five-tenths of footcandle power per pole.
   (G)   Fire prevention.
      (1)   General. For the safety and welfare of the residents and future
residents of the mobile home park, the following fire prevention regulations
shall be complied with. All fire safety plans shall be approved by the Fire
Chief of the municipality, according to nationally accepted standards (NFPA).
      (2)    Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants shall hereafter be required in any
new mobile home park.
         (a)   Hydrant size and type. All hydrants installed shall be of a
standard size and type as specified by the Planning Commission and the Fire
Chief of the municipality, according to nationally accepted standards.
         (b)   Spacing. Hydrant spacing shall be adequate to serve all lots
within the mobile home park. Hydrants shall be located not more than 1,000 feet
apart from one another. Where an existing hydrant is less than 1,000 feet from
the park, the existing hydrant shall be deemed satisfactory and spacing can be
determined and shown, taking the existing hydrant into consideration.
         (c)   Location. Hydrants shall be located within dedicated public
utility rights-of-way or easements.
         (d)   Design. The proposed locations of fire hydrants shall be shown
on the submitted plans. Any existing fire hydrants less than 1,000 feet from
the proposed park shall be shown in the vicinity sketch with an exact distance
in feet from the hydrant to the nearest lot line of the mobile home park.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 5, § 516) Penalty, see §
155.999
IMPROVEMENTS GUARANTEES
§ 155.105 GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENTS INSTALLATION REQUIRED.
   Before approving any subdivision or land development plan for recording, the
Planning Commission shall require that the Borough Council be assured by means
of a proper development agreement and performance guarantee that the
improvements required by this chapter and the improvements appearing on the
plan will be installed in strict accordance with the standards and
specifications of this chapter, unless:
   (A)   Installation of all required improvements. A developer chooses to
install all required improvements prior to construction of any building; in
place of using performance guarantees, in which case, the borough shall, as
deemed necessary, require the developer to have adequate insurance, hold
harmless agreements, an escrow account to cover the costs of inspections and a
professional estimate of the costs of the improvements (to be used to establish
the amount of the inspections escrow);
   (B)   Purpose of security. The security required by this subchapter shall
stand as security for compliance with all ordinances, other laws, covenants,
stipulations, conditions and rules applicable to the subdivision or land
development for which it is filed; and/or
   (C)   Conditions of construction, paving or sales. No construction of
buildings or paving or sales of any individual lot or condominium unit within a
subdivision or land development shall take place in any subdivision unless:
      (1)   There is on file, with the borough, current duly executed and
approved security; or
      (2)   All rough grading is complete and all required public improvements,
utilities, streets, drainage facilities, sewers and street lights have been
completed and accepted by the Borough Council.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 6, § 601)
§ 155.106 IMPROVEMENTS TO BE PROVIDED BY THE APPLICANT.
   (A)   In all cases, the subdivider or land developer shall be responsible
for the installation of all improvements required by this chapter.
   (B)   The Borough Engineer or other designee shall make such inspections of
the required improvements at such intervals as may be reasonably necessary to
assure compliance with this chapter. The reasonable costs of such inspection
shall be borne by the subdivider or land developer, making use of an escrow
account or other arrangement agreed to by the borough.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 6, § 602)
§ 155.107 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Development agreement required.
      (1)   All applicants proposing any subdivision or land development which
provides for the installation of improvements required by this chapter or any
improvements or amenities which appear on the final plan shall be required to
enter into a legally binding development agreement with the Borough Council
prior to recording of the final plan (or at a date agreed to by Borough
Council), unless the applicant agrees to meet §
155.105 concerning the construction of all improvements prior to the
construction, of any buildings or the sale of any lots or home sites.
      (2)   The development agreement shall guarantee the installation of said
improvements in strict accordance with all borough requirements.
      (3)   The final plan shall not be approved for recording prior to the
execution of this agreement and the delivery of the performance guarantee.
   (B)   Terms of development agreement. The development agreement shall be
acceptable in legal form to the Borough Solicitor and shall be acceptable in
content to the Borough Council. The borough may require that a development
agreement include any of the following items, where applicable, and such
additional items as are necessary to carry out this chapter:
      (1)   The construction depicted on the approved plans, listed in itemized
format, including all approved streets, drainage facilities, utility lines and
other improvements;
      (2)   A work schedule setting forth the beginning and ending dates of
such work tied to the construction of the development and provisions to allow
proper inspection by the Borough Engineer;
      (3)   The provision of a performance guarantee for completion of required
improvements in compliance with §
155.108, including a detailed breakdown of the estimated costs of the
improvements, including the total amount of the performance guarantee;
      (4)   Provisions concerning the developer’s responsibilities for damage
to other property, including maintenance by the developer of public liability
insurance for the duration of improvements construction, with a hold harmless
clause to protect the borough from liability related to such work. A copy or
other evidence of such liability coverage shall be provided to the borough
prior to such work;
      (5)   Provisions concerning measures to prevent erosion, sedimentation
and water damage to the subject and adjacent properties;
      (6)   Provisions for the dedication of streets, water and sewer lines and
any other easements or improvements approved to be dedicated;
      (7)   See §
155.061 concerning the requirement for a “final” plan;
      (8)   Provisions for the developer to reimburse the borough for all
reasonable engineering costs directly related to the review, construction and
inspection of the proposed development and to the review and preparation of the
development agreement;
      (9)   Requirement for “as built” drawings and plans;
      (10)   Provisions concerning any violations of the development agreement;
      (11)   Any other lawful terms which the Borough Council may require to
carry out the provisions of this chapter; and
      (12)   Signatures: the development agreement shall be signed by all
responsible landowners and/or developers.
   (C)   Ownership of land and guarantee.
      (1)   Certificate of ownership. A certificate of ownership shall be
executed in the exact name in which title is held. If the developer(s) of
subdivision is someone other than the landowner(s) of the subdivision, the
developer shall also execute its affidavit, along with a security agreement.
      (2)   Change in ownership or developer. Any conveyance of all or a
substantial portion of the unimproved lots or public improvements or streets of
any subdivision or change in developers, whether voluntary or by action of law
or otherwise, shall require the prior approval of the borough. In giving or
denying said approval, the borough shall require that such new landowner and/or
developer fully assume all applicable responsibilities under the development
agreement and post all the appropriate security agreements.
   (D)   Utility agreements. If a development will connect into a public water
or public sanitary sewage system, the applicable authority, agency or company
may also require separate development agreements.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 6, § 603)
§ 155.108 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   The performance guarantee for completion of required improvements shall meet
the following requirements.
   (A)   Security.
      (1)   The guarantee shall be secured by the credit of any of the
following:
         (a)   An irrevocable and unconditional letter of credit of a federal
or state chartered lending institution;
         (b)   A restrictive or escrow account in a federal or state-chartered
lending institution; or
         (c)   Such other financial security approved by the borough (which
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), but not including a second or
third mortgage on the unimproved lands.
      (2)   Such approved security shall provide for, and secure to the public,
the completion of any improvements which may be required within one year of the
date fixed in the development schedule (see division (B)(2) below) for the
completion of such improvements.
      (3)   Such financial security shall be posted with a federally insured or
state-chartered lending institution chosen by the party posting the financial
security, or such other approved entity, provided such institution or entity is
authorized to conduct such business within the state.
         (a)   The borough may require that evidence be provided that such
institution or entity has sufficiently adequate and secure assets to cover the
security.
         (b)   The borough shall be the authorized signatory on any account in
which the escrow funds are held.
   (B)   Amount.
      (1)   The amount of financial security to be posted for the completion of
the required improvements shall be equal to 110% of the cost of completion
estimated as of 90 days following the date scheduled for completion by the
developer in the official development schedule pursuant to a developer’s
agreement, and within the process for increases to cover inflation as permitted
by the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code.
      (2)   The cost of the improvements shall be established by an estimate
prepared by a state registered professional engineer, which shall be reviewed
by the Borough Engineer, within the arbitration process permitted by the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code.
      (3)   If the party posting the financial security requires more than one
year from the date of posting of the financial security to complete the
required improvements, the amount of financial security may be increased by a
maximum of an additional 10% or each one-year period beyond the first
anniversary date from posting of financial security or to an amount not
exceeding 110% of the cost of completing the required improvements as
reestablished on or about the expiration of the preceding one-year period by
using the above procedure.
      (4)   Inspection fees: the amount of financial security shall also
include an additional 5% of the estimated cost of completion of the work to
guarantee payment of inspection fees and related engineering costs.
   (C)   Multi-year or multi-stage development. In the case where development
is projected over a period of years, the borough may authorize submission of
final plans by phases/stage of development subject to such requirements or
improvement guarantees concerning future improvements as it finds necessary for
the proper functioning of each phase and for the eventual development as a
whole.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 6, § 604)
§ 155.109 APPROVAL OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   In general. As the work of installing the required improvements
proceeds, the party posting the financial security may request the borough to
release or authorize the release, from time to time, portions of the financial
security necessary for payment to the contractors performing the work.
   (B)   Notice by developer of work on improvements. The developer or his or
her representative should provide a minimum of three days’ notice to the
Borough Engineer prior to beginning each major facet of construction, in order
to allow the scheduling of inspections.
   (C)   Engineer’s report.
      (1)   Within 30 days of the receipt of such request, the Borough Engineer
shall submit a written report certifying which improvements have been completed
in accordance with the approved plan to the borough and mail a copy of such, by
certified or registered mail, to the developer or his or her representative at
his or her last known address.
      (2)   This report shall be based on the inspections made according to the
approved inspection schedule included in the development agreement and shall
recommend approval or rejection of the improvements, either in whole or in
part.
      (3)   If the Borough Engineer finds any or all of the improvements to be
not as required, he or she shall include a statement of the reasons for
recommending his or her rejection in the report.
   (D)   Decision by borough.
      (1)   At its first regularly scheduled meeting after receiving the
Engineer’s report (but not later than 45 days, of the receipt of the request)
the borough shall review the Borough Engineer’s report and shall authorize
release of an amount as estimated by the Borough Engineer fairly representing
the value of the improvements completed.
      (2)   The borough shall be deemed to have approved the release of funds
as requested if the borough fails to act within 45 days of receipt of the
developer’s request.
      (3)   Until final release (completion of all improvements), the borough
may require retention of a maximum of 10% of the cost of each completed
improvement.
      (4)   The borough shall notify the developer in writing by certified or
registered mail of the decision.
   (E)   Completion of unapproved improvements. The developer shall proceed to
complete any improvements not approved by the borough and, upon completion,
request approval in conformance with the procedures specified in this section.
   (F)   Final release.
      (1)   When the developer has completed all of the necessary and
appropriate improvements, the developer shall request final release in
conformance with the procedures specified in this section. See time limitations
and procedures in § 510 of the Municipalities Planning Code (53 P.S. § 10510).
      (2)   Such final release shall include all monies retained under division
(D)(3) above.
   (G)   Appeal. Nothing herein, however, shall be construed to limit the
developer’s right to contest or question by legal proceedings or otherwise any
determination of the borough or the Borough Engineer.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 6, § 605)
§ 155.110 REMEDIES TO EFFECT COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Enforcement of security.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   In the event that any improvements which may be required have
not been installed as provided in this chapter or in accord with the approved
final plan, or in the event of the bankruptcy of the owner or developer, the
borough is hereby granted the power to elect to enforce any security posted
under this chapter by appropriate legal and equitable remedies.
         (b)   This may include taking all actions necessary to obtain monies
under said security, including but not limited to seizure of undeveloped lots,
seizure of escrow funds, revocation of zoning permits and prosecution under
this chapter.
      (2)   Rate of construction. Failure of a developer to construct streets
and other public improvements reasonably at the same time or prior to the
construction of the buildings served by those streets or public improvements,
and at the same rate in time at which buildings are completed, shall be a
violation of this chapter and a cause for default of the security.
   (B)   Completion by borough. If the proceeds of such security are
insufficient to pay the cost of installing or making repairs or corrections to
all the improvements covered by said security, the borough may, at its option,
install part of such improvements in all or part of the subdivision or land
development and may institute appropriate legal or equitable action to recover
the monies necessary to complete the remainder of the improvements.
   (C)   Proceeds for installation of improvements. The proceeds from use of
the security and/or from any legal or equitable action brought against the
developer shall be used solely for the installation of the improvements covered
by such security.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 6, § 606)
§ 155.111 MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   Maintenance guarantee required. All applicants proposing any
subdivision or land development which provides for the dedication of
improvements required by this chapter shall be required to provide a legally
binding maintenance guarantee to the borough prior to acceptance of dedication
of the improvements by the borough. In most cases, this guarantee will be part
of the security agreement.
   (B)   Terms of maintenance guarantee. The maintenance guarantee shall be
acceptable in legal form to the Borough Solicitor and in content to the
borough, and shall include all of the following:
      (1)   The applicant make any repair or reconstruction of any improvement
stipulated in the maintenance agreement which is specified by the borough if
needed because of faulty construction, workmanship or materials, prior to
acceptance of such improvement by the borough;
      (2)   The applicant maintain at his or her own cost all improvements
stipulated in the maintenance agreement, up to a maximum period of 18 months
from the date of completion, except for any special purpose escrow or
maintenance agreements required by the borough;
      (3)   The applicant post financial security to secure structural
integrity of said improvements as well as the functioning of said improvements
in accordance with the design and specifications as depicted on the final plan,
for a maximum term of 18 months from the date of completion; and
      (4)   The developer plow snow and maintain all streets until such time as
the borough may accept such streets.
   (C)   Type of security. The maintenance guarantee shall be secured by the
same form of security as is permitted for the improvements guarantees.
   (D)   Terms. Such maintenance guarantee shall be in the form approved by the
Borough Solicitor and borough, payable to the borough, to guarantee the
maintenance and repair of the streets and other public improvements in the
subdivision or, land development for 18 months from the date of completion. The
applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of the borough that there will be an
acceptable system for the long-term maintenance of any stormwater detention
basins.
   (E)   Amount. The amount of the maintenance guarantee shall be determined by
the applicant’s engineer, conditioned upon acceptance by the borough, but shall
not exceed 15% of the actual cost of installation of such improvements.
   (F)   Release. After a maximum of 18 months from the date of completion of
said improvements, the borough shall release the maintenance guarantee to the
developer (or party that posted the guarantee) if all improvements are in
satisfactory condition, as determined by the borough.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 6, § 607)
ADMINISTRATION, AMENDMENT AND MODIFICATION
§ 155.125 AMENDMENTS.
   The borough may from time to time revise, modify and amend this chapter by
appropriate action in accordance with the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code, Act 247, as amended (53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.).
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 7, § 700)
§ 155.126 FILING FEES AND REVIEW.
   The filing fee for subdivision plans shall be established by the Borough
Council by resolution. Such filing fees may include those for subdivision and
land development and may be separate for various alternative forms of land
development. Review fees may also include the field inspection of such plats,
plans or site plans or their final inspection, and the fees for any
professional consultants retained by the borough. Such professional consultant
fees may be maintained as an escrow by the borough and unused funds returned to
the applicant. The fees charged shall be in accordance with §§ 503(1), 509 and
510 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code (53 P.S. §§ 10503(1),
10509, 10510).
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 7, § 701)
§ 155.127 RECORDS.
   The borough shall maintain an accurate public record of all plans upon which
it takes action and of its findings, decision and recommendations in relation
thereto.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 7, § 702)
§ 155.128 PREVENTIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   In addition to other remedies, the borough may institute and maintain
appropriate actions by law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate
violations, to prevent unlawful construction, to recover damages and to prevent
illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises. The description by
metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other documents used in the
process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the seller or transferor
from such penalties or from the remedies herein provided.
   (B)   (1)   The borough may refuse to issue any permit or grant any approval
necessary to further improve or develop or utilize any real property which has
been developed or which has resulted from a subdivision of real property in
violation of this chapter. This authority to deny such a permit or approval
shall apply to any of the following applicants:
         (a)   The owner of record at the time of such violation;
         (b)   The vendee or lessee of the owner of record at the time of such
violation without regard as to whether such vendee or lessee had actual or
constructive knowledge of the violation;
         (c)   The current owner of record who acquired the property subsequent
to the time of violation without regard as to whether such current owner had
actual or constructive knowledge of the violation; and
         (d)   The vendee or lessee of the current owner of record who acquired
the property, subsequent to the time of violation without regard as to whether
such vendee or lessee had actual or constructive knowledge of the violation.
      (2)   As an additional condition for issuance of a permit or the granting
of an approval to any such owner, current owner, vendee or lessee for the
development of any such real property, the borough may require compliance with
the conditions that would have been applicable to the property at the time the
applicant acquired an interest in such real property.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 7, § 703)
§ 155.129 MODIFICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Borough Planning Commission may grant a modification of the
requirements of one or more provisions of this chapter if the literal
enforcement will exact undue hardship because of peculiar conditions pertaining
to the land in question, provided that such modification will not be contrary
to the public interest and that the purpose and intent of this chapter is
observed.
   (B)   All requests for a modification shall be in writing and shall
accompany and be a part of the application for development. The request shall
state in full the grounds and facts of unreasonableness or hardship on which
the request is based, the provision or provisions of the ordinance involved and
the minimum modification necessary.
   (C)   The borough shall keep a written record of all actions on all requests
for modification. If granting a modification, the Borough Planning Commission
shall record its actions and the grounds for granting the modification its
minutes. A statement showing the date that such modification was granted shall
be affixed to the final plan.
   (D)   The borough may approve, or deny the request for modification. If the
borough approves the request for modification, it shall authorize the minimum
modification from this chapter that will afford relief.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 7, § 705)
§ 155.130 CONFLICT.
   Whenever there is a difference between the minimum standards or dimensions
specified herein and those contained in other regulations, resolutions or
ordinances of the borough, the highest or most restrictive standards shall
govern.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 7, § 706)
§ 155.131 FAILURE TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   In the event that any improvements which may be required have not been
installed as provided in this chapter or in accord with the approved final
plan, the borough shall enforce any corporate bond or other security by
appropriate legal and equitable remedies. If the proceeds of such bond or other
security are insufficient to pay the cost of installing or making repairs or
corrections to all the improvements covered by said security, the borough may,
at its option, install part of such improvements in all or part of the
subdivision or land development and may institute appropriate legal and
equitable action to recover the monies necessary to complete the remainder of
the improvements.
   (B)   All of the proceeds, whether resulting from the security or from any
legal or equitable action brought against the developer, or both, shall be used
solely for the installation of the improvements covered by such security and
not for any other municipal purpose.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 7, § 707)
§ 155.132 APPEALS.
   The decision of the borough with respect to the approval or disapproval of
plans may be appealed directly to the Court of Common Pleas of the county not
later than 30 days after issuance of notice of the decision of the borough.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 7, § 708)
§ 155.133 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In the interpretation and the application of the provisions of this
chapter, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the health, safety, morals and general welfare.
   (B)   Standards applying to commercial and industrial subdivisions shall be
subject to individual review and determination in each case.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 7, § 709)
§ 155.134 VALIDITY.
   Should any section, division or provision of this chapter be declared
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of this chapter as a whole, or of any part thereof.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 7, § 710)
§ 155.135 COPIES.
   The borough shall provide printed copies of this chapter at a price equal to
reproduction costs and any necessary shipping costs as applicable.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 7, § 711)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership or corporation who or which has violated the
provisions of this chapter enacted under the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code or prior enabling laws shall, upon being found liable therefor in
a civil enforcement proceeding commenced by the borough, pay a judgment of not
more than $500 per violation, plus all court costs, including reasonable
attorney fees incurred by the borough as a result thereof. No judgment shall
commence or be imposed, levied or payable until the date of the determination
of a violation by the district justice. If the defendant neither pays nor
timely appeals the judgment, the borough may enforce the judgment pursuant to
the applicable rules of civil procedure. Each day that a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation, unless the district justice determining
that there has been a violation further determines that there was a good-faith
basis for the person, partnership or corporation violating the chapter to have
believed that there was no such violation, in which event there shall be deemed
to have been only one such violation until the fifth day following the date of
the determination of a violation by the district justice and thereafter each
day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   (B)   The Court of Commons Pleas, upon petition, may grant an order of stay,
upon cause shown, tolling the per diem judgment pending a final adjudication of
the violation and judgment.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed or interpreted to
grant to any person or entity other than the borough the right to commence any
action for enforcement pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 1432, passed 5-18-2015, Art. 7, § 704)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING
Section
Purpose and Authority
   
156.001   Title
   
156.002   Authority
   
156.003   Purpose
   
156.004   Compliance
   
156.005   Schedule of fees
   
156.006   Municipally owned properties
   
156.007   Interpretation of regulations
   
156.008   Other government property
Community Development Objectives
   
156.020   Community development objectives
District Descriptions
   
156.035   Zoning Map
   
156.036   R-1A Residential District
   
156.037   R-1B Residential District
   
156.038   R-2 Residential District
   
156.039   RLC Residential Limited Commercial District
   
156.040   P-1 Public District
   
156.041   C-1 Central Commercial District
   
156.042   The C-2 Commercial District
   
156.043   HCLI Highway Commercial and Light Industrial District
   
156.044   The I Industrial District
Conditional Uses and Special Exceptions
   
156.055   Conditional uses and special exceptions
   
156.056   Essential service structure
   
156.057   Family and group day care homes and day care centers
   
156.058   Home occupations
   
156.059   Accessory apartments
   
156.060   Public and private elementary and secondary schools recognized by the
Commonwealth
   
156.061   Adaptive re-use of historic buildings
   
156.062   Personal care homes
   
156.063   Conversion of single-family dwellings into apartments
   
156.064   Mobile home parks
   
156.065   Bed and breakfast
   
156.066   Duplexes, multiple-family dwellings and townhouse development
   
156.067   Neighborhood business
   
156.068   Fraternities and sororities
   
156.069   Stadiums and sports fields
   
156.070   Dormitories
   
156.071   Communication towers
   
156.072   Cemeteries
   
156.073   Drive through facilities
   
156.074   Hotel/motel
   
156.075   Upper floor dwelling unit
   
156.076   Private clubs and lodges
   
156.077   Tattoo and body piercing
   
156.078   Commercial recreation
   
156.079   Gas station, convenience store, motor vehicle sales, service and
repair
   
156.080   Office and shopping centers
   
156.081   Light manufacturing, warehousing, truck terminals and distribution
centers
   
156.082   Flea markets
   
156.083   Sexually oriented business
   
156.084   Bottle clubs
   
156.085   Bulk fuel storage
   
156.086   Correctional facility, halfway house or treatment center
   
156.087   Heavy industry
   
156.088   Junk and salvage yards and recycling centers
   
156.089   Mining and mineral extraction
   
156.090   Eating and drinking places and retail in industrial districts
   
156.091   Retail liquor store
   
156.092   Oil and gas drilling
   
156.093   Kennels
Supplementary Regulations
   
156.105   Nonconforming uses and structures
   
156.106   Existing lots of record
   
156.107   Accessory structures and uses
   
156.108   Temporary structures and uses
   
156.109   Height limitations
   
156.110   Performance standards
   
156.111   Off-street loading and parking
   
156.112   Group residences
   
156.113   Forestry
   
156.114   Screening and screen planting
Signs
   
156.125   General
   
156.126   Exempt signs
   
156.127   Performance standards
   
156.128   Illumination
   
156.129   Sign permit application
   
156.130   Signs permitted in the R-1A, R-1B Residential, R-2 Residential
Districts
   
156.131   Signs permitted in the P-1 Public District
   
156.132   Signs permitted in the RLC, C-1, C-2, HCLI and I-1 Zoning Districts
   
156.133   Electronic signs
   
156.134   Billboards and multi-vision signs
Definitions
   
156.145   Interpretation
   
156.146   Specific terms
Zoning Hearing Board
   
156.160   Creation
   
156.161   Appointment
   
156.162   Removal of members
   
156.163   Organization of Board
   
156.164   Expenditures for services
   
156.165   Legal counsel
   
156.166   Hearings
   
156.167   Board’s functions
   
156.168   Parties appellant before Board
   
156.169   Time limitations; persons aggrieved
   
156.170   Stay of proceedings
Administration, Enforcement and Appeals
   
156.185   Zoning Officer
   
156.186   Duties of the Zoning Officer
   
156.187   Permits and certificates
   
156.188   Violations
Amendments
   
156.200   General
   
156.201   Petitions
   
156.202   Referral
   
156.203   Action
   
156.204   Curative amendments
 
   
156.999   Penalty
PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY
§ 156.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, and may be cited as, the “Borough of Grove City
Zoning Ordinance”. The accompanying district map shall be known, and may be
cited as, the “Borough of Grove City Zoning Map”.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 1, § 28-101) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 101)
§ 156.002 AUTHORITY.
   In accordance with the authority granted to borough through the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. (Act 247, as reenacted
and amended), this chapter and map are intended to:
   (A)   Regulate the density of population;
   (B)   Regulate the location and use of buildings, structures and land for
residential, agricultural, commercial, industrial and other purposes;
   (C)   Regulate the height, bulk, number of stories, size and placement of
buildings and structures;
   (D)   Divide the Borough into districts of such size, shape and area, and to
establish such zoning map, as may be deemed best suited to carry out the
regulations; and
   (E)   Establish procedures for the administration, enforcement, amendment
and relief from hardships under certain circumstances.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 1, § 28-102) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 102)
§ 156.003 PURPOSE.
   (A)   These regulations are deemed necessary in order to encourage
beneficial growth in the borough while keeping the density of development
consistent with existing borough facilities and the borough’s ability to
develop new facilities needed.
   (B)   These regulations are expected to:
      (1)   Promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare;
      (2)   Conserve and stabilize property values through encouragement of the
most appropriate uses of land in relation to adjacent properties, with
consideration given to the physical characteristics of the property, and its
value, as well;
      (3)   Secure safety from fire, flood, panic and other dangers by
providing for adequate open spaces for light, air and amenity, and by promoting
emergency preparedness and operations;
      (4)   Preserve forests, agricultural lands and recreation areas in their
natural state, or from conflict with urban development;
      (5)   Protect floodplains and manage the release of stormwater to
minimize downstream flooding;
      (6)   Prevent the overcrowding or improper development of land,
incompatible uses of land, and/or blighting conditions;
      (7)   Facilitate the economic provision of safe, adequate and reliable
transportation, water supply, sewage disposal, public schools, parks and other
public requirements;
      (8)   Avoid congestion in travel and transportation, and maintain and
improve the carrying capacity and safety of major roads;
      (9)   Reduce the cost of building roads and installing utilities, and the
subsequent cost of borough operations; and
      (10)   Encourage similar controls upon development in adjacent
municipalities where logical zoning district boundaries extend across municipal
lines.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 1, § 28-103) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 103)
§ 156.004 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall be located, erected, demolished, constructed, moved,
externally altered, converted or enlarged, nor shall any structure or land use
be used or designed to be used, except in full compliance with this chapter and
after the lawful issuance of all permits and certifications required by this
chapter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 1, § 28-104) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 104)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.005 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   The Borough Council shall, from time to time, establish, by
resolution, a schedule of fees, charges and expenses and a collection procedure
for building permits, appeals and other matters pertaining to this chapter. The
schedule of fees may be posted in the borough offices, and may be amended only
by official action by the Borough Council.
   (B)   No permit, certificate, application or variance shall be issued, nor
shall any action be taken on proceedings before the Zoning Hearing Board
unless, or until, such costs, charges, fees or expenses have been paid in full.
   (C)   A zoning certificate or building permit shall be required for all new
construction, additions or alterations affecting exterior dimensions of
existing structures; and, for any structural or interior changes required for a
change of the structure’s use, or for any change in use.
   (D)   Any application for amendment, variance, special exception,
conditional use, permit or any other application or certificate within the
scope of this chapter, shall be accompanied by a fee, such fee to be
established by resolution of the Borough Council, who may, from time to time
revise such fees in order to bear a reasonable relationship to the costs
involved.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 1, § 28-105) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 105)
§ 156.006 MUNICIPALLY OWNED PROPERTIES.
   This chapter shall not apply to property owned by borough in the exercise of
its municipal functions, including, but not limited to, traffic and safety
signs, non-building essential service structures and utilities. The borough
will adhere to all use regulations by district and all dimensional and setback
regulations in the placement of any municipal building.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 1, § 28-106) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 106)
§ 156.007 INTERPRETATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Whenever the provisions of this chapter are at variance with provisions in
other parts of this chapter or any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations or
ordinances, the more restrictive requirements shall govern.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 1, § 28-107) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 107)
§ 156.008 OTHER GOVERNMENT PROPERTY.
   (A)   Property owned, leased or operated by the Commonwealth, or the United
States or any other public or governmental body or agency, shall be subject to
the requirements of this chapter as follows:
      (1)   Where such public or governmental uses are specifically listed,
they shall be governed as indicated; and
      (2)   Where such public or governmental uses are not specifically listed,
they shall be permitted only in districts permitting private uses of a similar
or substantially similar nature.
   (B)   Governmental entities and agencies shall be exempt from the provisions
of this chapter only to the extent that it has been determined that the borough
has no power to apply its zoning regulations to the particular use of land.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 1, § 28-108) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 110)
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
§ 156.020 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   In addition to the general purposes listing in §
156.003, the following specific community development objectives, created as
result of the Wolf Creek Slippery Rock Creek Council of Governments Multi
municipal Comprehensive Plan adopted in 2005, have been considered as a basis
upon which the regulations and controls of this chapter are derived.
   (B)   This chapter implements that Plan and has been determined to be
generally consistent with said Plan by a County Regional Planning Commission
review:
      (1)   Land use. To provide and perpetrate a land use pattern, which
includes a wide variety of uses appropriate in a small urban area;
      (2)   Environmental. To preserve natural features in a manner consistent
with a small urban area;
      (3)   Aesthetic. To enrich the lives of all residents by striving to
improve the aesthetic quality and visual impact of the built environment and
preserving elements of the natural environment that enhance the small-town
setting;
      (4)   Transportation, traffic and circulation. To maintain safe and
convenient circulation and movements of goods and people within the community
and to points beyond by all means practical. The multi-modal functions of
pedestrian, auto, rail and air available through the borough shall be continued
as possible;
      (5)   Economy. To establish areas for all forms of economic endeavor at
various scales, including small businesses, highway commercial areas,
information and services, manufacturing and industry as infrastructure is
available and within an appropriate geographic context;
      (6)   Housing. To support the continuation of the borough’s many high-
quality residential neighborhoods, as well as provide a variety of housing
choices to borough residents within the appropriate settings;
      (7)   Community facilities and services. To provide for facilities,
services and utilities of the quantity and quality necessary to meet the
physical, social, cultural, recreational and aesthetic needs of the community
and to do so in a timely and fiscally responsible manner. Within this context,
the borough will strive to provide these facilities, services and utilities
outside its jurisdictional boundaries in a mutually cooperative and fair
manner;
      (8)   Energy conservation. To promote the conservation of energy in every
way possible as a matter of serious public concern;
      (9)   Historic preservation. To preserve the borough’s historical
heritage for the enjoyment, enrichment and education of future generations, and
to engender and perpetuate an appreciation and respect for the borough’s early
efforts and achievements;
      (10)   Citizen participation. Provide a mechanism for continual
discussion among residents concerning the development of the borough and for
their participation in regional affairs; and
      (11)   Intergovernmental cooperation. To participate fully in matters of
regional importance, and provide for the continued development of a healthy
community with the neighboring municipalities, school district and greater
region.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 2, § 28-201) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, Art. 2)
DISTRICT DESCRIPTIONS
§ 156.035 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Adoption. A map entitled the “Grove City borough Zoning Map” is hereby
adopted as part of this chapter. The official Zoning Map shall be kept on file
and available for examination at the borough offices.
   (B)   Annexed areas. Any territory hereafter annexed or gained by discovery
by the borough will be automatically zoned R-1A Residential District until
otherwise classified.
   (C)   District boundaries. District boundaries that are shown between the
lines of streets, streams and transportation rights-of-way shall be deemed to
follow the centerline. The vacation of streets shall not affect the locations
of such district boundaries. When the Zoning Officer cannot definitely
determine the location of a district boundary by such centerlines, by the scale
of dimensions stated on the Zoning Map or by the fact that it clearly coincides
with a property line the Officer shall refuse action. The Zoning Hearing Board,
upon appeal, shall interpret the location of the district boundary with
reference to the scale of the Zoning Map and the purpose set forth in all
relevant provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Zoning district changes. All approved changes to zoning districts
shall be promptly recorded on the Zoning Map by the Zoning Officer.
   (E)   Permitted uses, conditional uses and special exceptions.
      (1)   The permitted uses, conditional uses and special exceptions for
each district are shown in the following tables of this chapter and are
considered principal uses unless clearly noted. Conditional uses may be granted
or denied by the Borough Council with the advice of the Planning Commission in
accordance with the express standards and criteria of this chapter. In granting
a conditional use, the Borough Council may attach reasonable conditions, as it
may deem necessary to implement the purposes of this chapter and safeguard the
neighborhood. Special exceptions may be granted or denied by the Zoning Hearing
Board in accordance with the express standards and criteria of this chapter. In
granting a special exception, the Board may attach reasonable conditions and
safeguards as it may deem necessary to implement the purpose of this chapter
and protect the neighborhood. Uses in each category shall be according to the
common meaning of the term or according to definitions set forth in §
156.146.
      (2)   If the Zoning Officer cannot determine that any proposed use of
land is provided for within any district or is not substantially similar to any
defined use he or she shall refuse action. The Zoning Officer shall refer the
application to the Zoning Hearing Board, which shall have the authority to
permit or deny the proposed use. The use may be permitted if it is similar to
and compatible with permitted uses in the district and in no way is in conflict
with the general purpose and intent of this chapter or any provision permitting
the same; provided, that the same shall comply and follow all regulations for
such use.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-301) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 301)
§ 156.036 R-1A RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The purpose of this district is to provide a zoning district in which the
dominant use of land will be single-family residential dwellings. Other uses
will be permitted only to the extent they do not jeopardize the security of
single-family dwelling and residential neighborhoods.
R-1A Residential District, Table of Uses
R-1A Residential District, Table of Uses
Permitted Uses
   Essential services as defined in §
156.146
   No-impact home-based business
   Place of worship
   Public parks and playgrounds
   Single-family dwellings
Accessory Uses
   Private garages and horticulture (subject to §§
156.105 through
156.114)
   Private residential swimming pools, tennis courts, tool and/or storage sheds
and greenhouses (subject to §§
156.105 through
156.114)
   Shelter for household pets see §§
156.105 through
156.114
   Storage or parking of a commercially licensed vehicle, see §§
156.105 through
156.114
   Storage or parking of major recreation equipment, see §§
156.105 through
156.114
   Walls, fences, lamp posts and similar accessory structures subject to the
limitations contained in §§
156.105 through
156.114
   Other accessory uses, provided they shall be customarily incidental and
subordinate to a permitted use and they shall be located on the same lot as the
principal use
Special Exceptions
   Essential service structure (see §
156.056)
   Family day care home (see §
156.057)
 
Table 156.036
R-1A District
Lot, Yard and Height Standards*
 Single-Family Dwellings, Family Day Care Homes, Place of Worship, Public Park
 No-Impact Home-Based Business
Table 156.036
R-1A District
Lot, Yard and Height Standards*
                   Single-Family Dwellings,
                   Family Day Care Homes, No- Place of Worship, Public Park
                   Impact Home-Based Business
Maximum coverage   33%                        33%
Maximum height     28 feet                    28 feet
Minimum front yard 30 feet*                   30 feet
Minimum lot area   8,500 square feet          20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width  75 feet                    100 feet
Minimum rear yard  30 feet*                   30 feet
Minimum side yard  12 feet*                   30 feet
*See also §
156.105 for alternative standards
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-302) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 302)
§ 156.037 R-1B RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The purpose of this district is to provide a zoning district in which the
dominant use of land will be single-family residential dwellings, but lot sizes
are smaller and there are more mixed uses than R-1A. Other uses will be
permitted only to the extent they support a traditional walkable neighborhood
and foster homeowner-ship and housing affordability.
R-1B Residential District, Table of Uses
R-1B Residential District, Table of Uses
Permitted Uses
   Essential services as defined in §
156.146
   Family day care home
   No-impact home-based business
   Place of worship
   Public parks and playgrounds
   Single-family dwellings
Accessory Uses
   Private garages and horticulture (subject to §§
156.105 through
156.114)
   Private residential swimming pools, tennis courts, tool and/or storage sheds
and greenhouses (subject to §§
156.105 through
156.114)
   Shelter for household pets see §§
156.105 through
156.114
   Storage or parking of a commercially licensed vehicle, see §§
156.105 through
156.114
   Storage or parking of major recreation equipment, see §§
156.105 through
156.114
   Walls, fences, lamp posts and similar accessory structures subject to the
height limitations contained in §§
156.105 through
156.114
   Other accessory uses, provided they shall be customarily incidental and
subordinate to a permitted use and they shall be located on the same lot as the
principal use.
Special Exceptions
   Essential service structure (see §
156.056)
   Group day care home (see §
156.057)
   Home occupations (see §
156.058)
   One accessory apartment (see §
156.059)
Conditional Uses
   Adaptive re-use of historic buildings (see §
156.061)
   Bed and breakfasts (see §
156.065)
   Public and private elementary and secondary schools recognized by the
Commonwealth (see §
156.060)
 
Table 156.038
R-1B District
Lot, Yard and Height Standards*
 Single-Family Dwellings, Family Day Care Place of Worship, Public Parks,
 Homes, No-Impact Home-Based Business     Essential Service Structure, Cemetery
Table 156.038
R-1B District
Lot, Yard and Height Standards*
                   Single-Family Dwellings,   Place of Worship, Public Parks,
                   Family Day Care Homes, No- Essential Service Structure,
                   Impact Home-Based Business Cemetery
Maximum coverage   33%                        33%
Maximum height     28 feet                    28 feet
Minimum front yard 30 feet*                   30 feet
Minimum lot area   7,000 square feet          8,500 square feet
Minimum lot width  75 feet                    75 feet
Minimum rear yard  30 feet*                   30 feet
Minimum side yard  12 feet*                   30 feet
*See also §
156.105 for alternative standards
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-303) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 303; Ord.
1462, passed 7-15-19)
§ 156.038 R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The purpose of this district is to provide a zoning district to provide for
housing at various densities, and to encourage new construction of multiple-
family dwellings in appropriate places to meet the needs of area residents.
R-2 Residential District, Table of Uses
R-2 Residential District, Table of Uses
Permitted Uses
   Duplex, when new construction
   Essential services as defined in §
156.146
   Family day care home
   No-impact home-based business
   Place of worship
   Public parks and playgrounds
   Single-family dwellings
Accessory Uses
   Private garages and horticulture (subject to §§
156.105 through
156.114)
   Private residential swimming pools, tennis courts, tool and/or storage sheds
and greenhouses (subject to §§
156.105 through
156.114)
   Shelter for household pets, see §§
156.105 through
156.114
   Storage or parking of a commercially licensed vehicle, see §§
156.105 through
156.114
   Storage or parking of major recreation equipment, see §§
156.105 through
156.114
   Walls, fences, lamp posts and similar accessory structures subject to the
height limitations contained in §§
156.105 through
156.114
   Other accessory uses, provided they shall be customarily incidental and
subordinate to a permitted use and they shall be located on the same lot as the
principal use.
Special Exceptions
   Group day care home (see §
156.057)
   Home occupations (see §
156.058)
Conditional Uses
   Accessory apartments/multiple-family dwellings (subject to §
156.059 and §
156.066 respectively)
   Adaptive re-use of historic buildings (see §
156.061)
   Bed and breakfasts (see §
156.065)
   Conversion of single-family dwellings into apartments (see §
156.063)
   Day care centers (see §
156.057)
   Mobile home park (see §
156.064)
   Personal care homes (see §
156.062)
 
Table 156.038
R-2 District
Lot, Yard and Height Standards*
                         Duplex and Multiple-Family Place of Worship, Public
 Single-Family Dwellings Dwellings                  parks and Playgrounds,
                                                    Essential Service Structure
Table 156.038
R-2 District
Lot, Yard and Height Standards*
                                                           Place of Worship,
                   Single-Family     Duplex and Multiple-  Public parks and
                   Dwellings         Family Dwellings      Playgrounds,
                                                           Essential Service
                                                           Structure
Maximum coverage   33%               33%                   30%
Maximum height     28 feet           28 feet               28 feet
Minimum front yard 30 feet*          30 feet               30 feet
                                     8,500 square feet for
                                     duplex 10,000 square
                                     feet for first 3
Minimum lot area   6,000 square feet units in multiple-    8,500 square feet
                                     family dwelling plus
                                     1,500 square feet per
                                     each unit thereafter
Minimum lot width  75 feet           75 feet               75 feet
Minimum rear yard  30 feet*          30 feet               30 feet
Minimum side yard  12 feet*          30 feet               30 feet
See also §
156.105 for alternative standards
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-304) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 304; Ord.
1490, passed 4-17-2023)
§ 156.039 RLC RESIDENTIAL LIMITED COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   The purpose of this district is to provide a zoning district to provide for
housing at various densities, and to encourage new construction of multiple-
family dwellings in appropriate places to meet the needs of area residents.
RLC Residential District, Table of Uses
RLC Residential District, Table of Uses
Permitted Uses
   Bed and breakfast
   Civic and cultural buildings
   Essential services structure
   Family or group day care home
   Funeral homes
   Home occupations
   No-impact home-based business
   Place of worship
   Professional offices
   Public parks and playgrounds
   Single-family dwellings
Accessory Uses
   Private garages and horticulture (subject to §§
156.105 through
156.114)
   Private residential swimming pools, tennis courts, tool and/or storage sheds
and greenhouses (subject to §§
156.105 through
156.114)
   Shelter for household pets, see §§
156.105 through
156.114
   Storage or parking of a commercially licensed vehicle, see §§
156.105 through
156.114
   Storage or parking of major recreation equipment, see §§
156.105 through
156.114
   Walls, fences, lamp posts and similar accessory structures subject to the
height limitations contained in §§
156.105 through
156.114
   Other accessory uses, provided they shall be customarily incidental and
subordinate to a permitted use and they shall be located on the same lot as the
principal use.
Special Exceptions
   Duplex (see §
156.066)
   Group day care home (see §
156.057)
   Home occupations (see §
156.058)
Conditional Uses
   Adaptive re-use of historic buildings (see §
156.061)
   Bed and breakfasts (see §
156.065)
   Conversion of single-family dwellings into apartments (see §
156.063)
   Multiple-family dwellings (see §
156.066)
   Neighborhood businesses (see §
156.067)
 
Table 156.039
RLC District
Lot, Yard and Height Standards*
 Single-Family Dwellings, Family Day Care Civic and Cultural Buildings Place of
 Homes, No-Impact Home-Based Business,    Worship Public Parks and Playgrounds,
 Essential Service Structure              Funeral Homes
Table 156.039
RLC District
Lot, Yard and Height Standards*
                   Single-Family Dwellings,    Civic and Cultural Buildings
                   Family Day Care Homes, No-  Place of Worship Public Parks
                   Impact Home-Based Business, and Playgrounds, Funeral Homes
                   Essential Service Structure
Maximum coverage   33%                         33%
Maximum height     28 feet                     28 feet
Minimum front yard 30 feet*                    30 feet
Minimum lot area   6,000 square feet           8,500 square feet
Minimum lot width  75 feet                     75 feet
Minimum rear yard  30 feet*                    30 feet
Minimum side yard  12 feet*                    30 feet
See also §
156.105 for alternative standards
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-305) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 305; Ord.
1462, passed 7-15-19)
§ 156.040 P-1 PUBLIC DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the P-1 Public District is to create a zoning district to
preserve and protect the unique and substantial investment made by generations
in the Grove City College campus, which creates an atmosphere where learning,
scholarship and research may flourish. It is also meant to recognize the unique
needs of major areas owned by local government, including the Grove City Area
School District. The district is also meant to protect neighboring areas of
private residential uses from land use conflicts due to disparities of size and
scale of development.
P-1 Public District, Table of Uses
P-1 Public District, Table of Uses
Permitted Uses
   Civic and cultural buildings, public parks and playgrounds
   Colleges and universities, including classrooms, administrative and support
buildings, but not including dormitories, college stadiums and sports fields,
which are conditional uses.
   Communication antenna
   Essential services
   Place of worship
   Public and private schools recognized by the Commonwealth
   Single-family dwellings
Accessory Uses
   All uses accessory to a single-family dwelling as detailed in §
156.039
   No-impact home-based business
   Private or public garages and parking areas
   Signs
   Other accessory uses and structures customarily appurtenant to a principal
permitted use
Conditional Uses
   Adaptive re-use of historic buildings (see §
156.061)
   Cemetery (see §
156.072)
   Communication towers (see §
156.071)
   Dormitories, private, college or university related (see §
156.070)
   Fraternities and sororities (see §
156.068)
   Oil and gas drilling (see §
156.092)
   Stadiums and sports fields (see §
156.069)
 
Table 156.040
P-1 District
Lot, Yard and Height Standards
 Single-Family Dwellings, Family Day Care Homes, No-Impact Home- All Other Uses
 Based Business*
Table 156.040
P-1 District
Lot, Yard and Height Standards
                   Single-Family Dwellings,
                   Family Day Care Homes, No-  All Other Uses
                   Impact Home-Based Business*
Maximum coverage   33%                         50%
Maximum height     28 feet                     75 feet
Minimum front yard 30 feet                     40 feet
Minimum lot area   6,000 square feet           1 acre
Minimum lot width  75 feet                     75 feet
Minimum rear yard  30 feet                     20 feet between all buildings
Minimum side yard  12 feet                     20 feet between all buildings
See also §
156.105 for alternative standards
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-306) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 306)
§ 156.041 C-1 CENTRAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   The purpose of the C-1 Central Commercial District is to create a
zoning district to preserve and protect the unique pedestrian oriented
downtown, which has historically been a focus of both p   (A)   The purpose of
the C-1 Central Commercial District is to create a zoning district to preserve
and protect the unique pedestrian oriented downtown, which has historically
been a focus of both private and public investments. This district is
established in accordance with Article VII-A of the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code (53 P.S. §§ 10701-A to 10709-A) as a traditional neighborhood
development district. Furthermore, pursuant to § 156.146, this district is
established as an outright designation for the purposes of urban infill. The
borough is utilizing the traditional neighborhood development designation in
order for this designated district to meet the Commonwealth goals of:
      (1)   To encourage innovations in residential and nonresidential
development and renewal which makes use of a mixed-use form of development so
that the growing demand for housing and other development may be met by greater
variety in type, design and layout of dwellings and other buildings and
structures and by the conservation and more efficient use of open space
ancillary to said dwellings and uses;
      (2)   To allow for the development of fully integrated, mixed-use
pedestrian-oriented neighborhoods; and
      (3)   To minimize traffic congestion, infrastructure costs and
environmental degradation.
   (B)   In this district, new construction of any building or an expansion of
an existing building entailing greater than 10% of the existing gross floor
area is subject to all design and development standards as contained in the
Borough Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance (Chapter 156).
C-1 Central Commercial District, Table of Uses
Permitted Uses
C-1 Central Commercial District, Table of Uses
Permitted Uses
   Business services including financial services such as banks
   Civic and cultural buildings
   Commercial printing
   Commercial schools
   Eating and drinking places
   Personal services
   Place of worship
   Professional offices
   Retail stores
   Theaters
Accessory Uses (see §§
156.105 through
156.114)
Conditional Uses
   Conversion of single-family dwellings into apartments (see §
156.063)
   Day care centers (see §
156.057)
   Drive through facilities serving an eating and drinking place, retail or
business service (see §
156.073)
   Hotel/motel (see §
156.074)
   Indoor commercial recreation (see §
156.078)
   Private clubs and lodges (see §
156.076)
   Tattoos and body piercing (see §
156.077)
   Townhouse development (see §
156.066)
   Upper floor dwelling unit (see §
156.075)
 
Table 156.041
Table 156.041
C-1 District
Lot, Yard and Height Standards
                   All Uses
Maximum coverage   100%
Maximum height     60 feet
Minimum front yard 0
Minimum lot area   1,000 square feet
Minimum lot width  25 feet
Minimum rear yard  0
Minimum side yard  0
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-307) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 307; Ord.
1483, passed 1-17-2022, § 2; Ord. 1500, passed 7-15-2024, § 1)
§ 156.042 THE C-2 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   The C-2 Commercial District is established to provide a full range of
commercial opportunities in areas of the borough with a goal toward
establishing commercial cores that meet the needs of both highway and
pedestrian access.
C-2 Commercial District Table of Uses
C-2 Commercial District Table of Uses
Permitted Uses
   Auto service
   Bed and breakfast
   Business services including financial services such as banks
   Civic and cultural buildings
   Eating/drinking places
   Family and group day care
   Funeral homes
   Nursing homes and personal care homes
   Personal care homes
   Personal services
   Place of worship
   Professional offices
   Retail sales
Accessory Uses and Structures (see §§
156.105 through
156.114)
   Private or public garages and parking areas
   Signs
   Other accessory uses and structures customarily appurtenant to a principal
permitted use
Conditional Uses
   Auto sales (see §
156.079)
   Auto service and repair (see §
156.079)
   Day care centers (see §
156.057)
   Drive through facilities (see §
156.073)
   Gas station/convenience store (see §
156.079)
   Indoor commercial recreation (see §
156.078)
   Multiple-family dwelling (see §
156.066)
   Office and shopping centers (see §
156.080)
 
Table 156.042
C-2 District
Lot, Yard and Height Standards
 All Uses
Table 156.042
C-2 District
Lot, Yard and Height Standards
                   All Uses
Maximum coverage   50%
Maximum height     45 feet
Minimum front yard 20 feet
Minimum lot area   10,000 square feet
Minimum lot width  100 feet
Minimum rear yard  20 feet
Minimum side yard  10 feet
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-308) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 308)
§ 156.043 HCLI HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL AND LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   The HCLI Highway Commercial District is established to provide for
businesses that require significant infrastructure and access to major traffic
arterials.
HCLI Highway Commercial District, Table of Uses
HCLI Highway Commercial District, Table of Uses
Permitted Uses
   Automobile and equipment sales and service
   Building material/supply yards
   Business services including financial services such as banks
   Car wash
   Eating and drinking place (including drive through facilities)
   Essential services
   Funeral homes
   Hotel/motel
   Indoor commercial recreation
   Landscaping and nursery
   Nursing homes and hospital
   Nursing homes and personal care homes
   Personal care homes
   Personal services
   Place of worship
   Professional offices
   Retail businesses
   Self service storage facility
   Service station/convenience store
   Shopping centers
   Theaters
   Veterinary clinics
Accessory Uses and Structures (see §§
156.105 through
156.114)
   Private or public garages and parking areas
   Signs
   Other accessory uses and structures customarily appurtenant to a principal
permitted use
Conditional Uses
   Flea markets (see §
156.082)
   Light manufacturing (see §
156.081)
   Multiple-family dwellings (see §
156.066)
   Outdoor commercial recreation (see §
156.078)
   Retail liquor store (see §
156.091)
   Truck terminals/warehousing/distribution (see §
156.081)
 
Table 156.043
HCLI District
Lot, Yard and Height Standards
 All Uses
Table 156.043
HCLI District
Lot, Yard and Height Standards
                   All Uses
Maximum coverage   50%
Maximum height     45 feet
Minimum front yard 40 feet
Minimum lot area   20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width  100 feet
Minimum rear yard  45 feet
Minimum side yard  20 feet
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-309) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 309)
§ 156.044 THE I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   The I Industrial District is established to provide appropriate areas for
forms of manufacturing and similar high-intensity uses that can have a higher
impact upon surrounding properties.
I Industrial District, Table of Uses
I Industrial District, Table of Uses
Permitted Uses
   Auto service and repair
   Building material and supply yard
   Business services including financial services, such as banks
   Communications antennas
   Contractors office, garage and storage yard
   Landscaping supply and nursery
   Light manufacturing
   Place of worship
   Professional offices
   Public utility structures
   Research lab
   Self-service storage buildings
   Truck terminals and warehousing
Accessory Uses and Structures (see §§
156.105 through
156.114)
   Private or public garages and parking areas
   Signs
   Other accessory uses and structures customarily appurtenant to a principal
permitted use
Conditional Uses
   Bottle clubs (see §
156.084)
   Bulk fuel storage (see §
156.085)
   Communications towers (see §
156.071)
   Correctional facility/halfway house and treatment center (see §
156.086)
   Day care centers (see §
156.057)
   Eating and drinking places (see §
156.090)
   Heavy industry (see §
156.087)
   Junkyards, salvage and recycling centers (see §
156.088)
   Kennel (see §
156.093)
   Mining and mineral excavation (see §
156.089)
   Oil and gas drilling (see §
156.092)
   Retail business (see §
156.090)
   Sexually-oriented business (see §
156.083)
 
Table 156.044
I District
Lot, Yard and Height Standards
 All Uses
Table 156.044
I District
Lot, Yard and Height Standards
                   All Uses
Maximum coverage   75%
Maximum height     75 feet
Minimum front yard 30 feet
Minimum lot area   40,000 square feet
Minimum lot width  100 feet
Minimum rear yard  45 feet
Minimum side yard  30 feet
 
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-310) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 310; Ord.
1462, passed 7-15-19)
CONDITIONAL USES AND SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
§ 156.055 CONDITIONAL USES AND SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The criteria for conditional uses and special exceptions are listed
below. The Borough Council or the Zoning Hearing Board (as the case may be), in
granting conditional uses and special exceptions, are charged with considering
the effect that such proposed uses will have upon the immediate neighborhood.
The preservation and integrity of existing development must be carefully
weighed and given priority in each decision. In granting a conditional use or a
special exception, the Borough Council or the Zoning Hearing Board (as the case
may be) may attach reasonable conditions and safeguards, in addition to those
expressed in this chapter, as they may deem necessary to implement the purposes
of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code and this chapter.
   (B)   Applications for conditional uses and special exceptions shall be made
to the Zoning Officer. Conditional uses shall be granted or denied by the
Borough Council after the recommendation of the Borough Planning Commission.
Special exceptions shall be granted or denied by the Zoning Hearing Board.
Procedures for both shall follow those specified in this chapter and the
Planning Code.
   (C)   This subchapter contains specific standards for conditional uses and
special exceptions allowed in each zoning district. It shall be the
responsibility of the applicant to illustrate compliance with these standards
to the borough. In granting a conditional use or special exception, the Borough
Council or Zoning Hearing Board may also add reasonable additional conditions
and safeguards beyond the specific criteria for each conditional use or special
exception. The purpose of such additional conditions and safeguards is to
further mitigate negative impacts of a development upon specific sites, and
make the conditional use more compatible with the surrounding zoning district.
Such reasonable additional conditions and safeguards may include, but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Establishment of screening and buffering, or an increase in
screening and buffering normally required;
      (2)   Limitations upon hours of operation;
      (3)   Establishment of fencing for purposes of security, limiting
vehicular access or control of windblown trash;
      (4)   Limits upon future subdivision of property to prevent the creation
of a lot too small for the approved conditional use;
      (5)   Changes in the proposed location or design of access drives or
parking areas to prevent traffic hazards, congestion or the impacts of
increased traffic upon local access and residential streets; and
      (6)   Other conditions to ensure that the exterior appearance of a
building or property is in harmony with surrounding development, including an
agreement by the applicant to adhere to any design standards of the borough
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance (Chapter 156).
   (D)   The developer will be notified in writing of any such reasonable
additional conditions and safeguards imposed by the applicable board as part of
an approval.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-401) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 401)
§ 156.056 ESSENTIAL SERVICE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Essential services such as underground piping, poles, wire, cable and
similar apparatus shall not require a permit.
   (B)   This special exception includes only buildings and structures used for
the provision of essential services.
      (1)   The design and landscaping shall be compatible with and preserve
the character of any adjoining residential uses.
      (2)   Screen planting or buffering may be required as a reasonable
additional condition of approval. If the structure is fenced, screening shall
be located on the outside of the fence.
      (3)   Any security fencing shall be set back at least six feet from any
lot line containing a single-family dwelling. Areas between the security fence
and the property line shall be landscaped and maintained.
      (4)   Outdoor lighting shall be designed to prevent glare to adjoining
properties through the use of full cutoff fixtures.
      (5)   There shall be no permanent employee stationed at the structure, or
use of any structure for a permanent office, workshop, or similar installation.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-402) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 402)
§ 156.057 FAMILY AND GROUP DAY CARE HOMES AND DAY CARE CENTERS.
   (A)   Day care services for children shall be defined as type consistent
with Commonwealth licensing (see §
156.146 for definitions). No day care home shall expand into another
Commonwealth defined class without zoning approval.
   (B)   Any outdoor play area shall be effectively fenced from access to
abutting properties or streets with a solid or opaque fence of at least four
feet in height.
   (C)   If the lot is located on a state highway route that does not provide
on street parking, a turning place shall be provided on-lot to assist drivers
in avoiding backing on to a state highway.
   (D)   The operator shall secure and keep current all permits from the
Commonwealth or other licensing agencies.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-403) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 403)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.058 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations are a potential intrusion upon residential areas and are
limited in size and scale to mitigate these impacts.
   (A)   Parking. In addition to providing the required parking spaces for
residents of the dwelling units, off-street parking must be provided for
employees and customers in accordance with the criteria set forth by this
chapter.
   (B)   Employees. No more than one outside employee, other than a family
member, shall participate or work in the home occupation.
   (C)   Restrictions. No home occupation which would cause undue noise,
traffic or other intrusion upon the neighborhood shall be allowed. Among the
activities excluded shall be kennels, veterinary offices, restaurants, small
motor repair, automotive repair, automobile body work and similar undertakings.
   (D)   List. Home occupations may include, but are not limited to, art
studios, music studios (limited to one student at a time), professional
services, beauty shops and dressmakers.
   (E)   No change in outward characteristics of home. The nature of the home
occupation shall not change the outward characteristics of the home as a
residential unit.
   (F)   Space. No more than 25% (in aggregate) of the home may be used for a
home occupation
   (G)   Sign. One sign no larger than two square feet in any other district
may be used to announce the name or purpose of the home occupation.
   (H)   Hours. Home occupations shall not operate before 8:00 a.m. nor after
9:00 p.m.
   (I)   Restriction. No more than one home occupation per dwelling shall be
permitted.
   (J)   Exterior storage of materials. No exterior storage of materials shall
be permitted.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-404) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 404)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.059 ACCESSORY APARTMENTS.
   (A)   The purpose of this use is to facilitate affordable housing and
encourage greater diversity of population with particular attention to young
adults and senior citizens without altering the density of single-family
residential neighborhoods. The intent is that the accessory apartment shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to a single-family dwelling.
   (B)   The accessory apartment must be located in a garage or another
building separate from the principle dwelling unit.
   (C)   The owner of the property shall occupy either the principal dwelling
unit or the accessory apartment. For the purposes of this section, the OWNER
shall be one or more individuals residing in a dwelling who hold legal or
beneficial title and for whom the dwelling is the primary residence for voting
and tax purposes. The owner resident shall agree to inform the borough upon any
status change in residency, such as sale or vacation of the property.
   (D)   There shall be adequate off-street parking space for one additional
motor vehicle per apartment.
   (E)   The accessory apartment shall contain no more than one bedroom.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-405) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 405)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.060 PUBLIC AND PRIVATE ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS RECOGNIZED BY THE
COMMONWEALTH.
   (A)   While a necessary public benefit, the intensity of traffic and
activity at schools can create land use conflict with residential
neighborhoods.
   (B)   The school shall be located on a lot abutting a state-maintained road
or highway.
   (C)   Shall provide all parking and loading/unloading requirements as
required by this chapter. No parking or loading area for discharge of children
shall be located on a public street cartway.
   (D)   The design and landscaping shall be compatible with and preserve the
character of adjoining residential uses.
   (E)   Recreation/play areas that abut residential uses shall provide screen
planting.
   (F)   Any outdoor lighting shall be designed to prevent glare to adjoining
properties.
   (G)   No outdoor stadium or sports field shall be located within 100 feet of
an adjoining single-family dwelling.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-406) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 406)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.061 ADAPTIVE RE-USE OF HISTORIC BUILDINGS.
   (A)   This section shall apply only to former public buildings (including,
but not limited to, schools, churches, former commercial buildings).
   (B)   Structures which meet the criteria outlined in this section may be
reused for the following purposes by conditional use:
      (1)   Day care facilities of all types;
      (2)   Personal care homes;
      (3)   Professional office;
      (4)   Hospitals and medical clinics for humans;
      (5)   Civic or cultural building;
      (6)   Studio of an artist or musician;
      (7)   Personal service business limited to an exercise facility or
gymnasium; and
      (8)   Barber or beauty salon.
   (C)   Any expansion of a structure being approved as an adaptive re-use
shall meet all applicable yard and coverage standards.
   (D)   All parking standards of this chapter shall be met.
   (E)   To protect the scale of neighborhoods and integrity of historic
structures, no building expansions shall result in a total gross floor area of
greater than 7,000 square feet.
   (F)   Design standards for alteration or expansion.
      (1)   The applicant may choose to employ the Secretary of the Interior’s
Standards for Historic Preservation in undertaking any alteration, in which
case, evidence of compliance shall be furnished.
      (2)   Otherwise, the following design standard shall apply to any
expansion, replacement or exterior alteration.
         (a)   The original building footprint or a smaller area is adhered to
for all yard lines. The principal entrance shall be located on the same street
frontage as the original building.
         (b)   Buildings shall generally relate in scale and design features to
the surrounding buildings and the previous building on site.
         (c)   Long monotonous uninterrupted walls or roof planes shall be
avoided.
         (d)   Window arrangement shall be architecturally compatible with the
style, materials, colors and details of the building. Windows shall be
vertically proportioned whenever possible. Upper-story windows shall be
vertically aligned with the location of windows and doors on the ground level.
         (e)   Blank, windowless walls are discouraged. Where the construction
of a blank wall is necessitated by local building codes, the wall should be
articulated by the provision of blank window openings trimmed with frames,
sills and lintels, or, if the building is occupied by a commercial use, by
using recessed or projecting display window cases. Intensive landscaping may
also be appropriate in certain cases.
         (f)   All entrances to a building shall be defined and articulated by
architectural elements such as lintels, pediments, pilasters, columns,
porticoes, porches, overhangs, railings, balustrades and others, where
appropriate. Any such element utilized shall be architecturally compatible with
the style, materials, colors and details of the building as a whole, as shall
the doors.
         (g)   Any design manual adopted by the borough shall be adhered to.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-407) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 407)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.062 PERSONAL CARE HOMES.
   (A)   The purpose of this conditional use standard is to ensure that
personal care homes retain a setting consistent with a neighborhood’s
residential character and density and do not adversely impact other uses.
   (B)   Consequently, it is essential to maintain an exterior appearance that
is in harmony with surrounding residences.
      (1)   There shall be no sign or exterior display beyond the name of the
home or its use.
      (2)   At least one additional on-lot parking space shall be provided for
each two guests.
      (3)   No home in the R-2 District may admit more than 25 residents,
unless located at least 100 feet from any lot containing a single-family
dwelling.
      (4)   Required local, county and/or state certifications shall be
presented to the Council. Especially included are to be applicable permits from
the Pennsylvania Departments of Welfare and Labor and Industry.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-408) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 401)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.063 CONVERSION OF SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS INTO APARTMENTS.
   (A)   The purpose of this conditional use is to allow for the conversion of
existing single-family homes into multiple-family units.
   (B)   To be allowed to convert from a single-family into a multiple-family
unit, the following criteria must be met.
      (1)   No single-family dwelling proposed for conversion to apartments
shall have a lot size of less than that required for a conforming single-family
dwelling in the district.
      (2)   Off-street parking shall be provided at a ratio of one and one-half
spaces for every single bedroom or efficiency apartment and two spaces for
every apartment of two bedrooms.
      (3)   No parking area, except for a residential driveway of no greater
than 28 feet in width, may be developed in any area between the principal
street and the front of the dwelling. All parking areas shall be in the rear of
the dwelling. Parking shall be arranged so that no vehicle shall be parked in a
manner that would block a required parking space from access to a public
street.
      (4)   All units must have separate kitchen and bathroom facilities as
well as living/sleeping spaces.
      (5)   Each unit shall have a minimum size of 600 square feet exclusive of
common spaces.
      (6)   All required parking shall be accommodated on-lot. No parking in
the front yard area shall be permitted.
      (7)   Conversion shall be limited to three dwelling units or less.
      (8)   Each dwelling unit shall have separate utility service connections
and meters (as applicable) for natural gas, water, sewer and electric.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-409) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 401)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.064 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Mobile home parks are also subject to the borough Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance (Chapter 156).
   (B)   Conditional use approval shall precede approval of a plat under that
chapter and all standards below and any reasonable additional conditions and
safeguards shall be a part of plat approval.
      (1)   No land area of less than five contiguous acres shall be developed
as a mobile home park.
      (2)   Mobile homes shall be arranged so that there is at least 20 feet
between each mobile home, a common driveway, other mobile homes and any other
structure within the park.
      (3)   No mobile home shall be located within 50 feet of any property line
or public right-of-way line.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-410) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 410)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.065 BED AND BREAKFAST.
   Such uses are intended to provide overnight or short-term accommodations for
transient guests in a homelike atmosphere. They must meet the following
regulations:
   (A)   No signs in excess of six square feet shall be allowed. Only one such
sign shall be permitted.
   (B)   No modifications to the external appearance of the building (except
fire escapes) which would alter its residential character, shall be permitted.
No expansions or alterations shall be permitted which would increase the number
of rooms available for lease from that within the existing dwelling.
   (C)   The owner shall either reside upon the lot, or have an onsite
employee/manager readily available at all times when there are guests, unless
the applicant submits a written plan to ensure the safety and security of
guests, and prevent disruptions to the neighborhood by guests. Any alternative
plan shall be subject to approval by the borough, and may be rejected if it
does not provide for the safety of guests and maintaining the quiet residential
character of the neighborhood.
   (D)   An emergency responder rapid access entry box (commonly called a Knox
Box) shall be provided for fire department access. Specifications for the box
shall meet fire department standards.
   (E)   No event or gathering shall be permitted which involves outdoor
amplified entertainment though use of any speaker system or sound amplification
device.
   (F)   No more than two transient guests (as defined) are permitted for each
guest room, unless specifically permitted through a UCC occupancy permit.
   (G)   One off-street parking space for each guest room shall be required.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-411) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 411; Ord.
1462, passed 7-15-19) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.066 DUPLEXES, MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS AND TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   All units must have separate kitchen and bathroom facilities as well
as living/sleeping spaces. All units must have separately metered utilities.
   (B)   Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum size of 600 square feet
exclusive of common spaces.
   (C)   All required parking shall be accommodated on-lot or in leased or
otherwise dedicated tenant spaces within 100 feet of the proposed development.
   (D)   All area and yard requirements for multiple-family dwellings within
the district must be met as follows:
                        Multiple-Family Multiple-Family Multiple-Family
 Duplex in RLC District Dwelling in RLC Dwelling in C-  Dwelling in R-
                        District or C-  2 District      2 District
                        1 District
                               Multiple-Family Multiple-Family  Multiple-Family
                Duplex in RLC  Dwelling in RLC Dwelling in C-   Dwelling in R-
                District       District or C-  2 District       2 District
                               1 District
Maximum                        35% building    35% building 80%
coverage        50%            80% impervious  impervious area  33%
                               area
Maximum height  35 feet        50 feet         50 feet          28 feet
Maximum number  Maximum of 4   Maximum of 18   Maximum of 12    Maximum of 18
of dwelling     dwelling units dwelling units  dwelling units   dwelling units
units per acre* per acre       per acre        per acre         per acre
Minimum front   50 feet        20 feet         20 feet          30 feet
yard
Minimum lot     12,000 square  10,000 square   40,000 square    10,000 square
area            feet           feet            feet             feet
Minimum lot     100 feet       100 feet        100 feet         75 feet
width
Minimum rear    25 feet        50 feet         35 feet          30 feet
yard
Minimum side    25 feet        25 feet         25 feet          30 feet
yard
*includes proration for lots smaller than 1 acre
 
   (E)   Screening may be required as a reasonable condition of approval.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-412) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 412; Ord.
1490, passed 4-17-2023) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.067 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS.
   (A)   The purpose of this conditional use is to allow very small retail
businesses that would serve the neighborhood or potential tourists.
   (B)   Such uses shall:
      (1)   Provide all parking as required by this chapter on-lot unless it
can be shown that on-street parking is adequate within 100 feet;
      (2)   Any compressors shall be so enclosed as to baffle their sound from
surrounding uses;
      (3)   All dumpsters and/or garbage/trash storage areas shall be enclosed;
      (4)   No sign for a neighborhood business may exceed 16 square feet; and
      (5)   No building shall exceed 5,000 square feet gross floor area (GFA).
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-413) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 413)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.068 FRATERNITIES AND SORORITIES.
   (A)   State the maximum proposed number of residents. There shall be no more
than one resident per each bedroom, and a maximum of ten bedrooms.
   (B)   Meet all lot requirements of this district for multiple-family
dwellings, substituting “residents” for “units,” as both terms are defined by
this chapter.
   (C)   Meet the parking requirements of one space for every proposed
resident, plus one visitor space for every two residents.
   (D)   Provide evidence that the sorority or fraternity is a duly chartered
organization, recognized by an accredited school. Maintenance of such a charter
will be a continual requirement of this approval.
   (E)   Provide evidence that solid waste will be removed by an approved
hauler, and temporary storage of solid waste will occur in a fully enclosed
facility, located in the rear yard (if physically feasible). At a minimum, one
cubic yard of space must be provided for each two rooms.
   (F)   Rear yards and side yards shall be effectively screened from abutting
properties.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-414) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 414)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.069 STADIUMS AND SPORTS FIELDS.
   (A)   Stadiums and sports fields can have a tremendous impact during events.
   (B)   The following minimum standards are meant to mitigate impacts.
      (1)   The developer shall present a means to ensure that the normal flow
of traffic to stadium events will avoid the utilization of local streets and
predominantly single-family dwellings in residential districts.
      (2)   No stadium or sports field shall be located within 200 feet of an
R-1A or R-1B District.
      (3)   Present a plan for management of noise through screening and
buffering.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-415) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 415)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.070 DORMITORIES.
   (A)   No dormitory shall be permitted within 200 feet of an R-1A or R-1B
District.
   (B)   Solid waste disposal shall be located in a manner that does not create
excessive noise.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-416) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 416)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.071 COMMUNICATION TOWERS.
   The applicant shall demonstrate that it is licensed by the Federal
Communications Commission to operate a communications tower, if applicable, and
communication antennas.
   (A)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the proposed communications tower
and communications antennas proposed to be mounted thereon comply with all
applicable standards established by the Federal Communications Commission
governing human exposure to electromagnetic radiation.
   (B)   Communication towers shall comply with all applicable Federal Aviation
Administration, Commonwealth Bureau of Aviation Regulations. Towers must comply
with the borough Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance (Chapter 156) as a
subdivision for lease.
   (C)   Any applicant proposing construction of a new communications tower
shall demonstrate that a good faith effort has been made to obtain permission
to mount the communications antenna on an existing building, structure or
communications tower. A good faith effort shall require that all owners of
potentially suitable structures within a one-fourth-mile radius of the proposed
communications tower site be contacted and that one or more of the following
reasons for not selecting such structure apply:
      (1)   The proposed antennas and related equipment would exceed the
structural capacity of the existing structure and its reinforcement cannot be
accomplished at a reasonable cost;
      (2)   The proposed antennas and related equipment would cause radio
frequency interference with other existing equipment for that existing
structure and the interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost;
      (3)   Such existing structures do not have adequate location, space,
access or height to accommodate the proposed equipment or to allow it to
perform its intended function;
      (4)   Addition of the proposed antennas and related equipment would
result in electromagnetic radiation from such structure exceeding applicable
standards established by the Federal Communications Commission governing human
exposure to electromagnetic radiation; and/or
      (5)   A commercially reasonable agreement could not be reached with the
owners of the structure.
   (D)   Access shall be provided to the communications tower and
communications equipment building by means of a public street or easement to a
public street. The easement shall be a minimum of 20 feet in width and shall be
improved to a width of at least ten feet with a dust-free, all-weather surface
for its entire length.
   (E)   A communications tower may be located on a lot occupied by other
principal structures and may occupy a leased parcel within a lot meeting the
minimum lot size requirements for the zoning district.
   (F)   The maximum height of any communications tower shall be 300 feet.
   (G)   The foundation and base of any communications tower shall be set back
from a property line (not lease line) at least one foot for every foot in tower
height.
   (H)   To encourage co-location and minimize the use of land for these
facilities, all towers shall be secured only at the tower base. Towers secured
by guide or support wires shall not be permitted unless they are the only form
that is technically feasible at the site. If guide or support wires are
employed, fencing and screening shall enclose the entire area (including all
support apparatus) within a single compound.
   (I)   The base of a communications tower shall be landscaped so as to screen
the foundation and base and communications equipment building from abutting
properties.
   (J)   The communications equipment building shall comply with the required
yards and height requirements of applicable zoning district for an accessory
structure.
   (K)   The applicant shall submit certification from a state-registered
professional engineer that a proposed communications tower will be designed and
constructed in accordance with the current Structural Standards for Steel
Antenna Towers and Antenna Supporting Structures, published by the Electrical
Industrial Association/Tele-communications Industry Association.
   (L)   The applicant shall submit a copy of its current Federal
Communications Commission license; the name, address and emergency telephone
number for the operator of the communications tower; and a certificate of
insurance evidencing general liability coverage in the minimum amount of
$1,000,000 per occurrence and property damage coverage in the minimum amount of
$1,000,000 per occurrence covering the communications tower and communications
antennas.
   (M)   All guy wires associated with guyed communications towers shall be
clearly marked so as to be visible at all times and shall be located within a
fenced enclosure.
   (N)   The site of a communications tower shall be secured by a fence with a
maximum height of eight feet to limit accessibility by the general public.
   (O)   No signs or lights shall be mounted on a communications tower, except
as may be required by the Federal Communications Commission, Federal Aviation
Administration or other governmental agency that has jurisdiction.
   (P)   The owner shall notify the borough if the tower is no longer being
used. If a communications tower remains unused for a period of 12 consecutive
months, the owner or operator shall dismantle and remove the communications
tower within six months of the expiration of such 12-month period.
   (Q)   One off-street parking space shall be provided within the fenced area.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-417) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 417)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.072 CEMETERIES.
   (A)   The purpose of cemeteries is to provide a proper burial ground for
persons. All uses and activities must be clearly and customarily incidental to
this use. Funeral homes are a separate use, and crematoriums are considered an
industrial use.
   (B)   File a site plan to demonstrate the design and layout of the proposed
cemetery or cemetery expansion and specifically illustrating: the proposed
drainage plan, the internal circulation plan and the location of accessory
building.
   (C)   Connections to existing borough streets will be no closer than 50 feet
to a street intersection, 15 feet to a fire hydrant, 30 feet to a driveway on
the same side of the street and shall avoid streets or driveways opposite
proposed means of ingress and egress.
   (D)   Shall demonstrate compliance with applicable state laws.
   (E)   All accessory uses must be clearly incidental and subordinate to the
function of the cemetery.
   (F)   All new facilities shall have a size of at least two acres.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-418) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 418)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.073 DRIVE THROUGH FACILITIES.
   (A)   All drive through lanes shall be designed to minimize conflict with
pedestrian traffic. Drive through lanes may not be emplaced where they conflict
with a pedestrian building entrance.
   (B)   A total stacking area suitable for six cars shall be provided for
every point of service.
   (C)   Under no circumstances shall a public street or alley serve as a drive
through lane.
   (D)   A solid wall of at least 24 inches in height shall be emplaced along
all parking/drive through areas which abut sidewalks, with the exception of
designated vehicular access lanes.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-419) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 419)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.074 HOTEL/MOTEL.
   (A)   Motel buildings or accessory structures shall be placed no closer than
30 feet to any lot line containing a single-family dwelling.
   (B)   Any swimming pools shall comply with the safety requirements of the
Uniform Construction Code (Chapter 150, §§
150.25 and 150.26).
   (C)   Yard areas shall be permanently landscaped and maintained in good
condition.
   (D)   Rooms shall not be rented for a period of less than 12 hours.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-420) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 420)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.075 UPPER FLOOR DWELLING UNIT.
   (A)   Shall only be permitted where the ground floor, or majority thereof,
shall be used or dedicated for a use other than residential, and a use allowed
in the zoning district in which the building is located.
   (B)   The dwelling units shall have no more than four bedrooms.
   (C)   Each dwelling unit shall provide the following minimum usable living
space:
      (1)   Minimum of 600 square feet of usable space for one-bedroom units,
for occupancy of no more than two persons;
      (2)   Minimum of 800 square feet of usable space for two-bedroom units,
for occupancy by no more than four persons;
      (3)   Minimum of 910 square feet of usable space for three-bedroom units,
for occupancy by no more than six persons; and
      (4)   Minimum of 1,095 square feet of usable space for four-bedroom
units, for occupancy by no more than eight persons.
   (D)   Any structure in which a residential use is permitted shall comply
with all requirements of this chapter applicable to the permitted principal use
of the ground floor conducted therein. All otherwise complying above ground
floor residential uses shall be exempt from lot size, lot coverage, lot width
and setback requirements.
   (E)   There shall be provided at least one leased or otherwise dedicated
off-street parking space for every one or two bedroom dwelling unit and one and
one-half spaces for each three- or four-bedroom dwelling unit.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-421) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 421)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.076 PRIVATE CLUBS AND LODGES.
   (A)   No private club shall function as a bottle club, as defined by the
Pennsylvania Code.
   (B)   Live entertainment shall not be of a sexually oriented nature, or any
other entertainment qualifying the performance as a sexually oriented business.
   (C)   All music, entertainment or sound systems shall be confined to the
hours of 10:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., if such music is either outdoors or audible
from outside the building.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-422) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 422)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.077 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING.
   (A)   Hours of operation shall be limited from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   No tattoo or piercing operation shall be visible from the outside of
the building.
   (C)   No advertising material or flyers are permitted except a lawful sign
for the zoning district.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-423) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 423)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.078 COMMERCIAL RECREATION.
   (A)   These particular uses by their nature can generate noise or excessive
activity adversely affecting neighboring properties.
   (B)   Standards shall be based upon the type of activities.
      (1)   Indoor uses shall:
         (a)   Have no outdoor speakers; and
         (b)   Comply with all Uniform Construction Code (Chapter 150, §§
150.25 and 150.26) building regulations.
      (2)   Outdoor uses shall:
         (a)   Present a plan for the use, time and duration of any outdoor
speakers. Outdoor speakers may not be employed for musical performances.
Outdoor speakers may not be employed for non-emergency use between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
         (b)   Safety fencing of at least four feet in height shall be provided
to enclose all spaces utilized for outdoor activities that abut a public road
or street or commercial parking lot;
         (c)   All yards that abut a residential district shall employ an
opaque fence or screen of at least eight feet in height;
         (d)   All side and rear yard setbacks shall be increased by ten feet
on any property line abutting a R-1A, R-1B or R-2 District;
         (e)   Present evidence of compliance with Pennsylvania Bureau of Labor
and Industry regulations;
         (f)   Outdoor lighting shall be shielded to prevent glare to
neighboring properties; and
         (g)   Hours of operation may be limited by reasonable additional
conditions.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-424) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 424)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.079 GAS STATION, CONVENIENCE STORE, MOTOR VEHICLE SALES, SERVICE AND
REPAIR.
   (A)   Any fuel pumps shall be at least 30 feet from any road right-of-way
and at least 30 feet from a side lot line.
   (B)   No vehicles will be parked or stored in a manner which would encroach
upon a free sight triangle, or safe line of sight for any nearby street or
driveway.
   (C)   There shall be no outdoor storage of new or used parts, scrap parts,
unlicensed vehicles, parts of vehicles, tires or vehicles which lack current
state inspection stickers. The overnight parking of customer vehicles and the
screened storage of approved trash containers shall be permitted.
   (D)   All lighting shall be indirect, or designed to prevent glare to
neighboring properties.
   (E)   All compressors shall be enclosed to minimize noise to neighboring
properties.
   (F)   All underground storage tanks shall be in compliance with all federal
or state regulations.
   (G)   Autos sales in the C-2 Commercial District must be located with
principal frontage on a state highway.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-425) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 425)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.080 OFFICE AND SHOPPING CENTERS.
   This section facilitates large or multiple-building developments which may
include a mix of retail, eating and drinking places, professional offices and
service shops.
   (A)   The center shall either be planned around a central green or
quadrangle area or existing street, with consideration given to the
relationship of various buildings and uses to each other. A minimum of 10% of
the total developed area shall be devoted to such greens or common passive
recreational areas. This shall be in addition to any normal required yard and
setback areas or limitations upon coverage.
   (B)   The developer shall submit a sketch plan that generally identifies
proposed areas for various permitted and conditional uses within the center.
This sketch plan need not include final dimensions and final designs of any
public or private improvements, but shall focus upon the relationship of
proposed uses to each other and the surrounding neighborhood. If areas are
specifically identified for conditional uses, and meet all performance
standards, their subsequent development may proceed by right at a later date
without additional conditional use approval.
   (C)   The developer shall submit plans for any architectural guidelines or
covenants proposed to ensure a harmonious development of the center as an
integral whole.
   (D)   The developer shall submit a sketch landscaping plan that illustrates
how landscaping will be used to buffer the proposed center from any abutting
residential areas. The borough may increase standards for buffering and
landscaping as a reasonable additional condition and safeguard.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-426) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 426)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.081 LIGHT MANUFACTURING, WAREHOUSING, TRUCK TERMINALS AND DISTRIBUTION
CENTERS.
   (A)   Describe any and all industrial processing and product lines in such
detail to ensure the borough that it meets the definition of light
manufacturing.
   (B)   The developer shall submit a sketch plan. This sketch plan need not
include final dimensions and final designs of any public or private
improvements, but shall focus upon the relationship of proposed building and
parking areas to each other and the surrounding neighborhood, overall building
design, and any landscaping, screening and buffering proposed.
   (C)   All industrial activities shall be contained indoors and any outdoor
storage shall be screened from view.
   (D)   Show a plan for minimizing the effect of any truck traffic on
congested areas.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-427) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 427)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.082 FLEA MARKETS.
   To conform to conditional use standards, all flea markets shall meet the
following standards.
   (A)   The operator of the flea market shall either be the property owner, or
provide evidence of written permission (such as a lease agreement) to utilize
the property.
   (B)   The operator shall submit a plan that details public parking areas,
and the number and location of proposed seller stalls. The plan shall detail
areas to allow vendors selling from cars to enter and exit while avoiding
pedestrian areas.
   (C)   The operator shall have a contract with an approved waste hauler, and
a minimum of one 50-gallon capacity solid waste receptacle (or equivalent
dumpster capacity) for every four proposed sellers. The operator shall agree to
dispose of all unsold items left on site by vendors.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-428) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 428)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.083 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   (A)   These businesses have potential negative secondary impacts upon the
community, including:
      (1)   Frequent use for unlawful sexual activities, including prostitution
and public sexual liaisons of a casual nature;
      (2)   The concern over sexually transmitted diseases is a legitimate
health concern of the borough, which demands reasonable regulation of sexually
oriented businesses in order to protect the health and well-being of the
citizens;
      (3)   There is convincing documented evidence of a deleterious effect on
both the existing businesses around them and the surrounding residential areas
adjacent to them, causing increased crime and the downgrading of property
values;
      (4)   Serious objectionable operational characteristics, particularly
when they are located in close proximity to each other, thereby contributing to
neighboring blight and downgrading the quality of life in the adjacent area;
and
      (5)   Permitting and/or licensing is a legitimate and reasonable means of
accountability to ensure that the operators of sexually oriented businesses
comply with reasonable regulations and to ensure that the operators do not
knowingly allow their establishments to be used as places of illegal sexual
activity or solicitation. However, it is not the intent of this chapter to
suppress any speech activities protected by the First Amendment, but to enact a
content neutral ordinance, which addresses the secondary effects of sexually
oriented businesses. Nor is it the intent of the borough to condone or
legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
   (B)   Sexually oriented business, as defined herein, shall be permitted as a
conditional use, provided:
      (1)   The proposed business does not lie within 500 feet of:
         (a)   A place of worship;
         (b)   A public or private pre-elementary, elementary or secondary
school;
         (c)   A public library;
         (d)   A child care facility or nursery school;
         (e)   A public park adjacent to any residential district; and/or
         (f)   A child-oriented business.
      (2)   The proposed business does not lie within 500 feet of another adult
entertainment business;
      (3)   Compliance with all other applicable local codes and licenses is
presented to the Borough Council; and
      (4)   Visibility from the street: no sexually oriented business shall
permit, or cause to be permitted, any stock in trade or sign which depicts,
describes or relates to specified sexual activities and/or specified anatomical
areas as defined under any borough ordinance, to be viewed from the street,
sidewalk or highway.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-429) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 429)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.084 BOTTLE CLUBS.
   (A)   Shall be located at least 500 feet from the nearest property line of
any other bottle club, place of worship, school or other institution of
learning or education, hospital, library, park or playground.
   (B)   Shall be located at least 200 feet from any land zoned residential.
   (C)   Shall be located at least 200 feet from any property line of any
single- or multi-family dwelling.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-430) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 430)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.085 BULK FUEL STORAGE.
   (A)   Liquid storage tanks shall be completely surrounded by a dike capable
of containing the maximum contents of all the tanks within the dike. Any
openings in the dike shall be leak-proof when closed and shall close
automatically in the event of tank rupture. As needed, tanks shall be
registered with DEP, comply with their regulations and show evidence of same.
   (B)   No tank shall be located closer than 100 feet to any property or
street line or 500 feet to any residence.
   (C)   The area within the dike shall be drained by an underground system
capable of closing automatically in the event of a tank rupture.
   (D)   An emergency management plan shall be prepared and approved by the
borough with consultation with the local Fire Department and the consent of DEP
shall be secured by the developer as conditions of issuing a zoning permit or
certificate.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-431) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 431)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.086 CORRECTIONAL FACILITY, HALFWAY HOUSE OR TREATMENT CENTER.
   (A)   Shall present the borough with a security plan that takes into account
the safety of borough residents.
   (B)   Does not lie within 500 feet of:
      (1)   A place of worship;
      (2)   A public or private pre-elementary, elementary or secondary school;
      (3)   A public library;
      (4)   A child care facility or nursery school;
      (5)   A public park adjacent to any village or rural development
district; or
      (6)   A child-oriented business.
   (C)   No correctional facility, halfway house or treatment center may be
located where any adjacent property contains a preexisting single-family home
in separate ownership from the proposed facility.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-432) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 432)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.087 HEAVY INDUSTRY.
   The applicant shall provide a detailed description of the proposed use,
addressing each of the following impacts:
   (A)   The nature of the on-site processing operations, the materials used in
the process, the products produced, and the generation and methods for disposal
of any by-products. In addition, the applicant shall furnish evidence that the
disposal of materials will be accomplished in a manner that complies with state
and federal regulations;
   (B)   The general scale of the operation in terms of its market area,
specific floor space requirements for each step of the industrial process, the
total number of employees on each shift, and an overall needed site size;
   (C)   Any environmental impacts that are likely to be generated (e.g., odor,
noise, smoke, dust, litter, glare, vibration, electrical disturbance, waste
water, stormwater, solid waste and the like), and specific measures employed to
mitigate or eliminate any negative impacts. The applicant shall further furnish
expert evidence that the impacts generated by the proposed use fall within
acceptable levels as regulated by applicable laws and ordinances including, but
not limited to, performance standards under §§
156.105 through
156.114 of this chapter;
   (D)   A traffic study prepared by a professional traffic engineer and
meeting any standards for such studies established by the borough; and
   (E)   The borough may employ a number of site specific reasonable additional
conditions and safeguards, including, but not limited to, screening, limits
upon hours of operations, and maximizing distance of industrial activities from
other zoning districts.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-433) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 433)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.088 JUNK AND SALVAGE YARDS AND RECYCLING CENTERS.
   Shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   All lots shall be at least two acres in size.
   (B)   There shall be no storage of scrap, machinery or equipment of any kind
in the setback areas. The facility shall be enclosed by an opaque fence of at
least eight feet in height which may be placed at the setback line. All areas
outside the fence shall be kept as a landscaped buffer or mowed grass area.
   (C)   The processing or storage of hazardous materials, as defined by the
Department of Environmental Protection, shall not be permitted, unless all
standards for heavy industry under this chapter are also met.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-434) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 434)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.089 MINING AND MINERAL EXTRACTION.
   Planning and geologic studies, including the Wolf Creek Slippery Rock Creek
Multi-Municipal Comprehensive Plan have shown that there are few, if any, solid
mineral resources within borough limits that could be reasonably accessed by
surface mining. Longwall or other subsurface mining shall be a conditional use
provided that the locations of any air shafts or other mine openings are
screened from access.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-435) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 435)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.090 EATING AND DRINKING PLACES AND RETAIL IN INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   Retail and eating and drinking places are permitted by right as an accessory
to industrial uses (such as a retail area for an item manufactured on site).
This conditional use is for such uses where they are proposed as a principle
use. The borough seeks to regulate these to prevent negative impacts upon pre-
existing industrial uses. Screening or fencing may be required, along with
other reasonable additional conditions and safeguards, in order to prevent
negative impacts upon neighboring industrial uses.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-436) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 436)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.091 RETAIL LIQUOR STORE.
   (A)   No retail liquor store shall be located within 300 feet of another
retail liquor store.
   (B)   The borough may limit the hours of operation of the retail liquor
store as a reasonable additional condition and safeguard.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-437) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 437)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.092 OIL AND GAS DRILLING.
   (A)   The applicant shall identify the entry lane for any drilling rigs and
present a traffic management plan that will minimize congestion and ensure
safety for borough residents. All entry lanes shall be on a state road.
Accepted professional standards pertaining to minimum traffic sight distances
for all street or road access points shall be adhered to.
   (B)   Drilling rigs are exempted from height requirements of the zoning
district, provided that a period of drilling does not exceed six continuous
months in any nine-month period. It is the responsibility of the developer to
inform the borough when drilling rigs are emplaced upon the site to determine
the period of exemption. Drilling rigs shall be located a minimum setback
distance of one and one-half times their height from any property line, public
or private street, or building not related to the drilling operations on either
the same lot or an adjacent lot.
   (C)   The drilling pad for the oil or gas well site shall comply with all
setback and buffer requirements of the zoning district in which the oil or gas
well site is located.
   (D)   When drilling is being conducted with 500 feet of a dwelling in
separate ownership from the property upon which the drilling proposed, the
developer shall mitigate light and noise through the following standards.
      (1)   Lighting at the oil or gas well drilling site, or other facilities
associated with oil and gas drilling development, either temporary or
permanent, shall be directed downward and inward toward the activity, to the
extent practicable, so as to minimize the glare on public roads and nearby
buildings.
      (2)   Prior to drilling of an oil or gas well the applicant shall
establish by generally accepted testing procedures, the continuous 75-hour
ambient noise level at the nearest property line of a residence or public
building, school, medical, emergency or other public facility, or 100 feet from
the nearest residence or public building, medical, emergency or other public
facilities, whichever point is closer to the affected residence or public
building, school medical, emergency or other public facility. In lieu of the
establishment of the ambient noise level established by the continuous 75-hour
test the applicant may assume and use, for the purpose of compliance with this
chapter, a default ambient noise level of 55 dBA. The sound level meter used in
conducting any evaluation shall meet the American National Standard Institute’s
standard for sound meters or an instrument and the associated recording and
analyzing equipment, which will provide equivalent data. The noise generated
during the oil and gas operations not exceed the average ambient noise level
established by more than ten decibels.
      (3)   Effective sound mitigation devices shall be installed to permanent
facilities to address sound levels that would otherwise exceed the noise level
standards when located near a residence, public building, school, medical,
emergency or other public facilities.
   (E)   Areas of active drilling shall be secured by a fence or other means to
restrict access. Warning signs shall be placed on the fencing or surrounding
the oil or gas well site providing notice of the potential dangers and the
contact information in case of an emergency. Emergency responders shall be
given means to access oil or gas well site in case of an emergency. The borough
may require the installation of landscaping or some form of vegetative
screening or buffer as a reasonable additional condition and safeguard within
six months of the initiation of drilling.
   (F)   Additional regulations for temporary housing; if mobile homes are
proposed as temporary worker housing during oil and gas drilling, the following
standards shall be met.
      (1)   The number of mobile homes proposed shall be clearly identified and
their location approved by the borough.
      (2)   Mobile homes for temporary housing shall be emplaced on a site for
a period of no greater than six months.
      (3)   All mobile homes shall be removed within 30 days of completion of
drilling.
      (4)   No temporary mobile home shall be placed within 200 feet of a
property line.
   (G)   The applicant shall show compliance with all applicable state and/or
federal regulations, including setbacks from streams and public water supplies.
Specifically, all needed permits from the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection and copies of approved erosion and sedimentation
control plans shall be presented to the borough.
   (H)   The applicant shall agree that if materials from trucks are spilled
upon a public street, all such materials shall be removed immediately.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-438) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 438)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.093 KENNELS.
   (A)   The applicant shall show compliance with all state dog law standards,
as it would apply to their operation.
   (B)   The kennel shall be constructed so that the animals cannot stray
therefrom. All parking and recreation/play areas that abut residential uses
shall provide screen planting, and fencing, as necessary, to contain animals.
   (C)   All overnight boarding shall be conducted indoors. The kennel shall
show means of adequate sound proofing.
   (D)   The applicant must submit a written plan to explain all measures to be
used to ensure all animal wastes shall be regularly cleaned up and properly
disposed of to prevent odors and unsanitary conditions.
   (E)   The applicant must submit a written plan for the storage and disposal
of deceased animals. Animals owned by the applicant shall be properly disposed
of within 24 hours.
(Ord. 1462, passed 7-15-19)
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 156.105 NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The following provisions shall apply to all nonconforming uses and
structures. It is the intention of the borough that all legal nonconforming
uses and structures shall be able to continue; however, all changes in such
uses shall only be as in compliance in this subchapter.
      (1)   Any nonconforming use may be changed to a use of the same or a more
restrictive classification (such as a conversion from industrial use to
commercial use). Such conversion of a nonconforming use to another
nonconforming use shall be regarded as a conditional use. In considering this
conditional use, the Borough Council may add reasonable additional conditions
and safeguards.
      (2)   Any nonconforming structure or use which has been damaged or
destroyed by fire, or any other means, may be reconstructed and used as before,
if intent to rebuild is expressed within six months of discontinuance of use
and if the restored building covers no greater area and contains no greater
cubic content. If approved by the Borough Council, a reconstructed structure
may exceed its original lot coverage and cubic content but must meet the
minimum yard requirements of the district in which the structure is located.
The process for reviewing such an expansion shall be consistent with that for
land developments under Article IV of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code (53 P.S. §§ 10401 to 10408) and the borough subdivision regulations
(Chapter 156).
      (3)   In the event that any nonconforming use voluntarily ceases, for
whatever reason, for a period of one year, such nonconforming use shall not be
resumed and any further use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter. A nonconforming use that is converted to a conforming one may not
revert to the previous nonconformity.
      (4)   With approval of the Zoning Officer, the nonconforming use of a
portion of a building may be extended throughout those parts of the building
which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of adoption
of this chapter.
      (5)   A nonconforming use or structure may, with the approval of Borough
Council, be extended, enlarged or replaced if such expansion does not occupy an
area greater than 50% more than the structure occupied prior to such expansion,
enlargement or reconstruction. Furthermore, such structures must meet the
minimum yard regulations and height restrictions of the district in which the
structure is located. The expansion of a nonconforming use under this section
shall be regarded as a conditional use meeting §
156.055 and standards of this division (A). In considering this conditional
use, the Borough Council may add reasonable additional conditions and
safeguards. Conditional use standards for change, conversion or expansion of
nonconforming uses:
         (a)   If the nonconforming use is a residential nonconformity, no
expansion will result in a greater number of dwelling units;
         (b)   The nonconformity may not extend to any property beyond the
original lot, parcel or tract upon which it is located;
         (c)   The nonconformity may not extend to any property beyond the
original lot, parcel or tract upon which it is located;
         (d)   The Council may limit the hours of operation as a reasonable
condition and safeguard;
         (e)   The expansion will not increase any unscreened outdoor storage
area; and
         (f)   The Council may require screening to mitigate any effect upon
surrounding properties.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the overall
layout, plans, construction, size or designated use of any development,
building, structure or part thereof for which official approval and required
permits have been granted prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   Whenever the boundaries of a district shall be changed so as to
transfer an area from one district to another of a different classification or
the allowed uses of any district change, this subchapter shall also apply to
any uses which thereby become nonconforming.
   (D)   Expansion and construction of nonconforming single-family dwellings:
in any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, notwithstanding
other limitation imposed upon such by other provision of this chapter, a
single-family dwelling and permitted accessory uses may be erected upon a lot
of record. Likewise single-family dwellings on lots of record may be extended
or expanded to an extent that encroaches on the established side yards for the
district, provided:
      (1)   The applicant demonstrates to the Zoning Officer that the dwelling
and lot predate the zoning classification;
      (2)   The applicant presents the Zoning Officer with a sketch of the
proposed extension or expansion that shows that all improvements are upon the
applicant’s property;
      (3)   The applicant does not own sufficient land on the lot or a separate
abutting lot to expand and remain within the standards for the district as
expressed in §§
156.035 through
156.044; and
      (4)   In such cases, the alternative side or rear yard standard shall be
equal to the distance that the principle structure on the abutting lot is from
the applicant’s property line. However, the alternative standard shall not
result in any improvement that places a dwelling closer than four feet from the
property line.
   (E)   Front yard averaging: where a structure exists on an adjacent lot and/
or is within 150 feet of the proposed structure, and the existing structure has
a front yard less than the minimum depth required, the minimum front yard shall
be the average depth of the front yard of the existing structure on the
adjacent lot and the minimum depth required for the district; where structures
exist on both adjacent lots, the minimum depth of the front yard shall be the
average depth of the front yards of the existing adjacent structures. However,
this shall not result in a setback of less than four feet.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-501) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 501)
§ 156.106 EXISTING LOTS OF RECORD.
   Any lot of record/nonconforming lot existing at the effective date of this
chapter, and held in separate ownership different from the ownership of
adjoining lots, may be used for the erection of a structure conforming to the
use regulations of the district in which it is located even though its lot area
and width are less than the minimum required by this chapter. If two or more
contiguous lots, combination of lots or portions of lots with continuous
frontage are in single ownership, and if all or part of the lots do not meet
the requirements established for lot width and/or area, the land involved shall
be considered an undivided parcel for the purpose of this chapter, and no
portion of said parcel shall be sold in a manner which diminishes compliance
with lot width and/or area requirements established by this chapter, nor shall
any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with width or area below
the requirements stated in this chapter. Where two or more adjacent lots of
record with less than the required area and width are held by one owner, on or
before the date of enactment of this chapter, the request for a zoning or
construction permit shall be referred to the Planning Commission. The
Commission may require replatting to fewer lots, which would comply with the
minimum requirements of this chapter.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-502) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 502)
§ 156.107 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   All accessory buildings or structures, whether attached to the principal
structure or not, and whether open or enclosed, including porches, carports,
balconies or platforms above normal grade level, shall not project into any
minimum front, side or rear yards except as noted in this section.
   (A)   Handicap ramps may be constructed within two feet of any lot line.
   (B)   A private, noncommercial garage, accessory to a single-family
dwelling, and not exceeding 900 square feet in size, may be erected within five
feet of any side or rear lot line.
   (C)   A wall or fence under 49 inches in height and paved terraces without
walls, roofs or other enclosures may be erected within the limits of any yard
provided they do not impinge on the required free sight triangle at
intersections. Fences in residential districts may be erected to a maximum
height of six feet in a side or rear yard area only. Fences required for public
safety or screening by nonresidential uses are exempt from height restrictions,
but may not block a vehicular line of site for any intersection or neighboring
driveway.
   (D)   An at-grade masonry retaining wall may be erected within the limits of
any yard, and does not require a zoning permit. Such wall shall not exceed one
foot above grade.
   (E)   Swimming pools shall be permitted in side or rear yard areas, provided
that the pool is located not less than six feet from any lot line. All swimming
pools shall be enclosed by a permanent fence at least four feet in height, or
as required by the Uniform Construction Code. Above-ground pools may use a
combination of sides and screen to reach the required height.
   (F)   Small garden sheds, storage sheds and similar structures smaller than
144 square feet may be permitted in yard areas, provided such lies no closer
than two feet to an abutting lot line.
   (G)   Lighting may be emplaced in setback areas, subject to the following
standards:
      (1)   All lighting fixtures shall be full “cut off”.
      (2)   No lighting fixture shall be mounted higher than six feet above
grade in R-1A, R-1B, R-2 and RLC Districts, and 20 feet above grade in all
other districts.
      (3)   All lighting shall be aimed away from residential uses or
districts.
   (H)   Structures which are not buildings, such as play sets, bird feeders,
garden arbors and trellises, clothes drying lines and lawn furniture may be
erected within the limits of any yard, and do not require a zoning permit, but
shall be at least two feet from a property line.
   (I)   Horticulture may occur within the limits of any yard and does not
require a zoning permit.
   (J)   Attached accessory structures: when an accessory structure is attached
to the principal building, it shall comply in all respects with the
requirements of this chapter applicable to the principal building.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-503) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 503)
§ 156.108 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Temporary trailers. Temporary construction trailers placed in
conjunction with construction work shall be permitted only during the period
that the construction work is in progress. Permits for such temporary
structures shall be issued for a six-month period and may be renewed while
construction is in progress. Temporary structures are subject to all use and
setback requirements.
   (B)   Portable storage units and portable roll-off dumpsters. These units
are intended for the temporary storage of household goods during moving or
remodeling. Units may not be placed within any public right-of-way. Units may
remain in place for up to 60 days.
   (C)   Parking, major recreational equipment and licensed commercial
vehicles. The outdoor storage of major recreational equipment including, but
not limited to, travel trailers, motor homes, tent trailers, pickup campers
(designed to be mounted on automobile vehicles), boats and boat trailers, and
commercial vehicles with a gross weight greater than 26,000 pounds or three or
more axles, as an accessory activity to a dwelling shall be permitted subject
to the following requirements: equipment must be registered to the owner or
resident of the dwelling unless kept for a period of 30 days or less. Such
equipment shall be stored in compliance with the following yard or setback
requirements:
      (1)   Front yard. Not permitted, except within a paved driveway and
emplaced so that no right-of-way, sidewalk or line of sight is blocked;
      (2)   Side yard. Six feet;
      (3)   Rear yard. Five feet;
      (4)   On a corner lot (reverse frontage lot). The front yard requirement
of 25 feet shall be applicable on two lot faces; and
      (5)   Major recreational equipment or licensed commercial vehicles. No
permit is required for keeping major recreational equipment or licensed
commercial vehicles on a lot when accessory to a dwelling and compliant with
setbacks.
   (D)   Tent, truck, temporary retail sales, garage and yard sales.
      (1)   Tents erected for community or family events, auctions or
residential yard and garage sales. Tents erected for community or family
events, auctions or residential yard and garage sales are exempt from this
section provided that temporary structures are removed within five days of
erection. However, no such exempt tent or truck shall block any vehicular line
of site on a public street.
      (2)   Retail tent sales. Sales of new retail goods within tents are only
permitted in the HCLI District. Where the proposed tent, truck used for retail
sales, or other temporary sales event will remain in place for more than five
days, a zoning certificate for a temporary use must be obtained.
         (a)   The applicant shall show the location of all temporary signs
emplaced in conjunction with the sale, and pay a deposit in an amount
established by the borough fee resolution to ensure all signs are removed upon
conclusion of the sale.
         (b)   If the property owner is not the sponsor of the sales event, the
applicant shall have written permission of the property owner.
         (c)   No part of any operation shall be located within any required
yard or setback.
         (d)   Mud and dust free parking shall be provided, adequate to the
proposed size and use of the tent, truck or other temporary sales structure.
         (e)   The event shall not impede or adversely affect vehicular or
pedestrian traffic sight distance, flow or parking maneuver. The driveway shall
be clearly delineated and, if necessary, show any PennDOT approval and/or
adequate site distance.
         (f)   Unless clearly accessory to another retail operation, the
maximum duration of any tent or other temporary retail sale shall be 14
calendar days. No tent sale shall be held upon the same property for 30 days
after said event, unless conditional use approval as a flea market is obtained.
         (g)   The applicant shall have sufficient secure trash receptacles on
site for all waste generated by the retailer or anticipated customer use.
         (h)   All signs, merchandise, equipment used in such sales, and all
debris and waste resulting from a temporary sale shall be removed from the
premises within three days of the termination date of the permit.
      (3)   Garage and yard sales. Garage sales are a permitted temporary
accessory use to a single-family dwelling, provided that no such sales shall
exceed seven days in duration, and no more than 30 days of such sales occur
within any calendar year upon the premises.
      (4)   Mobile food vendors. Licensed commercial vehicles or licensed
trailers selling food are exempt from this chapter provided they are making
local deliveries, catering special events of less than 48-hour duration, or are
operating in a zone district where similar uses are otherwise permitted. All
mobile food vendors must have written permission of the property owner.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-504) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 504)
§ 156.109 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   When the following conditions are met, height limits may be increased.
   (A)   Structure height, in excess of the height permitted above the average
ground level allowed in any district may be increased, provided all minimum
front, side and rear yard depths are increased by one foot for each additional
foot of height; however, such increase shall be limited to no more than ten
additional feet.
   (B)   The following structures are exempt from height regulations provided
they do not constitute a hazard: church spires; chimneys; elevator bulk heads;
smoke stacks; conveyors; flag poles; agricultural barns, silos and similar farm
structures; standpipes; elevated water tanks; derricks; and similar structures.
   (C)   However, for the above structures, all yard and setback requirements
must be met; in addition, any structure with a height in excess of 50 feet will
be first referred to the Fire Department for a review and comments relative to
public safety considerations. Such comments shall be considered by the borough
as part of a land development application pursuant to the Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance (Chapter 156).
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-505) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 505)
§ 156.110 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   No use of land or structure in any district shall involve, or cause,
any condition or material that may be dangerous, injurious or noxious to any
other property or person in the borough.
   (B)   Furthermore, every industrial or commercial use of land or structure
in any district must observe the following performance requirements.
      (1)   Fire protection. Fire protection and fighting equipment acceptable
to the Board of Fire Underwriters shall be readily available when any activity
involving the handling or storage of flammable or explosive material is carried
on.
      (2)   Electric disturbance. No activity shall cause electrical
disturbances adversely affecting radio, television or other communication
equipment in the neighboring area.
      (3)   Noise. Noise which is determined to be objectionable because of
volume or frequency shall be muffled or otherwise controlled, except for fire
sirens and related apparatus used solely for public safety purposes.
      (4)   Odors. In any district, no malodorous gas or matter shall be
permitted which is discernible on any adjoining lot or property.
      (5)   Air pollution. No pollution of air by fly-ash, dust, vapors or
other substances shall be permitted which is harmful to health, or to animals,
vegetation or other property.
      (6)   Glare. Lighting devices which produce objectionable direct or
reflected glare on adjoining properties or thoroughfares shall not be
permitted.
      (7)   Erosion. No erosion by wind or water shall be permitted which carry
objectionable substances onto neighboring properties.
      (8)   Water pollution. No permit shall be issued until all applicable
wastewater, stormwater or erosion/sedimentation control permits have been
obtained.
      (9)   Burning. To further protect property from noxious and malodorous
nuisances, and provide for protection of property from fire, outdoor open
burning of any paper, brush, refuse or similar material is prohibited in all
districts. This prohibition does not include outdoor commercial or recreational
barbeques, or small campfires burning natural firewood.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-506) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 506)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.111 OFF-STREET LOADING AND PARKING.
   (A)   Off-street loading and parking space shall be provided in accordance
with the specifications in this section in all districts, whenever any new use
is established or an existing one is enlarged.
   (B)   However, any new development in the C-1 Commercial District shall not
be subject to parking or loading standards, unless specifically required by
conditional use or special exception.
      (1)   Off-street loading.
         (a)   Generally. Every use listed in the following table shall provide
off-street loading berths in accordance with its size:
Table 156.111A: Off-Street Loading
Use First Berth Additional Berth(s) Per Each Additional Increment
Table 156.111A: Off-Street Loading
Use                                First Berth Additional Berth(s) Per Each
                                               Additional Increment
Institutional Uses
Hospitals, nursing homes, personal 50,000      100,000
care homes, auditoriums and arenas
Schools                            10,000      50,000
Commercial Uses
Convenience store/service station  5,000       40,000
Eating and drinking place          40,000      50,000
Hotel                              50,000      100,000
Retail sales/shopping centers      40,000      50,000
Industrial Uses
Heavy manufacturing, wholesale,    5,000       10,000
warehouses truck terminals
Light manufacturing                10,000      50,000
Note: All figures given in the above table are the gross feet of floor area
for each listed use
 
         (b)   Size and access. Each off-street loading space shall be not less
than ten feet in uniform width and 65 feet in length. It shall be so designed
so the vehicles using loading spaces are not required to back onto a public
street or alley. Such spaces shall abut a public street or alley or have an
easement of access thereto. Loading berths may be combined with parking areas
if it can be shown that peak loading hours will not conflict with the parking
of other vehicles.
      (2)   Off-street parking.
         (a)   Size and access. Off-street parking spaces shall have an area
determined by their use. In the case of multi-family dwellings, mobile home
parks, industrial and manufacturing establishments, warehouses, wholesale and
truck terminals, each space shall be not less than 144 square feet, being at
least eight feet wide and 18 feet long. For all other uses, each space shall
have a uniform area of 180 square feet, being at least ten feet wide and 18
feet long. These uniform sizes shall be exclusive of access drives or aisles,
and shall be in usable shape and condition. Parking areas shall be designed to
provide sufficient turnaround area so that vehicles are not required to back
onto public streets. Where an existing lot does not abut on a public or private
street, alley or easement of access, there shall be provided an access drive
leading to the parking or storage areas or loading spaces. Such access drive
shall be consistent with requirements for private streets in the Subdivision
and Land Development Ordinance (Chapter 156). Access to off-street parking
areas shall be limited to well-defined locations, and in no case shall there be
unrestricted access along a street.
         (b)   Off-street parking lot design. All off-street parking lots shall
be designed in accordance with standards within the Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance (Chapter 156).
         (c)   Number of parking spaces required. The number of off-street
parking spaces required is set forth in Table 156.111B. Where the use of the
premises is not specifically mentioned, requirements for similar uses shall
apply. If no similar uses are mentioned, the parking requirements shall be one
space for each two proposed patrons and/or occupants of that structure. Where
more than one use exists on a lot, parking regulations for each use must be
met, unless it can be shown that peak times will differ.
Table 156.111B: Off-Street Parking
Parking Spaces Required
Use Parking Spaces Required
Table 156.111B: Off-Street Parking
Parking Spaces Required
Use                                     Parking Spaces Required
Residential
Family and group day care               2 spaces for the dwelling and at least
                                        1 additional space
Mobile home parks                       2 per dwelling unit
                                        2.0 per dwelling unit, unless limited
Multi-family dwelling                   to persons over the age of 55, or 1-
                                        bed-room units, then 1.25 spaces per
                                        dwelling unit
Single-family dwelling                  2 per dwelling unit
Institutional Uses
Churches, auditoriums, indoor assembly  1 per each 3 seats or 1 per each 4
places                                  persons permitted in maximum occupancy
Hospitals                               1 per each staff on the largest shift
                                        plus 1 per each bed
Nursing homes and personal care homes   1 per each staff on the largest shift
                                        plus 1 per each 4 beds
                                        1 per each teacher and staff plus 1 for
Schools                                 each 4 classrooms plus 1 for each 2
                                        students age 16 and over
Stadiums, sports arenas and places of   1 per each 6 seats or 1 per each 4
outdoor assembly                        persons permitted in maximum occupancy
Commercial Uses
                                        1 per 5,000 square feet developed lot
Auto sales and service, trailer sales   area for vehicle display and 1 per 300
and similar outdoor sales               square feet customer service area; to a
                                        required maximum of 30 designated
                                        customer parking spaces
Convenience store/service stations      1 per 200 square feet gross floor area
Day care centers                        1 space for every 8 children under care
                                        and 1 space for each employee on shift
Eating and drinking places              1 per each 2.5 patron seats
Fast food, drive through eating and     1 per each 2 patron seats
drinking
                                        25 for the first parlor or viewing
Funeral home and mortuaries             room, plus 10 per each additional
                                        viewing room
Furniture stores, building material and 1 per each 800 square feet of gross
supply yards                            floor area
Hotels/motels                           1 per guest room plus 1 per each
                                        employee on the largest shift
Indoor commercial recreation            1 per each 3 persons in maximum
                                        occupancy
Medical and dental office               8 spaces per doctor
                                        1 per each 2,500 square feet of lot
Outdoor commercial recreation           area developed and used for the
                                        recreational activity
Professional office and banks           1 per each 250 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Retail stores/shopping centers          1 per each 400 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Industrial Uses
Business parks, light manufacturing,    1 per each employee on largest shift
heavy manufacturing, truck terminals    plus 1 visitor space per each 10,000
and warehouses                          square feet gross floor area
 
         (d)   Location and parking. Required parking spaces shall be located
on the same lot with the principal use. The borough may permit parking spaces
to be located not more than 200 feet from the lot of the principal use, if
located in the same zoning district as the principal use, and either a
sufficiency of public spaces can be proven, or the developer has leased or owns
adequate spaces. In such cases, the application shall be reviewed as a land
development plan under the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance (Chapter
156) as it involves more than one lot.
         (e)   Screening and landscaping. Off-street parking areas for more
than five vehicles, and off-street loading areas, shall be effectively screened
on any side which adjoins a residential district (see definition of screening)
or use. In addition, there shall be a planting strip of at least five feet
between the front lot line and the parking lot. Such planting strip shall be
suitably landscaped and maintained.
         (f)   Minimum distance and setbacks. No off-street loading or parking
area for more than five vehicles shall be closer than ten feet to any adjoining
property line containing a dwelling, residential district, school, hospital or
similar institution.
         (g)   Surfacing. With the exception of single-family dwellings, all
parking and loading areas and access drives shall have a paved surface, graded
with positive drainage to prevent the flow of surface water onto neighboring
properties. Lots shall be designed to provide for orderly and safe loading and
parking.
         (h)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking or
loading areas shall be arranged so as to reflect the light away from the
adjoining premises of any residential district or use and away from roads or
highways.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-507) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 507)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.112 GROUP RESIDENCES.
   (A)   The borough supports housing choice for persons with disabilities, and
group residences that meet the definition under §
156.146 shall be permitted by right in all districts where single-family
dwellings are permitted.
   (B)   However, it shall be the applicant’s responsibility to ensure to the
borough that:
      (1)   All applicable standards of the Pennsylvania Department of Public
Welfare and other licensing entities are met;
      (2)   All standards of the Uniform Construction Code (Chapter 150, §§
150.25 and 150.26) are met prior to occupancy; and
      (3)   The applicant shall certify that it will provide no group housing
on the site for persons who:
         (a)   Have been adjudicated a juvenile delinquent;
         (b)   Have a criminal record;
         (c)   Have a legal status as a sex offender;
         (d)   Are persons who currently use illegal drugs;
         (e)   Are persons who have been convicted of the manufacture or sale
of illegal drugs; and
         (f)   Are persons with or without disabilities who present a direct
threat to the persons or property of others.
   (C)   The borough will make reasonable accommodation for the need of
resident caregivers and disabled persons in applying its definition of family,
but the applicant shall show that the number of persons and caregivers proposed
to reside in the group residence will be generally consistent with the density
of dwellings in the proposed zoning district.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-508) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 508)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.113 FORESTRY.
   The practice of forestry, including timber harvesting, is declared as a
permitted use in all districts. It is subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   Any harvesting shall be preceded by presenting an approved erosion and
sediment control plan prior to the issuance of a zoning permit, as needed. The
harvester shall also confer with the owner of any above ground utilities on the
property to ensure lines will not be damaged.
   (B)   In all districts, to avoid traffic congestion and sound disturbance,
all activities must start after 8:00 a.m. and end by 6:00 p.m. during the week.
No Sunday work shall be permitted.
   (C)   No harvesting of timber shall be permitted within any setback area
except for necessary removal from storm damage, disease prevention, utility
protection, or pursuant to land development.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-509) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 509)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.114 SCREENING AND SCREEN PLANTING.
   (A)   Fences utilized for screening shall be of permanent opaque
construction, such as wood or vinyl, and kept in repair and maintenance to
ensure their continued function. Unless permitted as a boundary fence, the
developer shall ensure a maintenance area of at least three feet in width
between any screen fence and a property line. The area outside the screen fence
shall be mowed grass or landscaped vegetation.
   (B)   If screen planting is used, it shall be comprised of an evergreen
hedge at least six feet high at time of planting, planted in such a way that it
will block a line of sight. The screening may consist of either one, or
multiple rows of bushes or trees and shall be at least four feet wide. It shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to maintain a screen planting,
replacing trees as needed. The Zoning Officer may require replacement of
screening trees.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-510) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 510)
Penalty, see §
156.999
SIGNS
§ 156.125 GENERAL.
   The following sign regulations shall be observed in all districts. It is not
the purpose of this subchapter to abridge commercial or noncommercial free
speech. The purpose of these regulations is to ensure that the time, place and
manner of sign emplacement within the borough is conducted with regard to the
safety of motorists and pedestrians (especially in avoiding distractions or
confusion in high traffic areas), access to light and air by neighboring
properties, and avoidance of negative impact upon neighboring properties,
including unnecessary glare.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 6) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, Part 6)
§ 156.126 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following types of signs are permitted in all zoning districts, and
exempt from permitting requirements, but not from performance standards
relative to traffic safety, or overall sign limitations of any specific sign
type or district:
   (A)   Temporary signs announcing a campaign, drive or event of a civic,
philanthropic, educational or religious organization, provided such sign shall
not exceed 16 square feet in area and shall be removed immediately upon the
completion of the campaign, drive or event;
   (B)   Temporary signs erected in connection with the development or proposed
development of the premises or property provided that the area of any such sign
shall not exceed 16 square feet. Not more than one such sign shall be placed on
property held in single and separate ownership unless the property fronts on
more than one street, in which case one such sign shall be permitted on each
separate street frontage. Such signs shall be removed within ten days after the
development has been completed and/or the last structure occupied. No such sign
may be erected until all zoning, subdivision and land development approvals
have been obtained;
   (C)   Political signs announcing candidates seeking public office, a
referendum or similar political speech, provided that such sign shall not
exceed 16 feet in area;
   (D)   Religious or holiday displays or messages with no commercial content;
   (E)   The flag of the United States, Commonwealth or any state or nation;
   (F)   Signs offering the sale or rental of the premises upon which the sign
is erected; provided that the area of any such sign shall not exceed ten square
feet and not more than one such sign shall be placed on the property unless
such property fronts on more than one street, in which case one sign may be
erected on each street frontage;
   (G)   Auctions, garage or yard sale signs provided that they do not exceed
four square feet and are removed as soon as the event or activity has occurred;
   (H)   Directory signs which list all the occupants of a multi-tenant or
multiple-family building, or buildings in a multi-building development;
provided, that the area of such signs does not exceed one-half square foot per
tenant or two square feet per individual building;
   (I)   Temporary signs of contractors, developers, architects, engineers,
builders and artisans, erected and maintained on the premises where the work is
being performed, provided that the area of such sign shall not exceed 16 square
feet in any residential district, and 32 square feet in all other districts;
provided that such sign shall be removed upon completion of the work;
   (J)   Any signs not visible from outside a lot or building;
   (K)   Displays of time and temperature, including electronic displays;
   (L)   Rest room, exit, public telephone, handicapped parking or access, and
similar directional or informational signs emplaced for the benefit of the
public or building tenants;
   (M)   No trespassing signs, signs indicating the private nature of a road,
driveway or premises, signs controlling fishing on the premises; provided that
the area of such sign shall not exceed two square feet;
   (N)   House and address numbers, home occupation or nameplate sign
displaying the name and address of the occupant or the profession or activity
of the occupant of a dwelling unit, provided that not more than one such sign
shall be erected for each permitted use, and provided that the area of each
such sign shall not exceed four square feet and may not be illuminated;
   (O)   Memorial signs or tablets denoting the date of erection of a building;
   (P)   Temporary signs announcing the birth of a child, birthday
commemoration, marriage, graduation or similar event in the life of a
householder shall be permitted provided such signs do not exceed 32 square
feet;
   (Q)   Any sign warning of a hazard that contains no other information or
commercial content;
   (R)   Signs erected by the borough or an authorized entity that serve to
provide directions and explanations for public recreational purposes and
facilities, for dedication/memorial purposes, and to mark and explain
historical events, persons or structures. Such signs shall not exceed 16 square
feet in area. Such signs may include the name or logos of businesses or
individuals who have sponsored a public improvement or general support of said
facility;
   (S)   Traffic signs and similar regulatory notices placed by a duly
constituted governmental body; and
   (T)   Signs erected for the purpose of scoring an athletic event taking
place upon the site, which may include electronic scoring devices and names and
or logos of sponsors of the sign, provided there is no illumination of the sign
at times when the activity is not taking place.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 6, § 28-601) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 600)
§ 156.127 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   Except where specifically noted, all signs shall adhere to all performance
standards.
   (A)   Unless specifically exempted by §
156.125, a permit must be obtained from the borough for the erection or
alteration of all signs. Exemptions from the necessity of securing a permit,
however, shall not be construed to relieve the owner of the sign involved from
responsibility for its erection and maintenance in a safe manner and in a
manner in accord with all the other provisions of this chapter and other codes.
   (B)   No signs shall be permitted within public rights-of-way, except
PennDOT-approved traffic signs and devices; signs and banners specially
approved by the borough for decoration or promotion of community events and
activities; signs not exceeding nine square feet placed temporarily to
advertise the sale of real estate or a yard sale; political signs not exceeding
nine square feet placed temporarily; signs not exceeding nine square feet
placed temporarily to provide notice of or direction to a civic, philanthropic,
political, educational or religious event or activity, or other signs
specifically permitted under § §
156.131(G) (projecting business signs). The borough may require proof of
insurance for any sign within a borough right-of-way.
   (C)   No person shall construct, erect, place use or permit the use of any
permanent or temporary sign or sign structure on private or public property
except for the property owner or tenant.
   (D)   Construction and maintenance: all signs shall be constructed in a
workmanlike fashion using durable materials. Signs shall be designed and
constructed to withstand wind forces and in accordance with appropriate
mechanical or electrical standards. The owners of signs shall keep them in safe
and good repair. Signs which become deteriorated or otherwise present a public
hazard shall be removed or repaired by the sign’s owner. If the owner of a sign
cannot be found or identified, the owner of the property whereon the sign is
located shall be responsible for its repair or removal.
   (E)   No sign structure may block a vehicular line of sight for a driveway,
access lane or public street, or be placed at any location where by its
position, shape or color it may interfere with or obstruct the view of or be
confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal or device. Sign structures
erected directly upon the ground within 15 feet of any vehicular driveway, or
street intersection shall have at least three feet six inches of clear space
between such sign and the ground; however, necessary supports may extend
through such open space.
   (F)   No signs shall be permitted which are posted, stapled or otherwise
attached to public utility poles, trees, fire hydrants, traffic signposts,
light posts or any borough-owned structure.
   (G)   Nonconforming signs, once removed, shall be replaced only with
conforming signs. Nonconforming signs may be repainted or repaired, providing
such repainting or repairing does not exceed the dimensions of the existing
sign.
   (H)   Any electronic sign within the borough whether nonconforming, or
conforming, shall meet compliance with §§
156.132(B)(2)(a), (B)(2)(b), (B)(2)(c), (B)(2)(d) and (B)(2)(e) regarding
performance standards for public safety and welfare.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 6, § 28-602) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 601)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.128 ILLUMINATION.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided for electronic signs, no sign shall
employ intermittent light, electronic or movable text, strobes or other
animations that may serve to distract motorists, or abutting homeowners.
   (B)   Lighting for signs shall not create a hazardous glare for pedestrians
or vehicles either in a public street or on any private premises.
   (C)   Except as specifically provided for electronic signs by special
exception, or the use of diffused neon, the light source, whether internal to
the sign or external, shall be shielded from view.
   (D)   Sign illumination for externally illuminated signs shall utilize
focused light fixtures that do not allow light or glare to shine above the
horizontal plane of the top of the sign or onto any public right-of-way or
adjoining property.
   (E)   All electrical connections shall be shielded by underground or
overhead electrical wires which meet all relevant codes. No temporary signs
shall be illuminated by direct means.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 6, § 28-603) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 602)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.129 SIGN PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applications for signs, as required under this section, shall be
submitted to the Zoning Officer.
   (B)   The application shall contain:
      (1)   Type, area and number of signs proposed;
      (2)   Type of illumination proposed (if permitted), including the
luminance proposed and direction of lighting. This shall also be depicted upon
a map that illustrates the distance to any R-1, R-2 or R-3 Zoning Districts;
      (3)   For freestanding signs, a sketch showing the placement of the sign
in relation to all driveways, vehicular rights-of-way, property lines and
cartways. The developer shall submit current sight distances, before and after
erection of the sign with sufficient information to show that sight distances
shall not be reduced;
      (4)   A photograph or graphic rendition of the proposed sign copy,
including all symbols, letter and graphic elements shown to scale and all
structural elements intended to anchor the sign;
      (5)   The borough must specifically approve signs within public rights-
of-way. In the case of temporary signs, the Zoning Officer or his or her
designee shall review the application and grant approval if all applicable
standards of this chapter are met. In the case of permanent signs, the Zoning
Officer shall refer the application to Borough Council, who may refer the
application for advice to the Planning Commission or any similar advisory
committee; and
      (6)   The information required by this section may be integrated into the
borough’s land development plan application and approval process where
applicable.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 6, § 28-604) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 603)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.130 SIGNS PERMITTED IN THE R-1A, R-1B RESIDENTIAL, R-2 RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Subdivision identification signs, and/or signs identifying apartment
or condominium complexes, provided that the area of any such sign shall not
exceed 64 square feet, and further provided that one such sign shall be
permitted for each separate street and/or separate building frontage occupied
by the subdivision, apartment, or condominium complex and/or for each means of
entrance to or exit from the subdivision, apartment, or condominium complex.
Such signs may not be illuminated.
   (B)   Signs for permitted nonresidential or permitted institutional uses
provided that the area of any such sign shall not exceed 48 square feet, and
further provided that one such sign shall be permitted for each separate street
and/or separate building frontage occupied by the permitted use, and for each
means of entrance to or exit from the permitted use. Such signs may not be
illuminated.
   (C)   Institutional uses may have one changeable copy sign of no greater
than 32 square feet, either permanently attached to a building or as a
freestanding sign. Illumination of any such non-electronic changeable copy sign
shall be from external sources only, and shielded to prevent unnecessary glare
to neighboring properties. Luminance shall not exceed ten luxes (one
footcandle) measured at a distance of ten feet from the sign.
   (D)   No freestanding signs within these districts may be erected within ten
feet of a side or rear lot line, or ten feet from a public right-of-way.
   (E)   No freestanding signs within these districts may exceed six feet in
height.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 6, § 28-605) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 604)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.131 SIGNS PERMITTED IN THE P-1 PUBLIC DISTRICT.
   (A)   All signs permitted in the R-1A, R-1B and R-2 Districts.
   (B)   Signs for permitted nonresidential or permitted institutional uses
provided that the area of any such sign shall not exceed 64 square feet, and
further provided that one such sign shall be permitted for each separate street
and/or separate building frontage occupied by the permitted use, and for each
means of entrance to or exit from the permitted use. Such signs may be
illuminated by direct or indirect means. Illumination of the sign face shall
not exceed ten luxes (one footcandle) measured at a distance of ten feet from
the sign.
   (C)   In multi-building institutional developments, each building may
include one freestanding or wall sign of up to 32 square feet. Such signs may
be illuminated by direct or indirect means.
   (D)   No freestanding signs within this district may be erected within ten
feet of a side or rear lot line, or ten feet from a public right-of-way. All
freestanding signs shall be set back from a property line or right-of-way by
the height of the sign.
   (E)   Institutional uses in the P-1 District may have one electronic sign of
no greater than 16 square feet per each road frontage, either permanently
attached to a building or as a freestanding monument sign. Illumination of any
such electronic signs shall not exceed ten luxes (one footcandle) measured at a
distance of ten feet from the sign. Signs shall not be illuminated before dawn
or after 10:00 p.m. except for emergency or public safety use, such as school
closing information or Amber Alerts.
   (F)   No freestanding signs within this district may exceed eight feet in
height.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 6, § 28-606) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 605)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.132 SIGNS PERMITTED IN THE RLC, C-1, C-2, HCLI AND I-1 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   All signs permitted in the R-1A, R1-B and R-2 Districts;
   (B)   Unless limited by special exception or traditional neighborhood
development design standards, the number of signs permitted shall be consistent
with the following:
      (1)   RLC, C-1, C-2. Two permanent signs per street frontage; and
      (2)   HCLI. Three permanent signs per street frontage and one additional
sign per each street frontage of more than 100 feet in width.
   (C)   Buildings or properties with multiple businesses may have one
additional sign per each additional business located within the building or
property. However, all signs must remain within any dimensional limits of Table
156.131 below;
   (D)   No freestanding signs within these districts may be erected within ten
feet of a side or rear lot line. Any freestanding signs in excess of eight feet
in height shall be set back from a property line or right-of-way by the height
of the sign. The dimensions of signs shall be consistent with the following
table:
Table 156.131: Business Sign Regulations
          District
          RLC Residential                       HCLI Highway
Sign Type Limited Commercial C-1/C-2 Commercial Commercial Light I-1 Industrial
                                                Industrial
Table 156.131: Business Sign Regulations
               District
               RLC Residential                 HCLI Highway
Sign Type      Limited         C-1/C-          Commercial      I-1 Industrial
               Commercial      2 Commercial    Light
                                               Industrial
               Maximum size:   Maximum size:   Maximum size:   Maximum size:
Facade wall    10% of one      15% of one      20% of one      20% of one
signs          surface per     surface per     surface per     surface per
               street front    street front    street front    street front
               Maximum area:   Maximum area:   Maximum area:   Maximum area: 40
Freestanding   32 square feet  32 square feet  40 square feet  square feet
monument signs Maximum height: Maximum height: Maximum height: Maximum height:
               8 feet          8 feet          8 feet          10 feet
                                                               16 square feet
Freestanding                                                   only one
pole signs     Not permitted   Not permitted   Not permitted   freestanding
                                                               pole sign per
                                                               property
               Maximum size: 9 Maximum size: 9 Maximum size:   Maximum size: 16
               square feet     square feet     16 square feet  square feet
               Maximum height: Maximum height: Maximum height: Maximum height:
Projecting     the lowest part the lowest part the lowest part the lowest part
signs          of the sign     of the sign     of the sign     of the sign
               shall be no     shall be no     shall be no     shall be no more
               more than 12    more than 15    more than 15    than 15 feet
               feet above      feet above      feet above      above grade
               grade           grade           grade
                                                               Maximum area:
                                                               100 square feet
Roof signs     Not permitted   Not permitted   Not permitted   Maximum height:
                                                               10 feet above
                                                               building
 
   (E)   Signs may be illuminated by direct or indirect means. Illumination of
the sign face shall not exceed 100 luxes (ten footcandles) measured at a
distance of ten feet from the sign, unless any portion of the illuminated sign
face is within 100 feet of an R-1, R-2 or R-3 Residential District and visible
from an occupied dwelling in said district. In such cases, illumination shall
be reduced to ten luxes (one footcandle) measured at a distance of ten feet
from the sign;
   (F)   Temporary signs shall be permitted in building windows, and shall not
require a permit:
      (1)   In the C-1 District, temporary sandwich board signs of up to four
square feet in area are permitted on sidewalks during the hours the business is
open; and
      (2)   Permanent window signs, banners and temporary business signs:
         (a)   Permanent window signs are permitted in the C-1, C-2 and HCLI
Districts by right without a permit provided no more than 50% of each window
surface and 25% of all building windows include such signs. Such permanent
window signs do not count towards the allowed number of signs per district; and
         (b)   Temporary business signs, such as vinyl banner signs or manual
changeable copy signs, are also permitted as accessory to all business uses,
and do not require a permit. However, such signs remain subject to all setback
requirements for business signs, and may not exceed 32 square feet in size. No
temporary banner sign or changeable copy sign may be lighted except by indirect
means. No temporary banner sign or changeable copy sign shall remain in place
for more than 30 continuous days or 120 total days per calendar year.
   (G)   Projection of permanent signs into rights-of-way.
      (1)   Within the C-1 District, a sign attached to a building, otherwise
lawful under division (D) above, may project into the public right-of-way up to
six feet, provided:
         (a)   No structural support or portion of the signs is within eight
feet of grade as measured vertically from the right-of-way line for a
pedestrian right-of-way, and 14 feet of grade for a vehicular right-of-way; and
         (b)   Under no circumstances shall any portion of such projecting
signs be placed nearer than two feet from a vehicular cartway, loading zone or
on-street parking lane.
      (2)   Awning and canopy signs may project into rights-of-way in areas
served by sidewalks only in the C-1 and C-2 Zoning Districts, and shall be
subject to the following regulations.
         (a)   No portion of an awning or canopy shall be less than eight feet
above the level of the public sidewalk.
         (b)   The awning or canopy shall be set back at least four feet from
the curb or a public street.
         (c)   Awnings and canopies shall be constructed of canvas, vinyl or
similar flexible, cloth-like material. Backlit or metal awnings or canopies are
prohibited for signs within rights-of-way.
         (d)   Awnings and canopies shall be securely attached to the building.
All frames and supports shall be made of metal or other rigid material.
         (e)   The name of the business or logo may be printed on the portion
of the awning or canopy above the valance provided that such name or logo does
not comprise more than 25% of the total canopy area.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 6, § 28-607) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 606)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.133 ELECTRONIC SIGNS.
   (A)   The inherent characteristic of electronic signs is their flexibility.
This creates the potential for such signs to create an undue distraction to
motorists if poorly placed or poorly programmed.
   (B)   These regulations are designed to encourage evolving methods of
advertising, while preventing light pollution, and driver distraction hazards.
      (1)   A single LED window sign of up to two square feet in size is
permitted in the C-1, C-2 and HCLI Commercial Districts for any business use.
LED window signs shall not be included as part of calculations of total signage
permitted.
      (2)   An electronic sign is permitted in the Residential Limited
Commercial District and the Highway Commercial Light Industrial District as a
conditional use. This sign must be an accessory portion of a freestanding
monument sign, provided that the LED sign is no greater than 15 feet in surface
area, and mounted on the same frame as a static freestanding sign. The area of
the LED shall be included in total sign area calculations. The electronic sign
shall also meet all the following design and performance standards and any
additional safeguards that Borough Council requires as a part of the
conditional use approval.
         (a)   Electronic sign content. Electronic signs may contain permanent
content about any business located on the premises upon which the sign is
placed. They may also contain temporary messages with content about such
businesses, or temporary messages announcing a campaign, drive or event of a
civic, philanthropic, educational or religious organization, provided that such
message is changed upon the cessation of such a campaign, drive or event.
Electronic signs may also contain messages permitted for temporary signs as
authorized under § 
156.126(B) and (D). Electronic signs may function as directional signs to guide
drivers to other businesses within 2,000 feet of the sign’s location.
         (b)   Message display. Message display shall remain static for a
minimum of five seconds. There shall be no strobe, flashing effect or other
animation during the display. Any transitions or change of the display between
messages shall not be more than one second. Transitions that involve fading,
scrolling or other animations shall not be permitted.
         (c)   Illumination. The owner of the sign or his or her agent shall
measure sign luminance with a luminance meter set to measure footcandles
accurate to at least two decimals. Luminance shall be measured with the sign
off, and again with the sign displaying a white image for a full color-capable
sign, or a solid message for a single color sign. All measurements shall be
taken perpendicular to the face of the sign at the distance determined by the
total square footage of the sign. Electronic signs of ten square feet or less
shall be measured at a distance of 32 feet. Electronic signs of greater than
ten square feet shall be measured at a distance of 39 feet. The difference
between the off and solid-message measurements using the criteria shall not
exceed three-tenths footcandles at night. A letter certifying compliance shall
be provided to the Zoning Officer.
         (d)   Dimming capabilities. All permitted electronic signs shall be
equipped with a sensor or other device that automatically determines the
ambient illumination and programmed to automatically dim according to ambient
light conditions, or that can be adjusted to comply with the three-tenths
footcandle measurement.
         (e)   Malfunctioning sign. Electronic signs which malfunction shall be
turned off except for testing during any correction or repair.
         (f)   Additional setback from residential structures. All portions of
the sign structure must be a minimum distance of 100 feet from an abutting
residential structure.
      (3)   Pole signs with video or multicolored LED displays are permitted
only as a conditional use I-1 Industrial District. In such cases:
         (a)   Programming plan. The developer shall submit a programming plan
that shows any proposed use of animations, length of exposure for any message
and transition time or proposed effects between individual messages. This shall
include estimated motorist reaction time to proposed messages and symbols,
based upon the United States Sign Council’s On-Premises Signs Guideline
Standards, 2003 Edition. For planning purposes, the developer should assume all
driving environments in the borough are complex, as defined in the guideline
standards, except for multi-lane streets (such as West Main Street), which
should be considered as such. The Borough Council may establish limits upon use
of any special effects, transitions or length of message exposure as a
reasonable additional condition and safeguard to the special exception;
         (b)   May function as billboards. Electronic signs may function as
billboards in the I-1 Zoning District;
         (c)   May be freestanding or a facade or wall sign type. Electronic
signs may be freestanding or a facade or wall sign type. Such signs shall meet
all size, area and setback limitations for the district in which it is
proposed. The size of an electronic sign shall be calculated based upon the
surface dimensions that have the ability to display a symbol or message;
         (d)   Additional setback from residential districts. All portions of
the sign structure must be a minimum distance of 100 feet from an abutting R-
1A, R-1B, R-2, P-1 or RLC district boundary;
         (e)   Setback from other electronic changeable copy, electronic
graphic display or video display signs. Electronic signs must be separated from
other electronic signs by at least 35 feet. No more than one electronic sign is
permitted per each property, regardless of how many tenants occupy that lot;
         (f)   Orientation. When located within 150 feet of a residentially-
used lot in an R-1, R-2 or R-3 Residential Zone, all parts of the electronic
changeable copy sign must be oriented so that no portion of the sign face is
visible from an existing or permitted principal structure on that lot;
         (g)   Audio or pyrotechnics. Audio speakers or any form of
pyrotechnics are prohibited in association with an electronic sign;
         (h)   The developer shall show compliance with all applicable
regulations of the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation for any proposed
sign abutting a state highway; and
         (i)   The developer shall show the ability to meet illumination
standards under §
156.128 of this chapter. The developer shall present material detailing any
differences in proposed LED light as compared to standard light measurement.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 6, § 28-608) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 607; Ord.
1483, passed 1-17-2022, § 3) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.134 BILLBOARDS AND MULTI-VISION SIGNS.
   (A)   Billboards as defined by this chapter are a conditional use in the I-
1 Zoning District.
   (B)   Such signs shall not exceed any dimensional or illumination
requirement for the District in which they are proposed, as stated in Table
156.131.
   (C)   No billboard shall be located within 35 feet of a public street
intersection.
   (D)   No billboard shall be placed within 75 feet of another billboard on
the same side of the street. All multi-vision signs shall have a transition
time between sign faces of no more than two seconds.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 6, § 28-609) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 608)
Penalty, see §
156.999
DEFINITIONS
§ 156.145 INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, words used in the present tense shall
include the future. The singular number shall include the plural and the plural
shall include the singular. The masculine shall include the feminine and the
neuter. The word “shall” is always mandatory. The word “building” includes
“structure” and shall be construed as if followed by the words “or any part
thereof”. The phrase “used for” includes “arranged for”, “person” includes an
individual, corporation, partnership, incorporated association or any other
legal entity. The word “includes” or “including” shall not limit the term to
the specified example, but is intended to extend its meaning to all other
instances of like kind and character. Except as defined within this chapter,
all words and phrases shall have their normal meanings and usage.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 7, § 28-701) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 701)
§ 156.146 SPECIFIC TERMS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building, incidental to, and located on
the same lot as, the principal building, and used for an accessory use.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use incidental to, and subordinate to and located on the
same lot occupied by the principal use to which it relates.
   AREA. Area of a lot or site shall be calculated from dimensions derived by
horizontal projections of the site.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. Any premises in which food, shelter, assisted
living services, assistance or supervision and supplemental health care
services are provided for a period exceeding 24 hours for four or more adults
who are not relatives of the operator, who require assistance or supervision in
matters such as dressing, bathing, diet, financial management, evacuation from
the residence in the event of an emergency or medication prescribed for self
administration, and licensed and regulated as such by the Pennsylvania
Department of Public Welfare. For the purpose of this chapter, ASSISTED LIVING
FACILITIES shall be considered as nursing homes.
   BASEMENT. A floor level completely below grade or floor level in which more
than two-thirds of the perimeter walls are below grade. A wall shall be
considered below grade where the dimension from the first floor line to the
finished grade is five feet or less, and the slope of the finished grade
extending ten feet from the building walls does not exceed 30 degrees.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A single family dwelling unit or accessory apartment,
offering, for pay, overnight or short-term lodging and breakfast for transient
guests.
   BILLBOARD. A sign that identifies or communicates a commercial or
noncommercial message related to an activity conducted, a service rendered, or
a commodity sold at a location other than where the sign is located.
   BOTTLE CLUB. An establishment operated for profit or pecuniary gain, which
has a capacity for the assemblage of 20 or more persons and in which alcoholic
liquors, alcohol or malt or brewed beverages are not legally sold but where
alcoholic liquors, alcohol or malt or brewed beverages are either provided by
the operator or agents or employees of the operator for consumption on the
premises or are brought into or kept at the establishment by the patrons or
persons assembling there for use and consumption. The term shall not include a
licensee under the Act of April 12, 1951 (P.L. 90, No. 21), known as the
“Liquor Code” (47 Pa.C.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.), or any organization as set forth
in § 6 of the Act of December 19, 1990 (P.L. 1200, No. 202), known as the
“Solicitation of Funds for Charitable Purposes Act” (10 P.S. §§ 162.01 et
seq.).
   BUILDING. A roofed structure, whether or not enclosed by walls, to be used
for the shelter, enclosure or protection of persons, goods, materials or
animals.
   BUILDING MATERIAL/SUPPLY YARDS. The storage of material in outdoor yards for
retail sale, including lumber, pipe, culverts and block.
   BUILDING OR SETBACK LINE. The line to which a building or structure may
encroach towards a yard or setback.
   BUSINESS SERVICE. Any business activity that renders service to other
commercial or industrial enterprises. including banks, credit unions and other
financial services.
   CAR WASH. An area of land and/or a structure with machine- or hand-operated
facilities used principally for the cleaning, washing, polishing or waxing of
motor vehicles.
   CEMETERY. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead and
dedicated for cemetery purposes, including columbariums, crematories,
mausoleums and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the
boundaries of such cemetery.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION, INDOOR. A facility which offers various indoor
recreational opportunities for its patrons including such games as pool,
billiards, bowling, video or computer games, other electronic simulation games
and similar pursuits.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION, OUTDOOR. A facility which offers outdoor recreational
or spectator opportunities for its patrons including such games as miniature
golf, driving ranges, tennis, team sports such as soccer or baseball, camps and
clinics for sport instruction and similar pursuits. This category does not
include recreation fields accessory to schools, churches or community based
nonprofit organizations.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use to be allowed or denied by the Borough Council
pursuant to public notice and hearing and recommendations by the borough
Planning Commission and pursuant to the express standards and criteria set
forth in this chapter. In allowing a CONDITIONAL USE, the Borough Council may
attach such reasonable conditions and safeguards, in addition to those
expressed in this chapter, as it may deem necessary to implement the purposes
of the Planning Code and of this chapter.
   CONSTRUCTION. The construction, reconstruction, renovation, repair,
extension, expansion, alteration or relocation of a building or structure,
including the placement of mobile homes.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A small store, selling a limited variety of food and
nonfood products, including prepared food but with limited or no patron
seating, typically with extended hours of operation. CONVENIENCE STORES may
also sell gasoline or other motor vehicle fuels.
   CORRECTIONAL FACILITY. A facility that provides lodging, meals, counseling,
treatment and rehabilitation to adjudicated delinquents, parolees, and
individuals, with security to confine said persons. This definition includes
community corrections centers as well as other similar transitional housing for
offenders.
   COVERAGE. The percentage of a lot covered by buildings or structures,
measured as gross floor area divided into lot area.
   DAY CARE SERVICES FOR CHILDREN (DAY CARE). Provides out-of-home care for
part of a 24-hour day to children under 16 years of age, excluding care
provided by relatives and excluding day care furnished in places of worship
during religious services. This chapter identifies three levels of day care
services for children.
      (1)   DAY CARE CENTERS. Facilities in which care is provided for seven or
more children, at any one time, where the child care areas are not used as a
family residence. Child care for less than four children will not be considered
as day care services. The definition of day care services shall be subject to
licensing changes by the Pennsylvania Department of Public Welfare.
      (2)   FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES. Facilities in which child day care is
provided at any one time to four, five or six children who are not relatives of
the caregiver, or any facility defined as such by the Pennsylvania Department
of Public Welfare.
      (3)   GROUP DAY CARE HOMES. Facilities in which care is provided for more
than six but less than 12 children, at any one time, where the child care areas
are being used as a family residence, or any facility defined as such by the
Pennsylvania Department of Public Welfare. (Care of one to 12 children where
the child care areas are not used as a family residence will be considered a
DAY CARE CENTER.)
   DWELLING. A building arranged, intended, designed or used as the living
quarters for one or more families living independently of each other upon the
premises. The term DWELLING shall not be deemed to include “hotel,” or “motel”.
      (1)   DETACHED DWELLING. A dwelling with yards on all four sides.
      (2)   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A building containing three or more dwelling
units, including apartment houses, townhouses, flats and garden apartments.
      (3)   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building containing only one dwelling
unit.
      (4)   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A building containing two dwelling units,
collectively defined under this chapter as a duplex, regardless of
configuration.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof containing one or more rooms
for living purposes together with separate and exclusive cooking and sanitary
facilities, accessible from the outdoors either directly or through an entrance
hall shared with other dwelling units, and used or intended to be used by one
family.
   EATING AND DRINKING PLACES. A business establishment whose principal
business is the selling of unpackaged food to the customer in a ready-to-
consume state.
   EQUIPMENT SALES AND SERVICE. Businesses involved in the sale, rental or
servicing of motor vehicles or machinery not necessarily intended for
registration, licensing, and travel on highways, including those used for
agriculture, forestry and construction.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems,
including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes conduit cables, fire alarm
boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and other similar equipment
and accessories in connection therewith; reasonably necessary for the
furnishing of adequate services by such public utilities or municipal or other
governmental agencies or for the public health and safety or general welfare,
but not including buildings.
   FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage,
adoption or foster child care, including domestic servants or gratuitous
guests, thereof, or a group of not more than three unrelated persons living
together without supervision in a dwelling unit as permanent residents; or, any
number of persons protected by the provisions of the Fair Housing Act (42
U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as now or hereafter amended) living together in a group
living arrangement with supervision, provided those persons do not have a
criminal record and are in a family like situation as permanent residents.
FAMILY shall not include persons living together in an assisted living
facility, or nursing home, as defined herein, or any other supervised group
living arrangement for persons, other than those protected by the Fair Housing
Act or persons who constitute a direct threat to others or their physical
property. FAMILY does not include transient guests as herein defined. Transient
guests may lodge on a temporary basis in a dwelling provided that total
occupancy of said transient guests shall not exceed two transient guests per
available bedroom as defined by the Uniform Construction Code; with one
additional guest permitted elsewhere in the structure. Any dwelling unit
lodging transient guests shall meet all standards for a no- impact home based
business except for limits on habitable floor space as guests may occupy the
entire dwelling, or be approved as a bed and breakfast. There shall be one off
street parking place provided for each transient guest vehicle at all times
that the dwelling is available for transient occupancy.
   FLEA MARKET. A business which leases outdoor, tent or partially enclosed
space to persons who wish to vend a variety of new and used goods for sale to
the general public by displaying those goods on tables, in or on motor
vehicles, or on the ground. This definition does not include farmers’ markets,
which sell produce, flowers and similar agricultural products.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross area of the several floors of a building or
buildings measured from the face of the exterior walls, or from the centerline
of the walls separating two buildings.
   FORESTRY. The management of forests and timberlands when practiced in
accordance with accepted silvicultural principles, through developing,
cultivating, harvesting, transporting and selling trees for commercial
purposes. Pursuant to § 603(f) of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code
(53 P.S. § 10603(f)), FORESTRY shall be a permitted use by right in all zoning
districts wherein harvesting of timber is not conducted pursuant to any land
development. While permitted, FORESTRY is subject to the standards of §§
156.105 through
156.114.
   GARAGE OR YARD SALE. A temporary event to sell used household goods from a
single-family dwelling, an accessory building, or a yard area.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA (GFA). The total floor area for which the tenant pays rent
and that is designed for the tenant’s occupancy and exclusive use.
   GROUP RESIDENCE. A permanent, family-like living arrangement for persons who
may have a disability or other limitation that requires additional care or
supervision in daily living. This definition does not include group housing for
persons who claim to be disabled solely on the basis of having been adjudicated
a juvenile delinquent, having a criminal record, or have a status as a sex
offender, persons who currently use illegal drugs, persons who have been
convicted of the manufacture or sale of illegal drugs, or persons with or
without disabilities who present a direct threat to the persons or property of
others.
   HALFWAY HOUSE. A transitional residential facility licensed and operated by
a government or social service agency that provides a supervised environment to
residents who require psychiatric, correctional or behavioral treatment between
periods of institutional and independent living.
   HEAVY INDUSTRY. The manufacture, storage, processing and treatment of
materials which are potentially hazardous, or processes which produce
significant amounts of smoke, noise, glare or dust or odor as a primary or
secondary effect of the principal use of the land or buildings. HEAVY INDUSTRY
characteristically employs some of such equipment such as smokestacks, tanks,
distillation or reaction columns, chemical processing equipment, scrubbing
towers, pickling equipment and waste-treatment lagoons. HEAVY INDUSTRY,
although conceivably operable without polluting the environment, has the
potential to pollute when equipment malfunctions or human error occurs.
Examples of HEAVY INDUSTRY are oil refineries, basic steel manufacturing plants
(such as foundries, blast furnaces and stamping mills), industries handling
animal offal or hides, basic cellulose pulp-paper mills and similar fiberboard
and plywood production, production of cement and asphalt, lime manufacturing,
ore and metal smelting and refining, natural gas distillation, natural gas
processing plants and natural gas compression and/or bulk storage, and chemical
plants such as petrochemical complexes. An incinerator structure or facility
which, including the incinerator, contains 5,000 square feet or more, whether
public or private, is HEAVY INDUSTRY for purpose of this chapter, as is any
electric power production plant which is a principal use, whether said power is
generated by coal, natural gas, cogeneration or more than three wind turbines
(unless such turbines are clearly accessory and incidental to a dwelling or
other business).
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance measured from the average level of
finished grade along all the exterior walls of the building to the highest
point of the roof and to the highest point on any structure which rises wholly
or partly above the roof.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any use customarily carried on entirely within a dwelling,
by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and subordinate to
the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change the
residential character thereof. Examples include, but are not limited to,
professional services, such as legal, financial, accounting or engineers,
barber and beauty shops, studios of artists, writers and associations. (See
PROFESSIONAL OFFICE.)
   HOSPITAL. An institution providing health services primarily for human
medical or surgical care for the sick or injured and including related
facilities such as laboratories, out-patient departments, training facilities,
central services facilities and staff offices that are an integral part of the
facilities.
   HOUSEHOLD PETS. Are limited by this definition to domesticated animals that
normally or can generally be kept within the immediate living quarters of a
residential structure within numbers explicitly defined (see KENNEL). No
livestock or nondomestic animal may be kept as household pets. Nondomestic
animals include but are not limited to all bears, coyotes, tigers, leopards,
jaguars, cheetahs, cougars, wolves, nonhuman primates, or any crossbreed of
these animals which has similar characteristics in appearance or features, or
which require exotic animal permits by the Pa Game Commission. Livestock shall
include any animal not customarily kept as an indoor pet, and regulated by the
Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture. Members of the crocodilia or
alligators, or reptiles having a venomous or constrictor nature, do not
constitute a household pet.
   JUNK. Any discarded material or article, and shall include, but not be
limited to, scrap metal, scrapped or abandoned motor vehicles, machinery,
equipment, paper, glass, containers and structures. It shall not include,
however, refuse or garbage kept in a proper container for the purpose of prompt
disposal. For the purpose of this chapter, a proper container shall mean a
solid plastic or metal container, with a sealable lid, specifically designed
for the storage of waste matter.
   JUNKYARD. Any place where any junk is stored, disposed of or accumulated.
This definition shall include recycling centers, recycling yards and salvage
businesses and vehicles lacking current inspection or registration except for
storage in within a building. However, it does not include municipal recycling
centers where no materials are stored in an exterior environment.
   KENNEL. Shall specifically include: the keeping of more than five dogs owned
or unowned, for any period of time, or keeping of more than ten domestic cats
confined within a building or structure for any time during a 24-hour period;
or a combination of five or more dogs and five or more cats so kept or
confined, or any facilities identified as a kennel by the laws or regulations
of Pennsylvania. This definition excludes veterinary clinics as defined. It
also excludes any dog training facilities which are either accessory to a
retail store, or operated as a personal service, provided that there is no
overnight keeping of animals. It also excludes any facility operated by the
borough to temporarily quarter stray animals. Dogs or cats of less than six
months old shall not count towards the numeric limitations.
   LIGHT MANUFACTURING. The assembly, fabrication, manufacture, production,
processing, storage and/or wholesale distribution of goods or products where no
process involved will produce: noise, light, vibration, air pollution, fire
hazard or emissions, noxious or dangerous to neighboring properties within 400
feet, including production of the following goods: home appliances; electrical
instruments; office machines; precision instruments; electronic devices; time
pieces; jewelry; optical goods; musical instruments; novelties; wood products;
printed material; lithographic plates; type composition, machine tools; dies
and gauges; ceramics; apparel; light weight nonferrous metal castings; light
sheet metal products; plastic goods; pharmaceutical goods; food products (but
not including animal slaughtering, curing nor rendering of fats).
   LOT. A tract or parcel of land, regardless of size, held in single or joint
ownership, which is occupied or capable of being occupied by buildings,
structures and accessory buildings, including such open spaces as are arranged,
designed or required. The term LOT shall also mean PARCEL, PLOT, SITE or
similar term.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot at the point of intersection of and abutting on two or
more intersecting streets.
   LOT, LINE. Any line dividing a lot from another lot or from an abutting
street or other right-of-way.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION. Includes all activity which removes from the surface or
beneath the surface of the land some material mineral resource, natural
resource or other element of economic value, by means of mechanical excavation
necessary to separate the desired material from an undesirable one; or to
remove the strata or material which overlies or is above the desired material
in its natural condition and position. Open pit mining includes, but is not
limited to, the excavation necessary to the extraction of: sand, gravel,
topsoil, limestone, sandstone, coal, clay, shale and iron ore.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable, single-family dwelling intended for permanent
occupancy, contained in one or more units designed to be joined into one
integral unit capable of again being separated for repeated towing, which
arrives at a site, complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, and constructed so that it may be
used without a permanent foundation.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land in a mobile home park, improved with the
necessary utility connections and other appurtenances necessary for the
erection thereon of a single mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single ownership which has been
planned and improved for the placement of mobile homes for non-transient use,
consisting of two or more mobile home lots.
   MOTEL. A building or group of detached or connected buildings designed or
used primarily for providing sleeping accommodations for travelers. The
definition includes hotels, motor lodges, cottages with full bath and toilet,
and similar uses.
   NATURAL GAS COMPRESSOR STATION. A facility designed and constructed to
compress natural gas that originates from a gas well or collection of such
wells operating as a midstream facility for delivery of gas to a transmission
pipeline, distribution pipeline, natural gas processing plant or underground
storage field. The term includes one or more natural gas compressors,
associated buildings, pipes, valves, tanks and other equipment. (See HEAVY
INDUSTRY.)
   NATURAL GAS PROCESSING PLANT. A facility designed and constructed to remove
materials such as ethane, propane, butane, and other constituents or similar
substances from natural gas to allow such natural gas to be of such quality as
is required or appropriate for transmission or distribution to commercial
markets, but not including facilities or equipment that is designed and
constructed primarily to remove water, water vapor, oil or naturally occurring
liquids from the natural gas. (See HEAVY INDUSTRY.)
   NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS. Small-scale retail enterprises intended to benefit
neighborhood residents or tourists. Limited retail businesses are distinguished
from other retail businesses by smaller size less than 5,000 square feet gross
floor area and confining all commercial activities indoors.
   NO-IMPACT HOME-BASED BUSINESS.
      (1)   A business or commercial activity administered or conducted as an
accessory use which is clearly secondary to the use as a residential dwelling
and which involves no customer, client or patient traffic, whether vehicular or
pedestrian, pickup, delivery or removal functions to or from the premises, in
excess of those normally associated with residential use.
      (2)   The business or commercial activity must satisfy the following
requirements:
         (a)   The business activity shall be compatible with the residential
use of the property and surrounding residential uses;
         (b)   The business shall employ no employees other than family members
residing in the dwelling;
         (c)   There shall be no display or sale of retail goods and no
stockpiling or inventory of a substantial nature;
         (d)   There shall be no outside appearance of a business use,
including, but not limited to, parking signs or lights;
         (e)   The business activity may not use any equipment or process which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference,
including interference with radio or television reception, which is detectable
in the neighborhood;
         (f)   The business activity may not generate any solid waste or sewage
discharge, in volume or type, which is not normally associated with residential
use in the neighborhood;
         (g)   The business activity shall be conducted only within the
dwelling and may not occupy more than 25% of the habitable floor area; and
         (h)   The business may not involve any illegal activity. If the
business meets all such requirements, it shall be considered a lawful accessory
use to a dwelling.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot the area or dimension of which was lawful prior to
the adoption or amendment of this chapter, but which fails to conform to the
requirements of the zoning district in which it is located by reasons of such
adoption or amendment.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure or part of a structure manifestly not
designed to comply with the applicable dimensional or extent of use provisions
of this chapter or an amendment hereafter enacted, where such structure
lawfully existed prior to the enactment of this chapter or amendment or prior
to the application of this chapter or amendment to its location by reason of
annexation. Such NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES include, but are not limited to,
nonconforming signs.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use, whether of land or structure, which does not
comply with the applicable use provisions of this chapter or amendment
hereafter enacted, where such use was lawfully in existence prior to the
enactment of this chapter or amendment or prior to the application of this
chapter or amendment to its location by reason of annexation.
   NURSING HOME. A facility to give long-term skilled care to geriatric or
handicapped patients and licensed as such a facility by the Commonwealth. For
the purposes of this chapter, a NURSING HOME, as licensed by the Commonwealth,
may also include personal care or assisted living options.
   OIL OR GAS DRILLING. The act of creating a pierced or bored hole drilled or
being drilled in the ground for the purpose of, or to be used for, producing,
extracting or injecting gas, oil, petroleum or another liquid related to oil or
gas production or storage, including brine disposal.
   OIL OR GAS WELL SITE. The location where facilities, structures, materials
and equipment whether temporary or permanent, necessary for the preparation,
construction, drilling, production or operation of an oil or gas wells occur,
pursuant to drilling. This definition also includes exploratory wells.
   PARKING SPACE. An open space with a dustless all-weather surface, or space
in a private garage or other structure with an effective length of at least 18
feet and a uniform width of at least nine feet for the storage of one
automobile and accessible from a public way.
   PERMANENT RESIDENT. A person who owns residential real estate in the Borough
of Grove City which they regard as their residence for the purpose of voting,
or maintains a domicile at such real estate under the Pennsylvania Code with
regards to personal or Commonwealth income tax, or is in the process of
establishing residency for such purposes within a period of 60 days, or any
lawful possessory tenant (occupying a legal dwelling unit for the purposes of
zoning and the Uniform Construction Code) and maintaining such domicile for
said purposes. Minor persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, or within
foster care arraignments shall be regarded as permanent residents if they
reside within the dwelling with an adult person regarded as their parent or
legal guardian.
   PERSONAL CARE HOME. A facility giving geriatric care in a home-like setting
and licensed as such by the Commonwealth.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Any enterprise which primarily offers services to the
general public, such as: shoe repair, clothing alterations, barber shops,
beauty parlors, tanning salons, exercise and fitness studios, pet grooming or
training (when not including overnight kenneling) and therapeutic massage
services. Therapeutic Massage shall be regarded as:
      (1)   Any establishment offering massage services provided by any person
licensed as a practitioner by the State Board of Massage Therapy; or
      (2)   When a practitioner is statutorily exempt from state licensure,
they shall hold an independent board certification such as The American
Organization for Bodywork Therapies of Asia or the American Reflexology
Certification Board; or
      (3)   The services are offered within a premises and under the
supervision or another licensed practitioner, such as a physical therapist,
chiropractor, or barber/beautician; and
      (4)   Under no circumstances shall the practitioner appear or provide
services in a state of nudity or semi nudity.
   PLACE OF WORSHIP. A place of religious instruction or public gathering and
worship, which may include incidental instruction and charitable activities but
not including a public school, university, college, trade or commercial school,
day care services, or any form of group residence or halfway house.
   PLANNING CODE. The Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247 of
1968, as re-enacted and amended by Act No. 170 of 1988 and Acts 67 and 68 of
2000 (53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.), and as further amended from time to time.
   PRIVATE CLUBS. Buildings and related facilities owned and operated by an
association or group of individuals established for fraternal, social,
educational, conservation, recreational or civic benefit of members. Full
access to facilities is typically restricted to members and their guests. For
the purposes of this chapter, this definition does not include miniature golf,
golf driving ranges, paintball or other uses defined by this chapter as various
forms of commercial recreation. It also may not include any sexually oriented
business or bottle club.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. The office or studio of a physician, surgeon, dentist,
lawyer, architect, artist, engineer, certified public accountant, real estate
broker or salesperson, insurance broker or agent, musician, teacher or similar
occupation.
   PUBLIC PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS. Parks and playgrounds that are owned and
operated by the borough or by an authority created for such purposes by the
borough or any government agency.
   RETAIL LIQUOR STORE. A private enterprise that sells distilled spirits. This
definition does not include a state owned and operated liquor store,
wholesaler, licensed bar or tavern, stores selling only malted beverages, or a
licensed limited winery (or retail outlet thereof) or brewery.
   SCREENING. An opaque fence, screen planting or wall at least six feet high,
provided in such a way that it will block a line of sight.
   SELF SERVICE STORAGE FACILITIES. A building consisting of individual, small,
self-contained units that are leased or owned for the storage of business and
household goods or contractors supplies.
   SERVICE AND REPAIR BUSINESS. A form of equipment service or repair which may
include woodworking enterprises, repair services such as welding, vehicle or
machinery repair, and incidental fabrication or retail sales of items.
   SERVICE STATION. An area of land, together with any structure thereon, used
for the retail sale and dispensing of motor fuel, and lubricants and incidental
services, such as lubrication and washing of motor vehicles, and the sale,
installation or minor repairs of tires, batteries or other automobile
accessories.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Businesses which require a license and meet the
definitions contained in the Borough Sexually Oriented Business Licensing
Ordinance, or which provide massage services which do not meet the definition
of therapeutic massage as defined as a personal service herein.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A commercial facility developed as a mixture of uses,
including retail sales, theaters, personal services and eating and drinking
places, but planned, constructed, managed or promoted as an integral whole.
   SIGN. Any structure, building, wall or other outdoor surface, or any device
or part thereof, which displays or includes any letter, word, model, banner,
flag, pennant, insignia, device or other representations used for announcement,
direction, advertisement or identification. The actual area of any SIGN shall
be measured in square feet and determined by the sum of the geometrically
computed area(s) encompassing separate individual letters, words, or graphic
elements on the background.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign that directs attention to a business, profession or
industry conducted on the premises or to products sold, manufactured or
assembled upon the same premises upon which it is displayed.
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY. A sign or portion thereof which has a reader board
for the display of text information in which each alphanumeric character,
graphic or symbol is defined by objects, not consisting of an illumination
device and may be changed or re-arranged manually with characters, letters, or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or
the surface of the sign.
   SIGN, ELECTRONIC. A sign or portion thereof that displays electronic
alphanumeric, video or graphic information using different combinations of
single color light emitting diodes (LEDs), fiber optics, light bulbs or other
illumination devices within the display area, and capable of changeable copy or
images. ELECTRONIC SIGNS include computer programmable, microprocessor or other
remotely controlled electronic displays. ELECTRONIC CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS do
not include official or time and temperature signs with no other content.
ELECTRONIC CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS include projected images or messages with
these characteristics onto buildings other objects.
   SIGN, FACADE, FASCIA OR WALL. A sign that is in any manner affixed to any
exterior wall of a building or structure and that projects not more than 18
inches from the building or structure wall. Also includes signs affixed to
architectural projections that project from a building provided the copy area
of such signs remains on a parallel plane to the face of the building facade or
to the face or faces of the architectural projection to which it is affixed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6eac19f7f47cc557a579b0bb159645b8d2bcd869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1682.png]
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign principally supported by one or more columns,
poles or braces placed in or upon the ground.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING MONUMENT.
      (1)   A freestanding sign where the supporting structure of the sign face
is architecturally and aesthetically integrated into the overall design of the
sign and the base of supporting structure is often embellished to conceal all
structural or support members.
      (2)   Either 80% of the base supporting structure shall be in contact
with the ground, or the lowest portion of the sign face shall be no greater
than three feet six inches from the ground. The sign face should be solid and
not intended to be a pole type design.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6eac19f7f47cc557a579b0bb159645b8d2bcd869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1684.png]
   SIGN, FREESTANDING POLE. A sign erected, supported, mounted on a pole or
poles which is wholly independent of any building or other structure for
support.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6eac19f7f47cc557a579b0bb159645b8d2bcd869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1686.png]
   SIGN, MULTI-VISION. Any sign composed in whole or in part of a series of
vertical or horizontal slats or cylinders that are capable of being rotated at
intervals so that partial rotation of the group of slats or cylinders produces
a different image and when properly functioning allows, on a single sign
structure, the display at any given time, one of two or more images.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign other than a wall sign that is attached to or
projects more than 18 inches from a building face or wall or from a structure
whose primary purpose is other than the support of a sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6eac19f7f47cc557a579b0bb159645b8d2bcd869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1688.png]
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign mounted on the main roof portion of a building or on the
uppermost edge of a parapet wall of a building and which is wholly or partially
supported by such building. Signs mounted on mansard facades, pent eaves and
architectural projections such as canopies or marquees shall not be considered
to be ROOF SIGNS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6eac19f7f47cc557a579b0bb159645b8d2bcd869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1690.png]
   SIGN, SANDWICH BOARD. A temporary sign created by attaching two sign faces
at a single point, intended to be self- supporting.
   SIGN, WINDOW. A sign affixed to the surface of a window with its message
intended to be visible to exterior environment.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use permitted with special permission granted by the
Zoning Hearing Board, to occupy or use land and/or a building for specific
purposes in accordance with the criteria set forth in this chapter when such
use is not permitted by right.
   STORY. The portion of a building located between the surface of any floor
and the next floor above; if there is not more than one floor the space between
any floor and the ceiling next above it shall be considered a STORY.
   STREET. A public or private right-of-way, excluding driveways, intended for
use as a means of vehicular and pedestrian circulation, which provides a means
of access to abutting property. The word STREET includes thoroughfare, avenue,
boulevard, court, drive, expressway, highway, lane, alley and road or similar
terms.
   STREET LINE. A line defining the right-of-way boundaries of a street.
   STRUCTURE. Any human-made object having an ascertainable stationary location
on or in land or water, whether or not affixed to the land.
   TRANSIENT GUEST. A transient person who maintains legal residency elsewhere
or otherwise does not meet expectations of permanent residency, but may be
lodging in the borough under a commercial basis for a period of less than 30
days. Minor persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, or within foster
care arrangements shall not be counted towards the any limit upon transient
guests if they reside within the dwelling with an adult person regarded as
their parent or legal guardian.
   TRUCK TERMINAL. Land and buildings used as a relay station for the transfer
of a load from one vehicle to another or one party to another. The terminal
cannot be used for permanent or long-term accessory storage for principal land
uses at other locations. The terminal facility may include storage areas for
trucks and buildings or areas for the repair of trucks associated with the
terminal.
   VETERINARY CLINIC. A facility used for the treatment of domestic animals for
pay with health treatment provided by a licensed veterinarian.
   WAREHOUSING AND DISTRIBUTION.
      (1)   A use engaged in storage, wholesale and distribution of
manufactured product, supplies and equipment, but excluding bulk storage of
materials that are flammable or explosive or that create hazardous or commonly
recognized offensive conditions.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, storage of explosive, flammable,
hazardous or community-recognized offensive conditions shall be considered
heavy industry.
   YARD. That portion of a lot that is unoccupied and open to the sky and
extends from the lot line or right-of-way to a setback or yard line. (See Lot
and Yard Area Sketch below.)
   YARD, FRONT. A setback line from an adjacent right-of-way extending for the
full width of the lot. (See Lot and Yard Area Sketch below.)
   YARD, REAR. A yard between the rear lot line and a line drawn, parallel
thereto at such distance as may be specified herein for any zoning district,
and extending for the full width of the lot. (See Lot and Yard Area Sketch
below.)
   YARD, SIDE. An open yard space between the side lot line and parallel
thereto extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line. (See Lot and
Yard Area Sketch below.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6eac19f7f47cc557a579b0bb159645b8d2bcd869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1692.png]
   YARD SALE. See GARAGE SALE.
   ZONING OFFICER. The Zoning Officer of the borough or his or her authorized
representative.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 7, § 28-702) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 702; Ord.
1462, passed 7-15-19)
ZONING HEARING BOARD
§ 156.160 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a Zoning Hearing Board, herein referred to as the
“Board”, consisting of five residents of the borough and one alternate,
appointed by resolution of the Borough Council, pursuant to the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, as amended. Said Board shall perform all the
duties, and exercise all powers prescribed by said Code and as herein further
provided.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-801) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 801)
§ 156.161 APPOINTMENT.
   The terms of office of the Board shall be three years and shall be so fixed
that the term of office of one member shall expire each year. The Board shall
promptly notify the Borough Council of any vacancies which occur. Appointments
to fill vacancies shall be only for the unexpired portion of the term. Members
of the Board shall hold no other office in the borough, nor be a member of the
Planning Commission. The Borough Council shall also appoint one alternate
member to the Board. The appointment, rights and duties of the alternate shall
be in accordance with Article IX of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code (53 P.S. §§ 10901 to 10918).
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-802) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 802)
§ 156.162 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   Any Board member may be removed for misfeasance or nonfeasance in office, or
for other just cause, by a majority vote of the Borough Council taken after the
member has received 15 days’ advance notice of the intent to take such a vote.
A hearing shall be held in connection with the vote if the member shall request
it in writing.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-803) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 803)
§ 156.163 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD.
   The Board shall elect from its own membership its officers, who shall serve
annual terms as such and may succeed themselves. For the conduct of any hearing
or the taking of any action, a quorum shall be not less than the majority of
all the members of the Board, but where two members are disqualified to act in
a particular matter, the alternate member shall be seated. The Board may
appoint a Hearing Officer from its own membership to conduct any hearing on its
behalf, and the parties may waive further action by the Board as provided in §
908 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code (53 P.S. § 10908). The
Board may make, alter and rescind rules and forms for its procedure, consistent
with borough ordinances and laws of the Commonwealth. The Board shall keep full
public records of its business and shall submit a report of its activities to
the Borough Council as requested by the Council.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-804) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 804)
§ 156.164 EXPENDITURES FOR SERVICES.
   Within the limits of funds appropriated by the Borough Council, the Board
may employ or contract for secretaries, clerks, legal counsel, consultants and
other technical and clerical services. Members of the Board may receive
compensation for the performance of their duties, as may be fixed from time to
time by the Borough Council, but in no case shall it exceed the rate of
compensation authorized to be paid to the members of the Borough Council.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-805) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 805)
§ 156.165 LEGAL COUNSEL.
   Where legal counsel is desired, an attorney, other than the Borough
Solicitor, shall be used.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-806) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 806)
§ 156.166 HEARINGS.
   The Board shall conduct hearings and make decisions in accordance with the
following requirements.
   (A)   Notice shall be given to the public by notice published once each week
for two successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the borough.
Such notice shall state the time and place of the hearing and the particular
nature of the matter to be considered at the hearing. The first publication
shall be not more than 30 days nor less than seven days from the date of the
hearing. Written notice shall be given to the applicant, the Zoning Officer and
to any person who has made timely request for the same. Written notices shall
be prescribed by rules of the Board. In addition to the notice provided herein,
written notice of said hearing shall be conspicuously posted on the affected
tract of land at least one week prior to the hearing.
   (B)   The Borough Council may prescribe reasonable fees with respect to
hearings before the Zoning Hearing Board. Fees for said hearings may include
compensation for the Secretary and members of the Zoning Hearing Board, notice
and advertising costs and necessary administrative overhead connected with the
hearing. The costs, however, shall not include legal expenses of the Zoning
Hearing Board, expenses for engineering, architectural or other technical
consultants or expert witness costs.
   (C)   The hearing shall be held within 60 days from the date of the
applicant’s request, unless the applicant has agreed in writing to an extension
of time.
   (D)   The hearings shall be conducted by the Board or the Board may appoint
any member as a Hearing Officer. The decision, or, where no decision is called
for, the findings shall be made by the Board, but the parties may waive
decision or findings by the Board and accept the decision or findings of the
Hearing Officer as final.
   (E)   The parties to the hearing shall be the borough, any person affected
by the application who has made timely appearance of record before the Board,
and any other person including civic or community organizations permitted to
appear by the Board. The Board shall have power to require that all persons who
wish to be considered parties enter appearances in writing on forms provided by
the Board for that purpose.
   (F)   The Chairperson or Acting Chairperson of the Board or the Hearing
Officer presiding shall have power to administer oaths and issue subpoenas to
compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of relevant documents and
papers, including witnesses and documents requested by the parties.
   (G)   The parties shall have the right to be represented by counsel and
shall be afforded the opportunity to respond and present evidence and argument
and cross-examine adverse witnesses on all relevant issues.
   (H)   Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but irrelevant, immaterial
or unduly repetitious evidence may be excluded.
   (I)   The Board or the Hearing Officer, as the case may be, shall keep a
stenographic record of the proceedings. The appearance fee for a stenographer
shall be shared equally by the applicant and the Board. The cost of the
original transcript shall be paid by the Board if the transcript is ordered by
the Board or Hearing Officer or shall be paid by the person appealing from the
decision of the Board if such appeal is made, and in either event the cost of
additional copies shall be paid by the person requesting such copy or copies.
In other cases the party requesting the original transcript shall bear the cost
thereof.
   (J)   The Board or the Hearing Officer shall not communicate, directly or
indirectly, with any party or his or her representatives in connection with any
issue involved except upon notice and opportunity for all parties to
participate, except that advice from the Board’s Solicitor is exempt from this
restriction; shall not take notice of any communication, reports, staff
memoranda, or other materials unless the parties are afforded an opportunity to
contest the material so noticed; and shall not inspect the site or its
surroundings after the commencement of hearings with any party or his or her
representative unless all parties are given an opportunity to be present.
   (K)   The Board or the Hearing Officer, as the case may be, shall render a
written decision or, when no decision is called for, make written findings on
the application within 45 days after the last hearing before the Board or
Hearing Officer. Where application is contested or denied, each decision shall
be accompanied by findings of fact and conclusions based thereon together with
the reasons therefore. Conclusions based on any provisions of this chapter or
the Planning Code, or any rule or regulation shall contain a reference to the
provision relied on and the reasons why the conclusion is deemed appropriate in
the light of the facts found. If the hearing is conducted by a Hearing Officer,
and there has been no stipulation that his or her decision or findings are
final, the Board shall make his or her report and recommendations available to
the parties within 45 days, and the parties shall be entitled to make written
representations thereon to the Board prior to final decision or entry of
findings, and the Board’s decision shall be entered no later than 30 days after
the report of the Hearing Officer. Where the Board fails to render the decision
within the period required by this chapter or the Planning Code, or fails to
hold the required hearing within 60 days from the date of the applicant’s
request for a hearing, the decision shall be deemed to have been rendered in
favor of the applicant unless the applicant has agreed in writing or on the
record to an extension of time. When a decision has been rendered in favor of
the applicant because of the failure of the Board to meet or render a decision
as herein above provided, the Board shall give public notice of said decision
within ten days in the same manner as provided in § 607(1) of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code (53 P.S. 10607(1)). Nothing in this division (K)
shall prejudice the right of any party to appeal the decision to a court of
competent jurisdiction. All variances granted by the Zoning Hearing Board and
conditional uses granted by the Borough Council shall expire 18 months from the
date of the Board’s action unless construction has been initiated or a land
development plan has been submitted for approval.
   (L)   A copy of the final decision or, where no decision is called for, of
the findings shall be delivered to the applicant personally or mailed to him or
her not later than the day following its date. To all other persons who have
filed their name and address with the Board not later than the last day of the
hearing, the Board shall provide by mail or otherwise, a brief notice of the
decision or findings and a statement of the place at which the full decision or
findings may be examined.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-807) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 807)
§ 156.167 BOARD’S FUNCTIONS.
   The Board shall have exclusive jurisdiction for the following:
   (A)   Substantive challenges to the validity of any land use ordinance,
except those brought before the governing body pursuant to §§ 609.1 and 916.1
(a)(2) of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code (53 P.S. § 10609.1 and
10916.1(a)(2));
   (B)   Challenges to the validity of a land use ordinance raising procedural
questions or alleged defects in the process of enactment or adoption which
challenges shall be raised by an appeal taken within 30 days after the
effective date of said ordinance. Where the ordinance appealed from is the
initial Zoning Ordinance of the borough and a Zoning Hearing Board has not been
previously established, the appeal raising procedural questions shall be taken
directly to court;
   (C)   Appeals from the determination of the Zoning Officer, including, but
not limited to, the granting or denial of any permit, or failure to act on the
application therefore, the issuance of any cease and desist order or the
registration or refusal to register any nonconforming use, structure or lot;
   (D)   Appeals from a determination by the Borough Engineer or the Zoning
Officer with reference to the administration of any floodplain or flood hazard
ordinance or such provisions within a land use ordinance;
   (E)   Applications for variances from the terms of this chapter and flood
hazard ordinance or such provisions within a land use ordinance, pursuant to §
910.2 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code (53 P.S. § 10910.2) and
division (H) below;
   (F)   Appeals from the Zoning Officer’s determination under § 916.2 of the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code 53 P.S. § 10916.2;
   (G)   Appeals from the determination of the Zoning Officer or Municipal
Engineer in the administration of any land use ordinance or provision thereof
with reference to sedimentation and erosion control and stormwater management
insofar as the same relate to development not involving Article V or VII
applications of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code (53 P.S. §§ 10501
to 10516 and 53 P.S. §§ 10701 to 10713); and
   (H)   Variances.
      (1)   The Board shall hear requests for variances where it is alleged
that the provisions of this chapter inflict unnecessary hardship upon the
applicant. The Board may, by rule, prescribe the form of application and may
require preliminary application to the Zoning Officer.
      (2)   The Board may grant a variance provided that all of the following
findings are made where relevant in a given case:
         (a)   There are unique physical circumstances or conditions, including
irregularity, narrowness or shallowness of lot size or shape, or exceptional
topographical or other physical conditions peculiar to the particular property,
and that the unnecessary hardship is due to such conditions, and not the
circumstances or conditions generally created by the provisions of this chapter
in the neighborhood or district in which the property is located;
         (b)   That because of such physical circumstances or conditions, there
is no possibility that the property can be developed in strict conformity with
the provisions of this chapter and that the authorization of a variance is
therefore necessary to enable the reasonable use of the property;
         (c)   Such unnecessary hardship has not been created by the applicant;
         (d)   The variance, if authorized, will not alter the essential
character of the neighborhood or district in which the property is located, nor
substantially or permanently impair the appropriate use or development of
adjacent property, nor be detrimental to the public welfare; and
         (e)   The variance, if authorized, will represent the minimum variance
that will afford relief and will represent the least modification possible of
the regulation in issue.
      (3)   In granting any variance, the Board may attach such reasonable
conditions and safeguards as it may deem necessary to implement the purpose of
this chapter. All variances granted by the Zoning Hearing Board shall expire 18
months from the date of the Board’s action approving the variance, unless a
land development plan has been submitted or a construction permit obtained.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-808) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 808)
§ 156.168 PARTIES APPELLANT BEFORE BOARD.
   (A)   Appeals under §
156.167 and proceedings to challenge this chapter under §
156.167 may be filed with the Board in writing by the landowner affected, any
officer or agency of the borough, or any person aggrieved.
   (B)   Requests for a variance under §
156.167 may be filed with the Board by any landowner or any tenant with the
permission of such landowner.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-809) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 809)
§ 156.169 TIME LIMITATIONS; PERSONS AGGRIEVED.
   (A)   No person shall be allowed to file any proceeding with the Board later
than 30 days after an application for development, preliminary or final, has
been approved by an appropriate borough officer, agency or body if such
proceeding is designed to secure reversal or to limit the approval in any
manner unless such person alleges and proves that he or she had no notice,
knowledge or reason to believe that such approval had been given.
   (B)   If such person has succeeded to his or her interest after such
approval, he or she shall be bound by the knowledge of his or her predecessor
in interest. See also § 914.1 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code
(53 P.S. § 10914.1).
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-810) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 810)
§ 156.170 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   Upon filing of any proceeding referred to in §
156.167 and during its pendency before the Board, all land development pursuant
to any challenged ordinance, order or approval of the Zoning Officer or of any
agency or body, and all official action there under shall be stayed unless the
Zoning Officer or any other appropriate agency or body certifies to the Board
facts indicating that such stay would cause imminent peril to life or property,
in which case the development or official action shall not be stayed otherwise
than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the Board or by the court
having jurisdiction of zoning appeals on petition after notice to the Zoning
Officer or other appropriate agency or body. See also § 915.1 of the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code (53 P.S. § 10915.1).
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-811) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 811)
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS
§ 156.185 ZONING OFFICER.
   The borough shall appoint the Zoning Officer who shall administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter, and shall do so in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code. The Zoning Officer shall also have the duties as set forth by this
subchapter. The Zoning Officer shall not hold any elective office in the
borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 9, § 28-901) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 901)
§ 156.186 DUTIES OF THE ZONING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Zoning Officer shall administer this chapter in accordance with
its literal terms, and shall not have the power to permit any construction or
any use or change of use, which does not conform to this chapter. The Officer
shall be considered as qualified to perform his or her duties by meeting the
qualifications established by the borough.
   (B)   In addition, the Zoning Officer’s duties, obligations and
responsibilities include the following.
      (1)   Application for zoning permits. The Zoning Officer shall receive
applications for zoning permits and/or certificates. A zoning permit is an
application filed prior to the start of construction/development by a developer
to describe the proposed activity in sufficient detail to determine whether or
not it meets the requirements of this and other applicable borough ordinances.
Applications conforming to such ordinances shall be approved, those not
conforming to such ordinances shall be denied.
      (2)   Inspections. The Zoning Officer or a duly appointed assistant may
examine, or cause to be examined, all structures and/or land for which an
application for a zoning permit or a zoning certificate has been requested.
Such inspections may be before, during and after any construction and shall be
made upon the termination of construction and prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
      (3)   Permits, applications, appeals and certificates. The Zoning Officer
shall issue or deny such permits or certificates as required by this chapter
where no other body is involved; shall receive all applications for conditional
uses, special exceptions and variances and forward same to the appropriate
body. Where a decision is made by another body, the Zoning Officer shall issue
or deny the permit as ordered by the applicable Board.
      (4)   Enforcement. The Zoning Officer is authorized to institute civil
enforcement proceedings as a means of enforcing this chapter and to revoke or
refuse permits as authorized.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 9, § 28-902) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 902)
§ 156.187 PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Zoning permits. An application for a zoning permit will be to show
compliance with this and other appropriate borough ordinances. Applications
shall contain information relative to the proposed construction and/or use in
sufficient detail to inform the Zoning Officer of the scope and extent of the
proposed development. The exact details required, including sketches, plat
plans as well as the number of copies, time limits and fees for such
applications shall be determined by the borough.
   (B)   Zoning certificate. The zoning certificate shall be issued upon
request to confirm that the use of land or a building within the borough is in
compliance with this chapter. Zoning certificates shall also be required for a
change of use of a structure or land to a different use and changes to a
nonconforming use or structure. The exact form of the certificate and fees
charged shall be determined by the borough.
   (C)   Sign permit. A sign permit shall be required prior to the erection or
alteration of any sign, except those signs specifically exempted from this
requirement in §§
156.125 through
156.134.
      (1)   Application for a sign permit shall be made in writing to the
Zoning Officer, and shall contain all information necessary for such officer to
determine whether the proposed sign, or the proposed alterations, conform to
all the requirements of §
156.125 through
156.134.
      (2)   No sign permit shall be issued except in conformity with the
regulations of this chapter, except after written order from the Zoning Hearing
Board or the courts.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 9, § 28-903) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 903)
§ 156.188 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Enforcement notice. When it appears to the borough and/or the Zoning
Officer that a violation has occurred, the Zoning Officer shall send an
enforcement notice. The enforcement notice shall be sent to the owner of record
of the parcel on which the violation has occurred, to any person who has filed
a written request to receive enforcement notices regarding the parcel, and to
any other person requested in writing by the owner of record. The enforcement
notice shall state the following:
      (1)   The name of the owner of record and any other person against whom
the borough intends to take action;
      (2)   The location of the property in violation;
      (3)   The specific violation with a description of the requirements,
which have not been met, citing in each instance the applicable provisions of
this chapter;
      (4)   The date before which the steps for compliance must be commenced
and the date before which the steps must be completed;
      (5)   The recipient of the notice has the right to appeal to the Zoning
Hearing Board within a prescribed period of time in accordance with procedures
set forth in this chapter; and
      (6)   That failure to comply with the notice within the time specified,
unless extended by appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board, constitutes a violation,
with possible sanctions clearly described.
   (B)   Causes of action. In case any building, structure, landscaping or land
is, or is proposed to be, erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
converted, maintained or used in violation of this chapter, and any amendment
thereto or prior enabling laws, the borough, the Zoning Officer of the borough,
or any aggrieved owner or tenant of real property who shows that his or her
property or person will be substantially affected by the alleged violation, in
addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceeding
to prevent, restrain, correct or abate such building, structure, landscaping or
land, or to prevent, in or about such premises, any act, conduct, business or
use constituting a violation. When any such action is instituted by a landowner
or tenant, notice of that action shall be served upon the borough at least 30
days prior to the time the action is begun by serving a copy of the complaint
on the Borough Council. No such action may be maintained until such notice has
been given.
   (C)   Jurisdiction. District justices shall have initial jurisdiction over
proceedings brought under §
156.999.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 9, § 28-904) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 904)
Penalty, see §
156.999
AMENDMENTS
§ 156.200 GENERAL.
   Borough Council may introduce and/or consider amendments to this chapter and
to the Zoning Map, as proposed by a member of the Borough Council, the Planning
Commission, or by a petition of a person or persons residing or owning property
within the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 10, § 28-1001) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 1001)
§ 156.201 PETITIONS.
   Petitions for amendments shall be filed with the Zoning Officer; and the
petitioners, upon such filing, shall pay an advertising deposit and a filing
fee, in accordance with a fee schedule affixed by the borough.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 10, § 28-1002) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 1002)
§ 156.202 REFERRAL.
   Any proposed amendment presented to Borough Council without written findings
and recommendations from the borough Planning Commission and the County
Regional Planning Commission, shall be referred to these agencies for their
review and recommendations prior to the public hearing by the Borough Council.
The Board shall not hold a public hearing upon such amendments until required
reviews and recommendations are received or the expiration of 30 days from the
date that such proposed amendments were submitted to the borough and County
Planning Commissions.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 10, § 28-1003) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 1003)
§ 156.203 ACTION.
   Before acting upon a proposed amendment, the Borough Council shall, as
required by law, hold a public hearing thereon. Public notice of such hearing
is required and shall contain a brief summary of the proposed amendment and
reference to the place where copies of the same may be examined, shall be
published in accordance with the provisions of the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code. If the proposed amendment involves a change to the Zoning Map,
notice of the public hearing shall be posted at the affected tract in
accordance with § 609 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code (53 P.S.
§ 10609) at least one week prior to the date of the hearing.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 10, § 28-1004) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 1004)
§ 156.204 CURATIVE AMENDMENTS.
   The borough may institute a municipal curative amendment in accordance with
§ 609.2 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code (53 P.S. § 10609.2).
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 10, § 28-1005) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 1005)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, partnership or corporation who or which has violated or
permitted the violation of the provisions of this chapter and any amendment
thereto any prior enabling laws shall, upon being found liable therefor in a
civil enforcement proceeding commenced by the borough, pay a judgment of not
more than $500 plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney fees
incurred by the borough as a result thereof. No judgment shall commence or be
imposed, levied or payable until the date of the determination of a violation
by the district justice. If the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the
judgment, the borough may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable rules
of civil procedure. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation, unless the district justice determining that there has been
a violation further determines that there was a good-faith basis for the
person, partnership or corporation violating this chapter to have believed that
there was no such violation, in which event there shall be deemed to have been
only one such violation until the fifth day following the date of the
determination of a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation by
the district justice and thereafter each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate violation. All judgments, costs and reasonable attorney
fees collected for the violation of zoning ordinances shall be paid over to the
borough. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed or interpreted to
grant any person or entity other than the borough and its Zoning Officer the
right to commence any action for enforcement pursuant to this section.
(1980 Code, Ch. 28, Part 9, § 28-904) (Ord. 1419, passed 9-16-2013, § 904)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   BOND ISSUES AND LOANS
      
IV.   BRIDGES
      
V.   FRANCHISES
      
VI.   GOVERNMENTAL AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
      
VII.   GRADE CROSSINGS
      
VIII.   PLAN APPROVAL
      
IX.   PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
X.   SEWERS
      
XI.   SIDEWALKS
      
XII.   STREAMS
      
XIII.   STREET ADOPTION, EXTENSION AND OPENING; GRADES AND LINES; IMPROVEMENTS;
RENAMINGS; VACATIONS
      
XIV.   TAXATION AND BUDGET
      
XV.   WATERWORKS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Res.  4-19-  Untitled resolution authorizing an agreement with the Bell Telephone Company of
4/21/ 1922   Pennsylvania for joint use of 20 poles of the company.
1922
Res.  9-7-   Untitled resolution authorizing an agreement with the Bell Telephone Company of
9/7/  1945   Pennsylvania granting to each other the right of joint use of borough and
1945         telephone company poles. For supplemental agreement, see Ord. 1030.
Res.  7-1-   Untitled resolution authorizing a contract with Mercer County under which the
7/1/  1950   borough is to pay for repairs to the sidewalk only on the Lincoln Avenue bridge
1950         over Wolf Creek.
Res.  3-10-  Untitled resolution authorizing the Cooper-Bessemer Corporation to enter into a
3/10/ 1959   contract with an electric power company other than the borough for electric power
1959         for a period of not more than 5 years.
             Untitled resolution providing that the contract between the Cooper Bessemer
Res.  3-10-  Corporation and the borough, dated 3-1-1957, by which the borough was to furnish
3/10/ 1959   the corporation with electric power, be terminated upon such date as the
1959         corporation would notify the borough of completed arrangements for securing
             electric power otherwise.
Res.  4-20-  Untitled resolution authorizing the Cooper-Bessemer Corporation to enter into a
4/20/ 1959   contract with an electric power company other than the borough for electric power
1959         for a period of not more than 10 years.
Res.  7-15-  Untitled resolution accepting the 1963 Comprehensive Plan as prepared by Clifton
7/15/ 1963   E. Rodgers and Associates, and adopting the Plan as a guide for future
1963         development of the borough.
             Authorizing a contract between the borough and Pennsylvania Power Company, its
      4-17-  successors and assigns, for the purchase of electric service from said company
859   1967   for the borough’s own use and for resale at retail, subject to the company’s
             reservation to serve certain premises in the borough as specified in the
             contract.
Res.  6-16-  Untitled resolution agreeing with London Properties, Ltd. to grant access to the
6/16/ 1975   Grove City Airport for “through the fence” operations in exchange for a certain
1975         right-of-way on lands owned by said company.
1030  7-21-  Authorizing the amendment of an Article of Agreement dated 8-7-1975 between Bell
      1975   of Pennsylvania and the borough. See also Res. 9/7/1945.
Res.  10-20- Untitled resolution authorizing the Borough Manager to enter into an agreement
1980- 1980   with the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation regarding snow and ice control
13           on state-maintained highways within the borough.
Res.  4-20-  Untitled resolution authorizing and directing a gas pipe line agreement to be
1981- 1981   prepared and executed.
3
1164  9-17-  Agreement to provide police protection services to the General Electric Co.
      1984   Manufacturing plant located in the borough and in Pine Township.
1169  6-27-  Contract with Allegheny Electric Cooperative, Inc. with the intent of purchasing
      1985   electricity from the Niagara and St. Lawrence Power Project.
1192  4-20-  Authorizing the Humane Society of Mercer County, Inc., to perform certain duties
      1987   relating to dogs running at large within the municipal boundaries of the borough.
1217  8-13-  Authorizing and empowering the borough to enter into an inter-municipal water
      1990   agreement with Pine Township.
Res.  11-21- Authorizing the President of Borough Council and the Mayor to execute the
1994- 1994   electric service agreement on behalf of the borough.
9
Res.         Authorizing the President of Council and the Borough Manager to execute a consent
1995- 4-17-  for right of entry agreement, granting a right of entry to conduct project
4     1995   activity consisting of filling the mine voids created by the mining of the
             Brookville coal seam.
Res.  2-24-  Authorizing the President of Council and the Mayor to execute the electric
1997- 1997   service agreement on behalf of the borough.
4
Res.  4-21-
1997- 1997   Approving the transmission and distribution right-of-way agreement.
8
Res.  9-15-  Authorizing the President of Council and the Borough Manager to execute the
1997- 1997   consent for right of entry agreement, granting the government a right-of-way for
20           the purpose of installation of guide rail along a portion of George Junior Road.
Res.  10-20- Granting permission to Bell Atlantic-Pennsylvania, Inc., to construct,
1997- 1997   reconstruct, operate and maintain communication facilities on the land of the
21           borough.
Res.  12-15- Authorizing the President of Council and the Borough Secretary to execute and
1997- 1997   attest Reimbursement Agreement No. 010A29 providing for the construction of the
24           Grove City Pedestrian/Bike Trail.
Res.  7-19-  Authorizing the proper officers to execute a contract between the borough and the
1999- 1999   Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural Resources.
10
Res.  7-19-  Authorizing an agreement with Bell Atlantic-Pennsylvania, Inc., to be made to
1999- 1999   reconstruct, operate and maintain communication facilities on the lands of the
11           borough.
Res.  8-16-
1999- 1999   Authorizing the Council President to sign an agreement.
12
Res.  10-26- Agreeing to comply with the requirements of the Keystone Acquisition and
1999- 1999   Development Grant Program and the Department of Conservation and Natural
21           Resources for the purpose of obtaining grant funds for a project.
Res.         Approving the agreement for electric service between Allegheny Electric
2004- 1-5-   Cooperative, Inc. as bargaining agent for the Commonwealth providing for an
2     2004   allocation of power from the New York Power Authority’s final Niagara and St.
             Lawrence allocations.
Res.  2-20-
2006- 2006   Amending the streetscape project agreement.
4
1348  12-18- Executing the hydro development cost sharing agreement with American Municipal
      2006   Power Ohio, Inc.
Res.         Approving the agreement for electric service between Allegheny Electric
2007- 7-16-  Cooperative, Inc. as bargaining agent for the Commonwealth providing for an
9     2007   allocation of power from the New York Power Authority’s (“NYPA”) final Niagara
             and St. Lawrence allocations.
      8-20-  Authorizing the borough to enter into an agreement with Allegheny Electric
1359  2007   Cooperative, Inc. for the purchase of hydroelectric power and energy from the New
             York Power Authority.
Res.  8-20-  Approves “Grove City 2008 Power Sales Agreement” and “Borough of Grove City 2008-
2007- 2007   2012 Non-Pool Power Sales Schedule” with American Municipal Power-Ohio, Inc. for
13           2008-2012.
1360  9-17-  Authorizing the borough to enter into 2 contracts with American Municipal Power-
      2007   Ohio, Inc. for the purchase of electric power.
Res.  10-15- Authorizing and directing Manager to sign a reimbursement agreement between the
2007- 2007   borough and PennDOT.
15
Res.  2-18-  Authorizing entrance into an electronic reimbursement agreement with Pennsylvania
2008- 2008   Department of Transportation.
5
Res.         Authorizing the advertisement of intent to adopt an ordinance authorizing the
2008- 3-17-  execution of an agency agreement to create the Pennsylvania Municipal Power
10    2008   Agency, and appointing representatives to the Pennsylvania Municipal Power
             Agency.
      4-21-  Authorizing the execution of an agency agreement to create the Pennsylvania
1370  2008   Municipal Power Agency, and appointing representatives to the Pennsylvania
             Municipal Power Agency.
      11-17- Enabling the borough to enter into an intergovernmental cooperation agreement for
1375  2008   implementing the Wolf Creek Slippery Rock Creek Council of Governments
             Comprehensive Plan.
             Authorizing and directing the borough to execute a mutual aid agreement with
1376  11-17- interstate and intrastate participating municipal electric systems, in order to
      2008   be able to receive and provide mutual assistance during times of emergencies
             through the interchange and use of personnel and equipment.
1390  11-16- Authorizing the execution of a master services agreement with American Municipal
      2009   Power, Inc.
1427  12-15- Authorizing the amendment to the wastewater treatment service agreement with
      2014   Harrisville Borough dated 1-19-2009.
      12-15- Authorizing the adoption of a wastewater treatment service agreement with Mercer
1428  2014   Township, Butler County, Pennsylvania, and consented thereto by Harrisville
             Borough.
      12-21- Authorizing the borough to enter into a cooperation agreement with Mercer County
1435  2015   to administer the community development block grant in accord with a cooperation
             agreement.
      11-21- Authorizing the Police Department to enter into a participate and be a part of a
1440  2016   critical incident response team under the terms and conditions at set forth in
             the mutual aid agreement
1465  9-16-  Authorizing the execution of the second amendment to the 2019-2022 non- pool
      2019   energy purchase schedule with american municipal power, Inc. (“AMP”).
            
 
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6eac19f7f47cc557a579b0bb159645b8d2bcd869/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1694.png]
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Legend of Map Showing Additions to Borough
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Legend of Map Showing Additions to Borough
A        -           1-4-1883
B        72          9-4-1903
C        96          9-1-1905
D        125         10-6-1908
E        148         4-6-1910
F        151         7-5-1910
G        203         10-1-1915
H        215         4-6-1917
I        217         6-1-1917
J        220         12-7-1917
K        227         10-4-1918
L        248         9-4-1920
M        268         5-6-1921
N        269         6-3-1921
O        315         4-7-1923
P        312         3-19-1923
Q        365         10-6-1926
R        399         2-6-1931
S        402         10-2-1931
T        404         5-6-1932
U        407         7-1-1932
V        408         9-1-1932
W        405         8-5-1932
X        417-A       12-1-1933
Y        417-A       12-1-1933
Z        417-A       12-1-1933
BA       439         8-24-1934
BB       439         8-24-1934
BC       444         3-1-1935
BD       461         12-4-1936
BE       468         8-6-1937
BF       501         5-5-1941
BJ       504         7-11-1941
BK       508         8-4-1941
BL       513         1-8-1943
BM       527         9-7-1945
BN       535         7-9-1946
BO       560         5-7-1948
BP       577         2-21-1949
BR       580         3-21-1949
BS       584         4-11-1949
BT       597         11-7-1949
BU       598         12-5-1949
BV       607         7-17-1950
BW       612         8-21-1950
BX       613         9-18-1950
BY       623         6-18-1951
BZ       633         10-1-1951
CA       657         6-16-1952
CC       707         1-16-1956
CD       708         1-16-1956
CE       721         8-20-1956
CF       723         11-19-1956
CG       725         1-21-1957
CG-1     Court Order 2-18-1957
CH       729         3-18-1957
CI       741         10-2-1957
CJ       752         6-23-1958
CK       814         11-27-1961
CL       817         5-21-1962
CM       828         6-15-1964
CN       833         11-16-1964
CO       837         1-25-1965
CP       870         4-15-1968
CQ       871         4-22-1968
CR       874         7-15-1968
CS       879         11-18-1968
CT       889         10-24-1969
CU       891         12-15-1969
CV       918         7-19-1971
CW       950         In court for decision
 
 
   (For location of each annexation, see the map above.)
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
             Declaring the admission as a part of the borough of certain outlots and tracts
             of land situated in Pine Township and lying adjacent to the present easterly,
72    9-4-   northerly, southerly and westerly boundary lines of said borough; said section
      1903   including lots owned, plotted and laid out by W.J. Harshaw, I.C. Hetler, plot
             of lots and other lots and outlots and tracts of land described in the first
             section of this ordinance.
             Declaring the admission as a part of the borough of certain lots, outlots and
96    9-2-   tracts of land situated in Pine Township and lying adjacent to the present
      1905   westerly boundary line of said borough; said section including lots and
             outlots and tracts of land described in the first section of this ordinance.
             Declaring the admission as a part of the borough of certain lots and outlots
125   10-7-  and tracts of land situated in Pine Township and lying adjacent to the present
      1908   eastern boundary line of said borough and further described in § 1 of this
             ordinance summarized here.
      4-6-   Declaring admission as a part of the borough certain lots and outlots and
148   1910   tracts of land situated in Pine Township and lying adjacent to the present
             northern boundary line of said borough.
151   6-7-   Declaring an addition to the borough of certain lots and outlots situated in
      1910   Pine Township adjacent to the northeast borough line.
203   10-4-  Declaring an addition to the borough of certain lots and outlots situated in
      1915   Pine Township, adjacent to the eastern borough line.
      4-7-   Declaring an addition to the borough of certain lots and outlots situated in
215   1917   Pine Township, adjacent to a portion of the southeastern borough line; and
             also adjacent to a portion of the northeastern boundary line.
217   6-1-   Declaring an addition to the borough of certain lots and outlots situated in
      1917   Pine Township.
      12-7-  Declaring an addition to the borough of certain lots and outlots situated in
220   1917   Pine Township, adjacent to the eastern borough line, known as Lawrence
             Addition.
227   10-4-  Declaring an addition to the borough of certain lots and outlots situated in
      1918   Pine Township, adjacent to the southern boundary line of said borough.
248   9-4-   Declaring an addition to the borough of certain lots and outlots situated in
      1920   Pine Township, and adjacent to the western boundary line of said borough.
      5-7-   Declaring an addition to the borough, Lincoln Terrace Addition, of certain
268   1921   lots and outlots situated in Pine Township, adjacent to the eastern boundary
             line of said borough.
      6-3-   Declaring an addition to the borough of certain lots and outlots situated in
269   1921   Pine Township, and adjacent to the southern boundary of said borough, Clelland
             Addition.
312   3-19-  Authorizing and annexing certain adjacent lands to the southern boundary line
      1923   of the borough and providing for the proper procedure for said annexation.
315   4-7-   Authorizing and annexing adjacent lands to the southern boundary line of the
      1923   borough, and providing for the proper procedure for said annexation.
Res.  1-7-   Untitled resolution annexing to the borough the 210-acre tract adjacent to the
1/7/  1924   borough on its western boundary and known as Community Park.
1924
      10-6-  Authorizing the admission of certain lots and outlots adjacent to western
365   1926   boundary line of the borough, and lying north of West Main Street in said
             borough.
399   2-6-   Annexing certain herein described property to the borough.
      1931
402   10-2-  Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This relates to
      1931   territory northwest of Main Street.)
404   5-6-   Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This relates to
      1932   lots southwest of S. Center Street.)
405   8-5-   Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This relates to
      1932   lots southwest of W. Main Street.)
407   7-1-   Annexing certain herein described property to the borough.
      1932
408   9-2-   Annexing certain herein described property to the borough.
      1932
417-A 12-1-  Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This relates to 3
      1933   lots, on Oak Street, Barr Avenue and E. Pine Street.)
439   8-24-  Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This relates to
      1934   the Hughes Addition.)
444   3-1-   Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This refers to
      1935   Memorial Park.)
461   12-4-  Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This relates to
      1936   territory south of Lincoln Avenue and east of Overhill Street.)
468   8-6-   Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This refers to the
      1937   Black Addition, between Garden Avenue and Tidball Avenue.)
501   5-5-   Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This refers to the
      1941   Clelland land, east of Garden Avenue.)
504   7-11-  Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This refers to the
      1941   Puntereri property located east of Forest Drive.)
508   8-4-   Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This refers to the
      1941   Miller Addition, on Garden and Tidball Avenues.)
513   1-8-   Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This refers to
      1943   0.213 acres southwest of the borough addition of 9-4-1903.)
      9-7-   Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This relates to
527   1945   the Wayne Bashline property, east of E. Washington Boulevard, north of Lincoln
             Avenue.)
535   7-9-   Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This refers to the
      1946   Book-Davis Land Company, First Addition.)
560   5-7-   Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This refers to
      1948   Young Addition.)
577   2-21-  Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This is Shelley
      1949   Addition.)
580   3-21-  Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This refers to
      1949   Shawgo Addition.)
584   4-11-  Annexing certain herein described property to the borough.
      1949
597   11-7-  Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This refers to
      1949   First McCandless Addition, on Overhill Street.)
598   12-5-  Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This refers to
      1949   McBride Addition, on Cranberry Road.)
607   7-17-  Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This refers to
      1950   Second Shelley Addition, south of Bryant Avenue.)
612   8-21-  Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This refers to the
      1950   8-1950 Addition.)
613   9-18-  Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This refers to the
      1950   1950 West Main Street Addition.)
623   6-18-  Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This refers to
      1951   1951 Book-Davis Company Addition.)
633   10-1-  Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This refers to
      1951   1951 DePonceau Addition.)
657   6-16-  Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This refers to the
      1952   1952 McCandless Addition.)
      1-16-  Approving a petition for annexing to the borough a section of Pine Township,
707   1956   Mercer County, Pennsylvania, adjacent to and west of said borough, and
             hereinafter fully
described, and providing that the said territory shall be annexed to and become a part of
the said borough if the annexation thereof shall be approved by the Court of Quarter
Sessions of said county. (This refers to the Second Shawgo Addition.)
708   1-16-  Annexing certain herein described property to the borough. (This refers to the
      1956   Third Shelley Addition.)
             Approving the petition for annexing to the borough a section of Pine Township,
             Mercer County, Pennsylvania, adjacent to and east of said borough, and
      8-20-  hereinafter fully described, and providing that the said territory shall be
721   1956   annexed to and become a part of the said borough if the annexation thereof
             shall be approved by the Court of Quarter Sessions of said county. (This
             relates to a tract on the north side of Lincoln Avenue, approximately 100 by
             200 feet in area, known as the John Elder Addition.)
             Approving the petition for annexing to the borough a section of Pine Township,
             Mercer County, Pennsylvania, adjacent to and north of said borough, and
723   11-19- hereinafter fully described, and providing that the said territory shall be
      1956   annexed to and become a part of the said borough if the annexation thereof
             shall be approved by the Court of Quarter Sessions of said county. (This
             refers to the Klingensmith Addition, on Forest Drive.)
             Approving the petition for annexing to the borough a section of Pine Township,
             Mercer County, Pennsylvania, adjacent to and south of said borough and
725   1-21-  hereinafter fully described and providing that the said territory shall be
      1957   annexed to and become a part of the said borough if the annexation thereof
             shall be approved by the Court of Quarter Sessions of said county. (This
             refers to the Fourth Shelley Addition.)
             Approving the petition for annexing to the borough a section of Pine Township,
             Mercer County, Pennsylvania, adjacent to and west of said borough and
             hereinafter fully described, and providing that the said territory shall be
729   3-18-  annexed to and become a part of the said borough if the annexation thereof
      1957   shall be approved by the Court of Quarter Sessions of said county. (This
             relates to land of the Industrial Development Corporation bounded in part by
             the right-of-way of the Bessemer and Lake Erie Railroad and in part by land of
             the George Junior Republic.)
             Approving the petition for annexing to the borough a section of Pine Township,
             Mercer County, Pennsylvania, adjacent to and north of said borough and
741   10-21- hereinafter fully described and providing that the said territory shall be
      1957   annexed to and become a part of the said borough if the annexation thereof
             shall be approved by the Court of Quarter Sessions of said county. (This
             relates to land located northeast of the annexation made by Ord. 721.)
             Approving the petition for annexing to the borough a section of Pine Township,
             Mercer County, Pennsylvania, adjacent to and west of said borough and
752   6-23-  hereinafter fully described and providing that the said territory shall be
      1958   annexed to and become a part of the said borough if the annexation thereof
             shall be approved by the Court of Quarter Sessions of said county. (This
             relates to territory lying north of West Main Street.)
             Approving the petition for annexing to the borough a section of Pine Township,
             Mercer County, Pennsylvania, adjacent to and west of said borough and
814   11-27- hereinafter fully described, and providing that the said territory shall be
      1961   annexed to and become a part of the said borough if the annexation thereof
             shall be approved by the Court of Quarter Sessions of said county. (This
             refers to a 2.07-acre tract adjacent to territory annexed by Ord. 752.)
             Approving the petition for annexing to the borough a section of Pine Township,
             Mercer County, Pennsylvania, adjacent to said borough and hereinafter fully
817   5-21-  described, and providing that the said territory shall be annexed to and
      1962   become a part of the said borough if the annexation thereof shall be approved
             by the Court of Quarter Sessions of said county. (This refers to a 0.94-acre
             tract adjacent to the territory annexed by Ord. 577.)
             Approving the petition for annexing to the borough a section of Pine Township,
      6-15-  Mercer County, Pennsylvania, adjacent to and east of said borough and
828   1964   hereinafter fully described, and providing that the said territory shall be
             annexed to and become a part of the said borough if the annexation thereof
             shall be approved by the Court of Quarter Sessions of said county.
      11-16- Approving the petition for annexing to the borough a section of Pine Township,
833   1964   Mercer County, Pennsylvania, adjacent to and west of said borough and
             hereinafter fully described, and providing that the said territory shall be
annexed to and become thereupon a part of the said borough if the annexation thereof shall
be approved by the Court of Quarter Sessions of said County.
             Approving the petition for annexing to the borough a section of Pine Township,
      1-25-  Mercer County, Pennsylvania, adjacent to and east of said borough and
837   1965   hereinafter fully described, and providing that the said territory shall be
             annexed to and become thereupon a apart of the said borough if the annexation
             thereof shall be approved by the Court of Quarter Sessions of said county.
             Approving the petition for annexing to the borough a section of Pine Township,
      4-15-  Mercer County, Pennsylvania, adjacent to and east of said borough, and
870   1968   hereinafter fully described, and providing that the said territory shall be
             annexed to and become thereupon a part of the said borough if the annexation
             thereof shall be approved by the Court of Quarter Sessions of said county.
             Approving the petition for annexing to the borough a section of Pine Township,
      4-22-  Mercer County, Pennsylvania, adjacent to and east of said borough and
871   1968   hereinafter fully described, and providing that the said territory shall be
             annexed to and become thereupon a part of the said borough if the annexation
             thereof shall be approved by the Court of Quarter Sessions of said county.
             Approving the petition for annexing to the borough a section of Pine Township,
      7-15-  Mercer County, Pennsylvania, adjacent to and south of said borough and
874   1968   hereinafter fully described and providing that the said territory shall be
             annexed to and become thereupon a part of the said borough if the annexation
             thereof shall be approved by the Court of Quarter Sessions of said county.
             Approving the petition for annexing to the borough a section of Pine Township,
      11-18- Mercer County, Pennsylvania, adjacent to and west of said borough and
879   1968   hereinafter fully described, and providing that the said territory shall be
             annexed to and become thereupon a part of the said borough if the annexation
             thereof shall be approved by the Court of Quarter Sessions of said county.
      10-24- Approving the petition for annexing to the borough a section of Pine Township,
889   1969   Mercer County, Pennsylvania, adjacent to and west of said borough and
             hereinafter fully described, and providing that the said territory shall be
annexed to and become a part of the said borough if the annexation thereof shall be
approved by the Court of Quarter Sessions of said county.
             Approving the petition for annexing to the borough a section of Pine Township,
      12-15- Mercer County, Pennsylvania, adjacent to and south of said borough and
891   1969   hereinafter fully described and providing that the said territory shall be
             annexed to and become a part of the said borough if the annexation thereof
             shall be approved by the Court of Quarter Sessions of said county.
918   7-19-  Annexing certain territory of Pine Township, Mercer County, Pennsylvania, to
      1971   the borough.
950   2-19-  Annexing certain territory of Pine Township, Mercer County, Pennsylvania, to
      1973   the borough.
 
 
TABLE III: BOND ISSUES AND LOANS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
41    12-23- For increasing the bonded indebtedness. (This authorized an election concerning
      1895   a $15,000 bond issue for sewer system construction.)
49    12-15- For increasing the bonded indebtedness. (This authorized an election concerning
      1897   a $15,000 bond issue for installation of a waterworks.)
67    1-14-  Untitled ordinance authorizing a $5,000 bond issue to redeem existing bonds
      1903   issued in 1897.
91    10-29- Authorizing a special election for $12,000 water bonds.
      1904
             Levying a tax for the purpose of paying the principal and interest of bonds
93    1-10-  authorized to be issued by the borough. (This authorized a $12,000 bond issue
      1905   for an additional power plant and water system extensions, authorized by
             election of 12-6-1904.)
95    1-21-  To authorize the issuance of $6,000 funding bonds of the borough, and to
      1905   provide for the levy of taxes to pay the same.
             Authorizing and directing the issue and sale of bonds of the borough, in the
119   12-4-  amount of $20,000 for the erection and construction of a municipal electric
      1907   light plant and power plant and providing for the redemption of the same and
             payment of interest thereon. (For amendment to this ordinance, see Ord. 120.)
120   4-8-   Amendment to electric light ordinance making it free of state tax. (For
      1908   ordinance amended, see Ord. 119.)
             Directing that an election be held to ascertain the desire of the electors of
      7-7-   the borough relative to a bond issue for the funding of a certain portion of
138   1909   the borough indebtedness and the making of certain public improvements. (The
             proposed issue was for $25,000 for funding and $10,000 for public
             improvements.)
             Directing that an election be held to ascertain the desire of the electors of
157   9-7-   the borough relative to the bond issue for refunding a certain portion of the
      1910   borough indebtedness and the building of a sewer outlet. (The issue was for
             $45,000.)
             Authorizing and directing the issue of coupon bonds for the borough in the
      12-7-  amount of $45,000, $30,000 of which amount is for the purpose of funding the
161   1910   outstanding indebtedness of the borough, and $15,000 for the purpose of
             building and constructing a sewer outlet known as Main Interceptor. (For
             amendment to this ordinance, see Ord. 162.)
             Amending Section 2 of an ordinance authorizing and directing the issue and sale
             of coupon bonds in the borough, in the amount of $45,000, $30,000 of which
162   1-7-   amount is for the purpose of funding the outstanding indebtedness of the
      1911   borough, and $15,000 for the purpose of building and constructing a sewer
             outlet known as Main Interceptor, approved the 12-7-1910. (For ordinance
             amended, see Ord. 161.)
             Authorizing an increase of the bonded indebtedness of the borough, by a net
             increase not exceeding $25,000 or 0.01347709 of the assessed valuation of the
      7-6-   taxable property therein for the purpose of the establishment of a water
194   1914   system, including the erection of a standpipe, the drilling of wells, the
             laying of connecting mains, the installation of pumps, the buying of necessary
             supplies and the land necessary for the location of wells and plant and
             providing for an election to obtain the assent of the electors thereof.
             Amending an ordinance entitled “An Ordinance increasing the bonded indebtedness
             of the Borough of Grove City, Mercer County, Pennsylvania, for the purpose of
             providing funds for the establishing of a water system, including the erection
             of a standpipe, the drilling of wells, the laying of connecting mains, the
      1-9-   installation of pumps, the buying of necessary supplies, and land necessary for
198   1915   the location of the wells and plant, by an issue of bonds of the amount of
             $25,000 with semiannual coupons attached, fixing the form, number, date,
             interest, maturity and receipt thereof, authorizing the sale of such bonds,
             levying a tax for the payment of the same, and for the repealing of conflicting
             ordinances.” (This ordinance actually reenacted and revised an ordinance passed
             12-4-1914, and approved 12-5-1914, and never recorded.)
             Increasing the bonded indebtedness of the borough, for the purpose of funding
             part of the floating debt of said borough by an issue of bonds to the amount of
      10-6-  $25,000 with semiannual coupons attached, fixing the form, number, date,
210   1916   interest, maturity and receipt thereof; authorizing sale thereof, assuming
             payment of state tax thereon; levying a tax for the payment thereof, making
             appropriation pending the collection of said tax and rescinding conflicting
             ordinances.
             Signifying and expressing the desire of the corporate authorities of the
             borough, to increase the indebtedness of said borough by the amount of $45,000
             for the purpose of the building and construction of an electric light plant and
245   11-8-  the buying and installing of one 500 KW steam turbine with necessary apparatus
      1919   and the fixtures and machinery necessary for the operation of the same in said
             borough, and proclaiming and authorizing a public election on the question of
             increasing the indebtedness of said borough in and by said amount and for said
             purpose and giving notice of said election as provided by law.
             Signifying and expressing the desire of the corporate authorities of the
             borough, to increase with the assent of the electors of said borough, to be
             obtained at a public election, the indebtedness of said borough by the amount
254   4-12-  of $40,000 or so much thereof as may be necessary to be used for the purpose of
      1921   repaving, resurfacing or repairing portions of certain streets in said borough;
             and for the purpose of extending and building the main sewer outlet towards a
             definite point, the proposed borough sewage disposal plant, and for the purpose
             of paying or refunding existing floating indebtedness of said borough.
             Authorizing an election on the question of increasing the indebtedness of the
             borough by the amount of $40,000, or as much as may be necessary to be used for
      4-28-  the purpose of repaving, resurfacing or repairing portions of certain streets
259   1921   in said borough, and for the purpose of extending and building the main sewer
             outlet, toward a definite point: the proposed sewage disposal plant, and for
             the purpose of paying or refunding existing floating indebtedness of the said
             borough, and giving notice thereof.
      9-10-  Increasing the bonded indebtedness of the borough, for the purpose of raising
275   1921   funds, in the sum of $40,000, or so much thereof as may be necessary, with
             which to pay the
cost and expenses of repaving, resurfacing or repairing portions of certain streets in said
borough, and extending and building the main sewer outlet, toward a definite point, the
proposed borough sewage disposal plant, and paying off or refunding certain floating
indebtedness of said borough by an issue of bonds in the sum of $40,000, with semiannual
coupons attached, fixing the form, number, date, interest, maturity and the like, thereof,
authorizing the advertising of the sale of said bonds, and their sale, levying a tax for the
payment of the same and repealing conflicting ordinances. (For amendment to this ordinance,
see Ord. 284.)
      12-3-  To amend Section 2 of an ordinance approved 9-10-1921, entitled “An Ordinance
284   1921   increasing the bonded indebtedness of the borough, for the purpose of raising
             funds in the sum of $40,000.” (For ordinance amended, see Ord. 275.)
             Signifying and expressing the desire of the corporate authorities of the
             borough to increase with the assent of electors of said borough by the amount
      10-24- of $125,000 or so much thereof as may be necessary to be used for the purpose
310   1922   of purchasing or acquiring ground and erecting thereon a borough sewage
             disposal plant, and for funding the existing floating indebtedness of said
             borough incurred in grading, paving, curbing and otherwise improving streets or
             portions of streets in said borough.
             Authorizing an election on the question of increasing the indebtedness of the
             borough by the amount of $125,000 or so much thereof as may be necessary to be
      1-9-   used for the purpose of purchasing or acquiring necessary ground and erecting
311   1923   thereon a borough sewage disposal plant; and for funding the existing floating
             indebtedness of said borough incurred in grading, paving, curbing and otherwise
             improving streets or portions of streets in said borough and giving notice
             thereof.
             Increasing the bonded indebtedness of the borough for the purpose of raising
             funds in the sum of $125,000, or so much thereof as may be necessary with which
             to pay the cost and expense of purchasing or acquiring necessary ground and
313   3-19-  erecting thereon a borough sewage disposal plant and for funding the existing
      1923   floating indebtedness of said borough incurred in grading, paving, curbing and
             otherwise improving of certain streets or portions of streets in said borough
             by an issue of bonds in the sum of $125,000 with semi-annual coupons attached,
             fixing the
form, number, date, interest, maturity and the like, thereof, authorizing the advertising of
the sale of said bonds and their sale, levying a tax for the payment of the same and
repealing conflicting ordinances. (For amendment to this ordinance, see Ord. 320.)
      6-1-   To amend Section V of an ordinance approved 3-19-1923, entitled “An ordinance
320   1923   increasing the bonded indebtedness of the borough for the purpose of raising
             funds in the sum of $125,000.” (For ordinance amended, see Ord. 313.)
             Expressing the desire of the corporate authorities of the borough to increase
             the bonded indebtedness of the said borough by the amount of $75,000 for the
      7-6-   purpose of buying an additional electric unit, and funding existing floating
363   1926   indebtedness of the Electric Light Department, providing for the holding of an
             election therefor and authorizing and directing the corporate authorities to
             make the necessary announcement of said election and to do all other acts and
             things incident thereto.
             Expressing the desire of the corporate authorities of the borough to increase
      7-1-   the indebtedness of said borough $40,000 for the purpose of building and
371   1927   constructing a water filtration and water softening plant to be used in
             connection with the municipal waterworks and submitting the same to the
             electors of said borough.
             Signifying and expressing the desire of the corporate authorities of the
             borough to increase the indebtedness of said borough by the amount of $100,000
             in ratification and validation of an indebtedness heretofore incurred by the
459   8-7-   corporate authorities of said borough for valid municipal purposes, providing
      1936   for the holding of a public election to obtain the assent of the electors of
             said borough to such increase of indebtedness and directing the corporate
             authorities to give proper notice thereof and do all other acts and things
             incident thereto.
             Increasing the bonded indebtedness of the borough by an issue of coupon bonds
      11-23- to the amount of $100,000 dollars, fixing the form, number, date, interest and
460   1936   maturity thereof; levying a tax for payment of principal, interest and state
             tax; authorizing execution, sale and delivery thereof and making an
             appropriation. (For the purpose of the bond issue, see Ord. 459.)
Res.  4-11-  Untitled resolution authorizing a loan from Grove City National Bank of
4/11/ 1938   $25,000, for paying balance due to Cooper-Bessemer Corporation for the diesel
1938         engine installed in the Electric Plant.
Res.  7-16-  Untitled resolution authorizing a loan of $15,000 from Grove City National Bank
7/16/ 1940   for constructing a grade crossing at Center Street.
1940
             Expressing the desire of the corporate authorities of the borough to increase
             the indebtedness of said borough by the amount of $100,000 for the purpose of
531   4-5-   purchasing new generating equipment to be used for increasing the present
      1946   generating capacity of the Municipal Electric Plant now owned and operated by
             said borough and authorizing a public election and the giving of notice
             thereof. (See also Ord. 534.)
             Increasing the bonded indebtedness of the borough by an issue of coupon bonds
             in the amount of $100,000 for the purpose of purchasing new generating
534   6-18-  equipment to be used for increasing the present capacity of the Municipal
      1946   Electric Plant now owned and operated by said borough; fixing the form, number,
             date, interest and state tax; authorizing execution, sale and delivery thereof;
             and making an appropriation. (See also Ord. 531.)
             Increasing the bonded indebtedness of the borough by an issue of coupon bonds
             in the amount of $50,000, for the purpose of constructing an addition to the
      4-9-   Municipal Electric Plant and the equipping of the same and for the purchase of
559   1948   certain land for use as a site for a municipal building; fixing the form,
             number, date, interest and maturity thereof; levying a tax for payment of debt
             service charges; authorizing execution, sale and delivery thereof; and making
             an appropriation.
             Increasing the bonded indebtedness of the borough by an issue of coupon bonds
             in the amount of $60,000 for the purpose of expanding, enlarging and otherwise
601   3-6-   permanently improving the sewage disposal plant of the borough; fixing the
      1950   form, number, date, interest and maturity thereof; levying a tax for payment of
             debt service charges; authorizing execution, sale and delivery thereof; and
             making an appropriation.
686   5-16-  Increasing the bonded indebtedness of the borough by an issue of coupon bonds
      1955   in the amount of $100,000, for the
purpose of expanding, enlarging and otherwise permanently improving the sewage disposal
plant of the borough; fixing the form, number, date, interest and maturity thereof; levying
a tax for payment of debt service charges; authorizing execution, sale and delivery thereof;
and making an appropriation.
             Increasing the bonded indebtedness of the borough by an issue of coupon bonds
             in the amount of $75,000 for the purpose of purchasing switch gear and
740   8-19-  otherwise permanently improving the Municipal Electric Plant of the borough;
      1957   fixing the form, number, date, interest and maturity thereof; levying a tax for
             payment of debt service charges; authorizing execution, sale and delivery
             thereof; and making an appropriation.
             Authorizing the making of capital improvements to the borough-owned electric
             system; providing for the issuance of $250,000 Electric Revenue Bonds, Series
             A, of the borough for the payment of such capital improvements; pledging the
799   12-1-  revenues of the electric system for the payment of such bonds; providing for
      1959   the administration of bond proceeds and the disposition of the pledged
             revenues, the operation and maintenance of the electric system; and providing
             for the issuance of additional bonds. (The ordinance provided, in addition,
             conditions under which future additional bonds would be issued.)
             Increasing the indebtedness of the borough by the issue of a general obligation
             note in the amount of $244,000 for sundry purposes; fixing the form, number,
             date, interest, and maturity thereof; making a covenant for the payment of the
1013  11-5-  debt service (charges) on the note; providing for the filing of the required
      1974   document; providing for the appointment of a sinking fund depository for the
             note; and authorizing execution, sale and delivery thereof. (The purposes of
             the debt were for construction of a hangar-terminal building at the Airport and
             engineering costs at the sewage and water treatment plants.)
             Increasing the bonded indebtedness of the borough by an issue of general
             obligation bonds in the amount of $1,685,000 for the purposes of financing a
1056  7-19-  portion of the costs of constructing certain improvements to its existing
      1977   sewage treatment plant and the replacement of the Wolf Creek interceptor, and
             paying the costs of the bond issue; approving the consulting engineer’s cost
             estimate; fixing the form, number, date, interest rates and maturities
thereof; authorizing execution, sale and delivery thereof; pledging the repayment of said
bonds; and authorizing the filing for approval of said debt with the Pennsylvania Department
of Community Affairs and authorizing the payment of the required fee therefor.
             Authorizing the incurring of nonelectoral debt ... for the purpose of providing
1096  4-1-   funds for and toward the payment of the costs of the construction of the 1980
      1980   capital improvement projects ... in the amount of $1,675.11. (This refers to
             water treatment facility and police and fire station projects.)
             Increasing the indebtedness of the borough by the issuance of a general
1167  1-21-  obligation note in the amount of $300,000 for the purchase of certain
      1985   electrical equipment, improvements to the electric system, and including the
             Park Street Substation.
      9-25-  Increasing the indebtedness of the borough by the issuance of a general
1171  1985   obligation not in the amount of $300,000 for financing the construction of the
             new municipal building/library complex.
      1-19-  Authorizing the incurring of non-electoral debt for the purpose of providing
1189  1987   funds for the refunding of outstanding debt, in the aggregate principal amount
             of $1,655,000 for general obligation bonds.
1225  3-18-  Increasing the indebtedness by the issue of a guaranteed revenue note in the
      1991   amount of $523,866 for sundry purposes.
             Authorizing and directing issuance of a series of general obligation bonds;
1245  4-14-  Series A in the amount of $1,880,000 and Series B in the amount of $1,000,000
      1993   for the costs of the construction and installation of a transmission line and
             substation for the borough’s Electric Department.
1306  2-19-  Increasing the indebtedness by the issue of a general obligation note in the
      2001   amount of $89,850 for sundry purposes.
Res.  11-21- Approving the issuance of bonds by the Grove City Area Hospital Authority in
2005- 2005   connection with the refunding of the Authority’s Health Facility bond series of
26           1998 (Grove Manor Project).
1342  2-20-  Increasing the indebtedness by the issue of a general obligation note in the
      2006   amount of $150,000 for sundry purposes.
1346  12-18- Increasing the indebtedness by the issue of a general obligation note in the
      2006   amount of $385,000 for sundry purposes.
      1-19-  Authorizing the incurring of non-electoral debt by the issuance of general
1381  2009   obligation bonds, in the aggregate principal amount of $12,190,000; covenanting
             to pay, and pledging unlimited taxing power for the payment of, the bonds.
1386  5-18-  Increasing the indebtedness of the borough by the issue of a general obligation
      2009   note in the amount of $1,267,000 for sundry purposes.
1392  3-15-  Increasing the indebtedness of the borough by the issue of a general obligation
      2010   note in the amount of $150,000 for sundry purposes.
             Authorizing the incurring of non-electoral debt by the issuance of general
1412  7-2-   obligation notes, series of 2012 in an aggregate principal amount not to
      2012   $5,800,000; covenanting to pay, and pledging available taxing power for the
             payment of, the notes.
             Authorizing the incurring of non-electoral debt by the issuance of general
             obligation bonds, in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $12,065,000;
             covenanting to pay, an pledging unlimited taxing power for the payment of the
      5-3-   bonds; authorizing the establishing of a sinking fund and appointing a sinking
1446  2017   fund depository; fixing form, maximum interest rates, maturity, redemption and
             other provisions for payment; authorizing acceptance of a proposal for the
             purchase of bonds; authorizing filing of required documents with the Department
             of Community and Economic Development; ratifying and directing certain actions
             of officers.
             Authorizing the incurring of non-electoral debt by the issuance of general
             obligation bonds, in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $7,000,000;
             covenanting to pay, an pledging unlimited taxing power for the payment of the
      11- -  bonds; authorizing the establishing of a sinking fund and appointing a sinking
1448  2017   fund depository; fixing form, maximum interest rates, maturity, redemption and
             other provisions for payment; authorizing acceptance of a proposal for the
             purchase of bonds; authorizing filing of required documents with the Department
             of Community and Economic Development; ratifying and directing certain actions
             of officers.
             Increasing the indebtedness of the Borough of Grove City, Mercer County,
             Pennsylvania, by the issue of a guaranteed revenue note in the maximum
             principal amount of $10,980,200 for purposes of the expansion and
             rehabilitation of the Grove City Borough wastewater treatment plant; fixing the
1453  11-19- form, dates, interest, and maturity thereof; making a covenant for the payment
      2018   of the debt service on the note; providing for the filing of the required
             documentation with the department of community and economic development to
             incur and exclude additional debt of the governmental unit; providing for the
             appointment of a sinking fund depository for the note; providing for the
             authorized signatories and authorizing execution, sale and delivery thereof.
             Authorizing the incurring of nonelectoral debt by the issuance of general
             obligation bonds, in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $2,000,000;
             covenanting to pay, and pledging unlimited taxing power of the local government
             unit for the payment of, the bonds; authorizing the establishment of a sinking
      2-18-  fund and appointing a sinking fund depository; fixing the form, maximum
1460  2019   interest rates, maturity dates, redemption and other provisions for the payment
             thereof; authorizing the acceptance of a proposal for the purchase of the
             bonds; authorizing a filing of required documents with the Department of
             Community and Economic Development; ratifying and directing certain actions of
             officers; and making certain other covenants and provisions in respect of the
             bonds.
             Authorizing the incurring of nonelectoral debt by the issuance of general
             obligation bonds, in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $14,000,000;
             covenanting to pay, and pledging unlimited taxing power of the local government
             for the payment of the bonds; authorizing the establishment of a sinking fund
1471  5-18-  and appointing a sinking fund depository; fixing the form, maximum interest
      2020   rates, maturity dates, redemption and other provisions for the payment thereof;
             authorizing the acceptance of a proposal for the purchase of the bonds;
             authorizing a filing of required documents with the Department of Community and
             Economic Development; ratifying and directing certain actions of officers; and
             making certain other covenants and provisions in respect of the bonds.
             Authorizing the incurring of nonelectoral debt by the issuance of general
             obligation bonds, in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $8,000,000;
             covenanting to pay, and pledging unlimited taxing power of the local government
             for the payment of the bonds; authorizing the establishment of a sinking fund
1486  9-19-  and appointing a sinking fund depository; fixing the form, maximum interest
      2022   rates, maturity dates, redemption and other provisions for the payment thereof;
             authorizing the acceptance of a proposal for the purchase of the bonds;
             authorizing a filing of required documents with the Department of Community and
             Economic Development; ratifying and directing certain actions of officers; and
             making certain other covenants and provisions in respect of the bonds.
             Authorizing the incurring of nonelectoral debt by the issuance of general
             obligation bonds, in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $7,000,000;
             covenanting to pay, and pledging unlimited taxing power of the local government
             unit for the payment of, the bonds; authorizing the establishment of a sinking
      1-16-  fund and appointing a sinking fund depository; fixing the form, maximum
1498  2024   interest rates, maturity dates, redemption and other provisions for the payment
             thereof; authorizing the acceptance of a proposal for the purchase of the
             bonds; authorizing a filing of required documents with the Department of
             Community and Economic Development; ratifying and directing certain actions of
             officers; and making certain other covenants and provisions in respect of the
             bonds.
            
 
 
TABLE IV: BRIDGES
 
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
             Providing for the paying of certain items connected with the construction of
             a new county bridge across Wolf Creek at Chestnut Street in the borough; and
386   6-9-   authorizing officers of the borough to enter into a certain agreement with
      1929   the County Commissioners of Mercer County. (The agreement provided that the
             borough pay all damages, for construction and maintenance of sidewalks, for
             all fills, and for retaining wall at east and west ends.)
Res.  7-1-   Untitled resolution authorizing a contract with Mercer County under which the
7/1/  1950   borough is to pay for repairs to the sidewalks only on the Lincoln Avenue
1950         Bridge over Wolf Creek.
Res.  2-16-  Agreement with county to jointly maintain the roadway on the approaches to
1987- 1987   Mercer County Bridge No. 3116 in the borough.
1
Res.  2-16-  Agreement with county to jointly maintain the roadway on the approaches to
1987- 1987   Mercer County Bridge No. 3104 in the borough.
2
Res.  3-19-  Recommendation to Mercer County Commissioners to name the Chestnut Street
2007- 2007   Bridge in the borough the “Staff Sergeant Shawn A. Graham Veterans Memorial
6            Bridge”.
 
 
TABLE V: FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.                            Date   Description
                                         Passed
25                                       10-11- Franchise granted to J.P. Barr and W.J. Blakeley for the purpose of laying
1980 Code, Ch. 10, Part 2, § 51— 55   1886   down and maintaining pipe for the conveyance or circulation of natural or
                                                other gas; borough to be furnished with gas for 6 street lamps.
117                                      10-2-  Permitting a railroad track on the south side of Erie Avenue; Pittsburg,
1980 Code, Ch. 10, Part 3, § 61         1907   Bessemer and Lake Erie Railroad Company.
294                                      4-21-  Franchise to Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania.
1980 Code, Ch. 10, Part 4, §§ 71—78  1922
                                                Consent is hereby granted to the Pennsylvania Power Company, its successors
                                                and assigns, to extend its facilities to the Cooper-Bessemer Corporation, its
                                                successors and assigns, and to introduce and supply electric current thereto,
                                                and for such purpose to erect, maintain, alter, inspect and repair lines of
797;                                     6-22-  poles and other structures, with wires and appliances thereon, over Mill
1980 Code, Ch. 10, Part 1B, § 31        1959   Street, Center Street and Broad Street, at the Bessemer and Lake Erie
                                                Railroad crossings within the borough; providing Pennsylvania Power Company
                                                shall not furnish electric current to any other person within the borough
                                                from facilities erected pursuant to this ordinance, without the further
                                                express consent of the borough for a period of 10 years.
                                                Consent is hereby granted to the Pennsylvania Power Company, its successors
                                                or assigns, to extend its electric transmission line over Harvard Street at
                                                the Bessemer and Lake Erie Railroad crossing and from the Bessemer and Lake
                                                Erie Railroad crossing at Madison Street in the borough south on Madison
                                                Street to the intersection of Madison Street and East Main Street and thence
                                                west along East Main Street to a private drive known as Campbell’s Lane and
829;                                     6-15-  to erect, maintain, alter, inspect and repair lines of poles and other
1980 Code, Ch. 10, Part 1B, §§ 34—37 1964   structures, with wires and appliances thereon; providing, however, that
                                                Pennsylvania Power Company, its successors or assigns are not authorized, by
                                                virtue of this ordinance, to furnish any person, firm or corporation within
                                                the borough without the express consent of the borough; joint use of pole
                                                line facilities on a portion of Madison Street; consent as to lines over Mill
                                                Street, Center Street and Broad Street at the Bessemer and Lake Erie Railroad
                                                crossing for a period of 10 years.
                                                Consent is hereby granted to the Pennsylvania Power Company, its successors
                                                and assigns, to construct, erect, operate, maintain, alter, repair, replace
860;                                     4-25-  and remove, poles, structures, facilities, wires, cables, conduits, and other
1980 Code, Ch. 10, Part 1A, § 1         1967   appliances and appurtenances, on, under, over and along the public streets,
                                                lanes, alleys, highways, and public places in the borough, necessary and
                                                convenient for the transmission and distribution of electric current in and
                                                through said borough, for light, heat and power until 4-24-1997.
                                                Granting to the Pennsylvania Power Company, its successors and assigns, for a
                                                period of 30 years, the right to construct, operate, maintain and finally
Res. 6/19/1967;                          6-19-  remove a substation, to be known as the Grove City Substation, on borough
1980 Code, Ch. 10, Part 1A, § 4         1967   property immediately adjacent to the present borough electric generating
                                                plant located on Park Avenue in the borough, said Substation to occupy an
                                                area approximately 100 feet by 95 feet, as shown on Pennsylvania Power
                                                Company Drawing No. 3693-E, dated 5-31-1967.
1206                                     4-17-  Granting a franchise to Armstrong Utilities, Inc. for a cable television
1980 Code, Ch. 10, Part 5, §§ 91—107 1989   system for a period of 15 years.
1276                                     8-18-  Amending Ord. 1206; service standards.
1980 Code, Ch. 10, Part 5, § 97         1997
                                         3-18-  Approving the form and authorizing the execution of a power sales contract
1461                                     2019   with American Municipal Power, Inc. and taking other actions in connection
                                                therewith regarding participation in the AMP R.I.C.E. Peaking Project.
                                               
                                               
 
 
TABLE VI: GOVERNMENTAL AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Res.  6-7-   Appealing a judgment against the borough. (H. G. Buchanan and Lillian Buchanan
6/7/  1924   v. borough.)
1924
Res.  8-24-  Untitled resolution providing for a referendum on 11-6-1934, on the question of
8/24/ 1934   legalizing sale of liquor in the borough.
1934
Res.  9-16-  Untitled resolution consenting to payment of $8,500 in the damage suit, Henry
9/16/ 1938   Shenk Co. v. borough.
1938
Res.  9-16-  Untitled resolution authorizing the preparation and signing of an affidavit of
9/16/ 1938   defense in damage suit, Henry Shenk Co. v. borough.
1938
Res.  8-1-   Untitled resolution agreeing to join Mercer County Association of Boroughs and
8/1/  1947   to pay dues.
1947
Res.         Untitled resolution requesting the Supervisors of Pine Township to close the
10/   10-29- Township Road No. 828 by erecting barricades and posting notices, but to
29/   1956   refrain from vacating it.
1956
Res.  3-4-   Untitled resolution concurring in a resolution of Mercer County Commissioners,
3/4/  1957   dated 1-29-1957, designating Mercer County Development Corporation as the
1957         industrial development agency, county-wide.
Res.  5-21-  Untitled resolution concurring in the resolution of the County Commissioners
5/21/ 1962   designating Mercer County Tourist Agency, No. 43, as the tourist promotion
1962         agency, county-wide.
Res.
12/   12-17- Untitled resolution accepting the Civil Defense Plan of Mercer County, dated
17/   1962   January, 1962, as the official operations plan for the borough.
1962
Res.  9-16-  Untitled resolution providing for a referendum on 11-5-1963, or in May, 1964,
9/16/ 1963   on establishing an annual tax of 1-1/2 mills on the dollar, on all taxable
1963         property, to maintain the community library.
Res.  1-25-  Untitled resolution approving the recertification of the workable program for
1/25/ 1965   community improvement for the Housing and Home Finance Agency.
1965
Res.  1-25-  Untitled resolution authorizing the filing of an application, in re: site and
1/25/ 1965   development proposal for Project 70 land acquisition assistance grant.
1965
Res.  4-19-  Untitled resolution authorizing a contract with the Housing and Home Finance
4/19/ 1965   Agency for a grant to acquire open-space land.
1965
Res.  4-19-  Untitled resolution authorizing the filing of an application, in re: grant
4/19/ 1965   request contract, for Project 70 Land Acquisition Assistance Grant.
1965
Res.  7-7-   Adopting the Emergency Operational Plan and Civil Defense Program Paper of the
7/7/  1965   County of Mercer.
1965
Res.  7-19-  Untitled resolution requesting the Soil Conservation Service to proceed with
7/19/ 1965   planning in regard to flood control protection and utilization of the Wolf
1965         Creek Watershed.
Res.  9-20-  Untitled resolution requesting the Soil Conservation Service to assist the
9/20/ 1965   local sponsors in development of plan for Wolf Creek Watershed.
1965
Res.  1-17-  Untitled resolution authorizing control over those areas within the Broad
1/17/ 1966   Street East Project area designated for parking and loading.
1966
Res.  4-4-   Untitled resolution accepting the advance planning agreement issued by the
4/4/  1966   Federal Aviation Agency for development of Grove City Airport.
1966
Res.  5-20-  Untitled resolution approving the recertification of the Workable Program for
5/20/ 1968   Community Improvement for the Housing and Home Finance Agency.
1968
Res.  7-15-  Requesting the Department of Health of the Commonwealth to take over the
7/15/ 1968   administration of the health laws within the borough.
1968
Res.  1-20-  Untitled resolution authorizing application to the State Department of
1/20/ 1969   Community Affairs for funds for the Erie Street Armory Building Project.
1969
Res.  1-20-  Untitled resolution authorizing the court to redivide the borough into 5 wards
1/20/ 1969   instead of 4.
1969
Res.  1-27-  Untitled resolution authorizing a petition to the court to return the borough
1/27/ 1969   to 4 wards.
1969
Res.  6-16-
6/16/ 1969   Untitled resolution authorizing the court to abolish all wards in the borough.
1969
Res.  6-15-  Untitled resolution agreeing to participate in purchase of a base station for
6/15/ 1970   the Fire Department.
1970
Res.         Approving the transfer by the Redevelopment Authority of the County of Mercer
9/8/  9-8-   to the Wesex Corporation of land in Redevelopment Project No. Penna. R-241, the
1970  1970   Grove City Broad Street East Project. (This refers to Parcel No. 1 on
             Disposition Map S. D. 5, dated 8-25-1970.)
             Approving the transfer by the Redevelopment Authority of the County of Mercer
Res.         to the abutters of land in Redevelopment Project No. Penna. R-241, the Grove
10/   10-19- City Broad Street East Project. (This refers to Parcels C-2, C-3, D-1, D-2, D-
19/   1970   3, D-4 on Disposition Map S. D. 5, dated 8-25-1970, to William and Rose McKay,
1970         Clifford G. Harshaw, Jr., John and Amelia Manos, Mary M. Carruthers Estate, and
             Lawrence Miles.)
Res.  3-15-  Untitled resolution whereby the borough entered into a police agreement as to
3/15/ 1971   salary rates, fringe benefits and work rules and procedures for the period 12-
1971         1-1971 to 12-31-1973.
Res.  4-19-  Untitled resolution whereby the borough entered into an hourly wage rate
4/19/ 1971   employee agreement as to rates, fringe benefits and work rules and procedures
1971         for the period from 1-1-1971 to 12-31-1973.
Res.  6-28-  On the planning requirements of Act 241, Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management
6/28/ 1971   Act.
1971
Res.  9-7-   Grants to park and recreation lands. (This refers to funds for acquisition/
9/7/  1971   development of Parcel No. 1129 located at 321 Erie Street and Parcel No. 1130
1971         located at 325 Erie Street.)
Res.
10/   10-18- Untitled resolution authorizing participation in purchase contracts of the
18/   1971   Department of Property and Supplies Cooperative Purchasing Division.
1971
Res.  1-17-  Untitled resolution adopting the Municipal Employers Insurance Trust Plan as a
1/17/ 1972   method of obtaining insurance and medical benefits for employees.
1972
Res.         Untitled resolution declaring the intent to enter into a Regional Council of
1/17/ 1-17-  Governments with Harrisville Borough and Pine Township, and authorizing Chester
1972  1972   Engineers, Inc., to prepare a report on the interception and treatment of
             sanitary sewage from this group.
Res.  3-1-   Wolf Creek-Slippery Rock Creek Regional Council of Governments interlocal
3/1/  1972   agreement.
1972
Res.  3-7-   Approving application of the provisions of § 23 of the United States Housing
3/7/  1972   Act of 1937, as amended, to the locality.
1972
Res.  4-28-  Untitled resolution agreeing to an area-wide study on sewage transportation and
4/28/ 1972   treatment with Harrisville Borough and Wolf Creek, Liberty, and Pine Townships,
1972         and authorizing Chester Engineers, Inc., to prepare a report.
Res.  5-15-  Untitled resolution authorizing the payment of $7,500 in damage suit, Foster
5/15/ 1972   Grading Co. v. borough.
1972
Res.  6-6-   Untitled resolution approving the filing of an application for assistance grant
6/6/  1972   for professional consultant to prepare a comprehensive park and recreation
1972         study.
Res.
10/   10-17- Untitled resolution agreeing to participate in the Commonwealth Law Enforcement
17/   1972   Assistance Network (CLEAN).
1972
Res.
11/   11-21- Untitled resolution agreeing to reimburse the county for 50 of the cost of 5
21/   1972   mobile units for the County Power Network.
1972
947   1-15-  Untitled ordinance authorizing the borough to become a member of the Mercer
      1973   County Regional Planning Commission.
Res.  1-9-   Authorizing the filing of application with the Office of Grants Coordination of
1/9/  1974   the Environmental Protection Agency for assistance for wastewater facilities
1974         under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
Res.  6-17-
6/17/ 1974   Adopting the Mercer County Solid Waste Management Plan.
1974
Res.  7-14-  Untitled resolution authorizing the Beaver Aviation Service to take possession
7/14/ 1974   of the Grove City Airport on 7-15-1974, in accordance with the agreement of 3-
1974         22-1974, but subject to completion of airport construction.
             Authorizing the execution of a mutual assistance pact agreement with the City
             of Sharon, City of Farrell and Township of Pymatuning; providing for the
             participation in the Shenango Valley Narcotics Unit; providing for the
             assignment of one police officer by the borough on a full-time basis to the
             unit; providing for the creation of a governing Board of Directors to govern
      7-29-  the unit and have full responsibility for establishing and overseeing policy,
1010  1974   procedure and financial affairs of the unit; providing for the participation of
             the other municipalities in the unit on a financial and manpower basis;
             providing for the grant of full police powers to all members of the Shenango
             Valley Narcotics Unit within the borough; providing for the assets, including
             capital equipment and supplies to be assigned to the unit by participating
             municipalities; providing for funding of the unit in the future and for
             termination, dissolution and distribution of equipment owned by the unit.
Res.  8-19-  Untitled resolution authorizing the filing of an application for a state
8/19/ 1974   redevelopment assistance grant by the Redevelopment Authority of the County of
1974         Mercer, and approving the Civic Center Urban Renewal Area for redevelopment.
Res.  8-19-  Authorizing and directing certain borough officials for and on behalf of the
8/19/ 1974   borough to enter into a cooperation contract with the Redevelopment Authority
1974         of the County of Mercer and setting forth the terms of the contract.
Res.  1-20-  Approving the borough’s 1975 application for community development funds under
1/20/ 1975   the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.
1975
Res.  5-5-   Approving the borough’s 1975 application for discretionary funds under the
5/5/  1975   Community Development Block Grant Program from the Housing and Community
1975         Development Act of 1974.
Res.  1-12-  Approving the borough’s 1976 application for community development funds under
1976- 1976   the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.
2
             Authorizing the execution of a mutual assistance pact agreement by and between
             the borough and other municipalities within the County of Mercer, Commonwealth
             of Pennsylvania, providing for the participation in the Mercer County Narcotics
             Unit by the borough; providing for the creation of a governing Board of
             Directors to govern the Unit and have full responsibilities for establishing
             and overseeing policy, procedure, and financial affairs of the Unit; providing
             for the assignment of police officers by certain municipalities in the Unit on
1038  3-15-  a financial and manpower basis; providing for the grant of full police powers
      1976   to all members of the Mercer County Narcotics Unit within all municipalities
             participating in the Unit; providing for the assets, including capital
             equipment and supplies, of the presently existing Mercer County Narcotics Unit
             to be assigned to the Unit by the present participating municipalities;
             providing for the payment by the borough of $1,000, for operating expenses of
             the Unit during the balance of the 1975—76 fiscal year of the Unit; providing
             for funding of the Unit in the future and for termination, dissolution and
             distribution of the equipment owned by the Unit.
Res.  4-19-  Approving the borough’s 1976 application for discretionary funds under the
1976- 1976   Community Development Block Grant Program from the Housing and Community
3            Development Act of 1974.
Res.  5-18-  Untitled resolution authorizing the execution of a contract with the
1976- 1976   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation for reimbursement to the borough of
4            the costs of installation of regulatory and warning signs.
Res.  12-20- Approving the amended redevelopment proposal and the redevelopment area plan
1976- 1976   and the feasibility of relocation for the Grove City Civic Center Project. R-
7            662.
Res.  2-21-  Approving the borough’s 1977 application for community development funds under
1977- 1977   the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.
1
             Approving the transfer by the Redevelopment Authority of the County of Mercer
Res.  4-18-  to Neshannock Corporation and/or its assigns, College View Associates, a
1977- 1977   proposed limited partnership with John C. Jordan as a general partner, of a
4            parcel of land in the Redevelopment Project No. R-662, the Grove City Civic
             Center Project.
Res.  5-16-  Untitled resolution authorizing the filing of an application for grant funds
1977- 1977   for the development of a comprehensive recreation plan with the Department of
5            Community Affairs.
             Providing for joint purchasing through the Wolf Creek-Slippery Rock Creek
1067  12-21- Council of Governments. (Participating municipalities were the Boroughs of
      1977   Grove City and Harrisville and the Townships of Pine, Wolf Creek, Liberty and
             Mercer, or any of them.)
             Authorizing the execution of a mutual assistance pact agreement by and between
             the borough and other municipalities within the County of Mercer, Commonwealth
             of Pennsylvania, providing for the participation in the Mercer County Narcotics
             Unit by the borough; providing for the creation of a governing Board of
             Directors to govern the Unit and have full responsibilities for establishing
             and overseeing policy, procedure and financial affairs of the Unit; providing
             for the assignment of police officers by certain municipalities on a full-time
             basis to the Unit; providing for participation by municipalities in the Unit on
             a financial and manpower basis; providing for the grant of full police powers
             to all members of the Mercer County Narcotics Unit within all municipalities
      12-21- participating in the Unit; providing for the assets, including capital
1068  1977   equipment and supplies, of the presently existing Mercer County Narcotics Unit
             to be assigned to the Unit by the present participating municipalities;
             providing for the payment by the borough of $300 for operating expenses of the
             Unit during the balance of the 1978 fiscal year of the Unit; providing for
             funding of the Unit in the future and for termination, dissolution and
             distribution of the equipment owned by the Unit. (Participating in the Mercer
             County Unit, previously known as Shenango Valley Narcotics Unit, are the City
             of Sharon, the Boroughs of Grove City, Sharpsville, West Middlesex, Clark,
             Mercer, Stoneboro, Freedonia and Jamestown, and the Townships of Pymatuning,
             South Pymatuning, Shenango, Jefferson, Lackawannock, Jackson, Coolspring,
             Perry, Salem, Otter Creek, Liberty and Sandy Creek, also the County
             Commissioners. See also Ords. 1010 and 1038.)
Res.  1-16-  Approving the borough’s 1978 application for community development funds under
1978- 1978   the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.
4
             Authorizing the execution of a mutual assistance pact agreement by and between
             the borough and other municipalities within the County of Mercer, Commonwealth
             of Pennsylvania, providing for the participation in the Mercer County Narcotics
             Unit by the borough; providing for the creation of a governing Board of
             Directors to govern the unit and have full responsibilities for establishing
             and overseeing policy, procedure and financial affairs of the unit; providing
             for the assignment of police officers by certain municipalities on a full-time
      8-23-  basis to the unit; providing for participation by municipalities in the unit on
1110  1980   a financial and manpower basis; providing for the grant of full police powers
             to all members of the Mercer County Narcotics Unit within all municipalities
             participating in the unit; providing for the assets, including capital
             equipment and supplies, of the presently existing Mercer County Narcotics Unit
             to be assigned to the unit by the presently participating municipalities,
             providing for the payment by the borough of $1,000 for operating expenses of
             the unit during the calendar year 1980 of the unit; providing for funding of
             the unit in the future and for termination, dissolution and distribution of the
             equipment owned by the unit.
      12-28- Authorizing the Council President to execute the joint purchasing articles of
1132  1981   agreement of the Mercer County Regional Council of Governments and adopting the
             articles of agreement of the Mercer County Regional Council of Governments.
1137  6-21-  Agreeing to participate in the Group Workers’ Compensation Program sponsored by
      1982   the Mercer County Council of Governments.
Res.  6-21-  Granting the Grove City Recreation Council the responsibility and authority to
1982- 1982   coordinate the activities concerning the use of borough-owned ball diamonds.
5
Res.  6-21-  Authorizing the primary signatories in the execution of checks for the purpose
1982- 1982   of liquidating borough obligations and executing payroll checks, and
6            designating signatories in the absence of the primary signatories.
             Authorizing the revocation of the mutual assistance pact agreement by and
             between the municipality of the borough and other municipalities within the
      8-16-  county, and providing for the dissolution and termination of the Mercer County
1141  1982   Narcotics Unit and allocating and distribution of all remaining capital
             equipment, supplies and other assets of the presently existing Mercer County
             Narcotics Unit among the present member municipalities upon termination and
             dissolution of the unit.
Res.  11-15- Appointing Fargo, McGill, Power and Power auditor of the financial records of
1982- 1982   the borough.
8
Res.  1-17-
1983- 1983   Setting forth the policy of the borough for the payment of bills.
1
Res.  1-17-  Approving the International City Management Association Deferred-Compensation
1983- 1983   Plan for the Borough Manager, Electric Department Superintendent and full-time
3            sworn police officers.
Res.  1-17-  Agreeing to repay a loan from the Pennsylvania Emergency Management Agency.
1983- 1983   (This refers to a $50,000 loan to help finance the purchase of a 1981 American
4            LaFrance ladder truck.)
Res.  6-6-   Increasing the allowance to $0.22 per mile for use of privately-owned vehicle
1983- 1983   for official borough purposes.
5
Res.  7-18-  Authorizing participation in a group worker’s compensation program as sponsored
1983- 1983   by the Mercer County Regional Council of Governments.
6
Res.  9-19-
1983- 1983   Adopting amendments to the ICMA Deferred Compensation Plan.
8
Res.  11-21- Appointing McGill, Power, Bell and Co. to audit the financial records of the
1983- 1983   borough for the 1983 fiscal year.
9
      12-19- Authorizing the borough to join with other local government units as a settlor
1153  1983   of the Pennsylvania Local Government Investment Trust for the purpose of
             purchasing shares of the trust.
Res.  4-16-  ICMA Deferred Compensation Plan approved for full-time salaried employees and
1984- 1984   full-time sworn police officers.
4
             Resolution of the borough authorizing 25 of fuel tax payment to be redirected
Res.  6-18-  from a required use for construction, reconstruction or widening of roads and
1984- 1984   streets, bridges and drainage structures to an elective use for the maintenance
6            and repair of existing roads, streets, bridges, drainage structures and the
             lining of streams incidental to the drainage of highways.
Res.  12-10- Authorizing the borough to participate in a cooperative purchasing program with
1984- 1984   the Commonwealth.
10
Res.  12-17- Authorizing the submission of letters of intent for the borough’s participation
1984- 1984   in the Recreation Improvement and Rehabilitation Act Program.
12
             Authorizing 25 of fuel tax payment to be redirected from a required use for
Res.  12-17- construction, reconstruction or widening of roads and streets, bridges and
1984- 1984   drainage structures to an elective use for the maintenance and repair of
13           existing roads, streets, bridges, drainage structures and the lining of streams
             incidental to the drainage of highways.
Res.  2-11-  Authorizing participation in Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant
1985- 1985   Program, and appointing Council President as Chief Executive Officer of
1            Program.
Res.  5-30-  Toward the development of a Recreation Center, the borough agreed to comply
1985- 1985   with the requirements of the RCRA program and the DCA.
7
Res.  5-30-
1985- 1985   Approval and application revised Community Development Block Grant Program.
8
Res.  8-19-  Designating the Borough Manager of the borough as the certifying officer in
1985- 1985   accordance with the provisions of The National Environmental Policy Act.
12
Res.  9-16-  Appointing the Borough Manager as the “Chief Administrative Officer” in
1985- 1985   accordance with the provisions of Act 205 of 1984.
13
Res.  10-7-  Authorizing and approving the distribution and deposit of the state allocation
1985- 1985   of municipal pension funds under Act 205 of 1984.
14
             Authorizing 25 of fuel tax payment to be redirected from a required use for
Res.  12-16- construction, reconstruction or widening of roads and streets, bridges and
1985- 1985   drainage structures to an elective use for the maintenance and repair of
15           existing roads, streets, bridges, drainage structures and the lining of streams
             incidental to the drainage of highways.
Res.  12-16- Authorizing certain officers of the borough to purchase, sell, assign and
1985- 1985   transfer all United States Treasury securities held in account and to execute
16           any and all instruments necessary, proper or desirable for the purposes.
Res.         Designating Penn-Northwest Development Corporation as the industrial
1986- 2-3-   development agency for the County of Mercer, replacing Mercer County
1     1986   Development Corporation in all matters relevant to and for all purposes of the
             Industrial Development Assistance Law.
1176  2-17-  Amending the Articles of Agreement between the borough and Pine Township dated
      1986   8-2-1976.
1177  2-17-  Ratifying and confirming the wastewater treatment service agreement dated 3-18-
      1986   1985 between the borough and the Borough of Harrisville.
      2-17-  Entering into a utility relocation agreement with the Commonwealth relative to
1178  1986   relocation work being performed on Legislative Route 73, Section 03M in the
             borough.
      3-17-  Entering into a reimbursement agreement with the Commonwealth, Department of
1179  1986   Transportation relative to supplemental work to curbs and drainage system
             located along West Main Street.
Res.  3-17-
1986- 1986   Approving an amendment to the Municipal Employers Trust Agreement.
3
      3-17-  Entering into a traffic signal maintenance and traffic control agreement with
1180  1986   the Commonwealth relative to the maintenance and operation of a traffic control
             signal at the intersection of L.R. 73 and Highland Avenue in the borough.
Res.  5-19-  Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the
1986- 1986   Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant Program.
4
Res.  6-2-   Authorizing the President of Council, the Mayor, and the Borough Secretary to
1986- 1986   execute an agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation for the
6            traffic signal on L.R. 73 (T.R. 58, Main Street) and Highland Avenue.
Res.  6-2-   Authorizing the President of Council, the Mayor, and the Borough Secretary to
1986- 1986   execute a traffic signal maintenance and traffic control agreement with the
7            Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
      6-2-   Entering into a traffic signal maintenance and traffic control agreement with
1182  1986   the Commonwealth relative to the maintenance and operation of traffic signals
             in the borough.
1183  6-16-  Entering into a reimbursement agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of
      1986   Transportation for certain improvements to L.R. 73, East Main Street.
Res.         Authorizing the President of Council, the Mayor and the Borough Secretary to
1986- 6-16-  execute a reimbursement agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of
8     1986   Transportation for certain improvements to L.R. 73, Section 02M, East Main
             Street.
Res.  6-16-  Approving a cooperation agreement between the borough, hereinafter referred to
1986- 1986   as the borough, and the Mercer County Regional Planning Commission, hereinafter
9            referred to as MCRPC.
Res.  7-7-   Fair housing: the borough will assist all persons who feel they have been
1986- 1986   discriminated against in seeking equity under federal and state laws.
13
             Authorizing 25 of fuel tax payment to be redirected from a required use for
Res.  12-8-  construction, reconstruction or widening the roads and streets, bridges and
1986- 1986   drainage structures to an elective use for the maintenance and repair of
16           existing roads, streets, bridges, drainage structures and the lining of streams
             incidental to the drainage of highways.
1185  11-3-  Authorizing the appropriate officials of the borough to execute a fire service
      1986   agreement with Pine Township.
             Authorizing the borough to enter into a mutual aid agreement with the City of
             Sharon, City of Hermitage, City of Farrell, this borough, Borough of
             Greenville, Borough of Sharpsville, Township of Shenango, Township of
1190  2-16-  Pymatuning, Township of South Pymatuning, Township of Jefferson, Borough of
      1987   Weatland, Borough of West Middlesex, Borough of Clark and Township of Pine, for
             the providing of fire and rescue services, and with their respective Municipal
             Fire Departments and/or the Volunteer Fire Departments operating within their
             municipal jurisdiction.
Res.  8-17-  Adopting a Minority Business Enterprise Program (MBE/WBE) as approved by the
1987- 1987   U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration.
5
Res.  12-21-
1987- 1987   Record retention and disposition procedures adopted.
7
Res.  2-15-  The Federal Aviation Administration has approved funding in the amount of
1988- 1988   $30,000 assistance to the borough for certain improvements at the Grove City
4            Airport, FAA Project No. 3-42-0035-02-87.
Res.  6-6-   Authoring the Borough Council to request the sum of $1,364,500 from the
1988- 1988   Pennsylvania Infrastructure Investment Authority for helping to update and
9            reconstruct the wastewater system.
Res.  7-18-  Authorizing certain borough officials to establish and maintain an account with
1988- 1988   Pennbancorp Brokerage Services Company for the purchasing, selling, trading or
10           transferring of securities.
Res.  9-26-  Authorizing borough officials to execute all relevant plan documents for
1988- 1988   participation in the Pennsylvania State Association of Boroughs (PSAB)
12           Municipal Retirement Trust.
Res.  10-17- Requesting the members of the General Assembly to pass on or before 11-30-1988,
1988- 1988   legislation addressing certain objectives of comprehensive local tax reform as
14           expressed by the Pennsylvania Local Government Conference.
Res.  11-21- Authorizing the proper borough officials to execute the required certificate of
1988- 1988   resolution and business investment account agreement for the establishment of a
15           business investment account.
1201  11-21- Adoption of the PSAB Master Plan and trust and joinder agreement which shall
      1988   constitute the retirement plan known as the Grove City police pension plan.
Res.  2-13-  The borough approves the Department of Transportation, Bureau of Aviation
1989- 1989   Agreement and commits $28,085 for improvements to the Grove City Airport, FAA
1            Project No. 3-42-0035-03-88.
Res.  3-20-  Requesting the Mercer County Board of Elections to place on the 5-16-1989
1989- 1989   municipal primarily ballot the question of the issuance of licenses to conduct
2            small games of chance in the borough.
Res.  4-17-  Authorizing the Borough Council to maintain a money purchase plan with The
1989- 1989   Travelers Company for the benefit of non-uniformed municipal employees.
3
Res.  5-30-  Authorizing the Borough Council to adopt a minority business enterprise plan
1989- 1989   for the borough.
4
Res.  5-30-  Adopting a Residential Antidisplacement and Relocation Assistance Plan under §
1989- 1989   104(d) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 as amended.
5
             Anti-discrimination statement under the Federal Fair Housing Law which does not
Res.  5-30-  allow discrimination in the sale, rental, leasing, financing of housing or land
1989- 1989   to be used for construction of housing, or in the provision of brokerage
6            services because of race, color, religion, ancestry, sex, national origin,
             handicap or disability.
Res.  5-30-  Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the FY
1989- 1989   1989 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant Program.
7
Res.  7-17-  Authorizing and approving the withdrawal of all or any part of the employee
1989- 1989   mandatory contribution to the Money Purchase Pension Plan upon request of a
8            participating employee.
Res.  8-7-   Borough officials are authorized and directed to execute all contract documents
1989- 1989   for the 1989 Community Development Block Grant Program.
10
Res.  10-2-  Request for proposal to solicit cost estimates for providing a curbside
1989- 1989   recycling program which is to be effective by September, 1990 as required by
11           Act 101.
Res.  11-20- Amending the borough Employee Supplemental Pension Plan to provide for
1989- 1989   retirement benefits at age 60.
13
Res.  1-2-   Naming primary signatories and substitutes for the purpose of signing checks
1990- 1990   for the purposes of liquidating borough obligations and payroll.
1
Res.  1-15-  Borough Council assumes responsibility to annually budget and repay the loan on
1990- 1990   behalf of the Borough Volunteer Fire Department.
2
Res.  2-19-  Approving the Department of Transportation, Bureau of Aviation Agreement and
1990- 1990   commits $27,000 as the borough’s local share of the project.
3
Res.  3-19-  Approving the Department of Transportation, Bureau of Aviation Agreement and
1990- 1990   committing $55,000 as the borough’s local share of the project.
4
Res.  4-5-   Approving an affirmative action plan for the borough, § 3 - U.S. Housing and
1990- 1990   Urban Development Act of 1968 Employment Opportunities for business and low-
5            income persons.
Res.  9-17-  Supporting the efforts of citizens groups such as the Citizens Environmental
1990- 1990   Association of Slippery Rock Area, and opposing the development of a toxic
7            waste disposal site in the Mercer/Lawrence County Area.
Res.  11-19- Supporting the efforts of the County Commissioners to replace the East Pine
1990- 1990   Street Bridge at the earliest possible date.
8
Res.  1-21-  Approving the Department of Transportation, Bureau of Aviation Agreement and
1991- 1991   commits $34,377 as the borough’s local share of the project.
1
1224  2-18-  Adopting a municipal task force agreement and a municipal police cooperative
      1991   agreement to enforce narcotics and illegal drug laws.
Res.  3-18-  Requesting the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation to provide 50
1991- 1991   reimbursement to the borough for all costs incurred in relocating water
2            facilities affected by Route 58.
Res.  5-20-  Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the FY
1991- 1991   1991 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant program.
3
Res.  5-20-  Authorizing the execution of all necessary documents for the agreement with the
1991- 1991   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
4
Res.  5-20-  Authorizing the proper officials to prepare an engineering services agreement
1991- 1991   with BTI Consultants for the projects to be undertaken with funds from the
5            Bond-Financed Airport program.
Res.  6-17-
1991- 1991   Authorizing the execution all loan closing documents.
6
Res.  9-16-
1991- 1991   Approving amendment No. 1 to grant agreement no. 9-A-88-29.
8
Res.  11-18- Filing an application to the Recreational Improvement and Rehabilitation Act
1991- 1991   (RIRA) program technical assistance grant project resolution.
9
Res.  11-18- Executing all documents necessary for the agreement with the Pennsylvania
1991- 1991   Department of Transportation.
10
Res.  11-11- Authorizing the proper officials to prepare an engineering services agreement
1991- 1991   with BTI Consultants for the projects to be undertaken with funds from the
11           Bond-Financed Airport program.
Res.  12-16- Approving the Department of Transportation, Bureau of Aviation Agreement and
1991- 1991   commits $14,790 as the borough’s local share of the project.
12
Res.  12-16- Authorizing the construction of a basketball court on a minimum of 50 of the
1991- 1991   space during the 1992 construction season and that funds for the construction
13           of the basketball facility are approved.
Res.  12-16- Authorizing the execution of the consent for right of entry agreement to
1991- 1991   conduct project activity consisting of core boring to determine the presence of
14           mine voids and other subsurface conditions within the project area.
Res.  1-6-   Authorizing certain officials to be the primary signatories in the execution of
1992- 1992   checks for the purpose of liquidating borough obligations.
1
Res.  5-18-  Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the FY
1992- 1992   1992 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant Program.
2
Res.  6-15-  Approving the Department of Transportation, Bureau of Aviation Agreement and
1992- 1992   authorizing the President of Council to execute said agreement and the
3            Secretary to attest the same.
Res.  7-13-  Congratulating Mayor Bubeck on his achievements and expressing deep
1992- 1992   appreciation and gratitude for his leadership and commitment to the borough.
4
Res.  9-21-  Authorizing and supporting the participation of community leaders and
1992- 1992   interested citizens in the Intercommunity Strategic Planning Program.
5
Res.  10-19- Requesting permission to participate in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
1992- 1992   Cooperative Purchasing Program.
6
Res.  2-15-  Approving the Department of Transportation, Bureau of Aviation, funding
1993- 1993   assistance in the amount of $4,750 for the rehabilitation of runway lighting
1            (MIRL) at the Grove City Airport.
Res.  2-15-  Approving the Department of Transportation, Bureau of Aviation, funding
1993- 1993   assistance in the amount of $166,500 for the construction of a fuel facility at
2            the Grove City Airport.
Res.  2-15-  Approving the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, Bureau of Aviation,
1993- 1993   funding assistance in the amount of $25,000 for auto parking lot expansion at
3            the Grove City Airport.
Res.  5-10-  Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the FY
1993- 1993   1993 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant Program.
4
Res.  8-16-  Recognizing the 1993 Grove City Little League Junior Division Team for winning
1993- 1993   title never before won by a Grove City Little League Junior Division Team.
5
Res.  12-20- Recognizing Karl A. Bubeck for community service and expressing appreciation
1993- 1993   for his dedication, leadership and commitment to the borough.
8
Res.  12-20- Recognizing Richard R. Stevenson for community service and expressing
1993- 1993   appreciation for his dedication, leadership and commitment to the borough.
9
Res.         Appointing certain members of Council as primary signatories in the execution
1994- 1-3-   of checks for the purpose of liquidating borough obligations and authorizing
1     1994   the Vice President of Council or the Assistant Treasurer/Secretary to execute
             checks in the absence of the primary signatories.
Res.  1-17-  Establishing the borough will use the Master Site Development Plan as a guide
1994- 1994   to future recreation, park and open space development, and operations and
2            maintenance at Memorial Park and Hunter Farm.
Res.         Supporting Senate Bill 764 and encouraging Senator Spector, Senator Wofford and
1994- 3-2-   Congressmen Ridge to support passage of legislation which would increase the
3     1994   remuneration of election workers to $500 before Social Security taxes are
             withheld.
Res.  5-2-   The borough hereby adopts and agrees to support the objectives of the Mercer
1994- 1994   County Economic Development Business Plan as dated December, 1993 and as
4            prepared by the Pennsylvania Economy League.
Res.  5-2-   Authorizing the President of Borough Council to execute all necessary documents
1994- 1994   on behalf of the borough in regard to the Pennsylvania Community Development
5            Block Grant Program.
Res.  6-13-
1994- 1994   Authorizing the President of Borough Council to sign an agreement.
6
Res.  9-19-  Applying for a permit from the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation a
1994- 1994   permit to erect, operate and maintain traffic signals on West Main Street -
7            S.R. 0058 and Industrial Drive.
Res.  12-19- Authorizing the President of Council and the Borough Secretary to execute and
1994- 1994   attest reimbursement agreement No. 010A29 providing for the construction of the
10           Grove City Pedestrian/Bike Trail.
Res.  12-19- Authorizing the borough to apply to the Keystone Recreation, Park and
1994- 1994   Conservation Fund Community Grant Program for the purpose of developing
11           Memorial Park and Hunter Farm.
Res.  1-16-  Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the
1995- 1995   fiscal year 1995 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant Program.
1
Res.  3-20-  Designating Wodzianski and Smith, Inc., as the municipal engineers for the
1995- 1995   borough.
3
Res.  5-15-  Adopting a minority and women business enterprise plan as required by the
1995- 1995   Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant Program.
5
Res.         Eliminating the participant contributions to the police pension plan effective
1995- 7-17-  1-1-1994 and shall not be resumed until Borough Council shall adopt a
6     1995   resolution which requires reinstatement of such contributions or 1-1-1996,
             whichever shall first occur.
             Authorizing certain representatives of the borough to acquire federal surplus
Res.  7-17-  property from the Pennsylvania Federal Surplus Property Program and to be
1995- 1995   obligated to certifications and agreements of the transfer and donation of said
7            property and payment of all service charges imposed and/or any subsequent
             certifications and agreements required incident to said property donations.
Res.  12-18- Expressing sincere and deep appreciation to Richard A. Mackell for his
1995- 1995   dedication, leadership and commitment to the borough.
8
Res.  1-2-   Authorizing signatories for executing checks for the purpose of liquidating
1996- 1996   borough obligations and payroll checks.
1
Res.  1-16-
1996- 1996   Establishing a retirement plan for non-uniformed employees.
2
Res.         Agreeing to comply with the requirements of the Keystone Community Grant
1996- 1-15-  program and the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources for the
3     1996   purpose of obtaining a grant fund in the amount $75,000 to develop Memorial
             Park.
Res.  1-15-  Submitting an application for grant assistance from the FY 1996 Pennsylvania
1996- 1996   Community Development Block Grant program.
4
Res.  4-15-  Submitting an application for grant assistance from the FY 1996 Pennsylvania
1996- 1996   Competitive Community Development Block Grant program.
5
Res.  8-19-  Executing a Reimbursement Agreement No. 010A29 providing for the construction
1996- 1996   of the Grove City pedestrian/bike trail.
6
Res.  9-16-
1996- 1996   Establishing a Bicentennial account.
7
Res.         Agreeing to comply with the requirements of the Keystone Community Grant
1996- 11-18- program and the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources for the
8     1996   purpose of obtaining a grant fund in the amount $75,000 to develop Memorial
             Park.
1272  12-16- Adopting a municipal task force agreement and a municipal police cooperative
      1996   agreement to enforce narcotics and illegal drug laws.
Res.  12-16- Eliminating members’ contributions to the Police Pension Fund for the year
1996- 1996   1997.
9
Res.  1-20-
1997- 1997   Amending guidelines for the Housing Rehabilitation Program.
1
Res.  1-20-  Amending the police pension plan to permit the purchase of nonintervening
1997- 1997   military service credit up to a maximum of 5 years.
2
Res.  1-20-  Amending and restating the ICMA Retirement Corporation Deferred Compensation
1997- 1997   Plan and Trust, Employer No. 300776.
3
Res.  2-24-  Approving amendment number 2 (810489B) to the borough parking lot expansion
1997- 1997   agreement at Grove City Airport and authorizing the President of Council and
5            the Borough Secretary to execute and attest said amendment.
Res.  3-17-  Requesting and urging the General Assembly to restore and maintain full funding
1997- 1997   under the provisions of Act 339.
6
Res.  4-21-  Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the FY
1997- 1997   1997 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant Program.
7
Res.  5-19-  Approving the request of the Grove City Area Chamber of Commerce to display
1997- 1997   banners across state highways.
9
Res.  6-16-  Approving the request of the Grove City Area Chamber of Commerce to display
1997- 1997   banners across state highways.
10
Res.  7-21-  Approving the request of the Grove City Area United Way to display a banner
1997- 1997   across a state highway.
11
Res.  7-21-  Approving the request of the Grove City Community Library to display a banner
1997- 1997   across a state highway.
12
Res.         Endorsing the implementation of a Mercer County Federated Library System in
1997- 8-18-  accordance with that encouraged by the Pennsylvania Department of Education and
13    1997   urging the Mercer County Board of Commissioners to take the necessary steps to
             initiate and maintain a Mercer County Federated Library System.
Res.  8-18-  Approving the request of the Church of the Beloved Disciple to display a banner
1997- 1997   across a state highway.
14
Res.  9-15-  Approving the request of the Grove City Business and Professional Women to
1997- 1997   display a banner across a state highway.
15
Res.  9-16-  Approving the request of the Grove City Kiwanis Club to display a banner across
1997- 1997   a state highway.
16
Res.  9-15-  Approving the request of the Knights of Columbus to display banners across
1997- 1997   state highways.
17
Res.  9-15-  Approving the request of the First Church of God to display a banner across a
1997- 1997   state highway.
18
Res.  9-15-  Approving the request of the Grove City Area Chamber of Commerce to display
1997- 1997   banners across state highways.
19
Res.  11-18- Agreeing to comply with the requirements of the Keystone Acquisition and
1997- 1997   Development Grant program for the purpose of obtaining funds to implement the
22           borough Memorial Park development.
Res.  12-15- Approving the request of the United Community Hospital Volunteers to display a
1997- 1997   banner across a state highway.
23
Res.  12-15- Recognizing Thomas D. Shaffer, Jr., for his dedication, leadership and
1997- 1997   commitment to the borough.
25
Res.  12-15- Recognizing John E. Townley for his dedication, leadership and commitment to
1997- 1997   the borough.
26
             Authorizing David A. Blakley, President of Council; Terence W. Farren, Borough
             Manager/Treasurer; and Nancy S. Albright, Borough Secretary, to be the primary
             signatories in the execution of checks for the purpose of liquidating borough
             obligations. And further resolving Rick L. Russell, Vice President of Council;
Res.         Andrea L. Folkertsma, Assistant Treasurer; and Rhonda I. McClelland, Assistant
1998- 1-5-   Secretary to execute checks in the absence of the primary signatories.
1     1998   Authorizing Terence W. Farren, Borough Manager and Nancy S. Albright to be the
             primary signatories for the purpose of executing payroll checks; and, further
             resolving, David A. Blakley, President of Council; Rick L. Russell, Vice
             President of Council; Andrea L. Folkertsma, Assistant Treasurer; and Rhonda I.
             McClelland, Assistant Secretary to execute payroll checks in the absence of the
             primary signatories.
Res.  2-16-
1998- 1998   Approving and adopting an emergency operations plan for the borough.
2
Res.  2-16-  Resolving to decline to become an electric supplier to electric customers not
1998- 1998   presently served who are located outside the municipal boundaries of the
3            borough.
Res.  2-16-  Approving the request of the Grove City Bicentennial Committee to display
1998- 1998   banners across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
4            Transportation requirements.
Res.  2-16-  Resolving David A. Blakely, as President of Borough Council, and Marvin T.
1998- 1998   Baker, as Mayor of the borough, are hereby authorized to execute the electric
5            service agreement on behalf of the borough.
Res.  3-16-  Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the FY
1998- 1998   1998 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant Program.
6
      4-20-  Resolving and adopting that pursuant to the provisions of Act 600, the borough
1283  1998   police pension plan is hereby amended to permit the purchase of non-intervening
             military service credit up to a maximum of 5 years.
Res.  5-18-  Approving the request of the Grove City Strawberry Days Committee to display
1998- 1998   banners across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
7            Transportation requirements.
Res.  5-18-  Approving the request of the Grove City Community Library to display banners
1998- 1998   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
8            Transportation requirements.
Res.  6-15-  Approving the request of the Grove City Chamber of Commerce to display banners
1998- 1998   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
9            Transportation requirements.
Res.  6-15-  Approving the request of the Grove City Area United Way to display banners
1998- 1998   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
10           Transportation requirements.
Res.  7-20-
1998- 1998   Amending retirement plan for non-uniformed employees of the borough.
11
Res.         Approving participation in a project involving the Authority’s issuance of
1998- 8-17-  Grove City Area Hospital Authority, Health Facilities Revenue Bonds, Series of
12    1998   1998 (Grove Manor Project) (the “Bonds”) in a total approximate amount of
             $12,000,000.
Res.  8-17-  Approving the request of the Church of the Beloved Disciple to display banners
1998- 1998   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
13           Transportation requirements.
Res.  8-17-  Approving the request of the Knights of Columbus to display banners across a
1998- 1998   state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
14           requirements.
Res.  8-17-  Approving the request of the Church of God to display banners across a state
1998- 1998   highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
15           requirements.
Res.  9-21-  Approving the request of the Grove City Business and Professional Women to
1998- 1998   display banners across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania
16           Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  9-21-  Approving the request of the Grove City Area Chamber of Commerce to display
1998- 1998   banners across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
17           Transportation requirements.
Res.  9-21-  Approving the request of the Grove City Kiwanis Club to display banners across
1998- 1998   a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
18           requirements.
Res.         Agreeing to comply with the requirements of the Keystone Community Grant
1998- 9-21-  program and the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources for the
19    1998   purpose of obtaining a grant fund in the amount $150,000 to develop Memorial
             Park.
Res.  10-19- Approving the request of Grove City College to display banners across a state
1998- 1998   highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
20           requirements.
Res.  10-19- Approving the request of Grove City Area Chamber of Commerce to display banners
1998- 1998   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
21           Transportation requirements.
Res.  2-15-  Approving the displaying of banners by the Grove City Area Chamber of Commerce
1999- 1999   across state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
2            Transportation requirements.
Res.  3-15-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City College Lab School
1999- 1999   across state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
3            Transportation requirements.
Res.  3-15-  Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the
1999- 1999   fiscal year 1999 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant Program.
4
Res.  3-15-  Approving the displaying of banners by the Grove City Area Jaycees across state
1999- 1999   highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
5            requirements.
Res.  4-19-  Approving the displaying of banners by the Grove City Strawberry Days Committee
1999- 1999   across state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
6            Transportation requirements.
Res.  4-19-  Approving the displaying of banners by the Grove City Street Fair Committee
1999- 1999   across state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
7            Transportation requirements.
Res.  5-17-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Youth Soccer Association
1999- 1999   across state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
8            Transportation requirements.
Res.  7-19-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Area Community Library
1999- 1999   across state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
9            Transportation requirements.
Res.  8-16-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City EAA Chapter 161 across
1999- 1999   state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
13           requirements.
Res.  8-16-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Area United Way across
1999- 1999   state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
14           requirements.
Res.  8-16-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Church of the Beloved Disciple
1999- 1999   across state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
15           Transportation requirements.
1295  8-16-  Amending the borough police pension plan in regards to retirement and
      1999   retirement benefits.
Res.  9-20-  Approving the displaying of banners by the Special Events Committee across
1999- 1999   state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
16           requirements.
Res.  9-20-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Kiwanis Club across
1999- 1999   state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
17           requirements.
Res.  9-20-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Church of God across state highways
1999- 1999   in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
18
Res.  10-18- Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Area United Way across
1999- 1999   state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
19           requirements.
Res.  10-18- Approving the displaying of banners by the Grove City Area Chamber of Commerce
1999- 1999   across state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
20           Transportation requirements.
Res.  10-26- Approving an application for funding assistance from the Pennsylvania
1999- 1999   Recreational Trails Program.
22
Res.  11-15-
1999- 1999   Approving the transfer of funds to the Non-Uniform Employee Pension Fund.
23
Res.  12-20- Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Youth Soccer Association
1999- 1999   across state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
24           Transportation requirements.
Res.  12-20-
1999- 1999   Recognizing the service of David A. Blakely.
25
             Authorizing the President of Council, the Borough Manager/Treasurer and Borough
Res.  1-3-   Secretary as primary signatories in the execution of payroll checks and checks
2000- 2000   for the purpose of liquidating borough obligations and authorizing the Vice
1            President of Council and Assistant Treasurer to execute checks in the absence
             of primary signatories.
Res.         Establishing that the amount of participant contributions to the police pension
2000- 1-3-   plan shall be zero for the year 2000. The obligation to pay participant
2     2000   contributions to the plan in the amount specified therein shall resume
             effective 1-1-2001.
Res.  2-21-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Chamber of Commerce
2000- 2000   across state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
3            Transportation requirements.
Res.  3-20-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City College Lab School
2000- 2000   across state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
4            Transportation requirements.
Res.  3-20-  Submitting an application for grant assistance from the FY 2000 Pennsylvania
2000- 2000   Community Development Block Grant Program.
5
Res.  4-17-
2000- 2000   Transferring funds from the Electric Fund to the Water Revenue Fund.
6
Res.  5-15-  Requesting permission to participate in the Pennsylvania Department of General
2000- 2000   Services Cooperative Purchasing Program.
7
Res.  5-15-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Area Chamber of Commerce
2000- 2000   across state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
8            Transportation requirements.
Res.  5-15-
2000- 2000   Recognizing the service of Rhett I. Keffer.
9
Res.  5-15-  Executing a contract between the borough and the Pennsylvania Department of
2000- 2000   Conservation and Natural Resources.
10
Res.  6-19-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Youth Soccer Association
2000- 2000   across state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
11           Transportation requirements.
Res.  7-17-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Chamber of Commerce
2000- 2000   across state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
12           Transportation requirements.
Res.  7-17-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City United Way across state
2000- 2000   highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
13           requirements.
Res.  8-21-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Youth Soccer Association
2000- 2000   across state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
14           Transportation requirements.
Res.  8-21-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Beloved Disciple Church across
2000- 2000   state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
15           requirements.
Res.  8-21-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Special Events Committee across
2000- 2000   state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
16           requirements.
Res.  9-18-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Business and
2000- 2000   Professional Woman’s Club across state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania
17           Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  9-18-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Church of God across
2000- 2000   state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
18           requirements.
Res.  9-18-  Declaring the discrepancies in maintenance practices between townships and
2000- 2000   boroughs by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
19
Res.  10-16- Approving an agreement for the construction of phase II of the Hunter Farm
21-   2000   Trail.
2000
Res.  10-16- Approving the displaying of a banner by the Chamber of Commerce across state
2000- 2000   highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
22           requirements.
Res.  10-16- Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Kiwanis Club across
2000- 2000   state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
23           requirements.
Res.  10-16- Applying for a grant from the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources
2000- 2000   for rehabilitation of neighborhood playgrounds.
24
Res.  11-20-
2000- 2000   Transferring funds to the Non-Uniformed Employee Pension Fund.
25
Res.         Establishing that the amount of participant contributions to the police pension
2000- 11-20- plan shall be zero for the year 2001. The obligation to pay participant
26    2000   contributions to the plan in the amount specified therein shall resume
             effective 1-1-2002.
Res.  12-18- Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Kiwanis Club across
2000- 2000   state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
27           requirements.
Res.  12-18- Requesting approval of the Department of Transportation for the erection of
2000- 2000   certain traffic signals.
28
Res.  2-19-  Approving the displaying of banners by the Grove City Area Chamber of Commerce
2001- 2001   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
1            Transportation requirements.
Res.  3-5-   Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the FY
2001- 2001   2001 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant Program and approving the
2            Three-Year Community Development Plan contained in the FY 2001 application.
Res.  3-5-   Approving an agreement for the construction of Phase II of the Hunter Farm
2001- 2001   Trail.
3
Res.  3-19-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City College Lab School
2001- 2001   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
4            Transportation requirements.
Res.  4-16-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Youth Soccer Association
2001- 2001   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
5            Transportation requirements.
Res.  4-16-  Approving the displaying of a banner by Grove City Airport across a state
2001- 2001   highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
6            requirements.
Res.  5-21-  Applying for a permit to install and operate traffic signals on S.R. 0058 (West
2001- 2001   Main Street) and Breckenridge Street.
7
Res.  5-21-  Approving the displaying of a banner by Grove City Community Library across a
2001- 2001   state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
8            requirements.
Res.  6-18-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Special Events Committee
2001- 2001   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
9            Transportation requirements.
Res.  6-18-  Approving the Department of Transportation, Bureau of Aviation, funding
2001- 2001   assistance in the amount of $13,900 for certain airport improvements at the
10           Grove City Airport.
Res.  6-18-  Approving the Department of Transportation, Bureau of Aviation, funding
2001- 2001   assistance in the amount of $6,250 for certain airport improvements at the
11           Grove City Airport.
Res.  6-18-  Approving the Department of Transportation, Bureau of Aviation, funding
2001- 2001   assistance in the amount of $5,750 for certain airport improvements at the
12           Grove City Airport.
Res.  6-18-  Approving the displaying of banners by the Grove City Area Chamber of Commerce
2001- 2001   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
13           Transportation requirements.
Res.  6-18-  Supporting revitalization activities within the borough which will enhance the
2001- 2001   quality of life within the community and reserving decisions of financial
14           support for such activities.
Res.  7-16-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Experimental Aircraft Association
2001- 2001   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
15           Transportation requirements.
Res.  7-16-  Approving the displaying of a banner by Orchard Manor, Inc., across a state
2001- 2001   highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
16           requirements.
Res.  8-20-  Approving the displaying of a banner by Grove City Area United Way across a
2001- 2001   state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
17           requirements.
Res.  9-17-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Kiwanis Club across a
2001- 2001   state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
18           requirements.
Res.  9-17-  Approving the displaying of a banner by Beloved Disciple Church across a state
2001- 2001   highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
19           requirements.
Res.  9-17-  Approving the displaying of a banner by Grove City Church of God across a state
2001- 2001   highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
20           requirements.
Res.  9-17-  Setting the amount of participant contributions to the borough police pension
2001- 2001   plan at 0 of compensation effective 1-1-2002, continuing through and including
21           12-31-2002.
Res.  9-17-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Business and
2001- 2001   Professional Woman’s Club across a state highway in accordance with
22           Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  10-15- Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Kiwanis Club across a
2001- 2001   state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
23           requirements.
Res.  10-15- Approving the displaying of 2 banners by the Grove City Area Chamber of
2001- 2001   Commerce across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
24           Transportation requirements.
Res.  11-19- Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Youth Soccer Association
2001- 2001   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
25           Transportation requirements.
Res.  12-17-
2001- 2001   Recognizing the service of Rick L. Russell.
26
Res.  12-17-
2001- 2001   Recognizing the service of Lois A. Foust.
27
Res.  12-17-
2001- 2001   Recognizing the service of Jeffrey T. Morris.
28
Res.  11-19- Granting James Hoy and his agents the right to come upon certain lands owned by
2001- 2001   the borough adjacent to Grove City Airport to test the soil to determine
30           whether it would support the construction of a sports complex.
Res.         Authorizing Randy L. Riddle, Terence W. Farren and Janet L. Russell as primary
2002- 1-7-   signatories in the execution of payroll checks and checks for the purpose of
1     2002   liquidating borough obligations and authorizing George A. Pokrant and Andrea L.
             Folkertsma as signatories in the absence of a primary signatory.
Res.  1-7-
2002- 2002   Recognizing the service of Michael M. Cooney.
2
Res.  1-21-  Approving the displaying of banners by the Grove City Rotary Club across a
2002- 2002   state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
3            requirements.
Res.         Authorizing Randy L. Riddle, Terence W. Farren and Paris L. Weiland as primary
2002- 2-18-  signatories in the execution of payroll checks and checks for the purpose of
4     2002   liquidating borough obligations and authorizing George A. Pokrant and Andrea L.
             Folkertsma as signatories in the absence of a primary signatory.
Res.  2-18-  Approving the displaying of banners by the Grove City Area Chamber of Commerce
2002- 2002   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
5            Transportation requirements.
Res.  2-18-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City College Lab School
2002- 2002   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
6            Transportation requirements.
Res.  2-18-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City YMCA across a state
2002- 2002   highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
7            requirements.
Res.  3-18-  Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the FY
2002- 2002   2002 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant Program and approving the
8            three-year community development plan contained in the FY 2002 application.
Res.  3-18-  Approving the displaying of a banner by Grove City Airport across a state
2002- 2002   highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
9            requirements.
Res.  5-20-  Approving the displaying of banners by the Grove City Area Chamber of Commerce
2002- 2002   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
10           Transportation requirements.
Res.  5-20-  Approving the displaying of banners by the Grove City Area Chamber of Commerce
2002- 2002   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
11           Transportation requirements.
Res.  5-20-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Special Events Committee across a
2002- 2002   state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
12           requirements.
Res.  5-20-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Youth Soccer Association
2002- 2002   across state highways in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
13           Transportation requirements.
Res.  6-17-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Grove City YMCA across a state
2002- 2002   highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
15           requirements.
Res.  8-19-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Experimental Aircraft
2002- 2002   Association across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department
16           of Transportation requirements.
Res.  7-15-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by Grove City Revitalization, Inc.,
2002- 2002   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
17           Transportation requirements.
Res.  8-19-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by United Community Hospital across a
2002- 2002   state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
18           requirements.
Res.  8-19-  Approving the increase in monthly benefit payments to former employees as
2002- 2002   mandated by Act 64.
19
Res.  8-19-  Accepting a grant offer from the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation,
2002- 2002   Bureau of Aviation, and authorizing the President of Council and Borough
20           Secretary to execute the grant agreement.
Res.  8-19-  Accepting a grant offer from the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation,
2002- 2002   Bureau of Aviation, and authorizing the President of Council and Borough
21           Secretary to execute the grant agreement.
Res.  9-16-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Grove City Business and
2002- 2002   Professional Women across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania
22           Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  9-16-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Church of God across a state
2002- 2002   highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
23           requirements.
Res.  9-16-  Setting the amount of participant contributions to the police pension plan at 0
2002- 2002   of compensation effective 1-1-2003, continuing through and including 12-31-
24           2003.
Res.  9-16-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Church of the Beloved Disciple
2002- 2002   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
25           Transportation requirements.
Res.  9-16-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Grove City Heart Walk across a
2002- 2002   state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
26           requirements.
Res.  9-16-  Declaring October 2002 as “Planning Great Communities Month” in the borough and
2002- 2002   Mercer County.
27
Res.  9-16-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Grove City College across a
2002- 2002   state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
28           requirements.
Res.  9-16-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Grove City Area United Way
2002- 2002   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
29           Transportation requirements.
1313  10-21- Authorizing participation in the Pennsylvania PRIME Workers’ Compensation
      2002   Trust.
1314  10-21- Authorizing an intergovernmental cooperation agreement for multi-municipal
      2002   planning.
Res.  10-21- Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Grove City Area Chamber of
2002- 2002   Commerce across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
30           Transportation requirements.
1318  12-16- Continuing the borough police pension plan.
      2002
Res.  12-16- Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Grove City Youth Soccer
2002- 2002   Association across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department
31           of Transportation requirements.
Res.  1-20-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Grove City Area Chamber of
2003- 2003   Commerce across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
1            Transportation requirements.
Res.  3-17-  Approving fees charged by the Tax Collector for 3-year certifications for
2003- 2003   properties and duplicate tax bills for properties.
2
Res.  3-17-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Grove City Airport across a
2003- 2003   state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
3            requirements.
Res.  3-17-  Authorizing and directing the execution of a base load developmental cost
2003- 2003   sharing agreement by the borough with American Municipal Power-Ohio, Inc.
5
Res.  4-21-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the United Community Hospital across
2003- 2003   a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
6            requirements.
Res.  4-21-  Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the FY
2003- 2003   2003 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant Program.
7
Res.  5-19-  Approving, adopting and putting into immediate effect the emergency operations
2003- 2003   plan of the borough.
8
Res.  5-19-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Grove City Area Chamber of
2003- 2003   Commerce across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
9            Transportation requirements.
Res.  5-19-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Grove City Strawberry Days
2003- 2003   Committee across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
10           Transportation requirements.
Res.  5-19-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Grove City Special Events
2003- 2003   Committee across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
11           Transportation requirements.
Res.  5-19-  Authorizing the purchase of life insurance by the pension plan to prevent
2003- 2003   depletion of pension plan assets due to catastrophic cost.
12
Res.  6-16-  Authorizing grant execution and fund account for obstruction removal airport
2003- 2003   project.
13
Res.  6-16-  Authorizing grant execution and fund account for rehabilitate apron airport
2003- 2003   project.
14
Res.  6-16-  Authorizing grant execution and fund account for construct T-hangar T/Ws
2003- 2003   airport project.
15
Res.  6-16-  Authorizing grant execution and fund account for construct T-hangar airport
2003- 2003   project.
16
Res.  8-18-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the American Heart Association
2003- 2003   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
17           Transportation requirements.
Res.  8-18-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Grove City Area United Way
2003- 2003   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
18           Transportation requirements.
Res.  9-15-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Grove City EAA Chapter 161
2003- 2003   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
19           Transportation requirements.
Res.  9-15-  Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Grove City Area Chamber of
2003- 2003   Commerce across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
20           Transportation requirements.
Res.         Authorizing the Borough Manager to execute for and in behalf of the borough,
2003- 9-15-  all required forms and documents for the purpose of obtaining financial
21    2003   assistance under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency
             Assistance Act.
Res.  10-20- Setting the amount of participant contributions to the police pension plan at 0
2003- 2003   effective 1-1-2004, continuing through and including 12-31-2004.
22
Res.  10-20- Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Church of God across a state
2003- 2003   highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
23           requirements.
Res.  10-20- Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Church of the Beloved Disciple
2003- 2003   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
24           Transportation requirements.
Res.  11-17- Approving the displaying of a banner(s) by the Grove City Youth Soccer
2003- 2003   Association across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department
24A          of Transportation requirements.
Res.  12-15- Authorizing the submission of a request for the Pennsylvania Department of
2003- 2003   Transportation to provide reimbursement for relocation of sanitary sewer
26           facilities.
Res.  12-15- Authorizing the President of Council to sign an agreement with the Pennsylvania
2003- 2003   Department of Transportation for reimbursement of relocation expenses of
27           sanitary sewer facilities.
Res.  12-15- Authorizing the submission of a request for the Pennsylvania Department of
2003- 2003   Transportation to provide reimbursement for relocation of electric distribution
28           facilities.
Res.  12-15- Authorizing the President of Council to sign an agreement with the Pennsylvania
2003- 2003   Department of Transportation for reimbursement of relocation expenses of
29           electric distribution facilities.
Res.         Authorizing President of Council, Borough Manager/Treasurer and Borough
2004- 1-5-   Secretary to be primary signatories in the execution of payroll checks and for
1     2004   liquidating borough obligations; and for Vice President of Council and
             Assistant Treasurer to execute checks in the absence of a primary signatory.
Res.  2-16-  Approving the displaying of banners by the Grove City Area Chamber of Commerce
2004- 2004   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
3            Transportation requirements.
Res.  3-15-  Authorizing submission of an application for grant assistance from the FY 2004
2004- 2004   Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant Program.
4
Res.  3-15-  Authorizing filing of a proposal for funds with the Department of Community and
2004- 2004   Economic Development (DCED).
5
Res.  3-15-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Area United Way across a
2004- 2004   state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
6            requirements.
Res.  4-19-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the United Community Hospital across a
2004- 2004   state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
7            requirements.
Res.  5-17-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Youth Soccer Association
2004- 2004   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
8            Transportation requirements.
Res.  5-17-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Special Events Committee
2004- 2004   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
9            Transportation requirements.
Res.  5-17-  Approving the displaying of banners by the Grove City Strawberry Days Committee
2004- 2004   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
10           Transportation requirements.
Res.  5-17-  Approving a revision to the borough’s FFY 2001 Community Development Block
2004- 2004   Grant (DBG) Program and authorizing the filing of the revision with the
11           Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development (DCED).
Res.  6-21-  Approving the displaying of banners by the Grove City Area Chamber of Commerce
2004- 2004   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
12           Transportation requirements.
Res.  6-21-  Approving the transportation enhancements program grant agreement awarded by
2004- 2004   the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
13
Res.  6-21-  Recognizing the Pine Grove Council of Republican Women as a civic/service
2004- 2004   organization and approving their request to obtain a “small game of chance
14           license” to conduct a raffle.
1326  7-19-  Amending § 4 of Ord. 856 dealing with the filing of tax returns.
      2004
Res.  8-16-
2004- 2004   Authorizing the Borough Manager to sign the municipal winter traffic agreement.
15
Res.  8-30-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Experimental Aircraft Association
2004- 2004   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
17           Transportation requirements.
Res.  8-30-  Approving the displaying of banners by the Grove City Area United Way across a
2004- 2004   state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
18           requirements.
Res.  8-30-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Area United Way across a
2004- 2004   state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
19           requirements.
Res.  8-30-  Approving the displaying of a banner by the Church of the Beloved Disciple
2004- 2004   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
20           Transportation requirements.
Res.  9-20-  Authorizing the President of Council to execute an agreement with the
2004- 2004   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation to provide for the borough’s sanitary
21           sewer facility to be attached to the bridge over Wolf Creek.
Res.  9-20-  Accepting the voluntary election option of Act 81 of 2004 and proceeding with
2004- 2004   the revision to the 2003 actuarial valuation for the borough police pension
22           plan.
Res.  9-20-  Accepting the voluntary election option of Act 81 of 2004 and proceeding with
2004- 2004   the revision to the 2003 actuarial valuation for the retirement plan for non-
23           uniformed employees of the borough.
Res.  9-20-  Approving the displaying of a banner by Grove City College across a state
2004- 2004   highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
24           requirements.
Res.  10-18- Authorizing the filing of a proposal for funds with the Commonwealth of
2004- 2004   Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development (PA DCED).
25
Res.  11-15- Approving the displaying of a banner by the Grove City Youth Soccer Association
2004- 2004   across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
26           Transportation requirements.
1331  2-21-  Adopting the PSAB Master Retirement Trust.
      2005
1333  4-18-  Amending §§ 1.07, 1.23, 4.07 and 4.11 and adding §§ 4.13 and 9.03(1) of the
      2005   Non-Uniformed Employees Retirement Plan.
      12-19- Authorizing and directing the execution of a mutual aid agreement with
1340  2005   interstate and intrastate participating municipal electric systems to be able
             to receive and provide mutual assistance during times of emergencies.
Res.  2-21-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2005- 2005   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
1
Res.  3-21-  Authorizing an application for grant assistance from the FFY 2005 Pennsylvania
2005- 2005   Community Development Block Grant Program.
2
Res.  2-21-
2005- 2005   Adopting a cafeteria plan for employee benefits.
3
Res.  3-21-  Approving and authorizing the submission of an application for funding
2005- 2005   assistance under the provisions of the Penn Works Program.
4
Res.  - -    Opposing the elimination of the Community Development Block Grant Program from
2005- 2005   the federal budget.
5
Res.  3-21-  Certifying Main Street, Broad Street and Blair Street in the downtown area as
2005- 2005   redevelopment area.
6
Res.  4-18-  Approving the display of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2005- 2005   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
7
Res.  4-18-
2005- 2005   Opposing FERC Seams Elimination Cost Adjustment Order.
8
Res.  4-18-  Accepting a Pennsylvania Department of Transportation offer of an easement and
2005- 2005   right-of-way from the Grove City Regional Airport property.
9
Res.  4-18-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2005- 2005   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
10
Res.  5-16-  Urging the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection to deny the
2005- 2005   landfill permit applied for by Tri-County Landfill, Inc.
11
Res.  6-20-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2005- 2005   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
12
Res.  6-20-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2005- 2005   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
13
Res.  6-20-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2005- 2005   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
14
Res.  7-18-  Adopting and submitting to the Department of Environmental Protection its
2005- 2005   approval as a revision to the Official Plan.
15
Res.  8-15-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2005- 2005   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
16
Res.  9-19-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2005- 2005   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
17
Res.  9-19-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2005- 2005   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
18
Res.  9-19-  Adopting the Wolf Creek-Slippery Rock Creek Council of Governments Joint
2005- 2005   Comprehensive Plan.
19
Res.  9-19-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2005- 2005   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
20
Res.  9-19-  Desiring to apply to the Department of Compensation and Natural Resources for a
2005- 2005   grant to undertake the Memorial Park Picnic Shelters project.
21
Res.  10-17- Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2005- 2005   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
22
Res.  10-17-
2005- 2005   Authorizing and directing the Borough Manager to sign an agreement.
23
Res.  10-17-
2005- 2005   Agreeing to co-sign a loan for the Borough Volunteer Fire Department.
24
Res.  11-21- Approving modifications to the borough’s FFY 2002, 2003 and 2004 Community
2005- 2005   Development Block Grant programs.
25
Res.  11-21-
2005- 2005   Endorsing the Main Street Community Designation.
27
Res.  11-21-
2005- 2005   Approving the Downtown Mission and Vision Statement.
28
Res.  1-3-   Authorizing the primary signatories in the execution of checks for the purpose
2006- 2006   of liquidating borough obligations and executing payroll checks, and
1            designating signatories in the absence of the primary signatories.
Res.  2-20-  Recognizing the Pine Grove Council of Republican Women as a civic/service
2006- 2006   organization.
2
Res.  2-20-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2006- 2006   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
3
Res.  3-20-  Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the FFY
2006- 2006   2006 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program.
5
Res.  3-20-  Authorizing the primary signatories in the execution of checks for the purpose
2006- 2006   of liquidating borough obligations and executing payroll checks, and
6            designating signatories in the absence of the primary signatories.
Res.  4-17-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2006- 2006   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
7
Res.  4-17-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2006- 2006   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
8
Res.  5-8-   Adopting the amendment to the Wolf Creek-Slippery Rock Creek Council of
2006- 2006   Governments Joint Comprehensive Plan.
9
Res.  5-8-   Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2006- 2006   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
10
Res.  5-8-
2006- 2006   Appointing a chief administrative officer for municipal pension plans.
11
Res.  6-19-  Opposing state and national franchising legislation currently being considered
2006- 2006   by the Pennsylvania State Legislature and the United States Congress.
12
Res.  7-17-
2006- 2006   Authorizing grant execution for acquisition of snow removal equipment.
13
Res.  7-17-
2006- 2006   Authorizing grant execution for obstruction removal, Phase II.
14
Res.  7-17-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2006- 2006   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
15
Res.  7-17-
2006- 2006   Adopting the National Incident Management System (NIMS).
16
Res.  8-21-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2006- 2006   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
17
Res.  8-21-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2006- 2006   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
18
Res.  8-21-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2006- 2006   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
19
Res.  8-21-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2006- 2006   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
20
Res.  8-21-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2006- 2006   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
21
Res.  9-18-  Approving the displaying of banners across a state highway in accordance with
2006- 2006   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
23
Res.  10-16- Authorizing the filing of a joint application for an Enterprise Zone Planning
2006- 2006   Grant.
25
Res.  1-15-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing the Chamber of Commerce Trade
2007- 2007   Show on 3-3-2007, across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania
1            Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  2-19-  Recognizing and thanking Richard L. Jazwinski for his years of service and
2007- 2007   dedication to the citizens of the borough, and expressing the borough’s deepest
3            sympathy and condolences to the family of Richard L. Jazwinski.
Res.  3-19-  Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the FFY
2007- 2007   2007 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program.
4
Res.  3-19-
2007- 2007   Adopting the 2007 Fair Housing Resolution.
5
      4-16-  Authorizing the Police Department to participate and be part of a critical
1353  2007   incident response team under the terms and conditions as set forth in the
             mutual aid agreement.
Res.  5-21-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing the Fourth of July Patriotic
2007- 2007   Program and Fireworks across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania
7            Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  5-21-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing the Strawberry Days Festival
2007- 2007   on June 8 through 10, 2007, across a state highway in accordance with
8            Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  8-20-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing the Day of Caring, Please
2007- 2007   Give Campaign and 2 Thank You banners across a state highway in accordance with
11           Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  8-20-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing the Fly-in Drive-In on
2007- 2007   Sunday, 9-30-2007, across a state highway in accordance with Pennsylvania
12           Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  10-15-
2007- 2007   Opposing the state’s initiative to toll I-80.
14
Res.  12-17- Recognizing Beth A. Cooney for service to the borough as a member of Council
2007- 2007   from January 2002 through December 2007.
18
Res.  12-17- Recognizing Scott A. Nelson for service to the borough as a member of Council
2007- 2007   from January 2000 through December 2007.
19
Res.  12-17- Recognizing Thomas L. Nesbit for service to the borough as a member of Council
2007- 2007   from January 1996 through December 2007.
20
Res.  12-12- Recognizing William L. Limberg for service to the borough as a member of
2007- 2007   Council from January 1992 through December 2007.
21
Res.  1-7-   Approving and adopting a cafeteria plan including a dependent care flexible
2008- 2008   spending account and health flexible spending account effective 1-1-2008.
1
Res.  1-7-
2008- 2008   Approving and adopting a health reimbursement arrangement effective 1-1-2008.
2
             Authorizing George A. Pokrant, President of Council, Vance E. Oakes, Borough
Res.         Manager/Treasurer, and Paris L. Weiland, Borough Secretary, to be the primary
2008- 1-21-  signatories in the execution of payroll checks and checks for the purpose of
3     2008   liquidating borough obligations; and Jeffrey P. Black, Vice President of
             Council, Frances A. Zenobi, Assistant Treasurer, in the absence of a primary
             signatory.
Res.  1-21-  Authorizing the submission of a financial assistance application to the
2008- 2008   Pennsylvania Infrastructure Investment Authority.
4
             Enabling the Borough Police Department to perform all police duties on and
1365  3-17-  adjacent to the property of Magisterial District 3-2 and on and adjacent to the
      2008   property of the General Electric Company located in Pine Township, Mercer
             County, Pennsylvania.
Res.  3-17-  Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the FFY
2008- 2008   2008 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program.
6
Res.  3-17-
2008- 2008   Adopting the 2008 Fair Housing Resolution.
7
Res.  3-17-
2008- 2008   Opposing the concept of a mandated statewide municipal police pension system.
8
Res.  3-17-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing Oakley Kelly Day on Saturday,
2008- 2008   5-3-2008, across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance
9            with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
      4-21-  Authorizing the borough to join with other local government units as a settlor
1366  2008   of the Pennsylvania Local Government Investment Trust for the purpose of
             purchasing shares of the Trust.
Res.  4-21-
2008- 2008   Desiring to undertake the Hunter Farm Park restrooms project.
11
Res.  4-21-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing Annual Yard Sale on Saturday,
2008- 2008   6-7-2008, across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance
12           with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  5-19-  Authorizing participation in the Northwest Commission Led Traffic Signal Light
2008- 2008   Bulk Purchase Consortium.
13
Res.  5-19-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing Strawberry Day Festival 6-8-
2008- 2008   2008, across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance
14           with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  6-16-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing 2008 July Fourth Program,
2008- 2008   across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance with
15           Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  6-16-  Desiring to sponsor a grant application for a joint project with Grove City
2008- 2008   College and the Wolf Creek Watershed Advisory group for stream bank
16           improvements along Wolf Creek in the borough.
Res.  7-21-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing Day of Caring, across South
2008- 2008   Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance with Pennsylvania
18           Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  7-21-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing Canine Carnival on 9-6-2008,
2008- 2008   across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance with
19           Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  7-21-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing Annual House Tour on 9-7-
2008- 2008   2008, across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance
20           with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  7-21-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing Please Give Campaign, across
2008- 2008   South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance with
21           Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  7-21-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing Please Give Campaign, across
2008- 2008   South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance with
22           Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  7-21-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing Thank You, across South
2008- 2008   Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance with Pennsylvania
23           Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  7-21-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing The Day of Caring, across
2008- 2008   South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance with
24           Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  8-18-  Declaring the borough’s intent to follow the schedules and procedures for
2008- 2008   disposition of records as set forth in the municipal records manual approved on
25           7-16-1993.
Res.  8-18-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing Fall Fest on 10-11-2008,
2008- 2008   across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance with
26           Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  8-18-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing Fly-In Drive-In on Sunday, 9-
2008- 2008   28-2008, across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance
27           with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.         Approving the displaying of the banner announcing Grove City College Homecoming
2008- 9-15-  on Saturday, 10-18-2008, across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment
28    2008   0071, in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
             requirements.
Res.  10-20- Authorizing and directing Council President or Borough Secretary or Borough
2008- 2008   Manager to sign any and all agreements on behalf of Borough Council.
29
Res.  - -
2008- 2008   Authorizing the disposition of police records.
30
Res.  1-19-  Authorizing the submission of a H2O PA grant of $6,500,000 to the Commonwealth
2009- 2009   Financing Authority.
1
Res.  2-16-
2009- 2009   Authorizing issuance of individual procurement cards.
3
Res.  2-16-  Authorizing the submission of a Pennsylvania Vest application for a Federal
2009- 2009   Economic Stimulus Grant.
4
Res.  3-16-
2009- 2009   Adopting the 2009 Fair Housing Resolution.
6
Res.  3-16-
2009- 2009   Authorizing the disposition of borough administrative records.
7
Res.  3-16-  Authorizing the submission of a H2O PA grant of $8,126,660 to the Commonwealth
2009- 2009   Financing Authority.
8
Res.  3-16-
2009- 2009   Appointing Mercer County Tax Collection Committee (TCC) delegates.
9
Res.  4-20-
2009- 2009   Establishing an employee discipline policy.
10
Res.  4-20-
2009- 2009   Establishing an identity theft protection policy.
11
Res.  4-20-  Authorizing the filing of a proposal for funds with the Department of Community
2009- 2009   and Economic Development (DCED).
12
Res.  4-20-  Ensuring the undisturbed use of a portion of the borough municipal building as
2009- 2009   a public library.
13
Res.  5-4-   Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the FFY
2009- 2009   2009 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program.
14
Res.  5-4-   Amending the 2008—2012 non-pool power sales schedule with AMP-Ohio dated 1-1-
2009- 2009   2008.
15
1385  5-18-  Amending the 2008—2012 non-pool power sales schedule with AMP-Ohio dated 1-1-
      2009   2008.
Res.  5-18-  Authorizing the filing of a proposal for funds with the Department of Community
2009- 2009   and Economic Development (DCED).
16
Res.  5-18-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing Annual Yard Sale on 6-6-2009,
2009- 2009   across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance with
17           Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.         Acknowledging and approving a lien on the revenues of its water system
2009- 6-15-  facilities, in favor of the Pennsylvania Infrastructure Investment Authority,
18    2009   in connection with the financing of the improvement of its water system
             facilities.
Res.  6-15-  Authorizing a second amendment to the 2008—2012 non-pool power sales schedule
2009- 2009   with AMP-Ohio dated 1-1-2008.
19
Res.  7-20-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing Canine Carnival, 9-12-2009,
2009- 2009   across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance with
20           Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  7-20-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing Grove City Christian Academy
2009- 2009   open enrollment, across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in
21           accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  7-20-  Authorizing the submission of a LUPTAP grant application to the Pennsylvania
2009- 2009   Department of Community and Economic Development.
22
Res.  8-17-
2009- 2009   Opposing the state’s initiative to toll Interstate 80.
23
Res.  9-15-  Authorizing and directing Council President to sign the PennDOT agility
2009- 2009   agreement on behalf of Borough Council.
24
Res.  9-21-  Approving the displaying of the banner announcing annual Fall Fest on 10-10-
2009- 2009   2009, across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance
25           with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  10-19- Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
2009- 2009   Community and Economic Development (DCED).
26
Res.  11-16- Adopting residential anti-displacement and relocation assistance plan under §
2009- 2009   104(d) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended.
27
Res.  11-16- Adopting a code of conduct for citizen participation in its Community
2009- 2009   Development Block Grant Program.
28
Res.         Approving the displaying of a banner announcing annual open enrollment for the
2010- 2-15-  Grove City Christian Academy, across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment
2     2010   0071, in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
             requirements.
             Authorizing George A. Pokrant, President of Council, Vance E. Oakes, Borough
Res.         Manager/Treasurer, and Paris L. Weiland, Borough Secretary, to be the primary
2010- 3-15-  signatories in the execution of payroll checks and checks for the purpose of
3     2010   liquidating borough obligations; and Jeffrey P. Black, Vice President of
             Council, and Andrea L. Folkertsma, Finance Committee Chair, in the absence of a
             primary signatory.
Res.         Authorizing and directing Borough Manager and Council President to execute any
2010- 3-15-  and all documents required to obtain the Keystone Recreation, Park and
4     2010   Conservation Fund grant for the construction of the new library addition, and
             that the Borough Secretary be authorized to attest the same.
             Approving the issuance of obligations by the Grove City Area Hospital Authority
Res.  4-19-  in connection with the refunding of the authority’s adjustable rate demand
2010- 2010   healthcare facilities revenue bonds, refunding series of 2005 (Grove Manor
5            Project) and for the purpose of acquiring a new project consisting of certain
             assisted and senior living facilities.
Res.  4-19-  Approving the displaying of a banner announcing Olde Town Harmony annual show
2010- 2010   on 5-1-2010, across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in
6            accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.         Approving the displaying of a banner announcing annual open enrollment for the
2010- 5-17-  Grove City Christian Academy, across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment
7     2010   0071, in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
             requirements.
Res.  5-17-  Directing the Borough Secretary to execute a certificate attesting to the
2010- 2010   adoption of this resolution and to furnish a copy of the resolution to the
8            Department of Community and Economic Development.
Res.  5-17-  Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the FFY
2010- 2010   2010 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program.
9
Res.  5-17-
2010- 2010   Adopting the 2010 Fair Housing Resolution.
10
Res.         Approving the displaying of a banner announcing July Fourth Patriot Program and
2010- 6-21-  Fireworks to be held on 7-4-2010, across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W,
11    2010   Segment 0071, in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
             requirements.
Res.  6-21-  Approving the displaying of a banner announcing July Free Concert Series,
2010- 2010   across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance with
12           Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.         Approving the displaying of a banner announcing annual open enrollment for the
2010- 7-19-  Grove City Christian Academy, across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment
13    2010   0071, in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
             requirements.
Res.  8-16-  Approving the displaying of a banner announcing Canine Carnival on 9-11-2010,
2010- 2010   across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance with
14           Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
      9-20-  Amending pension plan or program applicable to the police employees of said
1396  2010   borough by immediately deleting the killed-in-service benefit formerly mandated
             by Act 600.
Res.  9-20-  Opposing any measure, initiative or plan that mandates the forced merger,
2010- 2010   consolidation or annexation of local governments.
16
Res.  10-18- The tax officer appointed by the Mercer County Tax Collection Committee shall
2010- 2010   not collect 2011 income taxes for the borough.
17
Res.  12-20-
2010- 2010   Appointing Mercer County Tax Collection Committee (TCC) delegates.
18
Res.  12-20- Declaring the borough’s intent to follow the schedules and procedures for
2010- 2010   disposition of records as set forth in the municipal records manual approved on
19           12-16-2008.
Res.  12-20-
2010- 2010   Authorizing the disposition of public records.
20
Res.  12-20-
2010- 2010   Authorizing participation in merchant service program.
21
Res.  2-21-
2011- 2011   Authorizing the disposition of public records.
1
Res.  3-21-
2011- 2011   Furthering fair housing throughout the borough.
3
Res.  3-21-  Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the FY
2011- 2011   2011 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant Program.
4
Res.  3-21-  Approving the displaying of a banner announcing open enrollment for the Grove
2011- 2011   City Christian Academy across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071,
5            in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.         Approving the displaying of a banner announcing an annual show on 5-14-2011, by
2011- 3-21-  Old Town Barbership Chorus across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment
6     2011   0071, in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
             requirements.
Res.  4-18-  Adopting written procedures in how professional services are chosen for its
2011- 2011   pension plans in order to comply with Act 44 of 2009 and the auditor general’s
7            recommendation.
Res.  4-18-
2011- 2011   Authorizing the execution of the Northern Pool participant schedule.
8
Res.  5-16-  Authorizing participation in the Pennsylvania State Association of Boroughs
2011- 2011   Junior Council Person Program.
9
Res.         Approving the displaying of a banner announcing a downtown summer sounds
2011- 5-16-  concert series to be held June 30 through July 28, 2011, across South Center
11    2011   Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance with Pennsylvania Department
             of Transportation requirements.
Res.  6-20-  Approving the displaying of a banner announcing a Canine Carnival to be held 9-
2011- 2011   10-2011, across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance
12           with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.         Authorizing, empowering and directing the proper officers of the Council to
2011- 9-19-  appoint a liaison between it and Berkheimer, the duly appointed collector of
15    2011   earned income tax for the tax collection district, for the express purpose of
             sharing confidential tax information with the district for official purposes.
Res.  9-19-  Authorizing and empowering its local tax collector, Berkheimer, to impose and
2011- 2011   retain costs of collection on delinquent taxes.
16
Res.  8-15-  Approving the displaying of a banner announcing a Fall Fest to be held 10-8-
2011- 2011   2011, across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance
17           with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.  8-15-  Adopting written procedures in how professional services are chosen for its
2011- 2011   pension plans in order to comply with Act 44, revised, of 2009 and the auditor
18           general’s recommendation.
Res.  8-15-  Authorizing the submission of an application for funds with the United States
2011- 2011   Department of Agriculture.
19
Res.  10-17- Adopting a Section 3 Plan as required by the Pennsylvania Community Development
2011- 2011   Block Grant Program.
20
Res.  12-19- Recognizing Dr. Joseph M. Pisano for his dedication, leadership and commitment
2011- 2011   to the borough.
22
Res.  1-16-  Appointing Georgie Hodge, Evan Lowe, Richard Briggs, David Gills, Walter
2012- 2012   Patterson and Seth Ring (alternate) to the Zoning Hearing Board.
1
Res.  1-16-  Adopting amended cafeteria plan including a dependent care flexible spending
2012- 2012   account and health flexible spending account.
2
Res.  1-16-  Appointing an auditor to audit the financial records of the borough for the
2012- 2012   2011 fiscal year.
3
Res.  2-20-
2012- 2012   Authorizing an increase in Borough Manager bonding level.
4
Res.  2-20-  Appointing Seth Ring to fill a vacant seat on the Zoning Hearing Board for the
2012- 2012   balance of the term to expire on 12-31-2012.
5
Res.  4-16-  Adopting a Section 3 Plan as required by the Pennsylvania Community Development
2012- 2012   Block Grant Program.
7
Res.  4-16-
2012- 2012   Furthering fair housing throughout the borough.
8
Res.  4-16-  Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the FY
2012- 2012   2012 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant Program.
9
Res.  4-16-  Urging the Pennsylvania General Assembly to modernize the State Prevailing Wage
2012- 2012   Act (Act 442 of 1961).
10
Res.  4-16-
2012- 2012   Adopting borough Police Manual.
11
Res.  5-21-  Supporting the lawsuit filed in the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania, Docket
2012- 2012   No. 284-MD-2012, in opposition to Act 13.
13
Res.  5-21-  Appointing professionals in connection with the financing of the rehabilitation
2012- 2012   of its waste water treatment plant and addition to the fire station located on
14           East Pine Street.
Res.  6-18-  Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the United States
2012- 2012   Department of Agriculture.
15
Res.         Approving the displaying of a banner announcing a Downtown Summer Sounds
2012- 6-18-  concert series to be held July 5 through August 2, 2012, across South Center
16    2012   Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance with Pennsylvania Department
             of Transportation requirements.
Res.  6-18-  Approving the displaying of a banner announcing a Fall Fest to be held 10-13-
2012- 2012   2012, across South Center Street, SR 173S-208W, Segment 0071, in accordance
17           with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation requirements.
Res.         Appointing Gary Davey to fill a vacant seat on the Zoning Hearing Board for the
2012- 9-17-  balance of the term to expire on 12-31-2016; and Michael Hazy to fill a vacant
19    2012   alternate seat on the Zoning Hearing Board for the balance of the term to
             expire on 12-31-2014.
Res.  9-17-  Supporting fundraising efforts for the purpose of building a leash-free dog
2012- 2012   park within the borough.
20
Res.  11-19-
2012- 2012   Appointing Seth Ring to the Zoning Hearing Board.
21
             Authorizing George A. Pokrant, President of Council, Vance E. Oakes, Borough
Res.         Manager/Treasurer, and Paris L. Weiland, Borough Secretary, to be the primary
2013- 1-21-  signatories in the execution of payroll checks and checks for the purpose of
1     2013   liquidating borough obligations; and Jeffrey P. Blank, Vice President of
             Council, and Andrea L. Folkertsma, Finance Committee Chair, in the absence of a
             primary signatory.
Res.  2-18-  Authorizing and directing to execute any and all documents required to obtain
2013- 2013   funding through Reimbursement Agreement No. 010U67 with Pennsylvania Department
2            of Transportation for the Grove City Streetscape Phase II project.
Res.  3-18-
2013- 2013   Appointing a chief administrative officer for municipal pension plans.
3
Res.         Approving the displaying of a banner(s) announcing July Fourth Patriotic
2013- 6-17-  Program and Fireworks to be held 7-4-2013, across South Center Street, SR 173S-
4     2013   208W, Segment 0071, in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
             Transportation requirements.
Res.  8-19-  Causing owners of real estate, developers and builders to become aware of their
2013- 2013   respective responsibilities and rights under the Federal Fair Housing Law, the
5            Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, and any local laws or ordinances.
Res.  8-19-  Authorizing the submission of an application for grant assistance from the FY
2013- 2013   2013 Pennsylvania Community Development Block Grant Program.
6
Res.  8-19-  Adopting a Section 3 Plan as required by the Pennsylvania Community Development
2013- 2013   Block Grant Program.
7
Res.  8-19-  Approving the proposed modifications to the borough’s FFY 2012 CDBG Program for
2013- 2013   submission to the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic
8            Development.
             Authorizing George A. Pokrant, President of Council, Vance E. Oakes, Borough
Res.         Manager/Treasurer, and Cheri Hill, Borough Secretary, to be the primary
2013- 9-16-  signatories in the execution of payroll checks and checks for the purpose of
9     2013   liquidating borough obligations; and Jeffrey P. Blank, Vice President of
             Council, and Andrea L. Folkertsma, Finance Committee Chair, in the absence of a
             primary signatory.
Res.  11-18-
2013- 2013   Appointing Evan Lowe to the Zoning Hearing Board.
10
Res.         Authorizing and directing Borough Manager to sign any and all agreements
2013- 11-18- entered into with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of
11    2013   Transportation on behalf of the borough and that the Borough Secretary be
             authorized to attest the same.
      3-15-  Authorizing the borough to enter into an intermunicipal agreement entitled as a
1476  2021   memorandum of understanding relating to the critical incident response team
             (CIRT) with other municipalities.
            
 
 
TABLE VII: GRADE CROSSINGS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
             Providing for the opening and extension of Mill Street in the borough,
             through and across the right-of-way and property of the Bessemer and Lake
             Erie Railroad Company, prescribing the manner of such crossing, condemning
             the land rights and easements necessary therefor, providing for the
             assessment and determination of the damages and benefits accruing
196   9-11-  therefrom; providing for the presenting of a petition to the Public
      1914   Service Commission of the state for the issuing of a certificate of public
             convenience for the extension of the aforesaid street, and that the cost
             of extending the said street be apportioned by the said Commission between
             the Bessemer and Lake Erie Railroad Company, the borough and such other
             individuals, corporations or municipalities as the Commission may
             determine.
             Providing for the extending and opening of Harvard Street, in the borough,
             through and across the right-of-way and property of the B & LE RR Co.;
             prescribing the manner of such crossing; condemning the land rights and
             easements necessary therefor; providing for the assessment and
      9-4-   determination of the damages and benefits accruing the reform; providing
197   1914   for the presenting of a petition to the Public Service Commission of the
             state for the issuing of a certificate of public convenience for the
             extension of the aforesaid street; and the cost of extending the said
             street be apportioned by the said Commission between the B & LE RR Co.,
             the borough and such other individuals, corporations or municipalities as
             the Commission may determine.
Res.  9-20-  Untitled resolution authorizing petition to Bessemer and Lake Erie
389   1929   Railroad Company to install flashing signals at Mill Street crossing.
Res.  12-3-  Untitled resolution stating the intention of Council to join with certain
12/3/ 1937   citizens of the borough in requesting the Bessemer and Lake Erie Railroad
1937         Company construct a crossing at Center Street.
Res.         Untitled resolution authorizing petition to Public Utility Commission for
12/   12-23- hearing on the question of establishing a crossing at Center Street. (For
23/   1937   amending resolution, see Res. 3/17/1938.)
1937
Res.         Untitled resolution authorizing amendment to petition to the Public
3/17/ 3-17-  Utility Commission to request a crossing at Mill Street instead of Center
1938  1938   Street, as set out in petition authorized by resolution in Res. 12/23/
             1937.
Res.         Untitled resolution stating the policy of the borough to make no further
3/24/ 3-24-  improvements on Center Street until a crossing would be constructed by the
1939  1939   Railroad Company, the street widened and curves reduced, and then used for
             through traffic.
Res.  6-2-   Untitled resolution stating the borough’s refusal to pay any part of the
6/2/  1939   costs of protecting the proposed crossing at Center Street.
1939
Res.  7-16-  Untitled resolution authorizing a loan of $15,000 from the Grove City
7/16/ 1940   National Bank for constructing a crossing at Center Street.
1940
Res.
11/   11-21- Untitled resolution urging the Bessemer and Lake Erie Railroad Company to
21/   1955   install gates at the Mill Street crossing.
1955
 
 
TABLE VIII: PLAN APPROVAL
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
             Approving the Resource Recovery Feasibility Study of Mercer County as the
Res.  3-18-  official updating of the Solid Waste Plan, originally completed in 1974. Further
1985- 1985   approving the plan as the borough’s Plan for Collection and Disposal of Municipal
3            Waste under the provisions of Act 97, the Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management
             Act.
Res.  9-27-  Approving the revision of the “Official Plan” of the Planning Module for Land
1988- 1988   Development sewage system to be known as the Park Street Sewer.
13
Res.  11-20- Adopting and submitting to the Department of Environmental Resources for approval
1989- 1989   of a revision to the Planning Module for Land Development for land identified as
12           West End.
Res.  6-18-  Adopting and submitting to the Department of Environmental Resources for approval
1990- 1990   of a revision to the “Official Sewage Facilities Plan” for the development of
6            land identified as Satellite Water Treatment Plan.
Res.  9-20-  Adopting and submitting to the Department of Environmental Resources for approval
1993- 1993   as a revision to the “Official Sewage Facilities Plan” for the development of
6            land identified as Grove City Facility.
Res.  2-20-  Adopting and submitting to the Department of Environmental Resources for approval
1995- 1995   as a revision to the “Official Sewage Facilities Plan” for the development of
2            land identified as Summit View.
Res.  10-16- Adopting and submitting to the Department of Environmental Protection for
2000- 2000   approval as a revision to the “Official Plan” for sewage services and Facility
20           Plan.
Res.  8-16-  Approving the Mercer County All Hazard Mitigation Plan as the official plan of
2004- 2004   the borough.
16
Res.  3-19-  Adopting Mercer County 2011 Hazard Mitigation Plan as the official Hazard
2012- 2012   Mitigation Plan of the borough.
6
 
 
TABLE IX: PUBLIC PROPERTY
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Res.  2-6-   Untitled resolution conveying Lots 42, 44, 123, 125 and 126 of the West View
2/6/  1950   Plan of Lots to Clarence E. Bell, for $1,500.
1950
Res.
10/   10-18- Untitled resolution leasing land on which was located the passenger station of
18/   1954   the Bessemer and Lake Erie Railroad for widening Blair Street.
1954
             Providing for the acquisition by purchase of certain real estate located in
      7-18-  the borough. (This refers to a tract southeast of Broad Street, between Wolf
692   1955   Creek, a public alley and the Elks Lodge property, for use as a parking lot,
             with perpetual and nonexclusive right of using a 12-foot private alley on the
             west side.)
Res.         Untitled resolution authorizing the borough to enter into a lease with the
12/   12-19- Grove City Lodge No. 1579 of the B.P.O.E., providing for the rental by the
19/   1955   borough of property owned by the Elks, for municipal parking purposes.
1955
Res.         Untitled resolution authorizing the borough to enter into a lease with F.L.
12/   12-19- Hoffman, providing for rental by the borough of property for municipal parking
19/   1955   purposes.
1955
Res.         Untitled resolution accepting from the Pew Memorial Trust, J. Howard Pew, Miss
2/17/ 2-17-  Ethel Pew and members of their family, certain properties on S. Broad Street
1969  1969   for erecting a municipal building. (The property was bounded by College Avenue
             on the north and Pagnelli Alley on the south.)
Res.  2-22-  Untitled resolution accepting certain lands conveyed by Walter J. and Edith T.
2/22/ 1971   O’Connor for the Municipal Airport, by recorded deeds dated 8-17-1967, 8-18-
1971         1966 and 12-1-1965, and by unrecorded deed dated 10-9-1970.
Res.  2-28-  Untitled resolution accepting Parcels 4, 5 and 6 as shown on FAA drawing of
2/28/ 1972   Grove City Airport, dated 4-3-1968.
1972
Res.  6-21-  Untitled resolution accepting from John V. and Caroline Wherry a parcel of
6/21/ 1973   land on the north side of Terrace Avenue and immediately to the west of Lot
1973         233, a gift.
Res.         Untitled resolution accepting a gift from Clarence C. and Grayce S. Floyd of
10/   10-15- tracts of land bounded by Union Avenue on the west and by Hill Alley on the
15/   1973   north, for public recreation purposes, being Lots 81 through 84 of the Gilmore
1973         Subdivision.
1003  5-20-  To authorize the selection and appropriation of certain land situated in
      1974   Springfield Township for airport purposes.
1006  6-17-  To authorize the selection and appropriation of certain tracts of land
      1974   situated in Springfield Township for airport purposes.
Res.         Untitled resolution authorizing certain borough land to be made available for
7/7/  7-7-   elderly housing, specifically that being bounded by S. Center Street on the
1975  1975   west, College Avenue on the north, a borough-owned metered parking lot on the
             east and S. Main Street on the south.
1057  8-22-  Authorizing the granting of vehicular and pedestrian traffic easements from
      1977   the borough to College View Towers, a Pennsylvania limited partnership.
1172  10-7-  Authorizing the construction of a municipal/library building complex.
      1985
Res.  5-19-  Completing, in accordance with the contract, the feasibility study of the
1986- 1986   Grove City Recreation Center Building.
5
             The borough hereby purchases an easement on the lands of James R. Bailey and
Res.  11-23- Pamela E. Bailey for the sum of $3,950 in accord with the description set
1987- 1987   forth in the Master Plan and to be further set forth in an aviation easement
6            to be executed between the parties hereto and that a deed of easement shall be
             taken in lieu of condemnation.
             The borough hereby purchases an easement on the lands of Fred R. Jordan and
Res.  5-16-  Patricia A. Jordan for the sum of $500 in accord with the description set
1988- 1988   forth in the Master Plan and to be further set forth in an aviation easement
6            to be executed between the parties hereto and that a deed of easement shall be
             taken in lieu of condemnation.
             The borough hereby exercises the power of eminent domain against the lands of
      4-17-  William E. McFadden and Helen C. McFadden, his wife, constituting 1.74 acres
1207  1989   which are fully described in the subdivision of land dated 8-16-1988 for the
             extension of Township Road T-944 for the extension of the municipal airport
             runway.
Res.  8-8-   The borough hereby purchases the property of Henry Tatum and Charlotte Tatum,
1988- 1988   his wife, located in Springfield Township, Mercer County, Pennsylvania for the
11           sum of $36,000 for the expansion of the municipal airport.
             The borough hereby purchases an easement on the lands of James R. Bailey and
Res.  10-18- Pamela E. Bailey for the sum of $23,500 in accord with the description set
1993- 1993   forth in the Master Plan and to be further set forth in an aviation easement
7            to be executed between the parties hereto so that a deed of easement shall be
             taken in lieu of condemnation.
      12-16- Accepting a deed of dedication from William J. Lewis and Dolores R. Lewis
1315  2002   conveying all sewer and water lines and systems erected and existing within
             the Meadowridge Acres No. 1 Plan of Condominiums.
Res.  7-19-  Agreeing to purchase an aviation easement on certain lands located in
2010- 2010   Springfield Township, Mercer County, Pennsylvania.
15
      1-20-  Authorizing declaration of taking of aviation easement on certain vacate lands
1399  2011   adjacent to the Grove City Airport located in Springfield Township, Mercer
             County, Pennsylvania.
 
 
TABLE X: SEWERS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
42    12-20- Adopting and constructing a sewerage system.
      1895
      11-10- Providing a system of public sewers. (This relates to Main Sewer No. 1, in
48    1897   Blair Street, Filer Alley, Pine Street, Elm Street, Poplar Street, Main Street
             and Center Street.)
             Providing for the construction of a main sewer in the borough, beginning at
             Poplar Street and extending thence along Elm Street to Pine Street, thence
             along Pine Street to Filer Alley, thence along Filer Alley to a 24-inch sewer,
      8-18-  now in said alley, with a lateral branch running from Center Street along Main
50    1898   Street, and a lateral branch extending from the borough limit along Main
             Street, both of said lateral branches connecting with the main sewer where it
             crosses Main Street, and assessing the cost thereof as a sewerage tax upon the
             properties adjoining or adjacent thereto, to be paid by the frontage on said
             sewers.
52    9-18-  Providing for sewers on Filer Alley Extension, North Center Street, Academy
      1899   Street, West Center Street. This refers to:
           1. Lateral D, Filer Alley from Academy Street to Pine Street;
           2. Lateral F, Filer Alley from Blair Street, 145 feet south;
             3. Extension of Main Sewer No. 2, from N. Center Street at the north property
           line of A. T. Black’s heirs, south on N. Center Street 627 feet, to the center
             of Railroad Street;
           4. Lateral C, from the summit of Academy Street nearly opposite S. A. Glenn
             residence, westwardly 310 feet to Elm Street; and
           5. Lateral E, from the summit of W. Center Street, eastwardly 1,108 feet to
             Main Street.
53    11-8-  Providing for lateral sewers on Main Street and Broad Street in the borough.
      1899   This refers to:
           1. Lateral F, from Main Street and Center Street, 425 feet eastwardly to a
             point near the Presbyterian Church; and
           2. Lateral G, from Main Street opposite the Presbyterian Church, northwardly
             on Broad Street 723 feet to a point near J. W. McConnell residence.
54    1-6-   Providing for lateral sewers on Poplar Street, Center Street and Jackson
      1900   Street in the borough. This refers to:
           1. Lateral H, from a Y in the 8-inch sewer in Center Street opposite the
             center of Poplar Street, westwardly 300 feet along Poplar Street;
           2. Lateral J, from a manhole in Center Street, 133 feet to Jackson Street,
             then 1120 feet along Jackson Street to Academy Street; and
           3. Lateral K, along Poplar Street for 573 feet, from Elm Street to Stewart
             Street.
      2-3-   Providing for lateral sewers on Broad Street in the borough. (This refers to
55    1900   Lateral L, from a 24-inch sewer on Broad Street, northward about 1,850 feet to
             the north borough line.)
      1-11-  Providing for lateral sewers on Stewart Avenue in the borough. (This refers to
59    1901   Lateral M, from a manhole on Main Street southwardly 633 feet on Stewart
             Street.)
60    6-14-  Providing for lateral sewers in Railroad, Grant, Blaine, Second, First, Pine
      1901   and Academy Streets in the borough. This refers to:
             1. Lateral N, on Railroad Street from Center Street to Grant Street,
           northwardly on Grant Street to Blaine Street, west along Blaine Street to
             Second Street, north along Second Street to Locust Street;
           2. Lateral O, on Blaine Street from Grant Street to First Street, north on
             First Street to Locust Street; and
           3. Lateral P, on Pine Street from Elm Street to Academy Street, west on
             Academy Street 676 feet.
             Providing for lateral sewers on Park Street, Monroe Street and East Pine
             Street in the borough. (This refers to Lateral Q, from the west end of Park
63    5-23-  Street, eastward along Park Street about 292 feet to Monroe Street, eastwardly
      1902   along Monroe Street to E. Pine Street, eastwardly along E. Pine Street about
             110 feet; also from the intersection of Monroe and E. Pine Streets westwardly
             along E. Pine Street 300 feet to Wolf Creek.)
      6-9-   Providing for lateral sewers on North Center Street in the borough. (This
65    1902   refers to Lateral R, from a lamphole and extending northwardly along the
             center of the street about 1,065 feet.)
      6-30-  Providing for a lateral sewer on East Main Street in the borough. (This refers
71    1903   to Lateral R, from the bridge over Wolf Creek along Main Street to the east
             borough line.)
73    9-15-  Providing for a lateral sewer on West Poplar Street in the borough. (This
      1903   refers to Lateral S, from Stewart Street west to the end of Poplar Street.)
74    4-9-   Providing for lateral sewers on Academy Street. This refers to:
      1904
           1. Lateral S, from Jackson Street west to Kinder Avenue; and
           2. Lateral T, from Center Street west to a lamphole.
      5-7-   Providing for a lateral sewer in West Center Street in the borough. (This
75    1904   refers to Lateral U, from the center of the street opposite the southeast
             corner of W. S. Moon property, westwardly to the former borough limits.)
      7-29-  Providing for a lateral sewer on East Pine Street in the borough. (This refers
82    1904   to Lateral V, from a lamphole, 152 feet east of Monroe Street, eastwardly
             about 396 feet.)
             Providing for a lateral sewer on North Broad and Dale Streets in the borough.
      8-11-  (This refers to Lateral X, from a point opposite the northeast corner of
89    1905   William McCurdy property, south to Dale Street, east on Dale Street to
             McConnell Street; also south on North Broad Street from Dale Street from Dale
             Street to a point opposite the southeast corner of Redmond Heirs’ property.)
             Providing for a lateral sewer on East Main Street in the borough. (This refers
100   3-5-   to Lateral Y, from a manhole at the east end of the Main Street sewer,
      1906   eastwardly about 1,100 feet to a point opposite an alley leading from E. Main
             Street to the Newton Campbell property.)
110   6-8-   Authorizing the construction of sewers on McConnell Street, Poplar Street
      1907   (from Center to Water), and Craig Street. This refers to:
           1. Sewer Z, McConnell Street from Dale Street to Chestnut Street, west along
             Chestnut Street to the west property line of S.R. Montgomery;
           2. Sewer on Poplar Street, about 60 feet from Center Street southeastwardly to
             Water Street, then to the creek; and
           3. Sewer on Craig Street, from Garden Avenue, eastwardly to a connection in
             Poplar Street sewer, at the corner of Craig and Poplar.
      7-7-   Authorizing the construction of a sewer on Harvard and Park Streets in the
140   1909   borough. (This sewer was to begin at the east line of Monroe Street on Park
             Street, east to Park Street and south on Park Street to E. Pine Street.)
141   7-7-   Authorizing the construction of a sewer on Liberty Street from where the
      1909   present sewer ends southward about 350 feet.
             Authorizing the construction of a sewer on Tidball and Garden Avenues. (The
143   8-23-  sewer was to begin at Garden Avenue and Craig Street, then along Garden Avenue
      1909   to an alley, then along the alley to Tidball Avenue, north and south on
             Tidball Avenue an undesignated distance.)
             Authorizing the construction and maintenance of a sewer outlet through certain
             lands in the borough and Pine Township for disposal of sewage of the said
      10-20- borough and the authorizing and the ratifying of certain contracts for the
144   1909   building of the same. (This refers to Sub Main Sewer I, from a point on W.
             Main Street, 1,690 feet from W. Main Street and Stewart Street, then south to
             Center Street and beyond the south borough line. For amendment to this
             ordinance, see Ord. 149.)
             Amending an ordinance approved 10-20-1909, authorizing the construction and
      6-7-   maintenance of a sewer outlet through certain lands in the borough and Pine
149   1910   Township, for the disposal of sewage of the said borough, and authorizing and
             certifying certain contracts for building the same. (For ordinance amended,
             see Ord. 144.)
             Authorizing the building, maintaining and operating of a sanitary sewer known
163   4-5-   as Main Interceptor and securing the right-of-way and condemning the same, and
      1911   the changing and altering the alignment and grade of all sewers connecting
             therewith.
      7-7-   Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on portions of Barmore and
166   1911   Stewart Avenues and providing for the assessment and collection of the costs
             of the same. This refers to:
           1. Stewart Street from the borough line northeast 1,136.5 feet; and
           2. Barmore Avenue from Stewart Street southeast 123.3 feet to a manhole, then
             275 feet northeast along Barmore Avenue.
             Authorizing the construction of a sewer along East Main and Hickory Streets in
170   6-5-   the borough. (The sewer ran from E. Main Street about 322 feet east of the
      1912   existing manhole at Main and Liberty Streets, then eastwardly about 110 feet
             to Hickory Street, then north on Hickory Street about 866 feet.)
             Authorizing the construction of a sewer on North Street in the borough, and
      7-3-   providing for bids therefor and the assessment of the costs and expenses of
171   1912   the same. (The sewer was to run from a manhole at the upper end of the
             intercepting sewer about 12 feet west of the west end of the bridge across
             Wolf Creek, then westwardly about 300 feet.)
      3-5-   Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer along the portion of West
174   1913   Main Street in the borough, between the western end of the present street
             paving and a point about 1,720 feet westward therefrom.
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on a portion of Liberty
      5-8-   Street in the borough, providing for the advertisement for bids and the
199   1915   assessment of the costs of the same. (This refers to the sewer from a point
             450 feet north of the centerline of Miller Avenue, south to Miller Avenue,
             then 650 feet south to a point opposite property of Joseph Bolender.)
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on a portion of Park Way in
221   12-7-  the borough; providing for the advertising for bids and the assessment of the
      1917   costs of the same. (The sewer was to run on Park Way 75 feet from the center
             of Harvard Street, 375 feet eastward to land of Lawrence Foundry Company.)
             Approving an agreement between the Pittsburgh Bessemer and Lake Erie R.R. Co.
232   4-2-   and the borough granting to the borough the right to lay and maintain a sewer
      1919   along the Railroad Company’s right-of-way adjoining the south side of Erie
             Avenue. (This refers to a storm sewer.)
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Maple Street, providing
238   7-2-   for the advertising for bids and the assessment of costs of same. (the sewer
      1919   was to run from a point 140 feet from East Main Street, south to the line of
             Newton Campbell.)
      8-2-   Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Grace Street from the
241   1919   center of East Pine Street southerly to the sanitary sewer and imposing the
             cost thereof upon the abutting property owners.
      10-4-  Authorizing the assessment of the cost of construction of a sanitary sewer on
242   1919   Main Street, from lamphole near line of Black heirs to the borough line for a
             distance of 280 feet.
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer along Riverside and North
             Streets beginning at existing manhole west side of North Street bridge thence
243   10-4-  east along North Street for a distance of 226 feet to intersection of North
      1919   Street and Riverside Street thence along Riverside Street for a distance of
             499 feet in the borough, and imposing the cost thereof upon the abutting
             property owners.
249   8-7-   Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer from top of hill on Princeton
      1920   Street to North Avenue and along Riverside to connect with main sewer system.
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer along Sunset Avenue beginning
252   3-5-   at the intersection of Sunset Avenue and South Center Street thence along the
      1921   center of Sunset Avenue northerly for a distance of approximately 1,000 feet,
             and imposing the costs thereof upon the abutting property owners.
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer along South Center Street
253   3-5-   from a manhole about 50 feet southwest of South Center Street and Stewart
      1921   Avenue to the borough line, and imposing the cost thereof upon the abutting
             property owners.
      4-12-  Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer from a point at intersection
256   1921   of Terrace Avenue and Washington Boulevard to a point at intersection of
             Woodland Drive and Forest Drive, a distance of 1,870 feet.
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Lincoln Avenue from a
264   5-7-   point at the intersection of West Washington Boulevard to a point on East
      1921   Washington Boulevard, a distance of 350 feet, and providing for the assessment
             and collection of the cost and expense thereof.
273   8-6-   Authorizing a sanitary sewer from a point at Harvard Street, along Pine Street
      1921   to borough line on the east.
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer from intersection of Chestnut
296   6-6-   Street south along centerline of McConnell Street to main intercepting sewer
      1922   in the borough, and providing for the assessment of the costs and expenses and
             the collection of the same.
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer from the manhole on Hill
302   6-6-   Street to the pump house on the Hillcrest Plan of Lots in the borough, and
      1922   providing for the assessment of the costs and expenses and the collection of
             the same.
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer along Garden Avenue to the
      7-6-   borough line, and extending through other lands to connect with the
321   1923   interceptor sewer and providing for the collection of the costs of the same.
             (The sewer was to begin at a point about 150 feet from Craig Street, southerly
             to the borough line, and through other lands to the interceptor.)
331   4-12-  Authorizing the construction of a sewer on Spring Street, and providing for
      1924   the assessment of the cost and expense and the collection of the same.
             Authorizing the constructing of a sanitary sewer on Poplar Street, from
339   6-6-   centerline of Spring Street to present sewer near Superior Street and
      1924   providing for the assessment and collection of the costs and expenses of the
             same.
      6-16-  Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Spring Street from Poplar
341   1924   Street to a point 75 feet from Main Street, and providing for the assessment
             of the cost and expense of the same.
      5-12-  Untitled ordinance authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer along
367   1927   Stockton Avenue in a northeasterly direction for 208 feet to Point Loma
             Street.
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer along West Main Street in a
372   7-1-   westerly direction. (This refers to a sewer, 300 feet long, from the west line
      1927   of Lot 6, Block B, and extending to the west line of Lot 4, Block C, of the
             Barr Addition.)
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer along the Old Mercer Road and
      8-8-   providing for sewerage for the lots located on North Broad Street. (The sewer
375   1927   was to run from the intersection of N. Center Street and the Township Road in
             an easterly direction 171.73 feet to the centerline of an alley, then along
             the alley southerly for 238.5 feet.)
      4-6-   Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Euclid Avenue westward
379   1929   from the present main sewer to the intersection of Euclid and Point Loma
             Streets.
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer along West Main Street in a
381   7-6-   westerly direction. (The sewer was to run from the existing sewer 125 feet
      1928   west of the centerline of McCurdy Avenue, in a westerly direction to a point
             200 feet, to the east line of Barr Avenue.)
      5-3-   Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Barr Avenue, from the
447   1935   present sewer line on West Main Street, north along Barr Avenue a distance of
             300 feet.
             Authorizing the Borough Clerk to file an application to the United States of
Res.  7-5-   America through the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works for a
449   1935   grant to aid in financing the construction of secondary treatment at the
             sewerage disposal plant and designating Herman F. Smith to furnish such
             information as the government may request.
Res.  10-12- Accepting the offer of the United States to the borough to aid by way of a
451   1935   grant in financing the construction of a secondary sewage disposal plant as an
             addition to the existing primary treating plant.
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on a portion of Oakland
494   8-19-  Avenue in the borough. (The sewer was to run from the east end of the existing
      1940   sewer at a point west of Jefferson Street, to a point about 600 feet east
             thereof.)
495   8-19-  Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Forest Drive in the
      1940   borough. (The sewer was to run from Oakland Avenue to Aetna Street.)
      5-5-   Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Stowe Street. (The sewer
502   1941   was to run from the main interceptor on Greenwood Drive, west on Stowe Street
             for approximately 210 feet.)
      7-11-  Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on East Lincoln Avenue. (The
503   1941   sewer was to run on Lincoln Avenue from the present sewer in an easterly
             direction for 85 feet.)
      2-6-   Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Flower Avenue. (The sewer
509   1942   was to run from the existing interceptor northeastwardly approximately 480
             feet.)
511   6-13-  Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Terrace Avenue. (The sewer
      1942   was to run from Green Way to a point 160 feet southeast thereof.)
             For laying out, establishing, constructing and operation of a sanitary sewer
520   10-12- on West Main Street west of the borough line of the borough. (The ordinance
      1944   provided for an annual sewer rental of 10#ct per capita payable by the George
             Junior Republic. This fee has been raised to 15#ct per capita.)
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Tidball Avenue and Beatty
      10-8-  Street. (The sewer was to run from an existing manhole on Tidball Avenue 880.5
538   1946   feet southeast of the centerline of Craig Street, along Tidball Avenue to the
             centerline of Beatty Street, on Beatty Street 319.5 feet northwest to an
             existing sewer from Garden Avenue.)
539   10-8-  Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Highland Avenue from
      1946   Poplar Street to Rebecca Street.
Res.  9-5-   Untitled resolution authorizing the filing of an application to accompany
9/5/  1947   sewage treatment plans with the State Department of Health.
1947
      10-18- Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Stowe Street. (The sewer
574   1948   was to run from a lamphole 180 feet northwest of the west street line of
             Greenwood Drive, northwest 105 feet to a proposed manhole.)
Res.         Untitled resolution authorizing the Pittsburgh, Bessemer and Lake Erie
2/7/  2-7-   Railroad Company to construct a sewer from the north side of Kinder Avenue to
1949  1949   the manhole on Kinder Avenue, through the lands of Filer Bros, and the Wilson
             Company and connecting with the private sewer of the George Junior Republic.
Res.         Untitled resolution authorizing David A. Shelley to construct a 6-inch
2/21/ 2-21-  sanitary sewer on his land lying south of the existing borough limits and to
1949  1949   connect the same to the borough’s 24-inch interceptor at Manhole No. 11, on
             land of Samuel Hunter.
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Tidball Avenue and Clark
582   3-21-  Street. (The sewer was to run from a manhole at Tidball Avenue and Beatty
      1949   Street, on Tidball Avenue to Clark Street, along Clark Street 541 feet
             southeast to a 24-inch interceptor.)
      10-3-  Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Sunset Avenue. (The sewer
592   1949   was to run from a manhole 495.55 feet northeast of the centerline of Superior
             Street, 154.32 feet to Superior Street.)
594   10-17- Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Sunset Avenue. (The sewer
      1949   was to run from Stockton Avenue 150 feet southwestwardly.)
      7-17-  Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Ridgeway Avenue and Linden
608   1950   Avenue. (The sewer was to run from Tidball Avenue, on Linden Avenue to
             Ridgeway Avenue and on Ridgeway Avenue to Craig Street.)
             Authorizing the establishment, construction and operation of a sanitary sewer
             partly within and partly without the borough and the attachment of the said
      7-17-  sewer to the sewer system of the borough. (The sewer was to begin on Ketler
609   1950   Drive, 150 feet south of Tidball Avenue, running southeastward 1,020 feet to
             land of Samuel Hunter, then southeast to an existing sewer. This ordinance
             also provided for a sewer on Nelson Avenue, from Tidball Avenue southwestward
             150 feet.)
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Lincoln Avenue and
622   5-21-  Winfield Avenue. (The sewer was to run from a lamphole on the centerline of
      1951   Lincoln Avenue 120 feet southeast of Overhill Street, along Lincoln Avenue to
             Over-hill Street, then southwestwardly on Overhill Street to Pine Street.)
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on a portion of Martin
             Street, Hugus Street, Cedar Street and Elmwood Avenue. (This sewer was to run
      6-18-  from Martin Street and S. Center Street, southeastward on Martin Street to
624   1951   Hugus Street, along Hugus Street and Cedar Street northeastwardly to the
             intersection of Cedar Street and Elmwood Avenue, 171.37 feet northeastwardly.
             Another sewer was to begin at Cedar Street and Elmwood Avenue and run
             southeastward on Elmwood Avenue for 305 feet.)
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on Rebecca Street. (The sewer
642   4-21-  was to run from a manhole on the centerline of Rebecca Street, 497 feet
      1952   northwest of the centerline of Spring Street, 450 feet northwestwardly along
             Rebecca Street.)
Res.  8-18-  Untitled resolution authorizing construction of a storm sewer on the school
8/18/ 1952   premises, the right-of-way extending from Highland Avenue on the east to Grove
1952         City Community Park on the west.
             Authorizing the establishment, construction and operation of a sanitary sewer
             without the borough and the attachment of the said sewer to the sewer system
666   5-4-   of the borough. (The sewer was to run from the centerline of Garden Avenue,
      1953   125 feet southeast of the centerline of Beatty Street, thence 435 feet
             southeast to the centerline of Moreland Avenue, thence 381 feet northeast to
             an existing sewer. It was constructed for David A. Shelley.)
             Authorizing the establishment, construction and operation of a sanitary sewer
      6-15-  without the borough and the attachment of the said sewer to the sewer system
667   1953   of the borough. (The sewer, constructed for B. E. Wigant and H. H. Sherman,
             was to run from the intersection of Winfield Avenue and Lincoln Avenue,
             southeast along Lincoln Avenue for 241.38 feet.)
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on West Poplar Street in the
683   11-15- borough. (The sewer was to run from a manhole on the 10-inch interceptor on W.
      1954   Poplar Street, 266 feet southeast of the centerline of Highland Avenue,
             southeastwardly 596 feet to a proposed manhole.)
             Authorizing the extension of sanitary sewer service outside the borough
             limits. (The sewer was to be constructed on W. Main Street from the end of the
             existing sewer to the Parkview Trailer Court. The owner of the Court was to
             pay all costs, including engineering and inspection costs and that of
688   6-20-  installing a pump. The property owners using the sewer were to be responsible
      1955   for the cost of maintenance. A sewer rental fee was to be paid to the borough
             by the owners of Parkview Trailer Court, not less than $15 a month so long as
             not more than 32 trailers occupy the Court. If the lands through which the
             sewer ran were annexed to the borough, the sewer was to become the property of
             the borough.)
      12-17- Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on North Street in the
724   1956   borough. (The sewer was to run from Princeton Street southeast 22.50 feet,
             then northeast 78 feet and 55 feet.)
      3-18-  Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer in Forest Drive in the
730   1957   borough. (The sewer was to begin at a manhole at Aetna Street and Forest
             Drive, and run northwestwardly 400 feet.)
731   3-18-  Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer in Madison Street in the
      1957   borough. (The sewer was to run from E. Pine Street southeastwardly 482 feet.)
732   4-15-  Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer in Overhill Street in the
      1957   borough. (The sewer was to run between Lincoln Avenue and East Pine Street.)
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer in a certain street leading
      5-21-  from West Main Street to Grove City Industrial Development Corporation tract
736   1957   of land in the borough. (The sewer was to run from an existing sewer 263.1
             feet northwest of the centerline of Cherry Street, 1200 feet northwestwardly
             along Breckenridge Street.)
      8-17-  Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer in Oak Street in the borough.
798   1959   (The sewer was to run from a manhole on the north street line of W. Main
             Street northeast along the centerline of Oak Street 500 feet.)
             Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer in Euclid Avenue in the
816   3-19-  borough. (The sewer was to begin at a point on the centerline of Euclid
      1962   Avenue, 545 feet from the centerline of Spring Street, northwestwardly 282
             feet to the line of land of Grove City Consolidated School District.)
843   3-31-  Authorizing the construction of sanitary sewers in Shady Drive and Eastover
      1965   Road in the borough.
Res.  2-22-  Untitled resolution adopting plan prepared for Mercer County as the Official
2/22/ 1971   Sewage Plan for the borough.
1971
Res.  1-17-  Untitled resolution adopting Method 4 of the Chester Engineers, Inc., report
1/17/ 1972   and authorizing feasibility study for the borough and area-wide sewage systems
1972         to effect waste sludge and backwash water disposal into the sewer system.
Res.  1-17-  Untitled resolution of intent to enter into a Regional Council of Governments
1/17/ 1972   with Harrisville Borough and Pine Township, and authorizing a sewerage
1972         feasibility study for the area.
Res.  4-28-  Untitled resolution agreeing to a sewerage feasibility study for the area
4/28/ 1972   comprising Grove City, Harrisville, and the Townships of Wolf Creek, Liberty
1972         and Pine.
Res.         Untitled resolution extending the sewer line from the manhole at the
10/   10-16- intersection of North Street and Princeton Street east approximately 500 feet,
16/   1972   to service the Pine Township Community Center and Fire Station.
1972
Res.  2-19-  Untitled resolution directing that the proposed elementary school building of
2/19/ 1973   the Grove City Area School District be included under the Official Sewage
1973         Plan.
Res.  2-19-  Untitled resolution authorizing the Official Sewage Plan, at the appropriate
2/19/ 1973   time, to include sewage facilities for Lots 5(a), 6 and 7 of Gregg Acres Plan.
1973
Res.  5-9-   Untitled resolution directing Chester Engineers, Inc., to proceed with
5/9/  1973   engineering plans and specifications needed to discontinue the discharge of
1973         the filter backwash water and sludge produced by the water treatment process.
Res.  7-16-  Untitled resolution authorizing contract with Chester Engineers, Inc., for
7/16/ 1973   preparation of plans and specifications for upgrading the sewage disposal
1973         system, including plans for the interceptor.
Res.  6-16-  Untitled resolution providing that until acceptable sewage treatment
6/16/ 1975   arrangements were made, Council approve any new tap, connection or additional
1975         discharge.
Res.  8-2-   Untitled resolution authorizing an agreement with Pine Township for sewerage
1976- 1976   collection and treatment service.
5
1049  1-25-  Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer on West Poplar Street in the
      1977   borough.
      7-18-  To authorize the condemnation of an easement over a certain tract of land
1054  1977   situated in the borough for sewer purposes. (This refers to a 15-foot strip
             parallel to and 25 feet from the west bank of Wolf Creek.)
Res.  7-18-  Untitled resolution authorizing a quit-claim deed to Robert and Hazel Ruffing
1977- 1977   for a 30-foot strip of land in Pine Township, in exchange for an easement
6            through the land for sewer construction.
             To reserve the right for utility and storm sewer easements along said vacated
             streets and to agree with Cooper Energy Services whereby services pay all
-     - -    costs incurred by the borough to meet legal requirements for vacating said
             streets, granting easements of Cooper Energy Services’ property surrounding
             said vacated streets, and relocating any sewers and/or utilities.
Res.  7-29-  Authorizing the use eminent domain powers to take a 15-foot wide easement
1991- 1991   over, under and through certain lands located in Pine Township, Mercer County,
7            for the purpose of constructing a sanitary sewer.
1227  8-12-  Authorizing use of eminent domain powers for the purpose of taking easements
      1991   to allow for the construction of the West-End Interceptor sanitary sewer line.
1228  8-26-  Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer within the municipal
      1991   boundaries of the borough and Pine Township.
1250  4-18-  Authorizing the borough to enter into a wastewater treatment service agreement
      1994   with Springfield Township.
Res.  10-17- Authorizing the Hillview Intermediate Center to be served by existing
1994- 1994   collection and treatment facilities.
8
Res.  1-15-  Authorizing submission to the Department of Environmental Protection Borough
2007- 2007   Council’s approval and revision to the “Official Plan” of the borough.
2
Res.  8-20-  Authorizing submission to the Department of Environmental Protection Borough
2007- 2007   Council’s approval and revision to the “Official Plan” of the borough.
10
Res.         Appointing professionals in connection with the financing of the expansion of
2008- 6-16-  the waste water treatment plant and making declarations of official intent
17    2008   with respect to reimbursements of temporary advances of funds for capital
             expenditures to be made from subsequent tax-exempt borrowings.
1382  1-19-  Authorizing the adoption of wastewater treatment agreements with Pine
      2009   Township, Springfield Township, Liberty Township and Harrisville Borough.
Res.  2-15-  Authorizing submission to the Department of Environmental Protection Borough
2010- 2010   Council’s approval and revision to the “Official Plan” of the borough.
1
Res.  12-19- Adopting and submitting to the Department of Environmental Protection the
2011- 2011   borough’s approval as a revision to the “Official Plan” of the borough.
21
1494  11-20- Authorizing the adoption of a wastewater treatment service agreement with
      2023   Marion Township.
            
 
 
TABLE XI: SIDEWALKS
 
 
Ord./Res. No.   Date Passed Description
                            Providing for the laying of a stone sidewalk along
28              3-17-1890   Broad Street. (The sidewalk was to be 7 feet wide,
                            between Main Street and Pittsburgh, Bessemer and
                            Lake Erie Railroad.)
                            Untitled resolution fixing sidewalk grade and line
                            on the east side of South Center Street south of
Res. 12/23/1937 12-23-1937  West Main Street, as a result of the removal of
                            tree and existing sidewalk and curb, and requiring
                            construction of new sidewalk, at the established
                            grade, connecting with existing walks.
                            Establishing the sidewalk grade for the south
902             12-21-1970  sidewalk on West Poplar Street from Spring Street
                            to Highland Avenue in the borough.
                            Establishing the sidewalk grade for the sidewalks
1025            6-16-1975   on both sides of West Poplar Street from Spring
                            Street to Highland Avenue in the borough.
                            Amending Ord. 684 which established the grade line
                            on a portion of West Poplar Street and Ord. 1025
1032            10-6-1975   which established the sidewalks grade along a
                            portion of West Poplar Street. (See also Ord. 1025
                            and Ord. 684.)
 
 
TABLE XII: STREAMS
 
 
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Res.  5-17-
5/17/ 1954   Untitled resolution requesting state aid in clearing Wolf Creek.
1954
Res.  7-19-  Untitled resolution authorizing agreement with the Commonwealth regarding
7/19/ 1954   improvements on Wolf Creek.
1954
Res.  6-17-  Designating a section of Wolf Creek which is an “approved trout water”, as an
2002- 2002   exclusive use area for persons 12 years and under and special populations.
14
 
 
TABLE XIII: STREET ADOPTION, EXTENSION AND OPENING; GRADE AND LINES;
IMPROVEMENTS; RE-NAMINGS; VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.                       Date   Description
                                    Passed
                                           Providing for the widening, straightening, relocating and opening of certain
1                                   4-14-  streets in the borough. (Main Street was widened to 60 feet from London Road to
                                    1883   Liberty Road; Liberty Street, Sandy Road and London Road were widened,
                                           straightened and relocated.)
                                    7-21-  To provide for the grading of certain streets in the borough. (This refers to
13                                  1883   Main Street, Chestnut Street, Broad Street, Center Street, Elm Street, Pine
                                           Street, Walnut Street and Academy Street.)
                                    8-4-   To provide for the locating, extending and opening of Academy Street in the
14                                  1883   borough. (The portion from Broad Street to Center Street, 40 feet wide, was
                                           opened.)
                                    9-8-   To provide for the laying out, locating, extending and opening of Pine Street
18                                  1884   in the borough. (The portion from Broad Street to Wolf Creek, 50 feet wide, was
                                           opened.)
                                           Authorizing the extension and opening of Center Street from the present
19                                  9-8-   terminus in Pine Street northwardly to its intersection with Blaine Street near
                                    1884   residence of A. B. McKay. (The width was fixed at 50 feet for the first 824
                                           feet, then 40 feet.)
                                    9-8-   Authorizing the extending and opening of Elm Street from its present terminus
20                                  1884   in the west end of Pine Street northwardly to its intersection with South
                                           Railroad Street. (The width was fixed at 50 feet.)
21                                  9-8-   Authorizing the extending and opening of Filer Alley from Pine Street to South
                                    1884   Railroad Street. (The width was fixed at 12 feet.)
                                           Changing the width of Liberty Street. (The ordinance widened, straightened and
24                                  5-10-  opened Liberty Road between Main Street and the south borough line, fixed the
                                    1886   width at 50 feet, between Main Street and the south borough line, and renamed
                                           it “Liberty Street.”)
26                                  1-5-   Authorizing the extending and opening of Filer Alley from Pine Street to South
                                    1887   Railroad (Blair) Street. (The width was fixed at 12 feet.)
30                                  6-2-   Authorizing the opening, laying out and extending of certain streets in the
                                    1890   borough. This refers to:
                                         1. Center Street, Pine Street to Blair Street, 50 feet wide;
                                         2. Academy Street, Center Street to Kinder Avenue, 40 feet wide;
                                         3. Kinder Avenue, Academy Street to Main Street, 40 feet wide;
                                         4. Jackson Street, Academy Street to Center Street, 40 feet wide;
                                         5. Blair Street, Broad Street westwardly, 30 feet wide;
                                         6. Academy Street, Board Street southwardly, 40 feet wide; and
                                         7. Walnut Street, Main Street northwardly, 30 feet wide.
39                                  6- -   Untitled ordinance establishing the grade of Main Street west of Broad Street.
                                    1895
46                                  2-8-   Authorizing the locating and extending of certain streets in the borough. This
                                    1897   refers to:
                                         1. Poplar Street, Broad Street to Elm Street, 50 feet wide;
                                         2. Stewart Street, from Poplar Street to Main, 50 feet wide;
                                         3. Academy Street, Center Street to Kinder Avenue, 40 feet wide;
                                         4. Kinder Avenue, Main Street to Academy Street, 40 feet wide;
                                         5. Elm Avenue, from Poplar Street to Pine, 40 feet wide;
                                         6. Pine Street, Academy Street to a point 200 feet west of the east borough
                                           line, 50 feet wide;
                                         7. Center Street, Main Street to Blaine Street, 50 feet wide;
                                         8. Blaine Street, Center Street to N. Broad Street, 40 feet wide;
                                         9. Railroad Street, N. Broad Street south, 30 feet wide;
                                         10. Blair Street, Broad Street to Black Street, 30 feet wide;
                                         11. Black Street, Jackson Street to Blair Street, 40 feet wide; and
                                         12. Jackson Street, Academy Street to Center Street, 40 feet wide.
57                                  10-13- Authorizing the curbing and paving of Broad Street in the borough, extending
                                    1909   from the P.B. & L.E. RR tracks to the intersection of Main Street.
58                                  11-14- Untitled ordinance establishing grade of Broad Street from Main Street to the
                                    1900   Bessemer and Lake Erie Railroad tracks.
61                                  3-3-   Authorizing the curbing and paving of Main Street in the borough, extending
                                    1902   from the intersection of Broad and Main Streets westward to the borough limits.
                                    5-3-   Authorizing the curbing and paving of Main Street, in the borough, extending
62                                  1902   from the intersection of Broad and Main Streets eastward to the western limit
                                           of the bridge over Wolf Creek.
64                                  6-4-   For change of grade on Main Street. (This refers to the portion west from the
                                    1902   west end of the bridge over Wolf Creek to the west borough line.)
                                    6-6-   Authorizing the grading, curbing and paving of North Broad Street, in the
68                                  1903   borough, extending from the Bessemer and Lake Erie Railroad tracks northward to
                                           the borough limits.
77                                  4-30-  Authorizing the paving and curbing of Center Street in the borough, extending
                                    1904   from the south curb line of Main Street westward to the former borough limits.
78                                  6-13-  For a change of grade on Center Street. (This refers to the portion from Main
                                    1904   Street west to the former borough limits.)
79                                  6-11-  For annulling certain alleys. This refers to:
                                    1904
                                         1. Alley running southward from Main Street, bounded on the east by land of H.
                                           G. Thompson and on the west by property of Mrs. H. J. Dickson;
                                         2. Alley running north from Main Street, bounded on the east by property of
                                           Grove City College and on the west by property of Carnegie Library;
                                         3. Alley running east from Broad Street, bounded on the north by property of
                                           Grove City College, on the west by property of Carnegie Library;
                                         4. Alley running south from Blair Street, bounded on the east by property of
                                           John Floyd, on the west by property of M. B. Montgomery & Co.; and
                                         5. Alley running east from N. Broad Street, bounded on the north and south by
                                           property of Grove City Improvement Company.
                                    7-1-   Authorizing the curbing and paving of Pine Street, in the borough, extending
80                                  1904   from the west curb line of Broad Street westward to the north curb line of
                                           Academy Street.
81                                  7-23-  Authorizing the curbing and paving of Lincoln Avenue in the borough extending
                                    1904   from the east curb line of North Broad Street eastward to Madison Street.
84                                  10-29- Authorizing the curbing and paving of Elm Street in the borough, extending from
                                    1904   the south curb line of Academy Street southward to Main Street.
                                           Opening and making a part of the borough, that addition known as the Tony Hill
                                           Plan of Lots. The grade of Barmore Avenue was fixed between Poplar Street and
85                                  1-10-  Stewart Street. Boundary streets adopted were North Stewart Street on the west,
                                    1905   Poplar Street on the north and Center Street on the east. Portions of these
                                           streets were adopted as well as a portion of Barmore Avenue, and the following
                                           alleys:
                                         1. 3 alleys between Stewart Street and Barmore Avenue, parallel to Poplar
                                           Street;
                                         2. 1 alley between the northernmost and southernmost alleys in (1);
                                         3. 1 alley running from Poplar Street to an alley extending northwest from
                                           Center Street;
                                         4. 2 alleys from Barmore Avenue to Center Street;
                                         5. 1 alley extending from the southernmost of the alleys in (4) and extending
                                           to an alley running northwest from Center Street; and
                                         6. 1 alley between Barmore Avenue and an alley running in a north-south
                                           direction.
86                                  4-18-  Authorizing the curbing and paving of Poplar Street in the borough, extending
                                    1905   from the west curb line of Center Street westward to Stewart Avenue.
88                                  5-27-  Authorizing the curbing and paving of Poplar Street in the borough, extending
                                    1905   from the west curb line of Center Street westward to Maple Avenue.
97                                  9-19-  Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing of Stewart Avenue between Main
                                    1905   Street and Poplar Street and providing for the cost of the same.
98                                  11-6-  Authorizing a change of grade on North Center Street in the borough, extending
                                    1905   from Locust Street northward.
                                    12-4-  Authorizing the curbing and paving of Blair Avenue in the borough, extending
99                                  1905   from the west curb line of Broad Street westward to the east curb line of Mill
                                           Street.
                                    4-13-  Authorizing the curbing and paving of Center Street in the borough, extending
102                                 1906   from the north curb line of Main Street northward to the south curb line of
                                           Pine Avenue.
                                    4-20-  Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing of Elm Street between Main and
103                                 1906   Poplar Streets and providing for the assessment and collection of the costs and
                                           expenses of the same.
104                                 4-20-  For a change of grade on certain portions of Elm, Stewart, Center Streets and
                                    1906   Blair Avenue in the borough. This refers to:
                                         1. Blair Street, Broad Street to Mill Street;
                                         2. Elm Street, Poplar Street to Main Street;
                                         3. Stewart Street, Poplar Street to Main Street; and
                                         4. Center Street, Main Street to Pine Street.)
                                    5-5-   Authorizing the paving and curbing of Center Street in the borough, extending
105                                 1906   from the centerline of Pine Avenue northward to the south curb line of Blair
                                           Avenue.
                                    6-18-  Authorizing the curbing of East Pine Avenue in the borough, extending from the
107                                 1906   east curb line of Broad Street eastward to an alley on the west side of the
                                           bridge over the McMillan Run.
                                    8-20-  Authorizing a change of sidewalk grade on Main Street. (This refers to the
108                                 1906   portion from the west line of Kinder Street to a point 242.8 feet west
                                           thereof.)
109                                 6-18-  Authorizing the paving of Filer Alley in the borough, extending from Pine
                                    1907   Street northward to Blair Avenue.
                                           Authorizing the opening of South Harvard Street, Poplar Street from Center to
                                    6-18-  Water Street, Craig Street from Tidball Avenue to Poplar Street, Chestnut
111                                 1907   Street, McConnell Street and also street grades on Poplar and McConnell Street.
                                           (The grade was fixed on Poplar Street from Chestnut Street to Water Street; on
                                           McConnell Street from Chestnut Street to Dale Street.)
114                                 10-2-  Authorizing the relocation of that part of Filer Alley between Pine Avenue and
                                    1907   Blair Avenue.
115                                 10-2-  Authorizing the paving of Erie Avenue, extending from Broad Street to Second
                                    1907   Street, also establishing grade of Erie Avenue.
116                                 10-2-  Annulling the alley between the Shorts and Hill properties on Craig Street,
                                    1907   running southward.
123                                 7-8-   Vacating that portion of West Main Street between the point where the present
                                    1908   paving ends and the borough line.
                                           Authorizing the taking and opening for public use an extension of West Main
124                                 7-8-   Street, and establishing the grade thereof. (The street was extended from the
                                    1908   existing paving to the west borough line, and the width fixed at 60 feet. The
                                           portion was from end of existing paving to the west borough line.)
                                           Locating Lincoln Avenue and fixing the street, curb and sidewalk grade thereof.
126                                 5-7-   (This refers to the portion from N. Broad Street to Madison Street, the width
                                    1909   fixed at 33-1/2 feet from Broad Street to the Wolf Creek bridge, 60 feet from
                                           the bridge to Madison Street.)
                                    5-7-   Locating Princeton Street and fixing the grade of the street, curb and sidewalk
127                                 1909   thereof. (The portion was from Lincoln Avenue to Bessemer Street, with a width
                                           of 50 feet.)
                                    5-7-   Locating Madison Street and fixing the street, curb and sidewalk grade thereof.
128                                 1909   (This refers to the portion from Lincoln Avenue to Bessemer Avenue, at a width
                                           of 60 feet.)
                                    5-7-   Locating Bessemer Avenue and fixing the street, curb and sidewalk grade
129                                 1909   thereof. (This refers to the portion from Harvard Street to Madison Street, at
                                           a width of 50 feet.)
                                    5-7-   Locating North Harvard Street and fixing the grade of the street, curb and
130                                 1909   sidewalk thereof. (This refers to the portion from Lincoln Avenue to Bessemer
                                           Avenue, at 50 feet.)
132                                 6-2-   Locating South Broad Street between Poplar and Main Streets and fixing the
                                    1909   street, curb and sidewalk grade thereof. (The width was fixed at 50 feet.)
133                                 6-2-   Locating Poplar Avenue and fixing the street, curb and sidewalk grade thereof.
                                    1909   (The width was to be 40 feet.)
                                           Locating North Center Street and fixing the street, curb and sidewalk grade
135                                 7-7-   thereof. (This refers to the portion from Erie Avenue to Gilmore Avenue; the
                                    1909   width was fixed at 50 feet to an angle 78.10 feet from the point of beginning,
                                           40 feet elsewhere.)
                                    7-7-   Locating Craig Street and fixing the street, curb and sidewalk grade thereof.
136                                 1909   (This refers to the portion from Poplar Street to Tidball Avenue; the width was
                                           fixed at 40 feet.)
                                    7-7-   Locating Park Avenue and fixing the street, curb and sidewalk grade thereof.
137                                 1909   (This refers to the portion from S. Monroe Street to the southeast borough
                                           line; the width was fixed at 50 feet.)
                                    7-7-   Locating East Main Street and fixing the street, curb and sidewalk grade
139                                 1909   thereof. (This refers to the portion from Broad Street to the east borough
                                           line; the width was fixed at 50 feet.)
145                                 11-10- Annulling Walnut Street from East Main Street northward.
                                    1909
                                    4-6-   Authorizing the location, opening and dedication to public use and travel
146                                 1910   Harvard Street, and fixing the street, curb and sidewalk grades thereof from
                                           Lincoln Avenue to centerline of Pine Avenue. (The width was fixed at 50 feet.)
147                                 3-2-   Annulling an alley (12-foot) running from west side of McConnell Street between
                                    1910   Lots Nos. 16 and 17 to an alley in rear of said lots.
153                                 8-10-  Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing of College Avenue from Broad to
                                    1910   Center Street.
                                           Locating, opening, widening and paving, grading and curbing North Broad Street.
154                                 8-10-  (This refers to the portion from Chestnut Street to the north borough line at
                                    1910   Mercer Road; the width was fixed at 50 feet, except for an angular portion
                                           north of Dale Street.)
155                                 8-10-  Annulling 2 unnamed alleys in the borough. This refers to:
                                    1910
                                         1. Alley from the south side of McConnell Street, running south between Lots 2
                                           and 3, for 160 feet-12 feet wide; and
155 (Cont’d)                            2. Alley from the south side of McConnell Street, running south between Lots 4
                                           and 5, for 160 feet-12 feet wide.
                                           Annulling and closing for public use and travel the following named streets and
156                                 8-10-  alleys or parts thereof, to wit: Peach Alley, Jefferson Street, Hazel Alley,
                                    1910   Oak Street, Oakland Avenue and all unnamed streets and alleys as shown on the
                                           Grove City Improvement Company’s Plan of Lots of February, 1902.
                                           Extending, locating and opening East Pine Avenue and fixing the street, curb
158                                 9-6-   and sidewalk grade thereof. (This refers to the portion between Monroe Street
                                    1910   and the east borough line; the width was fixed at 50 feet. For ordinance
                                           repealing this ordinance in part, see Ord. 488.)
                                    8-2-   Annulling and closing for public use and travel a public road. (This was a 33-
167                                 1911   foot road running 676 feet northwest from Oak Street to property line of A.B.
                                           McKay and D.J. Washabaugh.)
                                           Locating and opening for public use and travel a street known as Superior
168                                 11-8-  Street, in the borough, and fixing the curb, sidewalk and street grade of the
                                    1911   same. (This refers to the street, 50 feet wide, between Poplar and Stockton
                                           Avenue; the width was fixed at 50 feet.)
                                           For annulling and vacating Hazel Alley in the borough. (The alley began at the
173                                 9-4-   south side of a 12-foot alley running east-west, at a point about 120 feet
                                    1912   north of Oakland Avenue and about 370 feet east of Madison Street, and extended
                                           south about 800 feet to Bessemer Avenue.)
                                           Locating Madison Street, fixing the sidewalk and curb grades and authorizing
175                                 5-7-   the grading and curbing thereof from Lincoln Avenue to Woodland Avenue. (This
                                    1913   refers to the portion from Lincoln Avenue to Woodland Avenue; the width was
                                           fixed at 60 feet.)
                                           Locating Woodland Avenue and Woodland Drive, fixing the sidewalk and curb
176                                 5-7-   grades and authorizing the grading, paving and curbing thereof from Bluff
                                    1913   Street to Forest Drive. (The width of Woodland Avenue from Bluff Street to
                                           Jefferson Street was fixed at 50 feet; the width of Woodland Drive at 40 feet.)
                                           For annulling and vacating of all the streets and alleys within a certain
                                           portion of the borough, and bounded on the north by the borough line, on the
                                    8-6-   east by the borough line, on the south by Oakland Avenue, and on the west by
177                                 1913   Madison Street; including all of Jefferson Street lying north of Oakland
                                           Avenue, all of Opre Avenue lying east of Madison Street, all of an unnamed
                                           street, within said borough, lying north of Opre Avenue, and running east and
                                           west, and all alleys within said portion of the borough.
178                                 8-6-   For the annulling and vacating of a 12-foot alley east of Jefferson Street
                                    1913   south of Oakland Avenue, north of Woodland Drive in the borough.
179                                 8-6-   For annulling and vacating a portion of Cherry Alley in the borough. (This
                                    1913   refers to the portion between Oakland Avenue and Woodland Avenue.)
                                           Authorizing the paving and curbing and establishing the grade of the portion of
180                                 9-3-   East Main Street, between the east end of Wolf Creek bridge and the west line
                                    1913   of Jacob Snyder’s land and providing for the assessment and collection of the
                                           expense of said paving, grading and curbing and making of contracts.
                                           Locating a part of State Street, fixing the curb grades and authorizing the
187                                 6-5-   grading, curbing and paving thereof from the north line of Gilmore Avenue to a
                                    1914   point 250 feet north of Bronze Alley. (The width was fixed at 60 feet, except
                                           for an irregular portion described in the ordinance.)
                                           Locating Gilmore Avenue, fixing the curb grades and authorizing the grading,
190                                 6-6-   paving and curbing thereof from the west line of North Broad Street to the west
                                    1914   building line of State Street. (The width of this portion was fixed at 60 feet.
                                           For amendment to this ordinance, see Ord. 192.)
                                           Amending § 3 of an ordinance passed by the Council of the borough, 6-5-1914,
192                                 7-3-   locating Gilmore Avenue. (For ordinance amended, see Ord. 190; the amendment
                                    1914   affected only the width of the paving. The amendment provided for paving 24
                                           feet wide, not 22 feet.)
193                                 8-7-   Fixing the sidewalk grades for Hickory Street, from the north line of East Main
                                    1914   Street to a point 850 feet northward.
                                           Providing for the opening and extension of Mill Street in the borough, through
                                           and across the right-of-way and property of the Bessemer and Lake Erie RR
                                           Company, prescribing the manner of such crossing, condemning the land rights
                                           and easements necessary therefor, providing for the assessment and
                                    9-11-  determination of the damages and benefits accruing therefrom; providing for the
196                                 1914   presenting of a petition to the Public Service Commission of the state for the
                                           issuing of a certificate of public convenience for the extension of the
                                           aforesaid street, and that the cost of extending the said street be apportioned
                                           by the said Commission between the Bessemer and Lake Erie Railroad Company, the
                                           borough and such other individuals, corporations or municipalities as the
                                           Commission may determine.
                                           Providing for the extending and opening of Harvard Street, in the borough,
                                           through and across the right-of-way and property of the B & LE RR Co.;
                                           prescribing the manner of such crossing; condemning the land rights and
                                           easements necessary therefor; providing for the assessment and determination of
197                                 9-4-   the damages and benefits accruing therefrom; providing for the presenting of a
                                    1914   petition to the Public Service Commission of the state for the issuing of a
                                           certificate of public convenience for the extension of the aforesaid street;
                                           and the cost of extending the said street be apportioned by the said Commission
                                           between the B & LE RR Co., the borough and such other individuals, corporations
                                           or municipalities as the Commission may determine.
                                    5-7-   Establishing the centerline and sidewalk grades on that portion of Second
200                                 1915   Street part of which is known as Woodard Avenue, between Blaine Street and
                                           Rosedale Boulevard.
                                    1-29-  For the annulling and vacating of a 15-foot alley running east of Monroe
211                                 1917   Street, and forming the northern boundary for a distance of 254 feet of the
                                           lands of S.M. Stevenson in the borough.
                                    4-7-   Locating Second Street, fixing the curb grades and authorizing the grading,
213                                 1917   paving and curbing thereof from the north line of Blaine Street to the south
                                           line of Erie Avenue. (The width was fixed at 40 feet.)
214                                 4-17-  Locating Blaine Street, fixing the curb grades and authorizing the grading,
                                    1917   paving and curbing thereof from
214 (Cont’d)                            the west line of North Broad Street to the east line of Second Street. (The
                                           width was fixed at 45 feet.)
                                    2-1-   For annulling and vacating an unnamed alley in the borough. (This refers to a
221-A                               1918   15-foot alley running north-south between Park Avenue and an alley parallel to
                                           Pine Avenue.)
                                           Application for state aid on routes. (The request was for paving E. Main
Res. 222                            3-2-   Street, from the end of existing paving to the township line, a distance of
                                    1918   1,400 feet, and for W. Main Street, from the existing paving to the township
                                           line, a distance of 2,100 feet.)
                                    4-11-  Regarding Second Street and Blaine Street paving. (This validated work done
Res. 223                            1918   under Ords. 213 and 214, these ordinances erroneously stating as legal
                                           authority for the work an Act that had been repealed.)
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing of that portion of E. Main Street,
                                           as hereinafter described and providing for the assessment and collection of the
229                                 4-5-   expenses of said grading, paving and making of contracts for the improvement of
                                    1919   the same. (This refers to the portion from the end of existing paving of 4-1-
                                           1919, to the east borough line, the state to improve to a width of 18 feet and
                                           the borough an additional 6 feet.)
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing and establishing the grade of that
                                           portion of West Main Street as hereinafter described and providing for the
                                    4-5-   assessment and collection of the expense of said grading, paving and curbing
230                                 1919   and making of contracts for the improvement of the same. (This refers to the
                                           portion between the end of paving as of 4-1-1919, and the west borough line,
                                           the state to improve to a width of 18 feet and the borough an additional 6
                                           feet.)
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing of Stewart Street or Stewart
                                    4-5-   Avenue, as hereinafter described and providing for the assessment and
231                                 1919   collection of the expense of said grading and curbing and making of contracts
                                           for the improvement of the same. (This refers to the portion from Poplar Street
                                           to a point 511 feet south at a 12-foot alley.)
233                                 6-6-   Requesting the improvement of East and West Main Street and agreeing to
                                    1919   contribute to the cost thereof.
Res. 234                            6-6-   Application for state aid on routes. (The request for improvement of Main
                                    1919   Street.)
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing of Tidball Avenue between the
                                    7-2-   intersection of South Center Street with said Tidball Avenue and the
239                                 1919   intersection of South Broad Street with said Tidball Avenue, being a distance
                                           of about 651 feet, and providing for the assessment and collection of the
                                           expense of said grading and paving.
                                           Locating Tidball Avenue from South Center Street to the north line of a 40-foot
240                                 8-2-   street and fixing and establishing the street, curb and sidewalk grade thereof.
                                    1919   (The width was fixed at 30 feet between Center Street and Craig Street, 50 feet
                                           between Craig Street and the 40-foot street.)
                                    10-18- For the annulling and vacating of Gypsum and Willow Alleys in part in the
244                                 1919   borough. (Willow Alley was a 12-foot alley running from Brass Alley to
                                           Hillcrest Avenue, Gypsum Alley ran from Willow Alley to Oakland Avenue.)
247                                 2-7-   Annulling and vacating an unnamed and unopened alley between Grace Street
                                    1920   properties and land of Grove City College in the borough.
                                           Assessing the cost of grading, paving and otherwise improving 8 feet of West
                                           Main Street in width and for a distance of 3,840.54 feet and from the end of
250                                 2-5-   paving of date of 4-4-1919, to the borough line on the west, upon the
                                    1921   properties bounding and abutting on said portion of West Main Street, and
                                           providing for the collection thereof in accordance with the Act of Assembly of
                                           1915 of May 14, P.L. 312, amendments thereof, and supplements thereto.
                                           Assessing the cost of grading, paving and curbing, and otherwise improving 8
                                           feet of East Main Street in width and for a distance of 2,847.70 feet and from
251                                 2-5-   the end of paving of 4-4-1919, to the borough line on the east, upon the
                                    1912   properties bounding and abutting on said portion of East Main Street, and
                                           providing for the collection thereof in accordance with the Act of Assembly of
                                           1915, of May 14, P.L. 312, amendments thereof, and supplements thereto.
                                    4-12-  Untitled ordinance vacating an unnamed alley, south of the high school
255                                 1921   property, for a distance of 30 feet, between an alley on the east and an alley
                                           on the west.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing and provide for the necessary
                                    4-12-  drainage thereof of North Center Street, from the street line of Erie Avenue to
257                                 1921   the south street line of Gilmore Avenue, and providing for the assessment and
                                           collection of expense of said grading, paving and curbing, and necessary
                                           drainage. (For amendment to this ordinance, see Ord. 265.)
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing and provide for the necessary
                                    4-12-  drainage thereof of part of Lincoln Avenue from intersection of Madison to
258                                 1921   Washington Boulevard, and Woodland Drive, from Washington Boulevard to Forest
                                           Drive, a distance of 2,557.52 feet. (For amendment to this ordinance, see Ord.
                                           266.)
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing and providing for the necessary
                                           drainage thereof of Bessemer Avenue from the intersection of North Harvard
261                                 5-7-   Street to West Washington Boulevard, a distance of 2,264 feet, and providing
                                    1921   for the assessment and collection of expense of grading, paving and curbing,
                                           and providing for the necessary drainage. (For amendment to this ordinance, see
                                           Ord. 306.)
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and otherwise improving of Jefferson
                                    5-7-   Street from the north line of Bessemer Avenue, to the intersection of Woodland
262                                 1921   Drive, 160 feet, and providing for the assessment and collection of expense of
                                           grading, paving and curbing and otherwise improving thereof. (For amendment to
                                           this ordinance, see Ord. 305.)
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing and providing for the necessary
                                           drainage thereof of Harvard Street, from the north line of Pine Street to the
263                                 5-7-   south line of Woodland Avenue a distance of 1,356.44 feet, and providing for
                                    1921   the assessment and collection of expense of grading, paving and curbing and
                                           providing for the necessary drainage. (For amendment to this ordinance, see
                                           Ord. 303.)
                                           To amend an ordinance approved 4-12-1921, entitled “An Ordinance authorizing
265                                 5-7-   the grading, paving and curbing and providing for the necessary drainage
                                    1921   thereof of North Center Street”. (For ordinance amended, see Ord. 257. For
                                           amendment to this ordinance, see Ord. 208.)
                                           To amend an ordinance approved 4-12-1921, entitled “An Ordinance authorizing
266                                 5-7-   the grading, paving and curbing, . . of part of Lincoln Avenue, . . and
                                    1921   Woodland Drive . . . .” (For ordinance amended, see Ord. 258. For ordinance
                                           amending this ordinance, see Ord. 307.)
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving and otherwise improving a part of Lincoln
267                                 5-7-   Avenue from the intersection of West Washington Boulevard to East Washington
                                    1921   Boulevard, a distance of 350 feet, and providing for the assessment and
                                           collection of expense of grading, paving and otherwise improving thereof.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing and otherwise improving of Pine
270                                 7-2-   Street from the east property line of Charles F. Ray to the east street line of
                                    1921   Harvard Street, and providing for the assessment and collection of the expense
                                           for said grading, paving, curbing and otherwise improving said street.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and otherwise improving of Monroe
271                                 7-2-   Street from the north street line of Lincoln Avenue to Bluff Street, and
                                    1921   providing for the assessment and collection of the expense for the grading,
                                           paving and otherwise improving of said street.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing and providing for the necessary
                                           drainage thereof, of Superior Street and Columbia Avenue, from the south street
274                                 8-6-   line of Poplar Street to the north street line of Center Street, and providing
                                    1921   for the assessment and collection of the expense of said grading, paving and
                                           curbing and necessary drainage. (For amendment to this ordinance, see Ord.
                                           304.)
276                                 11-5-  Locating and opening for public use and travel a street known as Lincoln Avenue
                                    1921   in the borough, and fixing the curb grade of the same.
277                                 11-5-  Locating and opening for public use and travel a street known as Jefferson
                                    1921   Street in the borough, and fixing the curb grade of the same.
278                                 11-5-  Locating and opening for public use and travel a street known as South Harvard
                                    1921   Street in the borough, and fixing the curb grade of the same.
280                                 12-3-  Annulling and vacating an unnamed alley extending from east side of Jefferson
                                    1921   Street to the west side of Forest Drive in the borough.
                                    12-3-  Assessing the cost and expense of the improvement of that portion of Monroe
281                                 1921   Street, and providing for the collection of the same. (This relates to work
                                           done under Ord. 271.)
282                                 12-3-  Annulling and vacating a portion of Cherry Alley, extending from Lincoln
                                    1921   Avenue, north to an unnamed alley in the borough.
286                                 12-3-  Annulling and vacating an unnamed alley extending from North Center Street to
                                    1921   Birch Alley and between Lots 8 and 10, Hillcrest Plan of Lots in the borough.
                                    12-3-  Assessing the cost and expense of the improvement of that portion of E. Pine
288                                 1921   Street, and providing for the collection of the same. (This refers to work done
                                           under Ord. 270.)
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing, and providing for the necessary
                                           drainage thereof, of Liberty Street, from the south street line of East Main
289                                 3-4-   Street to a point 100 feet north of the borough line on the south, and
                                    1922   providing for the assessment and collection of expense of said grading, paving
                                           and curbing, and necessary drainage, and providing for the issue of bonds to
                                           provide for the cost and expense of said improvement.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and otherwise improving of Stewart
                                    3-4-   Street, from south side of College Avenue to north side of West Main Street,
290                                 1922   and providing for the assessment and collection of the expense of said grading,
                                           paving, curbing and the like, and providing for the issue of bonds to provide
                                           for the cost and expense of said improvement.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and otherwise improving College Avenue
                                    3-4-   from west side of Elm and end of Pine Street to west side of Kinder Avenue, and
291                                 1922   providing for the assessment and collection of the expense of said grading,
                                           paving, curbing and the like, and providing for the issue of bonds to provide
                                           the cost and expense of said improvement.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing and providing for the necessary
292                                 4-8-   drainage thereof of Grace Street extending from the south side of Pine Street
                                    1922   southerly for a distance of 420.80 feet, and authorizing the assessment of the
                                           costs and collecting the same.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing and providing for the necessary
292-B                               4-8-   drainage thereof of part of Barmore Avenue extending from the south side of
                                    1922   Poplar Street to the east side of Stewart Avenue, for a distance of 933 feet,
                                           and authorizing the assessment of the costs and collecting of the same.
                                    5-6-   Untitled ordinance annulling and vacating a portion of an unnamed alley located
293                                 1922   between the properties of James Howe and Alice McCoy, and running from Poplar
                                           Street north toward Main Street, to Arnold Avenue.
                                    7-8-   Untitled ordinance vacating a portion of an unnamed 12-foot alley located
297                                 1922   between Barmore Avenue and S. Center Street and in the rear of Lots 4 through
                                           10 of the Tony Hill Plan.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing, and providing for the necessary
                                    7-10-  drainage thereof, of a part of Jackson Street, from the west side of Center
300                                 1922   Street to the intersection of College Avenue, and authorizing the assessment of
                                           expenses and costs and collecting of the same, and if necessary the issuance of
                                           bonds in payment.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and providing for the necessary
301                                 8-5-   drainage of Kinder Avenue from the south street line of College Avenue to the
                                    1922   north street line of Main Street, and providing for the assessment of the cost
                                           and expense of said improvement and the collection of the said assessment.
                                           To amend an ordinance entitled “An Ordinance authorizing the grading, paving
                                           and curbing and providing for the necessary drainage thereof of Harvard Street
                                           approved 5-6-1921, by adding to said ordinance provisions establishing a
303                                 8-5-   sinking fund, and authorizing and adopting the form, number and date of
                                    1922   maturity of the bonds to be assessed to provide a fund for the payment of said
                                           expenses prior to the collection of said assessment, and directing the proper
                                           officers of the borough to execute, sell and issue said bonds. (For ordinance
                                           amended, see Ord. 263.)
                                           To amend an ordinance entitled “An Ordinance authorizing the grading, paving,
                                           curbing and providing for the necessary drainage thereof of Superior Street and
                                           Columbia Avenue, . . .,” approved 8-7-1921, by adding to said ordinance
304                                 8-5-   provisions establishing a sinking fund and authorizing and adopting the form,
                                    1922   number and date of maturity of the bonds to be issued, to provide a fund for
                                           the payment of said expenses prior to the collection of said assessments, and
                                           directing the proper officers of the borough to execute, sell and issue said
                                           bonds. (The ordinance amended is listed in Ord. 274.)
                                           To amend an ordinance entitled “An Ordinance authorizing the grading, paving
                                           and curbing and otherwise improving of Jefferson Street . . .,” approved 5-7-
                                           1921, by adding to said ordinance provisions establishing a sinking fund, and
305                                 8-5-   authorizing the form, number...” and date of maturity of the bonds to be
                                    1922   issued, to provide a fund for the payment of said expenses prior to the
                                           collection of said assessments, and directing the proper officers of the
                                           borough to execute, sell and issue said bonds. (The ordinance amended is listed
                                           in Ord. 262.)
                                           To amend an ordinance entitled “An Ordinance authorizing the grading, paving,
                                           curbing and providing for the necessary drainage thereof of Bessemer Avenue . .
                                           .,” approved 5-7-1921, by adding to said ordinance provisions establishing a
306                                 8-5-   sinking fund and authorizing and adopting the form, number and date of maturity
                                    1922   of the bonds to be issued, to provide a fund for the payment of said expenses
                                           prior to the collection of said assessments, and directing the proper officers
                                           of the borough to execute, sell and issue said bonds. (For ordinance amended,
                                           see Ord. 261.)
                                           To amend an ordinance authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and providing
                                           for the necessary drainage thereof of part of Lincoln Avenue . . . and Woodland
                                           Drive . . . approved 5-7-1921, by adding to said ordinance provisions
                                    8-5-   establishing a sinking fund and authorizing and adopting the form, number and
307                                 1922   date of maturity of the bonds to be issued to provide a fund for the payment of
                                           said expenses, prior to the collection of the assessments and directing the
                                           proper officers of the borough to execute, sell and issue said bonds. (This
                                           amends the ordinance listed in Ord. 266, and indirectly that listed in Ord.
                                           258.)
                                           To amend an ordinance authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and providing
                                           for the necessary drainage thereof of North Center Street . . ., approved 5-7-
                                           1921, by adding to said ordinance provisions establishing a sinking fund, and
308                                 8-5-   authorizing and adopting the form, number and date of maturity of the bonds to
                                    1922   be issued to provide a fund for the payment of said expense prior to the
                                           collection of said assessments, and directing the proper officers of the
                                           borough to execute, sell and issue said bonds. (This amended the ordinance
                                           listed in Ord. 265, and indirectly that listed in Ord. 257.)
                                    9-3-   For the annulling and vacating an alley, unopened and unnamed, located between
314                                 1920   Lots 26 and 27 of the W. A. Stewart Addition and running from Stewart Avenue to
                                           Center Street in the borough.
                                           Authorizing and directing the grading, paving, curbing and otherwise improving
316                                 5-17-  of Second Street from Blaine Street to Hillcrest Avenue and providing the costs
                                    1923   and damages and expenses of the same be assessed against and collected from the
                                           property according to benefits.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and otherwise improving of Poplar
317                                 5-17-  Street, as herein described, and providing for the assessment of the cost and
                                    1923   expense, the collection of the same and the making of contracts for said
                                           construction. (This refers to the portion from Broad to Center Street.)
                                    5-17-  Authorizing and directing the grading, paving and curbing of Hillcrest Street
318                                 1923   from State Street to Second Street and providing that the cost, damages and
                                           expenses of the same be assessed and collected from the properties benefitted.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and providing for the necessary
322                                 7-6-   drainage thereof of College Avenue from the west side of Center Street to the
                                    1923   east side of Elm Street, and providing for the assessment and collection of the
                                           cost and expenses of the same.
                                    7-6-   Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing and providing for the necessary
323                                 1923   drainage of Gilmore Avenue from State Street to Second Street, and providing
                                           for the assessment of costs and expenses of the same.
325                                 8-10-  Annulling a 14-foot alley from Jackson Street to College Avenue between
                                    1923   properties of E. J. Robinson and Harriet Robinson.
326                                 8-10-  Annulling and closing for public use and travel certain herein described
                                    1923   streets and alleys in the borough This refers to:
                                         1. Orchard Alley, from the south side of Lincoln Avenue to the north side of
                                           Railroad Street;
                                         2. Princeton Street, from the south side of Lincoln Avenue to the north side of
                                           Railroad Street;
                                         3. Peach Alley, from the south side of Lincoln Avenue to the north side of
                                           Railroad Street;
                                         4. Elm Alley, from the east side of Harvard Street to the west side of Madison
                                           Street; and
                                         5. Railroad Street, from the east side of Harvard Street to the west side of
                                           Madison Street.
                                         However, all sewer rights, sanitary and storm, were reserved for borough
                                           purposes over and along these streets and alleys.
327                                 3-3-   Annulling an alley between 2 lots of Mrs. I.G. Sloss on Garden Avenue.
                                    1923
                                    6-4-   Opening and establishing for public use and travel a 12-foot alley known as
328                                 1923   Mill Alley between the properties of Callahan and Ramsey and from Jackson
                                           Street to an alley.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and otherwise improving of Madison
330                                 4-12-  Street between Woodland Avenue and the north street line of Opre Avenue, and
                                    1924   providing for the assessment and collection of the cost and expense of the
                                           same.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving, providing the necessary drainage, and
332                                 4-12-  establishing the grade of Spring Street between Poplar Street and Columbia
                                    1924   Avenue, and providing for the assessment and collection of the cost and expense
                                           of the same.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and otherwise improving of North
333                                 4-12-  Center Street, from Gilmore Avenue to Mercer Road, and providing for the
                                    1924   assessment of the cost and expense of the same, and collection thereof, and
                                           making of the contract for the said improvement.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and otherwise improving of Stewart
334                                 4-12-  Avenue, from a point 167 feet north of Stockton Avenue to South Center Street,
                                    1924   and providing for the assessment of the cost and expense of the same and
                                           collection thereof; and the making of the contract for the said improvement.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and otherwise improving of State
335                                 4-12-  Street between Gilmore Avenue and Blaine Street, and providing for the
                                    1924   assessment of the cost and expense of the same and collection thereof, and the
                                           making of the contract for the said improvement.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and otherwise improving of East and
                                           West Washington Boulevard, and providing for the assessment of the cost and
336                                 5-20-  expenses of the same, and collection thereof, and the making of the contract
                                    1924   for the said improvement. (This refers to East Washington Boulevard from
                                           Lincoln Avenue to West Washington Boulevard; West Washington Boulevard, south
                                           to Woodland Drive.)
340                                 6-16-  Locating Spring Street between West Main Street and Poplar Street and fixing
                                    1924   the sidewalk and curb and street grades thereof.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and otherwise improving of Hillcrest
342                                 7-15-  Avenue, from west side of Center Street to end of present paving, and providing
                                    1924   for the assessment of the cost and expense of the same and the collection of
                                           the said assessment.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving and curbing and otherwise improving of Spring
343                                 7-15-  Street, from west line of Main Street to south line of Poplar Street, said
                                    1924   borough, and providing for the cost and expense of the same and the collection
                                           of said assessment.
                                    7-7-   Authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and providing the necessary drainage
344                                 1924   thereof of Grant Street, from Erie Avenue to Blaine Street, and providing for
                                           the assessment and collection of the cost and expense of the same.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and providing the necessary drainage
345                                 7-7-   thereof of Woodland Drive between East Washington Boulevard and West Washington
                                    1924   Boulevard, and providing for the assessment and collection of the cost and
                                           expense of the same.
                                           Annulling and vacating an alley, unnamed, as hereinafter described in the
348                                 10-6-  borough. (The alley was located between Lots 47 and 48, W.A. Stewart Addition,
                                    1924   extending from the west side of Stewart Street 150 feet in a westerly direction
                                           to the east side of another alley.)
                                           Annulling and vacating an unnamed alley as hereinafter described in the
349                                 10-6-  borough. (The alley was located between Lots 45 and 46, W.A. Stewart Addition,
                                    1924   extending from the west side of Stewart Street 150 feet in a westerly direction
                                           to another alley.)
                                    2-9-   Approving the lines, grades, drainage structures and all other structures
Res. 350                            1925   appearing on plans showing proposed reconstruction work in said borough. (This
                                           refers to work on Main Street, extending for 3,048 feet.)
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and otherwise improving Craig Street
352                                 4-9-   in the borough, and providing for the assessment of the costs and expenses of
                                    1925   said improvement and the collection of the same. (This refers to the portion
                                           from Poplar Street to Tidball Avenue.)
                                    6-5-   Authorizing the grading and curbing of Highland Avenue from Main Street to
354                                 1925   north side of Rebecca Street, and providing for the assessment of the cost and
                                           expenses of the said improvement and the collection of the same.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving and otherwise improving Filer Alley from Pine
355                                 6-10-  Street southerly to end of present paving leading northerly from College
                                    1925   Avenue, and providing for the assessment of the cost and expense of the
                                           improvement and collection of the same.
                                           Annulling and vacating that portion of Mill Street as herein described, lying
356                                 5-10-  south from Jackson Street. (This refers to all of the street south of Jackson
                                    1925   Street except for a 12-foot street or alley in the center thereof, running
                                           south from Jackson Street to the end of Mill Street.)
                                    5-7-   Authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and otherwise improving of Columbia
357                                 1925   Avenue from Stockton Avenue to Superior Street, and providing for the
                                           assessment of the cost and expense of the same, and the collection thereof.
                                           Annulling and vacating an unnamed alley running north from Jackson Street, and
358                                 6-8-   lying between the properties of Mrs. A.D. Coulter and Mrs. Mary A. Weaver. (The
                                    1925   borough reserved sewer rights and rights for construction of manholes, with
                                           rights of egress and ingress.)
359                                 8-4-   Annulling and vacating all that part of Barmore Avenue lying 17 feet southeast
                                    1925   of the present centerline of paved street opposite lot of J.A. Welker.
360                                 12-6-  Annulling and vacating Oak Alley between Princeton Street and Orchard Alley in
                                    1925   the borough.
361                                 12-6-  Annulling and vacating Orchard Alley between Woodland Drive and Oakland Avenue
                                    1925   in the borough.
                                           Providing for the vacating and annulling of a portion of a certain alley as
                                    5-7-   hereinafter described. (This refers to a 30-foot alley extending from Broad
362                                 1926   Street westerly and parallel with Main Street and Poplar Street, for
                                           approximately 60 feet, bounded on the north and south by land of First
                                           Presbyterian Church. It was to be vacated to an alley 12 feet in width.)
                                           Annulling and vacating an unnamed alley in the borough. (The alley ran from a
366                                 5-12-  point on the west side of Stewart Avenue, 150 feet north of Stockton Avenue,
                                    1927   extending >northwest 150 feet to a 12-foot alley between Stockton Avenue and
                                           Euclid Avenue, located between Lots 41 and 42, W.A. Stewart Plan of Lots.)
373; 1980 Code, Ch. 22, Part 1A, § 7-1-   Second Street renamed Edgewood Avenue.
1                                   1927
376                                 8-5-   Requesting the improvement of North Broad Street, and agreeing to contribute to
                                    1927   the cost thereof.
                                           Authorizing the grading, paving, curbing and otherwise improving of South Broad
380                                 6-1-   Street from the intersection of Main Street and South Broad Street to the
                                    1928   intersection of South Broad Street with Poplar Street and providing for the
                                           assessment of the cost and expense of the same and collection thereof.
                                           Vacating, annulling and closing for public use and travel certain herein
                                           described streets and alleys in the borough, and providing for the payment of
387                                 5-4-   the costs, damages and expenses thereof. (This refers to Monroe Street, between
                                    1929   Lincoln Avenue and the B & LE RR right-of-way; Elm Alley, west of Harvard
                                           Street; Railroad Street, west of Harvard Street; and Harvard Street between
                                           Lincoln Avenue and the B & LE RR right-of-way.)
                                    7-12-  Annulling a certain portion of an unnamed alley in the borough. (This alley ran
394                                 1930   200 feet west of Harvard Street, from the north line of Evergreen Alley to the
                                           south line of Bluff Street.)
                                           Regulating the improvement of Main Street, and agreeing to contribute to the
395                                 8-29-  cost thereof. (The state was to apply surface treatment to a width of 18 feet;
                                    1930   the borough wished to pay the cost of extending treatment the full width of the
                                           highway.)
396                                 10-3-  Annulling Coke Alley in the borough. (This 12-foot alley began at the east line
                                    1930   of N. Center Street, and extended north 120 feet.)
                                    2-7-   Annulling a portion of North Memorial Avenue, otherwise known as Hickory Street
400                                 1931   in the borough. (This refers to the portion from a point 650 feet north of the
                                           centerline of Main Street to E. Pine Street.)
                                    9-2-   Annulling an unnamed alley in the borough. (The alley was located 130 feet east
409                                 1932   of Elm Street and ran parallel to Elm Street, the entire length being annulled,
                                           from the south side of W. Main Street to the north side of W. Poplar Street.)
410                                 10-7-  Annulling portions of 2 unnamed alleys in the borough. This refers to:
                                    1932
                                           1. Alley 113 feet west of and parallel to Elm Street, bounded on the west by
                                         property of John C. Fisher and on the east by that of Mrs. M.B. Montgomery,
                                           being annulled from the north side of Poplar Street to an unnamed alley running
                                           east-west and adjoining rear of the above mentioned properties; and
                                           2. Alley 244 feet west of and parallel to Elm Street, bounded on the west by
                                         property of Dr. A.J. Catherwood and on the east by that of William A. Redmond,
                                           being annulled from the north side of W. Poplar Street to an alley running
                                           east-west and adjoining the rear of the above mentioned properties.
412                                 11-7-  Establishing the grades and elevation of Liberty Street in the borough.
                                    1932
                                           Vacating a certain portion of North Broad Street in the borough. (This refers
417                                 5-5-   to the portion from the west side of N. Broad Street at the north boundary of
                                    1933   James Cicero property, then southwest 45.85 feet, then northeast 5.65 feet,
                                           then northeast 40.88 feet to the place of beginning.)
                                    1-8-   Approving the plans of the Department of Highways of the Commonwealth, showing
Res. 418                            1934   proposed improvement on North Street. (This refers to North Street 908 feet in
                                           length, from Station 402+26 to 412+35.5)
                                    3-8-   Approving the plans of the Department of Highways of the Commonwealth, showing
Res. 419                            1934   proposed improvement on South Center Street. (This relates to the portion 1,471
                                           feet long, Station 955+76 to 963+89.)
                                           Approving and establishing the lines, grades, drainage structures and all other
422                                 4-7-   structures appearing in the plans of the Department of Highways of the
                                    1934   Commonwealth, showing proposed improvement of South Center Street in the
                                           borough. (This refers to 1,774.1 feet, from Sta. 955+76 to 973+50.1)
                                           Providing for finishing Terrace Avenue from south side of Lincoln Avenue to
424                                 7-6-   west side of East Washington Boulevard, a distance of 1,440 feet, with a two-
                                    1934   inch bituminous or penetration surface and for the payment of cost and expenses
                                           of said improvement.
                                    7-6-   Providing for finishing East Pine Street from east side of Harvard Street, east
425                                 1934   a distance of 540 feet, with a two-inch bituminous or penetration surface and
                                           for the payment of the cost and expense of said improvement.
                                    7-6-   Providing for finishing Summit Street from the south side of East Main Street,
426                                 1934   904 feet, with a two-inch bituminous or penetration surface, and for the
                                           payment of the cost and expenses of said improvement.
                                    7-6-   Providing for the finishing of East Poplar Street from the west side of
427                                 1934   Greenwood Drive, west 684 feet, with a two-inch bituminous or penetration
                                           surface and for the payment of the costs and expense for said improvements.
                                           Providing for the finishing of Walnut Street from the south side of East Main
428                                 7-6-   Street to north side of East Poplar Street, a distance of 344 feet, with a two-
                                    1934   inch bituminous or penetrating surface, and for the payment of the costs and
                                           expenses of said improvement.
                                    7-6-   Providing for the finishing of Garden Avenue from the south side of Craig
429                                 1934   Street, south 1,091 feet, with a two-inch bituminous or penetration surface and
                                           for the payment of the costs and expenses of said improvement.
                                           Providing for the finishing of Stockton Avenue from the west side of South
430                                 7-6-   Center Street to the east side of Spring Street, a distance of 848 feet, with a
                                    1934   two-inch bituminous or penetration surface and for the payment of the costs and
                                           expenses of said improvement.
                                           Providing for the finishing of Euclid Avenue from the west side of Stewart
431                                 7-6-   Avenue to the east side of Spring Street, a distance of 560.5 feet, with a two-
                                    1934   inch bituminous or penetration surface and for the payment of the cost and
                                           expenses of said improvement.
                                    7-6-   Providing for finishing Mill Street from the north side of Jackson Street to B
432                                 1934   & LE RR, a distance of 325 feet, with a two-inch bituminous or penetration
                                           surface and for the payment of the cost and expenses of said improvement.
                                           Providing for the finishing of Chestnut Street from the east side of State
433                                 7-6-   Street to the west side of McConnell Street, a distance of 851.66 feet, with a
                                    1934   two-inch bituminous or penetration surface, and for the payment of the cost and
                                           expenses of said improvement.
                                           Providing for the finishing of West Poplar Street from the east side of Spring
434                                 7-6-   Street to the west side of Superior Street, a distance of 239.33 feet, with a
                                    1934   two-inch bituminous or penetration surface and for the payment of the cost and
                                           expenses of such improvement.
                                           Providing for the finishing of McConnell Street from the north side of Chestnut
435                                 7-6-   Street to the south side of North Street, a distance of 1,098 feet with a two-
                                    1934   inch bituminous or penetration surface, and for the payment of the cost and
                                           expenses of such improvement.
                                    8-3-   Providing for the finishing of Rainey Avenue from the south side of East Main
436                                 1934   Street, south 662 feet, with a two-inch bituminous or penetrating surface, and
                                           for the payment of the cost and expense of said improvement.
                                    8-3-   Providing for finishing Monroe Street from the south side of Park Street, south
437                                 1934   189.5 feet, with a two-inch bituminous or penetration surface, and for the
                                           payment of the costs and expenses of said improvement.
443                                 6-1-   Establishing sidewalk grades on McConnell Street in the borough.
                                    1934
Res. 8/3/1934                       8-3-   Approving the proposed resurfacing by the Department of Highways of the
                                    1934   Commonwealth, on West Main Street in the borough.
                                           Providing for finishing Princeton Street from the north side of Lincoln Avenue
438                                 8-6-   to the south side of North Street, a distance of 1,915 feet, with a two-inch
                                    1934   bituminous or penetration surface, and for the payment of the costs and
                                           expenses of said improvement.
                                           Providing for the finishing of Franklin Place, beginning at the south street
                                           line of Terrace Avenue, thence south 38°30' east 120 feet to a point, thence
440                                 9-7-   south 5°0' west 210 feet to a point, thence south 46°30' east 35 feet to a
                                    1934   point, thence south 5°29' west 130 feet to the north line of east Pine Street
                                           with a two-inch bituminous or penetration surface and for the payment of the
                                           costs and expenses of said improvement.
448                                 5-3-   Establishing street grades on Stockton Avenue in the borough. (This refers to
                                    1935   the portion from Spring Street to a point 500 feet northwesterly thereof.)
452                                 12-6-  Annulling and vacating a portion of Peach Alley in the borough. (The portion
                                    1935   was between Lincoln Avenue and Woodland Avenue.)
                                    6-5-   Establishing sidewalk grades on McDowell Street in the borough. (This refers to
456                                 1936   the portion from W. Main Street to Station 4+50 of the centerline of McDowell
                                           Street.)
457                                 7-20-  To revise the lines and grades of South Center Street from West Main Street
                                    1936   south to end of the present brick pavement.
458                                 7-22-  To revise the lines and grades of East Main Street, from the east side of East
                                    1936   Main Street bridge to the east borough line.
                                           Annulling an unnamed alley in the borough. (This refers to an alley extending
                                    5-14-  from the east side of Stewart Street to the west side of South Center Street,
465                                 1937   between Lots 28 and 29, property of Carl Easter and C. H. Montgomery, being
                                           annulled for its entire length, 134 feet on the south side and 137 feet on the
                                           north side.)
467                                 8-6-   Establishing sidewalk grades on Garden Avenue in the borough. (This refers to
                                    1937   the portion south of Craig Street.)
                                           Untitled resolution fixing sidewalk grade and line on the east side of South
Res. 12/23/1937                     12-23- Center Street south of West Main Street, as a result of removal of tree and
                                    1937   existing sidewalk and curb, and requiring construction of new sidewalk in
                                           accordance with grade, and connecting with adjoining walks.
                                           Annulling an unnamed alley in the borough. (The alley extended from the east
                                           line of property of Mina McConnell to the west line of property of Alice M.
471                                 4-1-   Shaffer, being bounded on the north by land of Wilcon Company and on the south
                                    1938   by lots of Mina McConnell, R.H. Martin, J.W. Montgomery, W.J. McCurdy, and
                                           Alice M. Shaffer. It was vacated the entire length of 311 feet, but the borough
                                           reserved rights of way for utilities.)
                                           Annulling an unnamed alley in the borough. (The alley, bounded on the south by
473                                 6-3-   property of J.F. Sandrock, and on the north by that of Irene Perkins, was
                                    1938   annulled for its entire length, 150 feet, but the borough reserved rights of
                                           way for utilities.)
474                                 9-2-   Providing for the grading, curbing, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
                                    1938   improving Memorial Avenue, north of East Main Street in the borough.
475                                 9-2-   Providing for the grading, curbing, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
                                    1938   improving College Avenue, east of South Broad Street in the borough.
476                                 9-2-   Providing for the grading, curbing, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
                                    1938   improving Spruce Street, west of North Broad Street in the borough.
477                                 9-2-   Providing for the grading, curbing, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
                                    1938   improving McConnell Street, south of Chestnut Street in the borough.
478                                 9-2-   Providing for the grading, curbing, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
                                    1938   improving Miller Avenue in the borough.
                                    9-16-  Providing for the grading, curbing, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
480                                 1938   improving Riverside Avenue in the borough. (This refers to the portion from the
                                           south line of North Street, south 550 feet.)
                                    9-16-  Providing for the grading, curbing, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
481                                 1938   improving Barr Avenue in the borough. (This refers to the portion from the
                                           north line of W. Main Street, north 360 feet.)
                                    9-16-  Providing for the grading, curbing, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
482                                 1938   improving Memorial Avenue, south of East Main Street in the borough. (This
                                           refers to the portion from the south line of East Main Street, south 675 feet.)
                                           Providing for the grading, curbing, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
483                                 9-16-  improving Park Street, beginning at the eastern end of said street, at the
                                    1938   property line of the Lawrence Foundry Company, and extending in a westerly
                                           direction to the end of said street in the borough.
                                           Annulling an unnamed alley in the borough. (The alley extended from the west
487                                 3-3-   line of Stockton Avenue southeast 100 feet to the east line of another alley,
                                    1939   and was bounded on the north by Lots 17 and 18, and on the south by Lots 23 and
                                           24, W.A. Stewart Plan.)
                                           Relocating and extending East Pine Street and fixing street grades on said East
                                    4-7-   Pine Street. (This refers to the portion from a point 1,539.34 feet southeast
488                                 1939   of Broad Street, extended southeast to the right-of-way of the B & LE Railroad.
                                           The width was fixed at 50 feet. This ordinance repealed Ord. 158 and Ord. 398
                                           (not passed finally) insofar as inconsistent.)
                                           Untitled resolution stating the policy to make no further improvements on
Res. 3/24/1939                      3-24-  Center Street until a grade crossing across the B & LE Railroad be constructed,
                                    1939   and then the street would be widened, curves reduced, and used as a through
                                           traffic highway.
                                           Providing for the grading, curbing, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
490                                 2-2-   improving Greenwood Drive, south of East Poplar Street in the borough. (This
                                    1940   refers to the portion extending southwest of E. Poplar Street, a distance of
                                           360 feet.)
                                           Providing for the grading, curbing, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
491                                 2-2-   improving Lincoln Avenue, east of East Washington Boulevard in the borough.
                                    1940   (This refers to the portion extending southeast of East Washington Boulevard, a
                                           distance of 655.95 feet.)
                                    2-2-   Providing for the grading, curbing, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
492                                 1940   improving Maple Street in the borough. (This refers to the portion from East
                                           Main Street, southwestwardly for 600 feet.)
                                    2-2-   Annulling a portion of an unnamed alley in the borough. (The alley ran from the
493                                 1940   north side of another alley 145.5 feet north of Opre Avenue to another alley
                                           123.38 feet north of the south line of the aforementioned alley.)
                                    6-7-   Annulling an unnamed alley in the borough. (This alley extending from the west
496                                 1940   side of Barmore Avenue to the east line of Stewart Street, was vacated for its
                                           entire length, 131 feet.)
                                           Providing for the establishment of location and grade on Oak Hill Drive and for
499                                 3-18-  the grading, curbing, paving, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
                                    1941   improving Oak Hill Drive in the borough. (The street was to begin at Oakland
                                           Avenue and Jefferson Street and extend to Forest Drive, at a width of 40 feet.)
506                                 8-4-   Establishing sidewalk grades on Euclid Avenue west of Spring Street in the
                                    1941   borough.
                                           Providing for the establishment of location and grade on Forest Drive and for
507                                 8-4-   the grading, curbing, paving, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
                                    1941   improving Forest Drive in the borough. (This refers to the portion from Oakland
                                           Avenue to Oak Hill Drive, a distance of 640 feet.)
                                           Untitled resolution authorizing the Cooper-Bessemer Corporation to construct a
                                    5-1-   hard surface road from E. Pine Street in a northerly direction to their parking
Res. 5/1/1942                       1942   lot; stating the intent of the borough to construct the necessary drainage
                                           facilities, from the east side of the alley adjacent to the Penn Grove Hotel,
                                           west to Wolf Creek.
                                           Annulling an unopened street in the borough. (This refers to Cedar Avenue, a
512                                 7-25-  40-foot street, which was annulled from the east side of Garden Avenue a
                                    1942   distance of 150 feet to the west side of a 15-foot alley running parallel with
                                           Garden Avenue.)
                                    1-8-   Annulling a 12-foot alley located between Lots No. 14 and No. 15 and extending
514                                 1943   from the south side of Miller Avenue to a 12-foot alley at the rear of the
                                           above lots, which lots are in the R. M. Miller Plan of Lots.
516                                 8-6-   Establishing sidewalk and street grades on Sunset Avenue in the borough. (This
                                    1943   refers to the portion from S. Center Street to Spring Street.)
517                                 8-6-   Annulling an unnamed alley parallel with East Pine Street in the borough.
                                    1943
                                           Annulling an unnamed alley running parallel to West Main Street and West Poplar
523                                 5-4-   Street and located midway between said 2 streets. (The alley was located south
                                    1945   of W. Main Street and west of Highland Avenue, the centerline being 186 feet
                                           from and parallel to the centerline of W. Main Street.)
                                           Annulling an unnamed alley being on the east side of, and at right angles with,
                                    6-1-   McConnell Street, said alley being in the North End or Wright-McConnell
524                                 1945   Subdivision. (The alley began at the east line of McConnell Street, 515 feet
                                           southwest of the south line of North Street, and extended 222 feet northeast to
                                           a point on the west side of a 12-foot alley.)
                                           Annulling a certain part of Arnold Avenue which being from the east side of
525                                 6-1-   Walnut Street extending in an easterly direction a distance of about 125 feet
                                    1945   to the west side of a 12-foot alley, which said alley extends from West Main
                                           Street in a southerly direction to East Poplar Street.
530                                 3-1-   Annulling a portion of Bronze Alley located between Lot No. 88 and Lot No. 90
                                    1946   of the Hillcreast Subdivision, and extending from State Street to Locust Alley.
                                           Annulling an unnamed alley in the Monroe Addition beginning at the west street
                                    5-3-   line of Monroe Street and extending northwest a distance of 244 feet to the
533                                 1946   east line of another alley. (The alley, 15-foot wide, was bounded on the north
                                           by the B & LE RR right-of-way, on the south by Lots 22 through 26 of the Monroe
                                           Addition.)
                                    7-9-   Annulling a portion of an unnamed alley located at the intersection of south
536                                 1946   street line of South Center Street and the west lot line of Lot No. 5 of the
                                           Martin Plan of Lots.
                                           (This refers to a 12-foot alley from the south line of S. Center Street and
536 (Cont’d)                            west lot line of Lot 5 in the Martin Plan, extending southeast 140 feet to the
                                           southwest corner of the lot.)
                                           Annulling an unnamed alley in the borough. (This 12-foot alley began at a point
                                    11-1-  on the west line of Garden Avenue 1,263.5 feet southeast of the south line of
540                                 1946   Craig Street and extended southwest, between Lots 39 and 40 of C.A. Black
                                           Addition of 8-6-1937, for a distance of 120 feet to the east line of a 12-foot
                                           alley.)
                                           Annulling alley in the borough. (This 12-foot alley began at the west line of
542                                 10-23- N. Broad Street 20 feet north of North Street and extended southwest 150 feet,
                                    1946   between property of J.G. Armstrong and C.S. Sonntag, to the east line of
                                           another alley.)
545                                 6-6-   Relocating and establishing Erie Avenue from Edgewood Avenue to Union Street.
                                    1947   (The width was 40 feet.)
                                           Annulling an unnamed alley in the borough. (This 12-foot alley was bounded on
546                                 7-1-   the north by property of John F. Bower and on the south by property of W.C.
                                    1947   McCutcheon and ran from the west side of Garden Avenue, 100 feet north of
                                           Linden Avenue, southwest 120 feet to the east line of a 12-foot alley.)
                                    7-1-   Annulling an unnamed alley in the borough. (This 12-foot alley began on the
547                                 1947   south line of Opre Avenue, 254 feet south of intersection with east line of
                                           Princeton St., and extended 120 feet southwest to a 12-foot alley.)
549                                 9-5-   Annulling a street and alleys in the borough. This refers to:
                                    1947
                                         1. Uber Street, 50 feet wide and extending from Craig Street southeast 1,500
                                           feet to Beatty Street;
                                           2. Alley, 12 feet wide, between Lots 138-139 and 142-143 of the South View
                                         Plan, from the west side of the first alley west of an parallel to Tidball
                                           Avenue, for 280 feet;
                                           3. Alley, 12 feet wide, between Lots 134-135 and 146-147 of South View Plan
                                         from the west side of the first alley west of and parallel to Tidball Avenue,
                                           for 280 feet;
                                           4. Alley, 12 feet wide, between Lots 132-133 and 148-149 of South View Plan
                                         from the west side of the first alley west of and parallel to Tidball Avenue,
                                           for 280 feet;
                                         5. Alley, 12 feet wide, between Lots 96-97, 130-131 and 150-151 of South View
                                           Plan from the west side of Tidball Avenue, for 420 feet;
                                         6. Alley, 12 feet wide, between Lots 98-99, 128-129 and 152-153 of South View
                                           Plan from the west side of Tidball Avenue, for 420 feet;
                                         7. Alley, 12 feet wide, between Lots 102-103, 124-125 and 156-157 of South View
                                           Plan from west side of Tidball Avenue, 420 feet;
                                         8. Alley, 12 feet wide, between lots 104-105, 122-123 and 158-159 of South View
                                           Plan from west side of Tidball Avenue, 420 feet;
                                         9. Alley, 12 feet wide, between Lots 106-107, 120-121 and 160-161 of South View
                                           Plan from west side of Tidball Avenue, 420 feet;
                                         10. Alley, 12 feet wide, between Lots 108-109, 118-119 and 162-163 of South
                                           View Plan from west side of Tidball Avenue, 420 feet; and
                                         11. Alley, 12 feet wide, between Lots 110-111, 120-121 and 163-164 of South
                                           View Plan from west side of Tidball Avenue, 420 feet.
                                    9-5-   Providing for the grading, paving, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
550                                 1947   improving Tidball Avenue in the borough. (This refers to the portion from Craig
                                           Street to Beatty Street.)
                                    8-1-   Providing for the grading, paving, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
551                                 1947   improving East Pine Street in the borough. (This refers to the portion from
                                           Broad Street southeast to the B & LE Railroad right-of-way.)
                                    12-5-  Annulling a street in the borough. (This refers to Blair Street from the
553                                 1947   intersection of borough line 57 east 270 feet to the east line of the McCurdy
                                           Subdivision.)
                                    12-5-  Annulling a street in the borough. (This refers to Oak Street from a point 425
554                                 1947   feet northwest of Main Street, at the lot line between Lots 20 and 21, Block J,
                                           Barr Subdivision, northeast 237.40 feet.)
                                           Approving and establishing the lines, grades, drainage structures and all other
                                           structures appearing on the plan of the Department of Highways of the
555                                 12-5-  Commonwealth, showing proposed improvements on North Broad Street in the
                                    1947   borough; adopting the said plan as the official borough plan for said street;
                                           and approving and opening as a public highway the relocation of the said State
                                           Highway Route and providing for the removal of structures.
                                           Approving and establishing the grades, structures and all other structures
                                    5-7-   appearing on the plan of the Department of Highways of the Commonwealth,
561                                 1948   showing proposed improvement in North Broad Street of the borough; adopting the
                                           said plan as the official borough plan for said street and providing for the
                                           removal of non-utility structures.
                                    6-4-   Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (The alley ran between Lots 41 and 42
561-A                               1948   of C. A. Black Addition, from a point 100 feet southwest of Garden Avenue and
                                           Linden Avenue intersection.)
563                                 8-5-   Providing for the grading, paving, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
                                    1948   improving a portion of Edgewood Avenue in the borough.
564                                 8-5-   Providing for the grading, paving, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
                                    1948   improving a portion of Hillcrest Avenue in the borough.
565                                 8-5-   Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (The alley was within property of
                                    1948   Cooper-Bessemer Corp. and ran between Evergreen Alley and Lincoln Avenue.)
                                    8-5-   Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (The alley began 252 feet south of
566                                 1948   McConnell-Chestnut Street intersection and ran northwest 160 feet, parallel to
                                           Chestnut Street, to another alley.)
                                           Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (This 12-foot alley began at the
567                                 8-5-   southeast corner of land of Edith P. Huston, and ran northeast 150 feet between
                                    1948   the Huston property and that of Cora A. Turner on the east and Grove City
                                           College on the west.)
                                    8-5-   Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (This alley was between property of
568                                 1948   Herman M. Rodgers and Quinton B. Millsop, and ran between Orchard Alley and
                                           Evergreen Alley.)
                                           Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (The alley extended from the east
                                           side of the first 20-foot alley east of College Avenue-Jackson Street
                                    9-3-   intersection to the west side of the first 12-foot alley east of the same
572                                 1948   intersection, and was located between property of Frank Sparara on the north
                                           and property of Carl C. Kennedy, Ralph E. Campbell, Jane R. Wolf and Clara
                                           Clithero on the south; annulled 150 feet. For amendment to this ordinance, see
                                           Ord. 581.)
573                                 9-3-   Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (The alley was between Lots 14 and 15
                                    1948   of Hillcrest Subdivision, and ran from N. Center Street to Birch Alley.)
                                    1-3-   Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (The alley ran from a point on the
575                                 1949   south side of Craig Street, 392.5 feet east of Garden Avenue, southeastwardly
                                           150 feet.)
                                    2-21-  Vacating a portion of a certain unnamed, unopened street in the borough. (The
578                                 1949   street ran from a point on the east line of Oak Street 276.96 feet north of the
                                           W. Main Street intersection, and extended southeastwardly 148.38 feet.)
581                                 4-4-   Amending Ord. 572 of the borough, passed by Council 9-3-1948. (This vacated 132
                                    1949   feet of the alley referred to in Ord. 572.)
                                    4-4-   Annulling a street in the borough. (Blair Street was annulled from the south
583                                 1949   line of Blair and the west line of Lot 14 of Block J, McCurdy Plan, for 135.36
                                           feet southeastward.)
585                                 4-18-  Establishing street and sidewalk grades on South Memorial Avenue in the
                                    1949   borough.
587                                 5-23-  Relocation, widening, change of grade and opening new street. (This refers to
                                    1949   Cranberry Road.)
                                    8-8-   Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (This refers to a 20-foot alley
589                                 1949   beginning 155.95 feet from the intersection of the west line of Edgewood Avenue
                                           and the south line of Hill Alley, for 192.42 feet south-westwardly.)
                                    9-12-  Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (This refers to a portion of the
590                                 1949   alley, beginning on E. Pine Street 110 feet northwest of the intersection with
                                           Harvard Street and extending northeast 165 feet.)
                                    10-4-  Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (This alley ran from the east line of
591                                 1949   Princeton Street, 427 feet south of the intersection with North Street,
                                           northeastwardly 151 feet.)
596                                 11-7-  Annulling certain alleys and streets in the borough. This refers to:
                                    1949
                                         1. College Avenue, from Kinder Avenue to Jack Street;
                                         2. Alley north of W. Main Street, between Kinder Avenue and Jack Street; and
                                         3. All streets and alleys north of W. Main Street and west of Kinder Avenue,
                                           except:
                                         (a) College Avenue, from Kinder Avenue westwardly to the east line of Lot #13;
                                         (b) The alley parallel to W. Main Street and 150 feet north thereof, extending
                                           480 feet west from Kinder Avenue to the east lot line of Lot No. 1; and
                                         (c) Jack Street extending 195 feet north from the north side of N. Main
                                           Street.)
                                    7-17-  Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (The alley, between Lots 13 and 14,
602                                 1950   South View Plan, ran from a point on the east side of Tidball Avenue 324 feet
                                           southeast of the Cedar Street intersection, northeastward 120 feet.)
                                    7-17-  Annulling a certain portion of a public alley in the borough. (The alley ran
603                                 1950   from a point on the south line of Park Street 153 feet southeast of Monroe
                                           Street, extending 110 feet southwestwardly.)
604                                 7-17-  Annulling certain alleys and streets in the borough. This refers to:
                                    1950
                                         1. Zinc Alley, from Edgewood Avenue to Willow Alley;
                                         2. Brass Alley, from Edgewood Avenue to Willow Alley;
                                         3. Willow Alley from Rosedale Avenue to Brass Alley;
                                         4. Lead Alley, from Oakmond Avenue to Willow Alley;
                                         5. Gypsum Alley, from Oakmond Avenue to Pine Alley;
                                         6. Pine Alley, from Hillcrest Avenue to Rosedale Avenue;
                                         7. A portion of a 60-foot street, from Hillcrest Avenue to Rosedale; and
                                           8. All other streets and alleys in the area bounded on the west by Edgewood
                                         Avenue for approximately 625 feet, on the south by Hillcrest Avenue for
                                           approximately 570 feet, on the west by Union Avenue approximately 400 feet, on
                                           the north by Rosedale Avenue, about 650 feet.
605                                 7-17-  Establishing street and sidewalk grades on Overhill Street in the borough.
                                    1950   (This refers to the portion from Lincoln Avenue to E. Pine Street.)
606                                 7-17-  Establishing the grade line on a portion of Craig Street in the borough. (This
                                    1950   refers to the portion from Tidball Avenue to Ridgeway Avenue.)
                                    8-21-  Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (The alley ran from a point on the
610                                 1950   west line of Jefferson Street 140 feet northeast of Woodland Avenue, 470 feet
                                           northwestward; the borough reserved an easement for utility facilities.)
                                    8-21-  Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (The alley ran from a point on the
611                                 1950   east line of Riverside Avenue 105 feet southeast of North Street, 105 feet
                                           northeastward, between Lots 1 and 2 on the north and Lot 3 on the south.)
                                           Untitled ordinance providing that the state assume responsibility for property
614                                 10-16- damages in connection with improvement to be done on Legislative Route 43025,
                                    1950   Section 1 (North Street, from Broad Street to the borough line), but the
                                           borough would contribute $4,000 to the cost of damages.
                                           Annulling a certain unnamed alley in the borough. (The alley began at a point
615                                 10-16- on the west line of W. Poplar Street 193.50 feet southeast of the south line of
                                    1950   S. Center Street, and extended 120 feet southwest to the east side of a 12-foot
                                           alley; the borough reserved an easement for utility lines.)
                                    10-16- Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (The alley began at a point on the
616                                 1950   south line of W. Main Street 151.1 feet southeast of S. Center Street and
                                           extended southwest 157.71 feet.)
                                           Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (The alley began at a point on the
619                                 3-19-  east line of Tidball Avenue 212 feet northwest of Beatty Street and extended
                                    1951   120 feet northeast, between Lots 25 and 26 of the Black Addition; the borough
                                           reserved an easement for utility lines.)
                                           Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (The alley began at a point on the
                                    4-16-  west line of Garden Avenue 212 feet northwest of Beatty Street and extended 120
621                                 1951   feet southwest, between Lots 35 and 36, Black Addition; the borough reserved
                                           easements for utility lines, and the property owners abutting were to pay to
                                           the borough the costs of annulment proceedings plus $1 a front foot for sewer.)
                                           Approving and establishing the grades, structures and all other structures
                                    6-18-  appearing on the plan of the Department of Highways of the Commonwealth,
625                                 1951   showing proposed improvement on East Main Street in the borough; adopting the
                                           said plan as the official borough plan for said street and providing for the
                                           removal of nonutility structures.
                                           Annulling a certain unnamed alley in the borough. (The alley began at a point
626                                 7-16-  on the west line of S. Center Street, 432 feet northwest of Hillcrest Avenue,
                                    1951   and extended southwest 120 feet, between Lots 31 and 33 of the Hillcrest
                                           Subdivision; the borough reserved an easement for utility lines.)
627                                 8-20-  Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (This refers to:
                                    1951
                                           1. Alley beginning at a point on the north line of Opre Avenue, 254 feet
                                         northwest of Madison Avenue, and extending northeast 120 feet between Lots 41
                                           and 43; and
                                           2. Alley beginning at a point on the north side of a 12-foot alley 132 feet
                                         northeast of a point on the north line of Opre Avenue and 254 feet west of
                                           Madison Avenue, northeast 74.49 feet between Lots 91 and 92 of the Home
                                           Development Plan, to the line of Wendel August Forge Company.
                                         The borough reserved an easement for utility lines.
                                           Annulling a certain unnamed alley in the borough. (The alley began at a point
630                                 10-1-  on the east line of Tidball Avenue, 100 feet northwest of Beatty Street, and
                                    1951   extended 120 feet northeast between Lots 27 and 28 of the South View Plan; the
                                           borough reserved an easement for utility lines.)
                                           Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (This 12-foot alley began at a point
631                                 10-1-  100 feet southeast of the west line of another 12-foot alley located 120 feet
                                    1951   northeast of the Tidball Avenue-Beatty Street intersection, and extended 200
                                           feet. The borough reserved an easement for utility lines.)
                                    10-1-  Establishing the grade line on a portion of Garden Avenue in the borough. (This
632                                 1951   refers to the portion from a point 1,100 feet southeast of the centerline of
                                           Craig Street, extending 1,194.85 feet southeastward.)
635                                 11-19- Dedicating and opening a new street in the borough. (This refers to Hazel
                                    1951   Street, 40 feet wide, between McConnell Street and Valley Street.)
                                    11-19- Untitled ordinance opening an alley from a point on the west line of McConnell
636                                 1951   Street 295 feet southwest of the south line of Chestnut Street to 160 feet
                                           northwestwardly, and setting forth the grade of the alley.
                                           Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (The alley began at a point on the
638                                 12-17- west line of Tidball Avenue, 100 feet southeast of Cedar Street, and extended
                                    1951   140 feet southwest between Lots 92 and 93; the borough reserved an easement for
                                           utility lines.)
644                                 5-5-   Annulling a certain alley in the borough. This refers to:
                                    1952
                                         1. Alley beginning at a point on the north line of Beatty Street 120 feet
                                           northeast of Tidball Avenue, 660 feet northwestwardly; and
                                         2. Alley beginning at a point on the north line of Linden Avenue 120 feet
                                           northeast of Tidball Avenue, extending 548 feet northwest.
                                         The borough reserved an easement for utility lines.
645                                 5-5-   Opening and establishing Stockton Avenue west to Memorial Park. (The width was
                                    1952   fixed at 50 feet.)
                                           Approving and establishing the grades, structures and all other structures
                                    5-5-   appearing on the plan of the Department of Highways of the Commonwealth,
646                                 1952   showing proposed improvement on East Main Street in the borough, adopting the
                                           said plan as the official borough plan for said street and providing for the
                                           removal of nonutility structures.
                                           Approving and establishing the widths, lines, grades, drainage structures and
                                           all other structures appearing on the plan of the Department of Highways of the
647                                 5-5-   Commonwealth, showing proposed improvement on Liberty Street in the borough,
                                    1952   adopting the said plan as the official borough plan for said street, and
                                           approving the opening as a public highway the relocation of the said State
                                           Highway Route and providing for the removal of structures.
648                                 5-5-   Providing for the improvement of East Main Street and Liberty Street, and
                                    1952   agreeing to contract and pay therefor.
                                    5-19-  Establishing the grade line on Clark Street in the borough, and establishing
649                                 1952   the grade line of the sidewalks on said street. (This refers to the portion
                                           from the centerline of Tidball Avenue a distance of 521 feet.)
650                                 5-19-  Establishing the grade on Flower Avenue in the borough and establishing the
                                    1952   grade line of the sidewalks on the said street.
651                                 5-19-  Establishing the grade line on Oak Street in the borough and establishing the
                                    1952   grade line of the sidewalks on the said street.
                                    5-19-  Establishing the grade line on Sunset Avenue from Spring Street to Stockton
652                                 1952   Avenue in the borough and Establishing the grade line of the sidewalks on the
                                           said street.
653                                 5-19-  Establishing the grade line on Stockton Avenue from Spring Street to the line
                                    1952   of Memorial Park.
654                                 5-19-  Establishing the grade line on Tidball Avenue south of Beatty Street in the
                                    1952   borough and establishing the grade line of the sidewalks on the said street.
                                    5-19-  Relocating and establishing Cedar Street between Elmwood and Hugus Streets, and
655                                 1952   annulling a certain part of Cedar Street. (This refers to a small triangle
                                           southwest of the intersection with Elmwood Avenue.)
                                    6-16-  Establishing the grade line on Cedar Street in the borough between Tidball
656                                 1952   Avenue and Elmwood Avenue and establishing the grade line of the sidewalks on
                                           the said street.
                                           Annulling a certain unnamed alley in the borough. (The 12-foot alley began at a
                                           point 150 feet northwest of a point on S. Center Street 112 feet northeast of
658                                 5-19-  its intersection with Stockton Avenue, extending 100 feet northeast and bounded
                                    1952   on the east by Lots 19 and 20, on the west by Lots 13 and 14 of the West End,
                                           W.A. Stewart Addition, surveyed in 1903. The borough reserved a utility
                                           easement.)
659                                 8-18-  Establishing a grade line on a portion of Oakland Avenue in the borough. (This
                                    1952   refers to the portion from Princeton Street to Madison Street.)
                                           Annulling a certain unnamed alley in the borough. (The alley began at a point
665                                 3-16-  on the east line of Tidball Avenue 212 feet southeast of Linden Avenue,
                                    1953   extended east 120 ft. between Lots 21 and 22, Black Addition. The borough
                                           reserved a utility way.)
                                    8-17-  Establishing the grade lines on Hugus and Martin Streets in the borough. (This
669                                 1953   refers to Hugus Street from Martin Street to Elmwood Avenue, and Martin Street
                                           from S. Center Street to Hugus Street.)
                                           Annulling a certain alley in the borough. (The alley began at a point on the
670                                 12-21- south line of Beatty Street 120 feet northeast of Tidball Avenue, extending
                                    1953   south 100 feet between Lots 1 and 3 on the east and 2 and 4 on the west, Viola
                                           Miller Addition; the borough reserved an easement for utility lines.)
                                           Approving and establishing the widths, lines, grades, drainage structures, and
                                           all other structures appearing on the plan of the Department of Highways of the
672                                 1-18-  Commonwealth, showing proposed improvement on West Main Street in the borough,
                                    1954   adopting the said plan as the official borough plan for said street, and
                                           approving and opening as a public highway the relocation of the said State
                                           Highway Route and providing for the removal of structures.
                                           Providing for the grading, paving, guttering, necessary drainage and otherwise
678                                 7-19-  improving State Street, in the borough, from the end of existing paving to the
                                    1954   Cranberry Road, a distance of 182.30 feet, establishing the street and sidewalk
                                           grades, and providing for the payment of the costs thereof.
                                    9-20-  Establishing the grade line on Highland Avenue between West Main Street and
679                                 1954   Rebecca Avenue in the borough and establishing the grade line of the sidewalks
                                           on the said street.
                                    9-20-  Establishing the grade line on West Poplar Street from Highland Avenue to a
680                                 1954   point 150 feet west in the borough and establishing the grade line of the
                                           sidewalk on said street.
                                    9-20-  Establishing the grade line on Rebecca Avenue from Highland Avenue to a point
681                                 1954   68.86 feet west in the borough and establishing the grade line of the sidewalks
                                           on said street.
Res. 10/18/1954                     10-18- Untitled resolution leasing land on which was located the passenger station of
                                    1954   the B & LE Railroad for the purpose of widening Blair Street.
                                    2-21-  Establishing the grade line on a portion of West Poplar Street in the borough.
684                                 1955   (This refers to the portion from Spring Street to Highland Avenue.) (For
                                           amendment to this ordinance, see Ord. 1032.)
687                                 5-16-  Establishing the grade line on a portion of Euclid Avenue in the borough. (This
                                    1955   refers to the portion from Spring Street to the west end of Euclid Avenue.)
                                           Annulling a certain unnamed alley in the borough. (The alley began at a point
691                                 7-18-  on the west line of Tidball Avenue 212 feet southeast of Cedar Street,
                                    1955   extending southwest 140 feet between Lots 94 and 95 on the west side of Tidball
                                           Avenue; the borough reserved an easement for utility lines.)
694                                 8-15-  Establishing the grade line on a portion of Oakland Avenue in the borough.
                                    1955   (This refers to the portion from Madison Street to Jefferson Street.)
698                                 10-17- Establishing the grade line on a portion of Point Loma Street in the borough.
                                    1955   (This refers to the portion from W. Main Street to Stockton Avenue.)
699                                 10-17- Establishing the grade line on the portion of Rebecca Avenue in the borough.
                                    1955   (This refers to the portion from Spring Street to Highland Avenue.)
700                                 10-17- Establishing the grade line on a portion of Ridgeway Avenue in the borough.
                                    1955   (This refers to the portion from Craig Street to Linden Street.)
                                    10-17- Establishing the grade line on a portion of Winfield Drive in the borough.
701                                 1955   (This refers to the portion from a point 10 feet from the centerline of Lincoln
                                           Avenue, running for a distance of 798 feet.)
                                    11-21- Establishing the grade line on a portion of Ketler Drive in the borough. (This
702                                 1955   refers to the portion from a point 10 feet from the centerline of Tidball
                                           Avenue to a point approximately 1,112 feet distant therefrom.)
                                    1-16-  Establishing the grade line on a portion of West Poplar Street in the borough.
706                                 1956   (This refers to the portion from 180 feet northwest of the centerline of
                                           Highland Avenue to a point 220 feet northwest thereof.)
734                                 5-21-  Establishing the grade line on a portion of Forest Drive in the borough. (This
                                    1957   refers to the portion from Aetna Street a distance of 400 feet.)
735                                 5-21-  Establishing the grade line on a portion of Madison Avenue in the borough.
                                    1957   (This refers to the portion from E. Pine Street for a distance of 2,687 feet.)
                                    6-17-  Authorizing and directing the paving of Madison Street, in the borough, between
737                                 1957   East Main Street and East Pine Street, and providing for the payment of costs
                                           thereof.
                                    7-15-  Authorizing and directing the paving of Highland Avenue in the borough, between
739                                 1957   West Main Street and Stockton Avenue and providing for the payment of costs
                                           thereof.
                                    1-17-  Establishing the grade line on a portion of East Pine Street in the borough.
743                                 1958   (This refers to the portion between the B & LE Railroad and the east borough
                                           line.)
751                                 5-19-  Establishing the grade line on a portion of East Washington Boulevard from
                                    1958   Lincoln Avenue to East Pine Street in the borough.
                                           Approving and establishing the grades, structures and all other structures
                                    7-21-  appearing on the plan of the Department of Highways of the Commonwealth,
753                                 1958   showing proposed improvement on Cranberry Road in the borough; adopting the
                                           said plan as the official borough plan for said street and providing for the
                                           removal of nonutility structures.
                                    9-15-  Authorizing and directing the paving of Opre Avenue in the borough, between
755                                 1958   Madison Street and Princeton Street and providing for the payment of costs
                                           thereof.
756                                 10-20- Establishing the grade line on a portion of Opre Avenue in the borough. (This
                                    1958   refers to the portion from Madison Street to Princeton Street.)
                                    12-19- Authorizing and directing the paving of a portion of Garden Avenue and Beatty
805                                 1960   Street in the borough and providing for the payment of costs thereof. This
                                           refers to:
                                         1. Garden Avenue, from a point 70 feet southeast of the center of Linden Avenue
                                           southeastwardly 635 feet to the centerline of Beatty Street; and
                                         2. Beatty Street, from Tidball Avenue to Garden Avenue.
                                           Annulling a certain unnamed alley in the borough. (The 15-foot alley began at a
813                                 11-27- point about 222 feet southeast of the east line of Liberty Street, the point
                                    1961   being 675.8 feet southeast of the Miller Avenue intersection, and extended
                                           northwest 165 feet.)
822; 1980 Code Ch. 22, Part 1A, § 22-18-  Portions of Bluff Street renamed Harvard Street.
                                    1963
                                    1-25-  Annulling a certain unnamed alley in the borough. (The alley began at the
836                                 1965   Lincoln Avenue and Terrace Avenue intersection and extended southwest about
                                           276.99 feet.)
                                    3-21-  Laying out, opening and adopting as public streets in the borough streets to be
842                                 1965   designated as Shady Drive and Eastover Road, and fixing and regulating the
                                           width and grades thereof. (The widths were fixed at 50 feet. This refers to:
                                         1. Shady Drive, from Enterprise Road to Eastover Road and beyond 237.74 feet to
                                           a cul-de-sac; and
                                         2. Eastover Road, from Shady Drive to the terminus of Eastover Road being the
                                           east boundary of Crestwood Manor Plan.
                                           Approving and establishing the grades, structures and all other structures
                                           appearing on the plan of the Department of Highways of the Commonwealth,
844                                 5-4-   showing proposed improvement on South Broad Street in the borough; adopting the
                                    1965   said plan as the official borough plan for said street and providing for the
                                           removal of nonutility structures. (This refers to State Route 312, from Station
                                           0+00 to 16+47, a distance of 1,647 feet.)
                                           Approving and establishing the grades, structures and all other structures
                                           appearing on the plan of the Department of Highways of the Commonwealth,
845                                 5-4-   showing proposed improvement on South Center Street in the borough; adopting
                                    1965   the said plan as the official borough plan for said street and providing for
                                           the removal of nonutility structures. (This refers to State Route 43129, from
                                           Station 0+00 to 17+92, distance = 1,729 ft.)
                                           Approving and establishing the grades, structures, and all other structures
846                                 5-10-  appearing on the plan of the Department of Highways of the Commonwealth,
                                    1965   showing proposed improvement on Main Street. (This refers to State Route 73,
                                           from Station 137+36 to 230+43, a distance of 7,643 feet.)
                                           Approving and establishing the grades, structures, and all other structures
847                                 6-7-   appearing on the plan of the Department of Highways . . . showing proposed
                                    1965   improvement on North Broad Street. (This refers to State Route 312, from
                                           Station 16+65.60 to Station 48+24, a distance of 3,158.50 feet.)
                                    2-21-  Annulling a certain unnamed alley in the borough. (The alley began at a point
850                                 1966   on Miller Avenue 658.12 feet from the centerline of Liberty Street and extended
                                           150 feet to the south boundary of a 10-foot alley parallel with Miller Avenue.)
                                    8-16-  Annulling a portion of Copper Alley within the borough. (The 12-foot alley
852                                 1966   began at the southeast corner of Lot 147 and extended 150 feet to lots 136, 138
                                           and 140.)
                                           Approving and establishing the grades, structures and all other structures
855                                 11-21- appearing on the plan of the Department of Highways . . . showing proposed
                                    1966   improvement on East Main Street. (This refers to State Route 73, from Station
                                           163+85 to Station 167+80, a distance of 395 feet.)
                                           Approving and establishing the grades, structures, and all other structures
872                                 5-20-  appearing on the plan of the Department of Highways . . . showing proposed
                                    1968   improvement on East and West Main Street. (This refers to State Route 73, from
                                           Station 167+80 to Station 179+64, a distance of 1,184 feet.)
                                    8-9-   Untitled ordinance fixing the grades for Ivan Drive between State Route 58 and
875                                 1968   Carrie Way and Carrie Way between Ivan Drive and Republic Drive, in the Gregg
                                           Acres Development.
                                    8-19-  Authorizing and directing the paving and improvement of a section of Madison
876                                 1968   Avenue in the borough and providing for the payment of costs thereof. (This
                                           refers to the portion from Opre Avenue northward for a distance of 480 feet.)
                                    11-18- Annulling a certain unnamed alley in the borough. (The 20-foot alley was
878                                 1968   located between Edgewood Avenue and Third Street, extending from Blaine Avenue
                                           to Gilmore Avenue.)
884                                 2-24-  Annulling Aetna Street in the borough. (This refers to the portion from Forest
                                    1969   Drive to W. Washington Boulevard.)
                                    10-20- Untitled resolution closing, for all purposes except pedestrian traffic, the
Res. 10/20/1969                     1969   alley between the Harshaw and McKay properties on the south extremity of the
                                           Urban Renewal Project.
                                    8-17-  Laying out, opening and adopting as a public street in the borough a street to
895                                 1970   be designated as Hart Drive, and fixing and regulating the width and grades
                                           thereof. (The width was fixed at 50 feet.)
898                                 10-19- Providing for the assessment and payment of costs involved in the improvement
                                    1970   of streets (including alleys) in the borough.
899                                 10-19- Ratifying the improvement of sections of various streets owned by or within the
                                    1970   borough. This refers to:
                                         1. Carrie Way, 28 feet wide, Republic Drive eastward approximately 630 feet;
                                         2. Garden Avenue, 26 feet wide, Moreland Avenue to Beatty Street;
                                         3. Hart Drive, 30 feet wide, W. Main Street north about 1,900 feet;
                                         4. Moreland Avenue, 24 feet wide, Tidball Avenue to Garden Avenue; and
                                         5. Tidball Avenue, 24 feet wide, Cedar Avenue to Beatty Street.
                                         6. 26 feet wide, Beatty Street to Nelson Street. For amendment to this
                                           ordinance, see Ord. 905.
                                           Amending Ord. 198 which provides for the assessments and payment of costs
904                                 1-22-  involved in the improvement of streets, including alleys in the borough. For
                                    1971   Ord. amended, see Ord. 898 above. This section changed Section 4 of the
                                           ordinance regarding payment of assessments.
                                           Amending Ord. 899 which provides for the improvement and assessment of costs of
905                                 1-18-  sections of various streets owned by or withing the borough. For Ord. amended
                                    1971   by this ordinance, see Ord. 899 above. This changed Section 2 of Ord. 199 to
                                           provided that the assessment of cost be accomplished under Ords. 898 and 901.
                                    2-22-  Annulling a certain unnamed alley in the borough. (The 12-foot alley extended
909                                 1971   from the south line of the B & LE Railroad and east line of S. Broad Street,
                                           southwest 106.50 feet along the east line of S. Broad Street to a point.)
                                    2-22-  Annulling a certain unnamed alley in the borough. (The alley began at the B &
910                                 1971   LE Railroad and S. Broad Street, extending 279.90 feet along the east line of
                                           S. Broad Street.)
                                    3-15-  Annulling a certain portion of Hart Drive in the borough. (This refers to the
911                                 1971   portion from the south side of the B & LE Railroad, extending about 560 feet to
                                           lands of the Grove City Development Corporation.)
914                                 5-17-  Authorizing the improvement of various streets, or sections thereof within the
                                    1971   borough and the assessment of the costs for such improvement. This refers to:
                                         1. Craig Street, 19 feet wide, Tidball Avenue to Ridgeway Ave.
                                         2. E. Pine Street, 23 feet wide, Harvard Street to a point east about 302 feet
                                           to the college entrance (formerly Memorial Avenue.)
                                         3. Hazel Street, 15 feet wide, McConnell Street to Wolf Alley.
                                         4. Lincoln Avenue, 26 feet wide, E. Washington Blvd., east about 430 feet
                                           toward Winfield Drive.
                                         5. Overhill Street, 17 feet wide, Lincoln Avenue to E. Pine Street
                                         6. Summit Street, 20 feet 20 inches wide, E. Main to Rainey Ave.
916                                 6-28-  Authorizing the improvement of various streets, or sections thereof, within the
                                    1971   borough and the assessment of the costs for such improvement. This refers to:
                                         1. College Avenue, 21 feet wide, Kinder Avenue to a point west approximately
                                           365 feet.
                                         2. Clark Street, 26 feet wide, Tidball Avenue to Greenwood Drive.
                                         3. Flower Avenue, 22 feet wide, E. Main Street to a point south approximately
                                           800 feet.
                                         4. W. Washington Blvd., 23 feet wide, Terrace Avenue to E. Pine Street.
Res.                                6-28-  Untitled resolution providing for paving of the dirt alley connection Maple
                                    1971   Street and Flower avenue and Flower Avenue with Rainey Avenue.
                                    7-22-  Laying out, opening and adopting as a public street in the borough, a street to
917                                 1971   be designated as Greenwood Drive, and fixing and regulating the width and
                                           grades thereof.
                                         (The width was fixed at 50 feet. This fixed the width at 20 feet from Stowe
                                           Street to the sewage disposal plant, a distance of 2,200 feet.)
                                    12-20- Declaring the policy of the borough with reference to the assessment of
920                                 1971   property owners for the improvement of streets within the borough by the
                                           installation of paving and/or curbing and/or sidewalk.
                                    12-20- Declaring the policy of the borough with reference to the assessment of
921                                 1971   property owners for the improvement of streets within the borough by the
                                           installation of water mains and/or sanitary sewers and/or storm sewers.
                                    4-28-  Laying out, opening and adopting as a public street, designating the street as
930                                 1972   Limberg Way, and fixing and regulating the width and grades thereof. (The width
                                           was fixed at 20 feet.)
941                                 8-23-  Untitled ordinance accepting certain lands and laying out an extension of
                                    1972   Riverside Avenue.
                                    8-20-  Annulling Rockrose Avenue in the borough. (This street began on the south side
955                                 1973   of E. Pine Street, adjacent to the Bashline Equipment Agency, and was annulled
                                           from E. Pine Street, south 321 feet, then east 700 feet.)
963; 1980 Code, Ch. 22, Part 1A, § 12-19- Hart Drive renamed Industrial Drive.
3                                   1973
                                           To authorize the selection and appropriation of certain tract of land situated
1007                                6-17-  in the borough for the purpose of laying out, opening, extending and grading a
                                    1974   new street known as Miller Avenue Extension. (This refers to the portion from
                                           Maple Avenue Extension to Campbell Drive.)
                                           Laying out, opening and adopting as a public street in the borough, designating
1014                                11-18- the street as Miller Avenue Extension, and fixing and regulating the width and
                                    1974   grades thereof. (This refers to the portion from Liberty Street to a point 174
                                           feet northeastwardly.)
                                    10-6-  Amending Ord. 684 which established the grade line on a portion of West Poplar
1032                                1975   Street and Ord. 1025 which established the sidewalk grade along a portion of
                                           West Poplar Street.
1033                                10-20- Annulling a certain unnamed alley in the borough.
                                    1975
1042                                10-4-  Annulling certain alleys in the borough. (This refers to Smith Alley from S.
                                    1976   Broad Street to Street to Rebecca Avenue.)
                                    9-7-   Establishing the grade line on a portion of Ridgeway Avenue in the borough.
1059                                1977   (This refers to the portion from Linden Avenue, 200 feet south, and also
                                           provided for the sidewalk grade.)
1063                                9-30-  Annulling a portion of Point Loma Street in the borough. (The portion annulled
                                    1977   extended from W. Main Street to Rebecca Avenue.)
1065                                11-28- Annulling Valley Street in the borough.
                                    1977
1071                                3-22-  Vacating portions of Cedar Street in the borough. (This refers to certain
                                    1978   portions from Garden Avenue to Graig Street.)
1072                                8-17-  Annulling a portion of Glay Alley within the borough.
                                    1978
1082                                5-21-  Annulling a portion of North Memorial Avenue otherwise known as Hickory Street
                                    1979   in the borough.
                                    6-16-  Laying out, and adopting as a public street in the borough, designating the
1104                                1980   street as Miller Avenue and fixing and regulating the widths and grades
                                           thereof. (Note: supersedes Ord. 1014.)
                                    6-16-  Laying out, and adopting as a public street in the borough, designating the
1105                                1980   street as Campbell Drive, and fixing and regulating the width and grades
                                           thereof.
                                           Untitled resolution authorizing 25 of fuel tax payment to be redirected from a
                                    10-30- required use for construction, reconstruction or widening of roads and streets,
Res. 1980-12                        1980   bridges and drainage structures to an elective use for the maintenance and
                                           repair of existing roads, streets, bridges, drainage structures and the lining
                                           of streams incidental to the drainage of highways.
1131                                12-28- Vacating portions of Monroe Street, Bluff Street and Evergreen Alley in the
                                    1981   borough.
1135                                4-30-  Vacating portions of an unnamed alley north of and parallel to West Main Street
                                    1982   in the borough.
1149                                5-16-  Vacating Short Alley and a portion of Evergreen Alley.
                                    1983
1159                                5-21-  Vacating a portion of Maple Street near Blesco, Inc.
                                    1984
                                    6-26-  Laying out, extending and adopting as public streets in the borough,
1106                                1980   designating these streets as Rainey Avenue Extension, Flower Street Extension
                                           and Maple Street Extension, fixing and regulating the grades thereof.
                                    6-16-  Laying out, extending and adopting as a public street in the borough,
1107                                1980   designating this street as Flower Street, and fixing and regulating the grade
                                           thereof.
                                           Untitled resolution authorizing 25 % of fuel tax payment to be redirected from
                                    10-30- a required use for construction, reconstruction or widening of roads and
Res. 1980-12                        1980   streets, bridges and drainage structures to an elective use for the maintenance
                                           and repair of existing roads, streets, bridges, drainage structures and the
                                           lining of streams incidental to the drainage of highways.
1112                                10-20- Annulling a portion of a ten-foot alley running from West Poplar Street to an
                                    1980   intersection with an east/west alley.
1160                                5-21-  Opening Flower Avenue Extension and a portion of Miller Avenue.
                                    1984
1184                                9-15-  Vacating a portion of Hill Street from the intersection of Edgewood Avenue,
                                    1986   westerly 105 feet.
                                    1-4-   The borough elects to utilize the said 25 % fuel money for the purpose of
Res. 1988-1                         1988   maintenance and repair of existing roads, streets, bridges, drainage structures
                                           and the lining of streams incidental to the drainage of highways.
1211                                4-5-   Annulling an unopened 50-foot right-of-way known as Cherry Avenue.
                                    1990
1212                                4-5-   Annulling an unnamed alley located between 617, Lot 15, Tidball Avenue and 619,
                                    1990   Lot 16, Tidball Avenue.
1213                                4-5-   Annulling a 15-foot alley running from Edgewood Avenue to a 20-foot open alley.
                                    1990
1214                                4-5-   Annulling a portion of a 12-foot alley running parallel to South Center Street
                                    1990   and Craig Street.
1215                                4-5-   Annulling a portion of McDowell Street.
                                    1990
1232                                3-16-  Annulling a 15-foot unopened alley running 150 feet to an open alley between
                                    1992   Lots 144 and 145 on East Main Street.
1238                                9-21-  Annulling a 12-foot by 50-foot unopened alley on the East Side of Maple Avenue
                                    1992   152 feet south of the intersection of East Main Street.
1242                                12-21- Annulling a 12-foot by 150-foot alley on the south side of West Main Street.
                                    1992
1256                                2-20-  Annulling an unnamed alley located parallel to Liberty Street and 142 feet
                                    1995   eastward from the easterly right-of-way of Liberty Street.
1257                                2-20-  Annulling a portion of Miller Avenue beginning at a point on the east right-of-
                                    1995   way of Liberty Street and containing 32,070 square feet.
1265                                5-20-  Annulling a 12-foot alley running from McConnell Street west a distance of
                                    1996   104.6 feet.
1269                                11-18- Opening and adopting Kocher Drive.
                                    1996
                                           Annulling a portion of Marie Way beginning at a point on the northwest corner
                                    5-18-  of the intersection of Lee Lane and Marie Way, thence southeast a distance of
1284                                1998   130 feet to a point, thence east a distance of 45 feet to a point, thence
                                           northwest a distance of 130 feet to a point, thence west a distance of 45 feet
                                           to the point of beginning.
                                           Amending Ord. 1211, 4-5-1990 of the borough to read as follows: The 50-foot
                                    11-16- easement in the annulled Cherry Avenue is hereby reduced to 10 feet. The
1287                                1998   reserved 10-foot easement shall extend 10 feet west from the east right-of-way
                                           line of the annulled Cherry Avenue, north a distance of 150 feet from the north
                                           right-of-way line of West Main street.
1384                                8-17-  Vacating a 12-foot unnamed alley from East Pine Street to Park Street located
                                    2009   East of Harvard Street.
Res. 2012-18                        7-16-  Changing the name of Jack Street to Sawardekar Lane.
                                    2012
1415                                2-18-  Vacating a public alley located between West Main Street and Poplar Street.
                                    2013
1436                                12-21- Accepting Enclave Drive as a public street as well as the utilities therein as
                                    2015   public utilities.
1450                                2-19-  Declaring a 12' x 150' alley on the south side of West Main Street a public
                                    2018   alley and naming said alley Stevenson Way.
1451                                4-16-  Renaming alley known as Penn Grove Alley to Park Street.
                                    2018
1468                                1-23-  Vacating a portion of a public alley located between West Poplar Street and
                                    2020   Euclid Avenue.
                                          
 
 
TABLE XIV: TAXATION AND BUDGET
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
385           4-6-1929    Fixing the tax levy of the borough for the year 1929.
393           4-5-1930    Fixing the tax levy of the borough for the year 1930.
401           3-6-1931    Relating to the taxing system by fixing the tax levy
                          of the borough for the year 1931.
403           3-4-1932    Relating to the taxing system by fixing the tax levy
                          of the borough for the year 1932.
414           2-3-1933    Relating to the taxing system by fixing the tax levy
                          of the borough for the year 1933.
421           3-4-1934    Relating to the taxing system by fixing the tax levy
                          of the borough for the year 1934.
445           3-1-1935    Relating to the taxing system by fixing the tax levy
                          of the borough for the year 1935.
454           3-6-1936    Relating to the taxing system by fixing the tax levy
                          of the borough for the year 1936.
464           3-5-1937    Relating to the taxing system by fixing the tax levy
                          of the borough for the year 1937.
470           2-4-1938    Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1938.
484           2-3-1939    Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1939.
489           2-2-1940    Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year of 1940.
498           2-7-1941    Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1941.
510           2-6-1942    Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1942.
515-A         2-5-1943    Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1943.
518           2-4-1944    Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1944.
522           2-2-1945    Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1945.
529           2-1-1946    Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1946.
558           2-20-1948   Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1948.
579           3-7-1949    Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1949.
599           2-6-1950    Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1950.
617           2-19-1951   Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1951.
641           3-24-1952   Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1952.
664           3-2-1953    Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1953.
674           4-19-1954   Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1954.
685           4-4-1955    Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1955.
712           1-30-1956   Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1956.
727           1-21-1957   Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1957.
744           1-31-1958   Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1958. (For
                          amendment to this ordinance, see Ord. 750.)
750           5-19-1958   Amending Ord. 744, and fixing a revised tax rate for
                          the fiscal year 1958. (See Ord. 744.)
796           1-27-1959   Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1959.
800           2-1-1960    Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1960.
808           1-30-1961   Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1961.
815           2-19-1962   Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1962.
821           1-21-1963   Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1963.
825           1-20-1964   Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1964.
838           1-25-1965   Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1965.
849           1-17-1966   Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1966.
857           2-8-1967    Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1967.
865           12-18-1967  Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1968.
881           12-16-1968  Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1969.
890           12-15-1969  Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1970.
903           12-28-1970  Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1971.
                          Untitled ordinance appropriating from the revenues
906           12-28-1970  certain items for the expenses of the borough for the
                          fiscal year 1971.
919           12-20-1971  Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1972.
                          Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1972, and
                          appropriating specific sums estimated to be required
924           12-20-1971  for the specific purposes of the municipal
                          government, hereinafter set forth, during the current
                          year.
944           12-20-1972  Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1973.
                          Appropriating specific sums estimated to be required
945           1-3-1973    for the specific purposes of the municipal
                          government, hereinafter set forth, during the current
                          year.
                          Appropriating specific sums estimated to be required
962           1-21-1974   for the specific purposes of the municipal
                          government, hereinafter set forth, during the current
                          year.
965           1-9-1974    Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1974.
                          Appropriating specific sums estimated to be required
1015          12-16-1974  for the specific purposes of the municipal
                          government, hereinafter set forth, during the current
                          year (1975).
1016          12-16-1974  Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1975.
1035          12-30-1975  Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1976.
1046          12-31-1976  Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1977.
1066          12-21-1977  Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1978.
1077          1-8-1979    Fixing the tax rate for the fiscal year 1979.
As of 1980, the annual tax and budget ordinances are listed only in the
References to Ordinances in the Parallel References.
                          Exempting certain taxes within a specific geographic
                          area in the borough which shall be designated as a
                          proposed Keystone Opportunities Zone in order to
1319          4-21-2003   foster economic opportunities, stimulate industrial
                          and commercial improvements and prevent physical and
                          infrastructure deterioration within areas of the
                          borough.
1442-2016     12-19-2016  Fixing tax rate for year of 2017.
1449-2018     12-18-2017  Fixing tax rate for the fiscal year of 2018.
1458-2018     12-17-2018  Fixing tax rate for the fiscal year of 2019.
1467          12-16-2019  Fixing tax rate for the fiscal year of 2020.
                         
 
 
TABLE XV: WATERWORKS
 
Ord./Res. No.  Date Passed Description
                           Authorizing the construction, equipping, maintaining
182            11-5-1913   and operating of a reservoir or standpipe outside
                           the borough limits and securing or condemning a
                           location for the same.
                           Untitled resolution declaring an emergency in regard
Res. 10/4/1940 10-4-1940   to the construction of water mains on Oakland Avenue
                           and Woodland Drive.
                           Authorizing the construction of a 500,000 gallon
                           water tank on borough land on George Junior Road,
908            1-18-1971   and the construction of a water service line from
                           the said water tank on the George Junior Road to
                           Route 58, thence along Route 58 and from Hart Drive
                           to the lands of General Electric.
                           Water quality experts from Gannett Fleming Water
                           Resource Engineers and the Pennsylvania Department
Res. 1986-2    2-17-1986   of Environmental Resources reporting that there were
                           no health-related problems with the borough water
                           supply.
Res. 1986-12   7-7-1986    Limiting the expansion/extension of the Borough
                           Water Supply into Pine Township.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Pennsylvania Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Code
References to 1980 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA STATUTES
P.S. Cites Code Section
P.S. Cites                            Code Section
3 P.S. § 851(c)                      52.020
10 P.S. 162.01 et seq.                156.146
32 P.S. §§ 750.1—750.20           152.022
32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq.          152.001
32 P.S. §§ 680.1 et seq.            52.004,
                                      52.020
32 P.S. §§ 693.1—693.27           152.022
35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq.            52.020,
                                      52.035
35 P.S. §§ 691.1—691.1001         152.022
35 P.S. §§ 679.10 et seq.           152.001
35 P.S. § 4001                       150.07
35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 through 7210.110150.25
43 P.S. § 802.1                      36.01,
                                      36.07
47 P.S. §1-102                       132.01
53 P.S. § 771                        35.15
53 P.S. § 4000.1501                  50.031
53 P.S. § 4000.1501(c)(1)(ii)        50.033
53 P.S. § 4000.1502(2)               50.033
53 P.S. § 6913                       37.002,
                                      37.036
53 P.S. §§ 8421 et seq.             37.045
                                      52.004,
                                      52.020,
53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.            155.021,
                                      155.125,
                                      156.002,
                                      156.146
53 P.S. § 10105                      155.003
53 P.S. § 10107                      155.021
53 P.S. §§ 10401—10408            156.105
                                      155.003,
53 P.S. §§ 10501—10516            155.021,
                                      156.167
53 P.S. § 10503                      155.077
53 P.S. § 10503(1)                   155.046,
                                      155.126
53 P.S. § 10503(1.1)                 52.020,
                                      155.021
53 P.S. § 10509                      155.021,
                                      155.126
53 P.S. § 10510                      155.109,
                                      155.126
53 P.S. § 10603(f)                   156.146
53 P.S. § 10607(1)                   156.166
53 P.S. § 10609                      156.203
53 P.S. § 10609.2                    156.204
53 P.S. § 10609.1                    156.167
53 P.S. §§ 10701 to 10713           156.167
53 P.S. §§ 10701-A—10709-A        156.041
53 P.S. §§ 10901—10918            156.161
53 P.S. § 10908                      156.163
53 P.S. § 10910.2                    156.167
53 P.S. § 10914.1                    156.169
53 P.S. § 10915.1                    156.170
53 P.S. § 10916.2                    156.167
65 P.S. § 201 et seq.                35.04
65 P.S. § 204                        35.04
65 P.S. § 206                        35.02
72 P.S. § 806                        37.077
72 P.S. § 8102-D                     37.076
72 P.S. §§ 5511.1 et seq.           37.020,
                                      37.022
77 P.S. § 1031                       91.26
                                      
 
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES
Pa.C.S. Cites Code Section
Pa.C.S. Cites               Code Section
                            10.02,
                            31.07,
8 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq.  36.04,
                            36.06,
                            37.105,
                            52.004
8 Pa.C.S. §§ 1041 et seq. 34.30
8 Pa.C.S. § 1127           36.04
8 Pa.C.S. § 1202           92.25,
                            96.15
8 Pa.C.S. Ch. 27            96.15
8 Pa.C.S. § 3301.5         10.01
8 Pa.C.S. §§ 3321—3324  10.99
18 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq. 112.07,
                            132.16
18 Pa.C.S. § 5503          33.20
18 Pa.C.S. § 5505          33.20
18 Pa.C.S. § 5507          33.20
18 Pa.C.S. § 6308          33.20
                            93.01,
24 Pa.C.S. §§ 9351 to 935393.03,
                            93.04
42 Pa.C.S. § 8902          33.20
47 Pa.C.S. §§ 1-101 et seq156.146
53 Pa.C.S. Ch. 85, Subch. F 37.037
53 Pa.C.S. §§ 7101 et seq.37.077
53 Pa.C.S. § 8821          153.03
65 Pa.C.S. §§ 701 et seq. 155.021
75 Pa. C.S. §§ 101 et seq.134.03
                            
 
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CODE
Pa. Code Cites Code Section
Pa. Code Cites               Code Section
Pa. Code Title 25            52.020,
                             52.035
25 Pa. Code Chapter 92       52.020
25 Pa. Code Chapter 93       52.003
25 Pa. Code Chapter 102      52.020,
                             52.036
25 Pa. Code Chapter 105      52.035
25 Pa. Code § 105.12        52.035
                             152.022,
                             152.023,
34 Pa. Code                  152.061,
                             152.065,
                             152.096
                             150.25,
34 Pa. Code Chapters 401—40152.061,
                             152.062,
                             152.065
67 Pa. Code Chapter 105      70.06
 
 
REFERENCES TO 1980 CODE
1980 Code 2018 Code
1980 Code                  2018 Code
Ch. 1, Part 1, § 2        30.01
Ch. 1, Part 2A, § 21      31.01
Ch. 1, Part 2A, § 22      31.02
Ch. 1, Part 2A, § 23      31.03
Ch. 1, Part 2A, § 24      31.04
Ch. 1, Part 2A, § 25      31.05
Ch. 1, Part 2A, § 26      31.06
Ch. 1, Part 2A, § 27      31.07
Ch. 1, Part 2B, § 41      31.20
Ch. 1, Part 3, § 51       32.01
Ch. 1, Part 4A, § 61      33.01
Ch. 1, Part 4A, § 62      33.02
Ch. 1, Part 4A, § 63      33.03
Ch. 1, Part 4A, § 67      33.04
Ch. 1, Part 4B, § 71      33.20
Ch. 1, Part 5, § 81       34.30
Ch. 1, Part 5, § 82       34.31
Ch. 1, Part 5, § 83       34.32
Ch. 1, Part 5, § 84       34.33
Ch. 1, Part 5, § 85       34.15
Ch. 1, Part 5, § 86       34.16
Ch. 1, Part 5, § 87       34.17
Ch. 1, Part 5, § 88       34.01
Ch. 1, Part 7A, § 111     35.01
Ch. 1, Part 7A, § 112     35.02
Ch. 1, Part 7A, § 113     35.03
Ch. 1, Part 7A, § 114     35.04
Ch. 1, Part 7B, § 121     35.15
Ch. 1, Part 7C, § 141     35.30
Ch. 1, Part 7C, § 142     35.31
Ch. 1, Part 9, § 161      36.01
Ch. 1, Part 9, § 162      36.02
Ch. 1, Part 9, § 163      36.03
Ch. 1, Part 9, § 164      36.04
Ch. 1, Part 9, § 165      36.05
Ch. 1, Part 9, § 166      36.06
Ch. 1, Part 9, § 167      36.07
Ch. 3, Part 1, § 1        90.01,
                           90.99
Ch. 3, Part 1, § 2        90.02,
                           90.99
Ch. 3, Part 1, § 3        90.03
Ch. 3, Part 1, § 4        90.04
Ch. 3, Part 1, § 5        90.99
Ch. 3, Part 2, § 11       90.15
Ch. 3, Part 2, § 12       90.16
Ch. 3, Part 2, § 13       90.99
Ch. 3, Part 3, § 21       90.30
Ch. 3, Part 3, § 22       90.31
Ch. 3, Part 3, § 23       90.32,
                           90.99
Ch. 3, Part 3, § 24       90.33
Ch. 5, Part 3, § 5-301    150.25
Ch. 5, Part 3, § 5-302    150.26
Ch. 6, Part 1, § 1        130.01
Ch. 6, Part 1, § 2        130.99
Ch. 6, Part 1, § 3        133.01
Ch. 6, Part 1, § 4        133.02
Ch. 6, Part 1, § 5        133.99
Ch. 6, Part 1, § 6        131.01
Ch. 6, Part 1, § 7        131.02
Ch. 6, Part 1, § 8        131.03
Ch. 6, Part 1, § 9        131.04
Ch. 6, Part 1, § 10       131.05
Ch. 6, Part 1, § 11       131.99
Ch. 6, Part 1, § 12       132.01
Ch. 6, Part 1, § 13       132.02
Ch. 6, Part 1, § 14       132.99
Ch. 6, Part 1, § 15       131.06,
                           131.99
Ch. 6, Part 2, § 21       132.15
Ch. 6, Part 2, § 22       132.16
Ch. 6, Part 2, § 23       132.17
Ch. 6, Part 2, § 24       132.99
Ch. 6, Part 3, § 31       134.01
Ch. 6, Part 3, § 32       134.02
Ch. 6, Part 3, § 33       134.03
Ch. 6, Part 3, § 34       134.04
Ch. 6, Part 3, § 35       134.05
Ch. 6, Part 3, § 36       134.06
Ch. 6, Part 3, § 37       134.07
Ch. 6, Part 3, § 38       134.99
Ch. 7, § 1                132.30
Ch. 7, § 2                132.31
Ch. 7, § 3                132.32,
                           132.99
Ch. 7, § 4                132.33
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 41       51.01
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 42       51.02
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 43       51.03
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 44       51.04
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 45       51.05
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 46       51.06
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 47       51.07
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 48       51.08
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 49       51.09
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 50       51.10
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 51       51.11
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 52       51.12
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 53       51.13
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 54       51.14
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 55       51.15
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 56       51.16
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 57       51.17
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 58       51.18
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 59       51.19
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 60       51.20
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 61       51.21
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 62       51.22
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 63       51.23
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 64       51.24
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 65       51.25
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 66       51.26
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 67       51.27
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 68       51.28
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 68A      51.29
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 69       51.30
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 70       51.31
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 71       51.32
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 72       51.33
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 73       51.34
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 74       51.35
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 75       51.36
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 76       51.37
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 77       51.38
Ch. 8, Part 1, § 78       51.39
Ch. 8, Part 2, § 81       51.50
Ch. 9, Part 1, § 7        91.99
Ch. 9, Part 2, § 21       91.25
Ch. 9, Part 2, § 22       91.26
Ch. 9, Part 2, § 23       91.27
Ch. 10, Part 1A, § 1      TSO V
Ch. 10, Part 1A, § 4      TSO V
Ch. 10, Part 1B, § 31     TSO V
Ch. 10, Part 1B, §§ 34—TSO V
Ch. 10, Part 2, § 51—55 TSO V
Ch. 10, Part 3, § 61      TSO V
Ch. 10, Part 4, §§ 71—7TSO V
Ch. 10, Part 5, §§ 91—1TSO V
Ch. 11, Part 1, § 1       50.001
Ch. 11, Part 2, § 21      50.015
Ch. 11, Part 3A, § 31     50.030
Ch. 11, Part 3A, § 32     50.031
Ch. 11, Part 3A, § 33     50.032
Ch. 11, Part 3A, § 34     50.033
Ch. 11, Part 3A, § 35     50.034
Ch. 11, Part 3A, § 36     50.035
Ch. 11, Part 3A, § 37     50.036
Ch. 11, Part 3A, § 38     50.037
Ch. 11, Part 3B, § 41     50.050
Ch. 11, Part 3B, § 42     50.051
Ch. 11, Part 3B, § 43     50.052
Ch. 11, Part 3B, § 44     50.053
Ch. 11, Part 3B, § 45     50.054
Ch. 11, Part 3B, § 46     50.055
Ch. 11, Part 4, § 51      50.085
Ch. 11, Part 4, § 52      50.086
Ch. 11, Part 4, § 53      50.087
Ch. 12, § 1               92.01
Ch. 12, § 2               92.02
Ch. 12, § 3               92.03
Ch. 12, § 4               92.04
Ch. 12, § 6               92.05
Ch. 12, § 7               92.06
Ch. 12, § 8               92.07
Ch. 14, § 1               93.01
Ch. 14, § 2               93.02
Ch. 14, § 3               93.03
Ch. 14, § 4               93.04
Ch. 15, Part 1, § 1       110.01
Ch. 15, Part 1, § 2       110.02
Ch. 15, Part 1, § 3       110.03
Ch. 15, Part 1, § 4       110.04
Ch. 15, Part 1, § 5       110.99
Ch. 15, Part 2, § 21      111.01
Ch. 15, Part 2, § 22      111.02
Ch. 15, Part 2, § 23      111.03
Ch. 15, Part 2, § 24      111.04
Ch. 15, Part 2, § 25      111.06
Ch. 15, Part 2, § 25.1    111.07,
                           111.99
Ch. 15, Part 2, § 27      111.99
Ch. 15, Part 2, § 28      111.08
Ch. 15, Part 4, § 61      112.01
Ch. 15, Part 4, § 62      112.02
Ch. 15, Part 4, § 63      112.03
Ch. 15, Part 4, § 64      112.04
Ch. 15, Part 4, § 65      112.05
Ch. 15, Part 4, § 66      112.06
Ch. 15, Part 4, § 67      112.99
Ch. 15, Part 4, § 68      112.07
Ch. 15, Part 4, § 69      112.08
Ch. 15, Part 4, § 70      112.09
Ch. 15, Part 5, § 71      113.01
Ch. 15, Part 5, § 72      113.02
Ch. 15, Part 5, § 73      113.03
Ch. 15, Part 5, § 74      113.04
Ch. 15, Part 5, § 75      113.05
Ch. 15, Part 5, § 76      113.06
Ch. 15, Part 5, § 77      113.99
Ch. 15, Part 5, § 78      113.07
Ch. 15, Part 5, § 79      113.08
Ch. 15, Part 5, § 80      113.09
Ch. 15, Part 6, § 81      114.01
Ch. 15, Part 6, § 82      114.02
Ch. 15, Part 6, § 83      114.99
Ch. 16, § 1               153.01
Ch. 16, § 2               153.02
Ch. 16, § 4               153.03
Ch. 16, § 5               153.04
Ch. 16, § 6               153.99
Ch. 17, Part 1, § 1       70.01
Ch. 17, Part 1, § 2       70.02
Ch. 17, Part 1, § 3       70.03,
                           70.99
Ch. 17, Part 1, § 4       70.04,
                           70.99
Ch. 17, Part 1, § 5       70.05
Ch. 17, Part 1, § 6       70.06
Ch. 17, Part 2, § 11      71.01
Ch. 17, Part 2, § 12      Ch. 75 Sch. I
Ch. 17, Part 2, § 13      Ch. 75 Sch. II
Ch. 17, Part 2, § 14      Ch. 75 Sch. III
Ch. 17, Part 2, § 15      Ch. 75 Sch. IV
Ch. 17, Part 2, § 16      Ch. 75 Sch. V
Ch. 17, Part 2, § 17      Ch. 75 Sch. VI
Ch. 17, Part 2, § 18      Ch. 75 Sch. VII
Ch. 17, Part 2, § 19      Ch. 75 Sch. VIII
Ch. 17, Part 2, § 20      71.02,
                           71.99
Ch. 17, Part 2, § 21      71.03,
                           71.99
Ch. 17, Part 2, § 22      Ch. 75 Sch. IX
Ch. 17, Part 2, § 23      Ch. 75 Sch. X
Ch. 17, Part 3, § 31      72.01
Ch. 17, Part 3, § 32      72.02
Ch. 17, Part 3, § 33      Ch. 76 Sch. IX
Ch. 17, Part 3, § 34      Ch. 76 Sch. I
Ch. 17, Part 3, § 35      72.03
Ch. 17, Part 3, § 36      72.04
Ch. 17, Part 3, § 37      72.05
Ch. 17, Part 3, § 38      Ch. 76 Sch. II
Ch. 17, Part 3, § 39      Ch. 76 Sch. III
Ch. 17, Part 3, § 40      Ch. 76 Sch. IV
Ch. 17, Part 3, § 41      Ch. 76 Sch. V
Ch. 17, Part 3, § 42      Ch. 76 Sch. VI
Ch. 17, Part 3, § 43      72.06,
                           72.99
Ch. 17, Part 3, § 44      72.99
Ch. 17, Part 3, § 45      Ch. 76 Sch. VII
Ch. 17, Part 3, § 46      72.07
Ch. 17, Part 6, § 91      73.01
Ch. 17, Part 6, § 92      73.02
Ch. 17, Part 6, § 93      73.03
Ch. 17, Part 6, § 94      Ch. 76 Sch. VIII
Ch. 17, Part 6, § 95      73.99
Ch. 17, Part 7, § 101     74.01
Ch. 17, Part 7, § 102     74.02
Ch. 17, Part 7, § 103     74.03
Ch. 17, Part 7, § 104     74.04
Ch. 17, Part 7, § 105     74.05
Ch. 17, Part 7, § 106     74.06
Ch. 17, Part 7, § 107     74.07
Ch. 17, Part 7, § 108     74.08
Ch. 17, Part 7, § 109     74.09
Ch. 17, Part 7, § 110     74.10
Ch. 17, Part 7, § 111     74.11
Ch. 17, Part 8, § 121     70.07
Ch. 17, Part 8, § 122     70.08
Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-101  94.01
Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-102  94.99
Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-103  94.02
Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-104  94.03
Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-105  94.99
Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-106  94.04,
                           94.99
Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-107  94.05
Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-108  94.06
Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-109  94.99
Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-110  94.07,
                           94.99
Ch. 18, Part 1, § 18-111  94.08
Ch. 18, Part 2, § 18-201  94.20
Ch. 18, Part 2, § 18-203  94.21
Ch. 20, Part 1A, § 1      53.001
Ch. 20, Part 1A, § 2      53.002
Ch. 20, Part 1A, § 3      53.003
Ch. 20, Part 1A, § 4      53.004
Ch. 20, Part 1B, § 11     53.015
Ch. 20, Part 1B, § 12     53.016
Ch. 20, Part 1B, § 13     53.017
Ch. 20, Part 1B, § 14     53.018
Ch. 20, Part 1B, § 15     53.019
Ch. 20, Part 1B, § 17     53.020
Ch. 20, Part 1B, § 18     53.021
Ch. 20, Part 2, § 31      53.036
Ch. 20, Part 3, § 49      53.050
Ch. 20, Part 3, § 50      53.051
Ch. 20, Part 3, § 51      53.052
Ch. 20, Part 3, § 52      53.053
Ch. 20, Part 3, § 53      53.054
Ch. 20, Part 3, § 54      53.055
Ch. 20, Part 3, § 55      53.056
Ch. 20, Part 3, § 56      53.057
Ch. 20, Part 3, § 59      53.058
Ch. 20, Part 3, § 61      53.059
Ch. 20, Part 3, § 62      53.060
Ch. 20, Part 3, § 64      53.061
Ch. 20, Part 3, § 65      53.062
Ch. 20, Part 3, § 66      53.063
Ch. 20, Part 4, § 71      53.080
Ch. 20, Part 4, § 72      53.081
Ch. 20, Part 4, § 73      53.082
Ch. 20, Part 4, § 74      53.083
Ch. 20, Part 4, § 75      53.084
Ch. 20, Part 4, § 76      53.085
Ch. 20, Part 4, § 77      53.086
Ch. 20, Part 4, § 78      53.087
Ch. 20, Part 4, § 79      53.088
Ch. 20, Part 5, § 81      53.100
Ch. 20, Part 5, § 82      53.101
Ch. 20, Part 5, § 83      53.102
Ch. 20, Part 5, § 84      53.103
Ch. 20, Part 5, § 85      53.104
Ch. 20, Appendix A         Ch. 53 App. A
Ch. 21, Part 1, § 21-101  154.01
Ch. 21, Part 1, § 21-102  154.02
Ch. 21, Part 1, § 21-103  154.03
Ch. 21, Part 1, § 21-104  154.99
Ch. 22, Part 1A, § 1      TSO XIII
Ch. 22, Part 1A, § 2      TSO XIII
Ch. 22, Part 1A, § 3      TSO XIII
Ch. 22, Part 2A, § 55.1   95.001
Ch. 22, Part 2A, § 56     95.002
Ch. 22, Part 2A, § 57     95.003
Ch. 22, Part 2A, § 57.1   95.004
Ch. 22, Part 2A, § 58     95.005
Ch. 22, Part 2A, § 59     95.006
Ch. 22, Part 2A, § 59.1   95.007
Ch. 22, Part 2A, § 60     95.008
Ch. 22, Part 2B, § 71     95.020
Ch. 22, Part 2B, § 72     95.021
Ch. 22, Part 3B, § 151    95.060
Ch. 22, Part 3B, § 152    95.061
Ch. 22, Part 3B, § 153    95.062
Ch. 24, Part 1, § 101     52.001
Ch. 24, Part 1, § 102     52.002
Ch. 24, Part 1, § 103     52.003
Ch. 24, Part 1, § 104     52.004
Ch. 24, Part 1, § 105     52.005
Ch. 24, Part 1, § 106     52.006
Ch. 24, Part 1, § 107     52.007
Ch. 24, Part 2, § 201     52.020
Ch. 24, Part 3, § 301     52.035
Ch. 24, Part 3, § 302     52.036
Ch. 24, Part 3, § 303     52.037
Ch. 24, Part 3, § 304     52.038
Ch. 24, Part 3, § 305     52.039
Ch. 24, Part 4, § 401     52.050
Ch. 24, Part 4, § 402     52.051
Ch. 24, Part 4, § 403     52.052
Ch. 24, Part 4, § 404     52.053
Ch. 24, Part 4, § 405     52.054
Ch. 24, Part 4, § 406     52.055
Ch. 24, Part 4, § 407     52.056
Ch. 24, Part 4, § 408     52.057
Ch. 24, Part 5, § 501     52.070
Ch. 24, Part 5, § 502     52.071
Ch. 24, Part 5, § 503     52.072
Ch. 24, Part 6, § 601     52.085
Ch. 24, Part 6, § 602     52.086
Ch. 24, Part 7, § 701     52.100
Ch. 24, Part 8, § 801     52.115
Ch. 24, Part 8, § 802     52.116
Ch. 24, Part 8, § 803     52.117
Ch. 24, Part 9, § 901     52.130
Ch. 24, Part 9, § 902     52.131
Ch. 24, Part 9, § 903     52.132
Ch. 24, Part 9, § 904     52.133
Ch. 24, Part 9, § 905     52.134
Ch. 24, Part 9, § 906     52.999
Ch. 24, Part 9, § 907     52.135
Ch. 24, Appendix 24-A      Ch. 52 App. A
Ch. 24, Appendix 24-B      Ch. 52 App. B
Ch. 24, Appendix 24-C      Ch. 52 App. C
Ch. 25, Part 1, § 1       37.001
Ch. 25, Part 1, § 2       37.002
Ch. 25, Part 2, § 21      37.015
Ch. 25, Part 2, § 22      37.016
Ch. 25, Part 2, § 23      37.017
Ch. 25, Part 2, § 24      37.018
Ch. 25, Part 2, § 25      37.019
Ch. 25, Part 2, § 26      37.020
Ch. 25, Part 2, § 27      37.021
Ch. 25, Part 2, § 28      37.022
Ch. 25, Part 2, § 29      37.999
Ch. 25, Part 2, § 30      37.023
Ch. 25, Part 3, § 51      37.035
Ch. 25, Part 3, § 52      37.036
Ch. 25, Part 3, § 53      37.037
Ch. 25, Part 3, § 54      37.038
Ch. 25, Part 3, § 55      37.039
Ch. 25, Part 3, § 56      37.040
Ch. 25, Part 3, § 57      37.041
Ch. 25, Part 3, § 58      37.042
Ch. 25, Part 3, § 59      37.043
Ch. 25, Part 3, § 60      37.044
Ch. 25, Part 3, § 61      37.045
Ch. 25, Part 3, § 62      37.046
Ch. 25, Part 3, § 63      37.999
Ch. 25, Part 3, § 64      37.047
Ch. 25, Part 4, § 101     37.060
Ch. 25, Part 4, § 102     37.061
Ch. 25, Part 4, § 103     37.062
Ch. 25, Part 4, § 104     37.063
Ch. 25, Part 5, § 110     37.075
Ch. 25, Part 5, § 111     37.076
Ch. 25, Part 5, § 112     37.077
Ch. 25, Part 5, § 113     37.078
Ch. 25, Part 6, § 1       37.090
Ch. 26, Part 1, § 1       96.01
Ch. 26, Part 1, § 2       96.99
Ch. 26, Part 1, § 3       96.02
Ch. 26, Part 2, § 31      96.15
Ch. 26, Part 2, § 32      96.16
Ch. 26, Part 2, § 33      96.17
Ch. 26, Part 2, § 34      96.18
Ch. 26, Part 2, § 35      96.19
Ch. 27, Part 1, § 1       54.001
Ch. 27, Part 1, § 2       54.002
Ch. 27, Part 1, § 3       54.003
Ch. 27, Part 1, § 4       54.004
Ch. 27, Part 1, § 5       54.005
Ch. 27, Part 1, § 6       54.006
Ch. 27, Part 1, § 7       54.007
Ch. 27, Part 1, § 8       54.008
Ch. 27, Part 1, § 9       54.999
Ch. 27, Part 1, § 10      54.009
Ch. 27, Part 2, § 21      54.020
Ch. 27, Part 2, § 22      54.021
Ch. 27, Part 2, § 23      54.999
Ch. 27, Part 2, § 24      54.022
Ch. 27, Part 2, § 25      54.023
Ch. 27, Part 2, § 26      54.024
Ch. 27, Part 3, § 41      54.035
Ch. 27, Part 3, § 42      54.036
Ch. 27, Part 3, § 43      54.037
Ch. 27, Part 3, § 44      54.038
Ch. 27, Part 3, § 45      54.039
Ch. 27, Part 3, § 46      54.040
Ch. 27, Part 3, § 47      54.041
Ch. 27, Part 3, § 48      54.042
Ch. 27, Part 3, § 49      54.043,
                           54.999
Ch. 27, Part 3, § 50      54.044
Ch. 27, Part 3, § 51      54.045
Ch. 27, Part 3, § 52      54.046
Ch. 27, Part 4, § 61      54.060
Ch. 27, Part 4, § 62      54.061
Ch. 27, Part 4, § 63      54.062
Ch. 27, Part 4, § 64      54.063
Ch. 27, Part 4, § 65      54.999
Ch. 27, Part 5, § 71      54.075
Ch. 27, Part 5, § 72      54.076
Ch. 27, Part 5, § 73      54.077
Ch. 27, Part 5, § 74      54.078
Ch. 28, Part 1, § 28-101  156.001
Ch. 28, Part 1, § 28-102  156.002
Ch. 28, Part 1, § 28-103  156.003
Ch. 28, Part 1, § 28-104  156.004
Ch. 28, Part 1, § 28-105  156.005
Ch. 28, Part 1, § 28-106  156.006
Ch. 28, Part 1, § 28-107  156.007
Ch. 28, Part 1, § 28-108  156.008
Ch. 28, Part 2, § 28-201  156.020
Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-301  156.035
Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-302  156.036
Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-303  156.037
Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-304  156.038
Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-305  156.039
Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-306  156.040
Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-307  156.041
Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-308  156.042
Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-309  156.043
Ch. 28, Part 3, § 28-310  156.044
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-401  156.055
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-402  156.056
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-403  156.057
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-404  156.058
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-405  156.059
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-406  156.060
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-407  156.061
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-408  156.062
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-409  156.063
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-410  156.064
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-411  156.065
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-412  156.066
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-413  156.067
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-414  156.068
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-415  156.069
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-416  156.070
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-417  156.071
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-418  156.072
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-419  156.073
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-420  156.074
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-421  156.075
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-422  156.076
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-423  156.077
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-424  156.078
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-425  156.079
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-426  156.080
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-427  156.081
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-428  156.082
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-429  156.083
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-430  156.084
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-431  156.085
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-432  156.086
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-433  156.087
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-434  156.088
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-435  156.089
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-436  156.090
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-437  156.091
Ch. 28, Part 4, § 28-438  156.092
Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-501  156.105
Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-502  156.106
Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-503  156.107
Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-504  156.108
Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-505  156.109
Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-506  156.110
Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-507  156.111
Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-508  156.112
Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-509  156.113
Ch. 28, Part 5, § 28-510  156.114
Ch. 28, Part 6             156.125
Ch. 28, Part 6, § 28-601  156.126
Ch. 28, Part 6, § 28-602  156.127
Ch. 28, Part 6, § 28-603  156.128
Ch. 28, Part 6, § 28-604  156.129
Ch. 28, Part 6, § 28-605  156.130
Ch. 28, Part 6, § 28-606  156.131
Ch. 28, Part 6, § 28-607  156.132
Ch. 28, Part 6, § 28-608  156.133
Ch. 28, Part 6, § 28-609  156.134
Ch. 28, Part 7, § 28-701  156.145
Ch. 28, Part 7, § 28-702  156.146
Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-801  156.160
Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-802  156.161
Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-803  156.162
Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-804  156.163
Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-805  156.164
Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-806  156.165
Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-807  156.166
Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-808  156.167
Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-809  156.168
Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-810  156.169
Ch. 28, Part 8, § 28-811  156.170
Ch. 28, Part 9, § 28-901  156.185
Ch. 28, Part 9, § 28-902  156.186
Ch. 28, Part 9, § 28-903  156.187
Ch. 28, Part 9, § 28-904  156.188,
                           156.999
Ch. 28, Part 10, § 28-1001156.200
Ch. 28, Part 10, § 28-1002156.201
Ch. 28, Part 10, § 28-1003156.202
Ch. 28, Part 10, § 28-1004156.203
Ch. 28, Part 10, § 28-1005156.204
                           
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
7/8/1914               Rep. by 759
222        3-2-1918    TSO XIII
223        4-11-1918   TSO XIII
234        6-6-1919    TSO XIII
8/5/1921               Rep. by 759
4/21/1922  4-19-1922   TSO I
5/17/1923              Rep. by 759
1/7/1924               Rep. by 759
1/7/1924   1-7-1924    TSO II
6/7/1924   6-7-1924    TSO VI
350        2-9-1925    TSO XIII
8/6/1926               Rep. by 966
389        9-20-1929   TSO VII
418        1-8-1934    TSO XIII
419        3-8-1934    TSO XIII
420                    Expired
423                    Expired
8/3/1934               Rep. by 759
8/3/1934   8-3-1934    TSO XIII
8/24/1934  8-24-1934   TSO VI
449        7-5-1935    TSO X
451        10-12-1935  TSO X
7/9/1936               Rep. by 759
8/5/1936               Rep. by 966
12/3/1937  12-3-1937   TSO VII
12/23/1937 12-23-1937  TSO VII
12/23/1937 12-23-1937  TSO XI,
                       TSO XIII
3/17/1938  3-17-1938   TSO VII
4/11/1938  4-11-1938   TSO III
9/16/1938  9-16-1938   TSO VI
9/16/1938  9-16-1938   TSO VI
2/3/1939               Rep. by 966
3/24/1939  3-24-1939   TSO VII,
                       TSO XIII
6/2/1939   6-2-1939    TSO VII
7/16/1940  7-16-1940   TSO III,
                       TSO VII
10/4/1940  10-4-1940   TSO XV
5/1/1942   5-1-1942    TSO XIII
12/6/1942              Rep. by 759
1943-44                Rep. by 759
9/7/1945   9-7-1945    TSO I
5/3/1946               Rep. by 759
6/7/1946               Rep. by 759
8/1/1947   8-1-1947    TSO VI
9/5/1947   9-5-1947    TSO X
8/5/1948               Expired
2/7/1949   2-7-1949    TSO X
2/21/1949  2-21-1949   TSO X
2/6/1950   2-6-1950    TSO IX
7/1/1950   7-1-1950    TSO I,
                       TSO IV
                       53.003,
4/16/1951  4-16-1951   53.004,
                       54.044—
                       54.046
8/18/1952  8-18-1952   TSO X
12/1/1952              Rep. by 759
5/17/1954  5-17-1954   TSO XII
7/19/1954  7-19-1954   TSO XII
10/18/1954 10-18-1954  TSO IX,
                       TSO XIII
11/21/1955             Rep. by 966
11/21/1955 11-21-1955  TSO VII
12/19/1955 12-19-1955  TSO IX
12/19/1955 12-19-1955  TSO IX
10/29/1956 10-29-1956  TSO VI
1/21/1957              Rep. by 966
3/4/1957   3-4-1957    TSO VI
10/10/1958             Rep. by 966
11/20/1958             Rep. by 966
11/20/1958             Rep. by 966
3/10/1959  3-10-1959   TSO I
3/10/1959  3-10-1959   TSO I
3/16/1959              Rep. by 966
4/20/1959  4-20-1959   TSO I
2/1/1960               Rep. by 966
6/12/1961              Rep. by 966
5/21/1962  5-21-1962   TSO VI
12/17/1962 12-17-1962  TSO VI
7/15/1963  7-15-1963   TSO I
9/16/1963  9-16-1963   TSO VI
1/25/1965  1-25-1965   TSO VI
1/25/1965  1-25-1965   TSO VI
4/19/1965  4-19-1965   TSO VI
4/19/1965  4-19-1965   TSO VI
7/7/1965   7-7-1965    TSO VI
7/19/1965  7-19-1965   TSO VI
9/20/1965  9-20-1965   TSO VI
1/17/1966  1-17-1966   TSO VI
4/4/1966   4-4-1966    TSO VI
6/19/1967  6-19-1967   TSO V
5/20/1968  5-20-1968   TSO VI
7/15/1968  7-15-1968   TSO VI
1/20/1969  1-20-1969   TSO VI
1/20/1969  1-20-1969   TSO VI
1/27/1969  1-27-1969   TSO VI
2/17/1969  2-17-1969   TSO IX
6/16/1969  6-16-1969   TSO VI
10/20/1969 10-20-1969  TSO XIII
6/15/1970              Superseded by 1064
6/15/1970  6-15-1970   TSO VI
9/8/1970   9-8-1970    TSO VI
10/19/1970 10-19-1970  TSO VI
2/22/1971  2-22-1971   TSO IX
2/22/1971  2-22-1971   TSO X
3/15/1971  3-15-1971   TSO VI
4/19/1971  4-19-1971   TSO VI
6/28/1971  6-28-1971   TSO VI
-          6-28-1971   TSO XIII
9/7/1971   9-7-1971    TSO VI
10/18/1971 10-18-1971  TSO VI
1/17/1972  1-17-1972   TSO VI
1/17/1972  1-17-1972   TSO VI,
                       TSO X
1/17/1972  1-17-1972   TSO X
2/28/1972  2-28-1972   TSO IX
3/1/1972   3-1-1972    TSO VI
3/7/1972   3-7-1972    TSO VI
3/20/1972              Rep. by 973
4/17/1972              Rep. by 966
4/28/1972  4-28-1972   TSO VI,
                       TSO X
5/15/1972  5-15-1972   TSO VI
6/6/1972   6-6-1972    TSO VI
6/8/1972               Rep. by 973
10/16/1972 10-16-1972  TSO X
10/17/1972 10-17-1972  TSO VI
11/21/1972 11-21-1972  93.01—
                       93.04
11/21/1972 11-21-1972  TSO VI
2/19/1973  2-19-1973   TSO X
2/19/1973  2-19-1973   TSO X
5/9/1973   5-9-1973    TSO X
6/21/1973  6-21-1973   TSO IX
7/16/1973  7-16-1973   TSO X
10/15/1973 10-15-1973  TSO IX
12/17/1973 12-17-1973  Removed in 2018 codification
12/19/1973             Footnote in prior code
1/9/1974   1-9-1974    TSO VI
6/17/1974  6-17-1974   TSO VI
7/14/1974  7-14-1974   TSO VI
8/19/1974  8-19-1974   TSO VI
8/19/1974  8-19-1974   TSO VI
1/20/1975  1-20-1975   TSO VI
5/5/1975   5-5-1975    TSO VI
6/16/1975  6-16-1975   TSO I
6/16/1975  6-16-1975   TSO X
7/7/1975   7-7-1975    TSO IX
1976-2     1-12-1976   TSO VI
1976-3     4-19-1976   TSO VI
1976-4     5-18-1976   TSO VI
1976-5     8-2-1976    TSO X
1976-7     12-20-1976  TSO VI
1977-1     2-21-1977   TSO VI
1977-4     4-18-1977   TSO VI
1977-5     5-16-1977   TSO VI
1977-6     7-18-1977   TSO X
1978-4     1-16-1978   TSO VI
1980-12    10-30-1980  TSO XIII
1980-13    10-20-1980  TSO I
1981-3     4-20-1981   TSO I
1982- 5    6-21-1982   TSO VI
1982-6     6-21-1982   TSO VI
1982-8     11-15-1982  TSO VI
1983-1     1-17-1983   TSO VI
1983-3     1-17-1983   TSO VI
1983-4     1-17-1983   TSO VI
1983-5     6-6-1983    TSO VI
1983-6     7-18-1983   TSO VI
1983-8     9-19-1983   TSO VI
1983-9     11-21-1983  TSO VI
1984-4     4-16-1984   TSO VI
1984-6     6-18-1984   TSO VI
1984-10    12-10-1984  TSO VI
1984-13    12-17-1984  TSO VI
1984-12    12-17-1984  TSO VI
1985-1     2-11-1985   TSO VI
1985-3     3-18-1985   TSO VIII
1985-7     5-30-1985   TSO VI
1985-8     5-30-1985   TSO VI
1985-12    8-19-1985   TSO VI
1985-13    9-16-1985   TSO VI
1985-14    10-7-1985   TSO VI
1985-15    12-16-1985  TSO VI
1985-16    12-16-1985  TSO VI
1986-1     2-3-1986    TSO VI
1986-2     2-17-1986   TSO XV
1986-3     3-17-1986   TSO VI
1986-4     5-19-1986   TSO VI
1986-5     5-19-1986   TSO IX
1986-6     6-2-1986    TSO VI
1986-7     6-2-1986    TSO VI
1986-8     6-16-1986   TSO VI
1986-9     6-16-1986   TSO VI
1986-12    7-7-1986    TSO XV
1986-13    7-7-1986    TSO VI
1986-16    12-8-1986   TSO VI
1987-1     2-16-1987   TSO IV
1987-2     2-16-1987   TSO IV
1987-5     8-17-1987   TSO VI
1987-6     11-23-1987  TSO IX
1987-7     12-21-1987  TSO VI
1988-1     1-4-1988    TSO XIII
1988-4     2-15-1988   TSO VI
1988-6     5-16-1988   TSO IX
1988-9     6-6-1988    TSO VI
1988-10    7-18-1988   TSO VI
1988-11    8-8-1988    TSO IX
1988-12    9-26-1988   TSO VI
1988-13    9-27-1988   TSO VIII
1988-14    10-17-1988  TSO VI
1988-15    11-21-1988  TSO VI
1989-1     2-13-1989   TSO VI
1989-2     3-20-1989   TSO VI
1989-3     4-17-1989   TSO VI
1989-4     5-30-1989   TSO VI
1989-5     5-30-1989   TSO VI
1989-6     5-30-1989   TSO VI
1989-7     5-30-1989   TSO VI
1989-8     7-17-1989   TSO VI
1989-9                 Not codified
1989-10    8-7-1989    TSO VI
1989-11    10-2-1989   TSO VI
1989-12    11-20-1989  TSO VIII
1989-13    11-20-1989  TSO VI
1990-1     1-2-1990    TSO VI
1990-2     1-15-1990   TSO VI
1990-3     2-19-1990   TSO VI
1990-4     3-19-1990   TSO VI
1990-5     4-5-1990    TSO VI
1990-6     6-18-1990   TSO VIII
1990-7     9-17-1990   TSO VI
1990-8     11-19-1990  TSO VI
1991-1     1-21-1991   TSO VI
1991-2     3-18-1991   TSO VI
1991-3     5-20-1991   TSO VI
1991-4     5-20-1991   TSO VI
1991-5     5-20-1991   TSO VI
1991-6     6-17-1991   TSO VI
1991-7     7-29-1991   TSO X
1991-8     9-16-1991   TSO VI
1991-9     11-18-1991  TSO VI
1991-10    11-18-1991  TSO VI
1991-11    11-11-1991  TSO VI
1991-12    12-16-1991  TSO VI
1991-13    12-16-1991  TSO VI
1991-14    12-16-1991  TSO VI
1992-1     1-6-1992    TSO VI
1992-2     5-18-1992   TSO VI
1992-3     6-15-1992   TSO VI
1992-4     7-13-1992   TSO VI
1992-5     9-21-1992   TSO VI
1992-6     10-19-1992  TSO VI
1993-1     2-15-1993   TSO VI
1993-2     2-15-1993   TSO VI
1993-3     2-15-1993   TSO VI
1993-4     5-10-1993   TSO VI
1993-5     8-16-1993   TSO VI
1993-6     9-20-1993   TSO VIII
1993-7     10-18-1993  TSO IX
1993-8     12-20-1993  TSO VI
1993-9     12-20-1993  TSO VI
1994-1     1-3-1994    TSO VI
1994-2     1-17-1994   TSO VI
1994-3     3-2-1994    TSO VI
1994-4     5-2-1994    TSO VI
1994-5     5-2-1994    TSO VI
1994-6     6-13-1994   TSO VI
1994-7     9-19-1994   TSO VI
1994-8     10-17-1994  TSO X
1994-9     11-21-1994  TSO I
1994-10    12-19-1994  TSO VI
1994-11    12-19-1994  TSO VI
1995-1     1-16-1995   TSO VI
1995-2     2-20-1995   TSO VIII
1995-3     3-20-1995   TSO VI
1995-4     4-17-1995   TSO I
1995-5     5-15-1995   TSO VI
1995-6     7-17-1995   TSO VI
1995-7     7-17-1995   TSO VI
1995-8     12-18-1995  TSO VI
1996-1     1-2-1996    TSO VI
1996-2     1-16-1996   TSO VI
1996-3     1-15-1996   TSO VI
1996-4     1-15-1996   TSO VI
1996-5     4-15-1996   TSO VI
1996-6     8-19-1996   TSO VI
1996-7     9-16-1996   TSO VI
1996-8     11-18-1996  TSO VI
1996-9     12-16-1996  TSO VI
1997-1     1-20-1997   TSO VI
1997-2     1-20-1997   TSO VI
1997-3     1-20-1997   TSO VI
1997-4     2-24-1997   TSO I
1997-5     2-24-1997   TSO VI
1997-6     3-17-1997   TSO VI
1997-7     4-21-1997   TSO VI
1997-8     4-21-1997   TSO I
1997-9     5-19-1997   TSO VI
1997-10    6-16-1997   TSO VI
1997-11    7-21-1997   TSO VI
1997-12    7-21-1997   TSO VI
1997-13    8-18-1997   TSO VI
1997-14    8-18-1997   TSO VI
1997-15    9-15-1997   TSO VI
1997-16    9-16-1997   TSO VI
1997-17    9-15-1997   TSO VI
1997-18    9-15-1997   TSO VI
1997-19    9-15-1997   TSO VI
1997-20    9-15-1997   TSO I
1997-21    10-20-1997  TSO I
1997-22    11-18-1997  TSO VI
1997-23    12-15-1997  TSO VI
1997-24    12-15-1997  TSO I
1997-25    12-15-1997  TSO VI
1997-26    12-15-1997  TSO VI
1998-1     1-5-1998    TSO VI
1998-2     2-16-1998   TSO VI
1998-3     2-16-1998   TSO VI
1998-4     2-16-1998   TSO VI
1998-5     2-16-1998   TSO VI
1998-6     3-16-1998   TSO VI
1998-7     5-18-1998   TSO VI
1998-8     5-18-1998   TSO VI
1998-9     6-15-1998   TSO VI
1998-10    6-15-1998   TSO VI
1998-11    7-20-1998   TSO VI
1998-12    8-17-1998   TSO VI
1998-13    8-17-1998   TSO VI
1998-14    8-17-1998   TSO VI
1998-15    8-17-1998   TSO VI
1998-16    9-21-1998   TSO VI
1998-17    9-21-1998   TSO VI
1998-18    9-21-1998   TSO VI
1998-19    9-21-1998   TSO VI
1998-20    10-19-1998  TSO VI
1998-21    10-19-1998  TSO VI
1999-1                 Same as Ord. 1295
1999-2     2-15-1999   TSO VI
1999-3     3-15-1999   TSO VI
1999-4     3-15-1999   TSO VI
1999-5     3-15-1999   TSO VI
1999-6     4-19-1999   TSO VI
1999-7     4-19-1999   TSO VI
1999-8     5-17-1999   TSO VI
1999-9     7-19-1999   TSO VI
1999-10    7-19-1999   TSO I
1999-11    7-19-1999   TSO I
1999-12    8-16-1999   TSO I
1999-13    8-16-1999   TSO VI
1999-14    8-16-1999   TSO VI
1999-15    8-16-1999   TSO VI
1999-16    9-20-1999   TSO VI
1999-17    9-20-1999   TSO VI
1999-18    9-20-1999   TSO VI
1999-19    10-18-1999  TSO VI
1999-20    10-18-1999  TSO VI
1999-21    10-26-1999  TSO I
1999-22    10-26-1999  TSO VI
1999-23    11-15-1999  TSO VI
1999-24    12-20-1999  TSO VI
1999-25    12-20-1999  TSO VI
2000-1     1-3-2000    TSO VI
2000-2     1-3-2000    TSO VI
2000-3     2-21-2000   TSO VI
2000-4     3-20-2000   TSO VI
2000-5     3-20-2000   TSO VI
2000-6     4-17-2000   TSO VI
2000-7     5-15-2000   TSO VI
2000-8     5-15-2000   TSO VI
2000-9     5-15-2000   TSO VI
2000-10    5-15-2000   TSO VI
2000-11    6-19-2000   TSO VI
2000-12    7-17-2000   TSO VI
2000-13    7-17-2000   TSO VI
2000-14    8-21-2000   TSO VI
2000-15    8-21-2000   TSO VI
2000-16    8-21-2000   TSO VI
2000-17    9-18-2000   TSO VI
2000-18    9-18-2000   TSO VI
2000-19    9-18-2000   TSO VI
2000-20    10-16-2000  TSO VIII
21-2000    10-16-2000  TSO VI
2000-22    10-16-2000  TSO VI
2000-23    10-16-2000  TSO VI
2000-24    10-16-2000  TSO VI
2000-25    11-20-2000  TSO VI
2000-26    11-20-2000  TSO VI
2000-27    12-18-2000  TSO VI
2000-28    12-18-2000  TSO VI
2001-1     2-19-2001   TSO VI
2001-2     3-5-2001    TSO VI
2001-3     3-5-2001    TSO VI
2001-4     3-19-2001   TSO VI
2001-5     4-16-2001   TSO VI
2001-6     4-16-2001   TSO VI
2001-7     5-21-2001   TSO VI
2001-8     5-21-2001   TSO VI
2001-9     6-18-2001   TSO VI
2001-10    6-18-2001   TSO VI
2001-11    6-18-2001   TSO VI
2001-12    6-18-2001   TSO VI
2001-13    6-18-2001   TSO VI
2001-14    6-18-2001   TSO VI
2001-15    7-16-2001   TSO VI
2001-16    7-16-2001   TSO VI
2001-17    8-20-2001   TSO VI
2001-18    9-17-2001   TSO VI
2001-19    9-17-2001   TSO VI
2001-20    9-17-2001   TSO VI
2001-21    9-17-2001   TSO VI
2001-22    9-17-2001   TSO VI
2001-23    10-15-2001  TSO VI
2001-24    10-15-2001  TSO VI
2001-25    11-19-2001  TSO VI
2001-26    12-17-2001  TSO VI
2001-27    12-17-2001  TSO VI
2001-28    12-17-2001  TSO VI
2001-29                Not adopted
2001-30    11-19-2001  TSO VI
2002-1     1-7-2002    TSO VI
2002-2     1-7-2002    TSO VI
2002-3     1-21-2002   TSO VI
2002-4     2-18-2002   TSO VI
2002-5     2-18-2002   TSO VI
2002-6     2-18-2002   TSO VI
2002-7     2-18-2002   TSO VI
2002-8     3-18-2002   TSO VI
2002-9     3-18-2002   TSO VI
2002-10    5-20-2002   TSO VI
2002-11    5-20-2002   TSO VI
2002-12    5-20-2002   TSO VI
2002-13    5-20-2002   TSO VI
2002-14    6-17-2002   TSO XII
2002-15    6-17-2002   TSO VI
2002-16    8-19-2002   TSO VI
2002-17    7-15-2002   TSO VI
2002-18    8-19-2002   TSO VI
2002-19    8-19-2002   TSO VI
2002-20    8-19-2002   TSO VI
2002-21    8-19-2002   TSO VI
2002-22    9-16-2002   TSO VI
2002-23    9-16-2002   TSO VI
2002-24    9-16-2002   TSO VI
2002-25    9-16-2002   TSO VI
2002-26    9-16-2002   TSO VI
2002-27    9-16-2002   TSO VI
2002-28    9-16-2002   TSO VI
2002-29    9-16-2002   TSO VI
2002-30    10-21-2002  TSO VI
2002-31    12-16-2002  TSO VI
2003-1     1-20-2003   TSO VI
2003-2     3-17-2003   TSO VI
2003-3     3-17-2003   TSO VI
2003-4                 Void
2003-5     3-17-2003   TSO VI
2003-6     4-21-2003   TSO VI
2003-7     4-21-2003   TSO VI
2003-8     5-19-2003   TSO VI
2003-9     5-19-2003   TSO VI
2003-10    5-19-2003   TSO VI
2003-11    5-19-2003   TSO VI
2003-12    5-19-2003   TSO VI
2003-13    6-16-2003   TSO VI
2003-14    6-16-2003   TSO VI
2003-15    6-16-2003   TSO VI
2003-16    6-16-2003   TSO VI
2003-17    8-18-2003   TSO VI
2003-18    8-18-2003   TSO VI
2003-19    9-15-2003   TSO VI
2003-20    9-15-2003   TSO VI
2003-21    9-15-2003   TSO VI
2003-22    10-20-2003  TSO VI
2003-23    10-20-2003  TSO VI
2003-24    10-20-2003  TSO VI
2003-24A   11-17-2003  TSO VI
2003-25                Not submitted
2003-26    12-15-2003  TSO VI
2003-27    12-15-2003  TSO VI
2003-28    12-15-2003  TSO VI
2003-29    12-15-2003  TSO VI
2004-1     1-5-2004    TSO VI
2004-2     1-5-2004    TSO I
2004-3     2-16-2004   TSO VI
2004-4     3-15-2004   TSO VI
2004-5     3-15-2004   TSO VI
2004-6     3-15-2004   TSO VI
2004-7     4-19-2004   TSO VI
2004-8     5-17-2004   TSO VI
2004-9     5-17-2004   TSO VI
2004-10    5-17-2004   TSO VI
2004-11    5-17-2004   TSO VI
2004-12    6-21-2004   TSO VI
2004-13    6-21-2004   TSO VI
2004-14    6-21-2004   TSO VI
2004-15    8-16-2004   TSO VI
2004-16    8-16-2004   TSO VIII
2004-17    8-30-2004   TSO VI
2004-18    8-30-2004   TSO VI
2004-19    8-30-2004   TSO VI
2004-20    8-30-2004   TSO VI
2004-21    9-20-2004   TSO VI
2004-22    9-20-2004   TSO VI
2004-23    9-20-2004   TSO VI
2004-24    9-20-2004   TSO VI
2004-25    10-18-2004  TSO VI
2004-26    11-15-2004  TSO VI
2005-1     2-21-2005   TSO VI
2005-2     3-21-2005   TSO VI
2005-3     2-21-2005   TSO VI
2005-4     3-21-2005   TSO VI
2005-5     - -2005     TSO VI
2005-6     3-21-2005   TSO VI
2005-7     4-18-2005   TSO VI
2005-8     4-18-2005   TSO VI
2005-9     4-18-2005   TSO VI
2005-10    4-18-2005   TSO VI
2005-11    5-16-2005   TSO VI
2005-12    6-20-2005   TSO VI
2005-13    6-20-2005   TSO VI
2005-14    6-20-2005   TSO VI
2005-15    7-18-2005   TSO VI
2005-16    8-15-2005   TSO VI
2005-17    9-19-2005   TSO VI
2005-18    9-19-2005   TSO VI
2005-19    9-19-2005   TSO VI
2005-20    9-19-2005   TSO VI
2005-21    9-19-2005   TSO VI
2005-22    10-17-2005  TSO VI
2005-23    10-17-2005  TSO VI
2005-24    10-17-2005  TSO VI
2005-25    11-21-2005  TSO VI
2005-26    11-21-2005  TSO III
2005-27    11-21-2005  TSO VI
2005-28    11-21-2005  TSO VI
2006-1     1-3-2006    TSO VI
2006-2     2-20-2006   TSO VI
2006-3     2-20-2006   TSO VI
2006-4     2-20-2006   TSO I
2006-5     3-20-2006   TSO VI
2006-6     3-20-2006   TSO VI
2006-7     4-17-2006   TSO VI
2006-8     4-17-2006   TSO VI
2006-9     5-8-2006    TSO VI
2006-10    5-8-2006    TSO VI
2006-11    5-8-2006    TSO VI
2006-12    6-19-2006   TSO VI
2006-13    7-17-2006   TSO VI
2006-14    7-17-2006   TSO VI
2006-15    7-17-2006   TSO VI
2006-16    7-17-2006   TSO VI
2006-17    8-21-2006   TSO VI
2006-18    8-21-2006   TSO VI
2006-19    8-21-2006   TSO VI
2006-20    8-21-2006   TSO VI
2006-21    8-21-2006   TSO VI
2006-23    9-18-2006   TSO VI
2006-24                Replaced by Ord. 1346
2006-25    10-16-2006  TSO VI
2006-26                Rejected
2007-1     1-15-2007   TSO VI
2007-2     1-15-2007   TSO X
2007-3     2-19-2007   TSO VI
2007-4     3-19-2007   TSO VI
2007-5     3-19-2007   TSO VI
2007-6     3-19-2007   TSO IV
2007-7     5-21-2007   TSO VI
2007-8     5-21-2007   TSO VI
2007-9     7-16-2007   TSO I
2007-10    8-20-2007   TSO X
2007-11    8-20-2007   TSO VI
2007-12    8-20-2007   TSO VI
2007-13    8-20-2007   TSO I
2007-14    10-15-2007  TSO VI
2007-15    10-15-2007  TSO I
2007-18    12-17-2007  TSO VI
2007-19    12-17-2007  TSO VI
2007-20    12-17-2007  TSO VI
2007-21    12-12-2007  TSO VI
2008-1     1-7-2008    TSO VI
2008-2     1-7-2008    TSO VI
2008-3     1-21-2008   TSO VI
2008-4     1-21-2008   TSO VI
2008-5     2-18-2008   TSO I
2008-6     3-17-2008   TSO VI
2008-7     3-17-2008   TSO VI
2008-8     3-17-2008   TSO VI
2008-9     3-17-2008   TSO VI
2008-10    3-17-2008   TSO I
2008-11    4-21-2008   TSO VI
2008-12    4-21-2008   TSO VI
2008-13    5-19-2008   TSO VI
2008-14    5-19-2008   TSO VI
2008-15    6-16-2008   TSO VI
2008-16    6-16-2008   TSO VI
2008-17    6-16-2008   TSO X
2008-18    7-21-2008   TSO VI
2008-19    7-21-2008   TSO VI
2008-20    7-21-2008   TSO VI
2008-21    7-21-2008   TSO VI
2008-22    7-21-2008   TSO VI
2008-23    7-21-2008   TSO VI
2008-24    7-21-2008   TSO VI
2008-25    8-18-2008   TSO VI
2008-26    8-18-2008   TSO VI
2008-27    8-18-2008   TSO VI
2008-28    9-15-2008   TSO VI
2008-29    10-20-2008  TSO VI
2008-30    - -2008     TSO VI
2009-1     1-19-2009   TSO VI
2009-2                 Not adopted
2009-3     2-16-2009   TSO VI
2009-4     2-16-2009   TSO VI
2009-5                 Not adopted
2009-6     3-16-2009   TSO VI
2009-7     3-16-2009   TSO VI
2009-8     3-16-2009   TSO VI
2009-9     3-16-2009   TSO VI
2009-10    4-20-2009   TSO VI
2009-11    4-20-2009   TSO VI
2009-12    4-20-2009   TSO VI
2009-13    4-20-2009   TSO VI
2009-14    5-4-2009    TSO VI
2009-15    5-4-2009    TSO VI
2009-16    5-18-2009   TSO VI
2009-17    5-18-2009   TSO VI
2009-18    6-15-2009   TSO VI
2009-19    6-15-2009   TSO VI
2009-20    7-20-2009   TSO VI
2009-21    7-20-2009   TSO VI
2009-22    7-20-2009   TSO VI
2009-23    8-17-2009   TSO VI
2009-24    9-15-2009   TSO VI
2009-25    9-21-2009   TSO VI
2009-26    10-19-2009  TSO VI
2009-27    11-16-2009  TSO VI
2009-28    11-16-2009  TSO VI
2009-29    12-21-2009  38.01
2010-1     2-15-2010   TSO X
2010-2     2-15-2010   TSO VI
2010-3     3-15-2010   TSO VI
2010-4     3-15-2010   TSO VI
2010-5     4-19-2010   TSO VI
2010-6     4-19-2010   TSO VI
2010-7     5-17-2010   TSO VI
2010-8     5-17-2010   TSO VI
2010-9     5-17-2010   TSO VI
2010-10    5-17-2010   TSO VI
2010-11    6-21-2010   TSO VI
2010-12    6-21-2010   TSO VI
2010-13    7-19-2010   TSO VI
2010-14    8-16-2010   TSO VI
2010-15    7-19-2010   TSO IX
2010-16    9-20-2010   TSO VI
2010-17    10-18-2010  TSO VI
2010-18    12-20-2010  TSO VI
2010-19    12-20-2010  TSO VI
2010-20    12-20-2010  TSO VI
2010-21    12-20-2010  TSO VI
2011-1     2-21-2011   TSO VI
2011-2                 Not adopted
2011-3     3-21-2011   TSO VI
2011-4     3-21-2011   TSO VI
2011-5     3-21-2011   TSO VI
2011-6     3-21-2011   TSO VI
2011-7     4-18-2011   TSO VI
2011-8     4-18-2011   TSO VI
2011-9     5-16-2011   TSO VI
2011-10    6-20-2011   38.01
2011-11    5-16-2011   TSO VI
2011-12    6-20-2011   TSO VI
2011-13                Not adopted
2011-14    8-15-2011   38.01
2011-15    9-19-2011   TSO VI
2011-16    9-19-2011   TSO VI
2011-17    8-15-2011   TSO VI
2011-18    8-15-2011   TSO VI
2011-19    8-15-2011   TSO VI
2011-20    10-17-2011  TSO VI
2011-21    12-19-2011  TSO X
2011-22    12-19-2011  TSO VI
2012-1     1-16-2012   TSO VI
2012-2     1-16-2012   TSO VI
2012-3     1-16-2012   TSO VI
2012-4     2-20-2012   TSO VI
2012-5     2-20-2012   TSO VI
2012-6     3-19-2012   TSO VIII
2012-7     4-16-2012   TSO VI
2012-8     4-16-2012   TSO VI
2012-9     4-16-2012   TSO VI
2012-10    4-16-2012   TSO VI
2012-11    4-16-2012   TSO VI
2012-12    5-21-2012   38.01
2012-13    5-21-2012   TSO VI
2012-14    5-21-2012   TSO VI
2012-15    6-18-2012   TSO VI
2012-16    6-18-2012   TSO VI
2012-17    6-18-2012   TSO VI
2012-18    7-16-2012   TSO XIII
2012-19    9-17-2012   TSO VI
2012-20    9-17-2012   TSO VI
2012-21    11-19-2012  TSO VI
2013-1     1-21-2013   TSO VI
2013-2     2-18-2013   TSO VI
2013-3     3-18-2013   TSO VI
2013-4     6-17-2013   TSO VI
2013-5     8-19-2013   TSO VI
2013-6     8-19-2013   TSO VI
2013-7     8-19-2013   TSO VI
2013-8     8-19-2013   TSO VI
2013-9     9-16-2013   TSO VI
2013-10    11-18-2013  TSO VI
2013-11    11-18-2013  TSO VI
2013-12    6-17-2013   51.39
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.             Date Passed Code Section
-                    - -         TSO X
-                    1-4-1883    TSO II
-                    11- -2017   TSO III
1                    4-14-1883   TSO XIII
2                               Rep. by 759
3                               Rep. by 759
4                               Rep. by 759
5                               Rep. by 759
6                               Rep. by 789
7                               Rep. by 759
8                               Rep. by 759
9                               Rep. by 759
10                              Rep. by 759
11                              Rep. by 759
12                              Rep. by 759
13                   7-21-1883   TSO XIII
14                   8-4-1883    TSO XIII
15                              Rep. by 759
16                              Rep. by 790
17                              Rep. by 759
18                   9-8-1884    TSO XIII
19                   9-8-1884    TSO XIII
20                   9-8-1884    TSO XIII
21                   9-8-1884    TSO XIII
22                              No ord.
23                              No ord.
24                   5-10-1886   TSO XIII
25                   10-11-1886  TSO V
26                   1-5-1887    TSO XIII
27                              Rep. by 759
28                   3-17-1890   TSO XI
29                              Rep. by 759
30                   6-2-1890    TSO XIII
31                              Rep. by 966
32                              Rep. by 759
33                              Rep. by 759
34                              Rep. by 759
35                              Rep. by 759
36                              Rep. by 966
37                              Rep. by 759
38                              Rep. by 759
39                   6- -1895    TSO XIII
40                              Rep. by 759
41                   12-23-1895  TSO III
42                   12-20-1895  TSO X
43                              Exp.
44                              Exp.
45                              Rep. by 759
46                   2-8-1897    TSO XIII
47                              Rep. by 759
48                   11-10-1897  TSO X
49                   12-15-1897  TSO III
50                   8-18-1898   TSO X
51                              Rep. by 759
52                   9-18-1899   TSO X
53                   11-8-1899   TSO X
54                   1-6-1900    TSO X
55                   2-3-1900    TSO X
56                              Rep. 759
57                   10-13-1909  TSO XIII
58                   11-14-1900  TSO XIII
59                   1-11-1901   TSO X
60                   6-14-1901   TSO X
61                   3-3-1902    TSO XIII
62                   5-3-1902    TSO XIII
63                   5-23-1902   TSO X
64                   6-4-1902    TSO XIII
65                   6-9-1902    TSO X
66                              Rep. by 67
67                   1-14-1903   TSO III
68                   6-6-1903    TSO XIII
69                              Rep. by 759
70                              Rep. by 759
71                   6-30-1903   TSO X
72                   9-4-1903    TSO II
73                   9-15-1903   TSO X
74                   4-9-1904    TSO X
75                   5-7-1904    TSO X
76                              Rep. by 759
77                   4-30-1904   TSO XIII
78                   6-13-1904   TSO XIII
79                   6-11-1904   TSO XIII
80                   7-1-1904    TSO XIII
81                   7-23-1904   TSO XIII
82                   7-29-1904   TSO X
83                              Rep. by 759
84                   10-29-1904  TSO XIII
85                   1-10-1905   TSO XIII
86                   4-18-1905   TSO XIII
87                              Rep. by 759
88                   5-27-1905   TSO XIII
89                   8-11-1905   TSO X
90                              Rep. by 92
91                   10-29-1904  TSO III
92                              Rep. by 759
93                   1-10-1905   TSO III
94                              Rep. by 759
95                   1-21-1905   TSO III
96                   9-1-1905    TSO II
97                   9-19-1905   TSO XIII
98                   11-6-1905   TSO XIII
99                   12-4-1905   TSO XIII
100                  3-5-1906    TSO X
101                             Rep. by 759
102                  4-13-1906   TSO XIII
103                  4-20-1906   TSO XIII
104                  4-20-1906   TSO XIII
105                  5-5-1906    TSO XIII
106                             Rep. by 966
107                  6-18-1906   TSO XIII
108                  8-20-1906   TSO XIII
109                  6-18-1907   TSO XIII
110                  6-8-1907    TSO X
111                  6-18-1907   TSO XIII
112                             Rep. by 181
113                             No ord.
114                  10-2-1907   TSO XIII
115                  10-2-1907   TSO XIII
116                  10-2-1907   TSO XIII
117                  10-2-1907   TSO V
118                             Rep. by 639
119                  12-4-1907   TSO III
120                  4-8-1908    TSO III
121                             Rep. by 759
122                             Rep. by 639
123                  7-8-1908    TSO XIII
124                  7-8-1908    TSO XIII
125                  10-6-1908   TSO II
126                  5-7-1909    TSO XIII
127                  5-7-1909    TSO XIII
128                  5-7-1909    TSO XIII
129                  5-7-1909    TSO XIII
130                  5-7-1909    TSO XIII
131                  5-7-1909    Removed in 2018 codification
132                  6-2-1909    TSO XIII
133                  6-2-1909    TSO XIII
134                             Rep. by 792
135                  7-7-1909    TSO XIII
136                  7-7-1909    TSO XIII
137                  7-7-1909    TSO XIII
138                  7-7-1909    TSO III
139                  7-7-1909    TSO XIII
140                  7-7-1909    TSO X
141                  7-7-1909    TSO X
142                             Rep. by 759
143                  8-23-1909   TSO X
144                  10-20-1909  TSO X
145                  11-10-1909  TSO XIII
146                  4-6-1910    TSO XIII
147                  3-2-1910    TSO XIII
148                  4-6-1910    TSO II
149                  6-7-1910    TSO X
150                             Rep. by 172
151                  7-5-1910    TSO II
152                             Rep. by 794
153                  8-10-1910   TSO XIII
154                  8-10-1910   TSO XIII
155                  8-10-1910   TSO XIII
156                  8-10-1910   TSO XIII
157                  9-7-1910    TSO III
158                  9-6-1910    TSO XIII
159                             Rep. by 759
160                             Rep. by 759
161                  12-7-1910   TSO III
162                  1-7-1911    TSO III
163                  4-5-1911    TSO X
164                             Rep. by 759
165                             Rep. by 759
166                  7-7-1911    TSO X
167                  8-2-1911    TSO XIII
168                  11-8-1911   TSO XIII
169                             Rep. by 759
170                  6-5-1912    TSO X
171                  7-3-1912    TSO X
172                             Rep. by 759
173                  9-4-1912    TSO XIII
174                  3-5-1913    TSO X
175                  5-7-1913    TSO XIII
176                  5-7-1913    TSO XIII
177                  8-6-1913    TSO XIII
178                  8-6-1913    TSO XIII
179                  8-6-1913    TSO XIII
180                  9-3-1913    TSO XIII
181                             Rep. by 759
182                  11-5-1913   TSO XV
183                             Rep. by 759
184                             Rep. by 759
185                             Rep. by 207
186                             Rep. by 759
187                  6-5-1914    TSO XIII
188                             Rep. by 759
189                             Rep. by 759
190                  6-6-1914    TSO XIII
191                  8-7-1914    TSO XIII
192                  7-3-1914    TSO XIII
193                  8-7-1914    TSO XIII
194                  7-6-1914    TSO III
195                             Rep. by 759
196                  9-11-1914   TSO VII,
                                 TSO XIII
197                  9-4-1914    TSO VII,
                                 TSO XIII
198                  1-9-1915    TSO III
199                  5-8-1915    TSO X
200                  5-7-1915    TSO XIII
201                             Rep. by 759
202                             Rep. by 759
203                  10-1-1915   TSO II
204                             Rep. by 759
205                             Rep. by 759
206                             Exp.
207                             Repealer
208                             Rep. by 759
209                             Rep. by 759
210                  10-6-1916   TSO III
211                  1-29-1917   TSO XIII
212                             Rep. by 759
213                  4-7-1917    TSO XIII
214                  4-17-1917   TSO XIII
215                  4-6-1917    TSO II
216                             Exp.
217                  6-1-1917    TSO II
218                             Rep. by 759
219                             Rep. by 759
220                  12-7-1917   TSO II
221                  12-7-1917   TSO X
221-A                2-1-1918    TSO XIII
224                             Rep. by 759
225                             Rep. by 792
226                             Rep. by 759
227                  10-4-1918   TSO II
228                             Rep. by 759
229                  4-5-1919    TSO XIII
230                  4-5-1919    TSO XIII
231                  4-5-1919    TSO XIII
232                  4-2-1919    TSO X
233                  6-6-1919    TSO XIII
235                             Exp.
236                  5-3-1919    53.001,
                                 53.002
237                             Rep. by 759
238                  7-2-1919    TSO X
239                  7-2-1919    TSO XIII
240                  8-2-1919    TSO XIII
241                  8-2-1919    TSO X
242                  10-4-1919   TSO X
243                  10-4-1919   TSO X
244                  10-18-1919  TSO XIII
245                  11-8-1919   TSO III
246                             No ord.
247                  2-7-1920    TSO XIII
248                  9-4-1920    TSO II
249                  8-7-1920    TSO X
250                  2-5-1921    TSO XIII
251                  2-5-1912    TSO XIII 
252                  3-5-1921    TSO X
253                  3-5-1921    TSO X
254                  4-12-1921   TSO III
255                  4-12-1921   TSO XIII
256                  4-12-1921   TSO X
257                  4-12-1921   TSO XIII
258                  4-12-1921   TSO XIII
259                  4-28-1921   TSO III
260                             No ord.
261                  5-7-1921    TSO XIII
262                  5-7-1921    TSO XIII
263                  5-7-1921    TSO XIII
264                  5-7-1921    TSO X
265                  5-7-1921    TSO XIII
266                  5-7-1921    TSO XIII
267                  5-7-1921    TSO XIII
268                  5-6-1921    TSO II
269                  6-3-1921    TSO II
270                  7-2-1921    TSO XIII
271                  7-2-1921    TSO XIII
272                             Rep. by 759
273                  8-6-1921    TSO X
274                  8-6-1921    TSO XIII
275                  9-10-1921   TSO III
276                  11-5-1921   TSO XIII
277                  11-5-1921   TSO XIII
278                  11-5-1921   TSO XIII
279                             Rep. by 759
280                  12-3-1921   TSO XIII
281                  12-3-1921   TSO XIII
282                  12-3-1921   TSO XIII
283                             Rep. by 966
284                  12-3-1921   TSO III
285                             Rep. by 759
286                  12-3-1921   TSO XIII
287                  3-4-1922    54.021,
                                 54.999
288                  12-3-1921   TSO XIII
289                  3-4-1922    TSO XIII
290                  3-4-1922    TSO XIII
291                  3-4-1922    TSO XIII
292                  4-8-1922    TSO XIII
292-B                4-8-1922    TSO XIII
293                  5-6-1922    TSO XIII
294                  4-21-1922   TSO V
295                             Duplicate of 293
296                  6-6-1922    TSO X
297                  7-8-1922    TSO XIII
298                             Did not pass
299                             Did not pass
300                  7-10-1922   TSO XIII
301                  8-5-1922    TSO XIII
302                  6-6-1922    TSO X
303                  8-5-1922    TSO XIII
304                  8-5-1922    TSO XIII
305                  8-5-1922    TSO XIII
306                  8-5-1922    TSO XIII
307                  8-5-1922    TSO XIII
308                  8-5-1922    TSO XIII
309                             Rep. by 486
310                  10-24-1922  TSO III
311                  1-9-1923    TSO III
312                  3-19-1923   TSO II
313                  3-19-1923   TSO III
314                  9-3-1920    TSO XIII
315                  4-7-1923    TSO II
316                  5-17-1923   TSO XIII
317                  5-17-1923   TSO XIII
318                  5-17-1923   TSO XIII
319                  6-1-1923    Removed in 2018 codification
320                  6-1-1923    TSO III
321                  7-6-1923    TSO X
322                  7-6-1923    TSO XIII
323                  7-6-1923    TSO XIII
324                             Rep. by 639
325                  8-10-1923   TSO XIII
326                  8-10-1923   TSO XIII
327                  3-3-1923    TSO XIII
328                  6-4-1923    TSO XIII
329                             Rep. by 759
330                  4-12-1924   TSO XIII
331                  4-12-1924   TSO X
332                  4-12-1924   TSO XIII
333                  4-12-1924   TSO XIII
334                  4-12-1924   TSO XIII
335                  4-12-1924   TSO XIII
336                  5-20-1924   TSO XIII
337                             Rep. by 792
338                             Rep. by 759
339                  6-6-1924    TSO X
340                  6-16-1924   TSO XIII
341                  6-16-1924   TSO X
342                  7-15-1924   TSO XIII
343                  7-15-1924   TSO XIII
344                  7-7-1924    TSO XIII
345                  7-7-1924    TSO XIII
346                             Rep. by 789
347                             Rep. by 788
348                  10-6-1924   TSO XIII
349                  10-6-1924   TSO XIII
351                             Rep. by 759
352                  4-9-1925    TSO XIII
353                             Rep. by 966
354                  6-5-1925    TSO XIII
355                  6-10-1925   TSO XIII
356                  5-10-1925   TSO XIII
357                  5-7-1925    TSO XIII
358                  6-8-1925    TSO XIII
359                  8-4-1925    TSO XIII
360                  12-6-1925   TSO XIII
361                  12-6-1925   TSO XIII
362                  5-7-1926    TSO XIII
363                  7-6-1926    TSO III
364                             No ord.
365                  10-6-1926   TSO II
366                  5-12-1927   TSO XIII
367                  5-12-1927   TSO X
368                             Rep. by 759
369                             Rep. by 759
370                             Rep. by 966
371                  7-1-1927    TSO III
372                  7-1-1927    TSO X
373                  7-1-1927    TSO XIII
374                             Rep. by 639
375                  8-8-1927    TSO X
376                  8-5-1927    TSO XIII
377                             Rep. by 759
378                             Rep. by 486
379                  4-6-1929    TSO X
380                  6-1-1928    TSO XIII
381                  7-6-1928    TSO X
382                             Rep. by 759
383                             Rep. by 966
384                             Rep. by 759
385                  4-6-1929    TSO XIV
386                  6-9-1929    TSO IV
387                  5-4-1929    TSO XIII
388                             Rep. by 759
390                             Rep. by 759
391                             Rep. by 759
392                             Rep. by 966
393                  4-5-1930    TSO XIV
394                  7-12-1930   TSO XIII
395                  8-29-1930   TSO XIII
396                  10-3-1930   TSO XIII
397                             Did not pass
398                             Did not pass
399                  2-6-1931    TSO II
400                  2-7-1931    TSO XIII
401                  3-6-1931    TSO XIV
402                  10-2-1931   TSO II
403                  3-4-1932    TSO XIV
404                  5-6-1932    TSO II
405                  8-5-1932    TSO II
406                             Rep. by 823
407                  7-1-1932    TSO II
408                  9-1-1932    TSO II
409                  9-2-1932    TSO XIII
410                  10-7-1932   TSO XIII
411                             Exp.
412                  11-7-1932   TSO XIII
413                             Rep. by 759
414                  2-3-1933    TSO XIV
415                             Rep. by 759
416                             Rep. by 759
417                  5-5-1933    TSO XIII
417-A                12-1-1933   TSO II
421                  3-4-1934    TSO XIV
422                  4-7-1934    TSO XIII
424                  7-6-1934    TSO XIII
425                  7-6-1934    TSO XIII
426                  7-6-1934    TSO XIII
427                  7-6-1934    TSO XIII
428                  7-6-1934    TSO XIII
429                  7-6-1934    TSO XIII
430                  7-6-1934    TSO XIII
431                  7-6-1934    TSO XIII
432                  7-6-1934    TSO XIII
433                  7-6-1934    TSO XIII
434                  7-6-1934    TSO XIII
435                  7-6-1934    TSO XIII
436                  8-3-1934    TSO XIII
437                  8-3-1934    TSO XIII
438                  8-6-1934    TSO XIII
439                  8-24-1934   TSO II
440                  9-7-1934    TSO XIII
441                             Rep. by 759
442                             Rep. by 759
443                  6-1-1934    TSO XIII
444                  3-1-1935    TSO II
445                  3-1-1935    TSO XIV
446                             Rep. by 759
447                  5-3-1935    TSO X
448                  5-3-1935    TSO XIII
450                             Rep. by 759
452                  12-6-1935   TSO XIII
                                 54.037—
453                  2-14-1936   54.043,
                                 54.999
454                  3-6-1936    TSO XIV
455                             Rep. by 966
456                  6-5-1936    TSO XIII
457                  7-20-1936   TSO XIII
458                  7-22-1936   TSO XIII
459                  8-7-1936    TSO III
460                  11-23-1936  TSO III
461                  12-4-1936   TSO II
462                             Rep. by 759
463                             No ord.
464                  3-5-1937    TSO XIV
465                  5-14-1937   TSO XIII
466                             Did not pass
467                  8-6-1937    TSO XIII
468                  8-6-1937    TSO II
469                             Rep. by 759
470                  2-4-1938    TSO XIV
471                  4-1-1938    TSO XIII
472                             Rep. by 759
473                  6-3-1938    TSO XIII
474                  9-2-1938    TSO XIII
475                  9-2-1938    TSO XIII
476                  9-2-1938    TSO XIII
477                  9-2-1938    TSO XIII
478                  9-2-1938    TSO XIII
479                             Rep. by 966
480                  9-16-1938   TSO XIII
481                  9-16-1938   TSO XIII
482                  9-16-1938   TSO XIII
483                  9-16-1938   TSO XIII
484                  2-3-1939    TSO XIV
485                             Rep. by 759
486                             Repealer
487                  3-3-1939    TSO XIII
488                  4-7-1939    TSO XIII
489                  2-2-1940    TSO XIV
490                  2-2-1940    TSO XIII
491                  2-2-1940    TSO XIII
492                  2-2-1940    TSO XIII
493                  2-2-1940    TSO XIII
494                  8-19-1940   TSO X
495                  8-19-1940   TSO X
496                  6-7-1940    TSO XIII
497                             Rep. by 759
498                  2-7-1941    TSO XIV
499                  3-18-1941   TSO XIII
500                             Rep. by 1323
501                  5-5-1941    TSO II
502                  5-5-1941    TSO X
503                  7-11-1941   TSO X
504                  7-11-1941   TSO II
505                             Rep. by 966
506                  8-4-1941    TSO XIII
507                  8-4-1941    TSO XIII
508                  8-4-1941    TSO II
509                  2-6-1942    TSO X
510                  2-6-1942    TSO XIV
511                  6-13-1942   TSO X
512                  7-25-1942   TSO XIII
513                  1-8-1943    TSO II
514                  1-8-1943    TSO XIII
515                             Rep. by 830
515-A                2-5-1943    TSO XIV
516                  8-6-1943    TSO XIII
517                  8-6-1943    TSO XIII
518                  2-4-1944    TSO XIV
519                             Rep. by 759
520                  10-12-1944  TSO X
521                             Rep. by 759
522                  2-2-1945    TSO XIV
523                  5-4-1945    TSO XIII
524                  6-1-1945    TSO XIII
525                  6-1-1945    TSO XIII
526                             Rep. by 759
527                  9-7-1945    TSO II
528                             Rep. by 661
529                  2-1-1946    TSO XIV
530                  3-1-1946    TSO XIII
531                  4-5-1946    TSO III
532                             Rep. by 759
533                  5-3-1946    TSO XIII
534                  6-18-1946   TSO III
535                  7-9-1946    TSO II
536                  7-9-1946    TSO XIII
537                             Rep. by 759
538                  10-8-1946   TSO X
539                  10-8-1946   TSO X
540                  11-1-1946   TSO XIII
541                             Rep. by 1031, 1052
542                  10-23-1946  TSO XIII
543                             Rep. by 759
544                             Rep. by 759
545                  6-6-1947    TSO XIII
546                  7-1-1947    TSO XIII
547                  7-1-1947    TSO XIII
548                             Rep. by 966
549                  9-5-1947    TSO XIII
550                  9-5-1947    TSO XIII
551                  8-1-1947    TSO XIII
552                             Rep. by 759
553                  12-5-1947   TSO XIII
554                  12-5-1947   TSO XIII
555                  12-5-1947   TSO XIII
556                             Rep. by 901
557                             Rep. by 595
558                  2-20-1948   TSO XIV
559                  4-9-1948    TSO III
560                  5-7-1948    TSO II
561                  5-7-1948    TSO XIII
561-A                6-4-1948    TSO XIII
562                             Exp.
563                  8-5-1948    TSO XIII
564                  8-5-1948    TSO XIII
565                  8-5-1948    TSO XIII
566                  8-5-1948    TSO XIII
567                  8-5-1948    TSO XIII
568                  8-5-1948    TSO XIII
569                             Expired
570                             Rep. by 785
571                             Rep. by 966
572                  9-3-1948    TSO XIII
573                  9-3-1948    TSO XIII
574                  10-18-1948  TSO X
575                  1-3-1949    TSO XIII
576                             Rep. by 759
577                  2-21-1949   TSO II
578                  2-21-1949   TSO XIII
579                  3-7-1949    TSO XIV
580                  3-21-1949   TSO II
581                  4-4-1949    TSO XIII
582                  3-21-1949   TSO X
583                  4-4-1949    TSO XIII
584                  4-11-1949   TSO II
585                  4-18-1949   TSO XIII
586                             Superseded by 1008
587                  5-23-1949   TSO XIII
588                             Rep. by 966
589                  8-8-1949    TSO XIII
590                  9-12-1949   TSO XIII
591                  10-4-1949   TSO XIII
592                  10-3-1949   TSO X
593                             Rep. by 661
594                  10-17-1949  TSO X
595                             Rep. by 990
596                  11-7-1949   TSO XIII
597                  11-7-1949   TSO II
598                  12-5-1949   TSO II
599                  2-6-1950    TSO XIV
600                             Rep. by 998
601                  3-6-1950    TSO III
602                  7-17-1950   TSO XIII
603                  7-17-1950   TSO XIII
604                  7-17-1950   TSO XIII
605                  7-17-1950   TSO XIII
606                  7-17-1950   TSO XIII
607                  7-17-1950   TSO II
608                  7-17-1950   TSO X
609                  7-17-1950   TSO X
610                  8-21-1950   TSO XIII
611                  8-21-1950   TSO XIII
612                  8-21-1950   TSO II
613                  9-18-1950   TSO II
614                  10-16-1950  TSO XIII
615                  10-16-1950  TSO XIII
616                  10-16-1950  TSO XIII
617                  2-19-1951   TSO XIV
618                  3-5-1951    53.015—
                                 53.019
619                  3-19-1951   TSO XIII
620                             Expired
621                  4-16-1951   TSO XIII
622                  5-21-1951   TSO X
623                  6-18-1951   TSO II
624                  6-18-1951   TSO X
625                  6-18-1951   TSO XIII
626                  7-16-1951   TSO XIII
627                  8-20-1951   TSO XIII
                                 96.01,
628                  9-17-1951   96.02,
                                 96.99
629                             Rep. by 966
630                  10-1-1951   TSO XIII
631                  10-1-1951   TSO XIII
632                  10-1-1951   TSO XIII
633                  10-1-1951   TSO II
634                             Duplicate of 632
635                  11-19-1951  TSO XIII
636                  11-19-1951  TSO XIII
637                  12-3-1951   53.036,
                                 54.036
638                  12-17-1951  TSO XIII
639                             Rep. by 998
640                             Rep. by 966
641                  3-24-1952   TSO XIV
642                  4-21-1952   TSO X
643                             Rep. by 998
644                  5-5-1952    TSO XIII
645                  5-5-1952    TSO XIII
646                  5-5-1952    TSO XIII
647                  5-5-1952    TSO XIII
648                  5-5-1952    TSO XIII
649                  5-19-1952   TSO XIII
650                  5-19-1952   TSO XIII
651                  5-19-1952   TSO XIII
652                  5-19-1952   TSO XIII
653                  5-19-1952   TSO XIII
654                  5-19-1952   TSO XIII
655                  5-19-1952   TSO XIII
656                  6-16-1952   TSO XIII
657                  6-16-1952   TSO II
658                  5-19-1952   TSO XIII
659                  8-18-1952   TSO XIII
660                             Rep. by 790
661                             Repealer
662                  8-18-1952   35.01—
                                 35.04
663                             Rep. by 823
664                  3-2-1953    TSO XIV
665                  3-16-1953   TSO XIII
666                  5-4-1953    TSO X
667                  6-15-1953   TSO X
668                             Rep. by 759
669                  8-17-1953   TSO XIII
670                  12-21-1953  TSO XIII
671                             Rep. by 823
672                  1-18-1954   TSO XIII
673                             Rep. by 997
674                  4-19-1954   TSO XIV
675                             Expired
676                             Rep. by 759
677                             Rep. by 1083
678                  7-19-1954   TSO XIII
679                  9-20-1954   TSO XIII
680                  9-20-1954   TSO XIII
681                  9-20-1954   TSO XIII
682                             Rep. by 998
683                  11-15-1954  TSO X
684                  2-21-1955   TSO XIII
685                  4-4-1955    TSO XIV
686                  5-16-1955   TSO III
687                  5-16-1955   TSO XIII
688                  6-20-1955   TSO X
689                             Rep. by 697
690                             Expired
691                  7-18-1955   TSO XIII
692                  7-18-1955   TSO IX
693                             Rep. by 978
694                  8-15-1955   TSO XIII
695                  8-15-1955   31.01—
                                 31.07
696                             Rep. by 973
697                             Repealer
698                  10-17-1955  TSO XIII
699                  10-17-1955  TSO XIII
700                  10-17-1955  TSO XIII
701                  10-17-1955  TSO XIII
702                  11-21-1955  TSO XIII
703                             Rep. by 811
704                             Rep. by 966
705                             Superseded by 1008
706                  1-16-1956   TSO XIII
707                  1-16-1956   TSO II
708                  1-16-1956   TSO II
709                  1-30-1956   54.021,
                                 54.999
710                             Rep. by 998
711                             Rep. by 973
712                  1-30-1956   TSO XIV
713                             Rep. by 990
714                             Rep. by 991
715                             Rep. by 966
716                  6-4-1956    92.01—
                                 92.04
717                             Expired
718                             Rep. by 997
719                             Rep. by 1432
720                             Rep. by 759
721                  8-20-1956   TSO II
722                             Rep. by 966
723                  11-19-1956  TSO II
724                  12-17-1956  TSO X
725                  1-21-1957   TSO II
726                             Superseded by 1008
727                  1-21-1957   TSO XIV
728                             Rep. by 973
729                  3-18-1957   TSO II
730                  3-18-1957   TSO X
731                  3-18-1957   TSO X
732                  4-15-1957   TSO X
733                  4-15-1957   53.020,
                                 53.021
734                  5-21-1957   TSO XIII
735                  5-21-1957   TSO XIII
736                  5-21-1957   TSO X
737                  6-17-1957   TSO XIII
738                             Expired
739                  7-15-1957   TSO XIII
740                  8-19-1957   TSO III
741                  10-2-1957   TSO II
742                  12-18-1957  35.15
742, §§ 1—12, 15,12-18-1957  Rep. by 1445
743                  1-17-1958   TSO XIII
744                  1-31-1958   TSO XIV
745                             Rep. by 757
746                             Rep. by 966
747                             Rep. by 759
748                             Rep. by 1323
749                             Rep. by 966
750                  5-19-1958   TSO XIV
751                  5-19-1958   TSO XIII
752                  6-23-1958   TSO II
753                  7-21-1958   TSO XIII
754                             Expired
755                  9-15-1958   TSO XIII
756                  10-20-1958  TSO XIII
757                             Repealer
758                             Rep. by 973
759                             Repealer
760                             Rep. by 966
761                             Rep. by 966
762                             Rep. by 966
763                             Rep. by 966
764                             Rep. by 966
765                             Rep. by 966
766                             Rep. by 823
                                 54.037,
                                 54.038,
767                  11-20-1958  54.042,
                                 54.043,
                                 54.999
768                             Rep. by 966
769                             Rep. by 1323
770                             Rep. by 966
771                             Rep. by 1031, 1052
772                             Rep. by 966
773                             Rep. by 900
774                  11-20-1958  Rep. by 1492
775                             Rep. by 998
776                             Rep. by 1083
777                  11-20-1958  31.02
778                             Rep. by 811
779                  11-20-1958  92.01
780                             Rep. by 997
781                             Rep. by 1432
782                             Rep. by 966
783                  11-20-1958  Rep. by 1492
784                             Rep. by 966
785                             Superseded by 1051
786                  11-20-1958  90.01,
                                 90.99
787                  11-20-1958  90.02,
                                 90.99
788                             Rep. by 966
789                             Rep. by 993
790                             Rep. by 994
791                             Rep. by 823
                                 110.01—
792                  11-20-1958  110.04,
                                 110.99
793                  11-20-1958  95.020,
                                 95.021
794                             Rep. by 966
795                             Rep. by 966
796                  1-27-1959   TSO XIV
797                  6-22-1959   TSO V
798                  8-17-1959   TSO X
799                  12-1-1959   TSO III
800                  2-1-1960    TSO XIV
801                             Rep. by 973
802                             Rep. by 1000
803                             Rep. by 1000
804                             Expired
805                  12-19-1960  TSO XIII
806                             Rep. by 823
807                             Superseded by 1008
808                  1-30-1961   TSO XIV
809                             Rep. by 998
810                             Rep. by 966
811                  8-21-1961   Rep. by 1484
812                  9-18-1961   Rep. by 1491
813                  11-27-1961  TSO XIII
814                  11-27-1961  TSO II
815                  2-19-1962   TSO XIV
816                  3-19-1962   TSO X
817                  5-21-1962   TSO II
818                             Note to prior code
819                             Rep. by 900
820                             Rep. by 901
821                  1-21-1963   TSO XIV
822                  2-18-1963   TSO XIII
823                             Rep. by 966
824                             Rep. by 1419
825                  1-20-1964   TSO XIV
826                  2-17-1964   34.30—
                                 34.33
827                             Rep. by 1050
828                  6-15-1964   TSO II
829                  6-15-1964   TSO V
                                 132.30—
830                  9-21-1964   132.33,
                                 132.99
831                             Rep. by 998
832                             Rep. by 1047
833                  11-16-1964  TSO II
834                             Rep. by 998
835                             Rep. by 931
836                  1-25-1965   TSO XIII
837                  1-25-1965   TSO II
838                  1-25-1965   TSO XIV
839                  1-25-1965   151.01—151.16, 151.99
839, § 14           1-25-1965   Rep. by 1469
840                             Rep. by 1419
841                             Rep. by 1419
842                  3-21-1965   TSO XIII
843                  3-31-1965   TSO X
844                  5-4-1965    TSO XIII
845                  5-4-1965    TSO XIII
846                  5-10-1965   TSO XIII
847                  6-7-1965    TSO XIII
848                             Expired
849                  1-17-1966   TSO XIV
850                  2-21-1966   TSO XIII
851                             Rep. by 998
852                  8-16-1966   TSO XIII
                                 53.036,
853                  9-14-1966   54.022,
                                 54.023,
                                 54.036
854                             Superseded by 1008
855                  11-21-1966  TSO XIII
856                  11-21-1966  37.001,
                                 37.002
856                  11-21-1966  Removed in 2018 codification
857                  2-8-1967    TSO XIV
858                             Repealed, prior code water ordinance
859                  4-17-1967   TSO I
860                  4-25-1967   TSO V
861                  5-15-1967   Rep. by 1491
862                             Rep. by 1050
863                             Rep. by 1047
864                             Rep. by 1419
865                  12-18-1967  TSO XIV
866                             Superseded by 1301
867                             Rep. by 928
868                             Rep. by 929
869                  2-19-1968   34.15,
                                 34.16
870                  4-15-1968   TSO II
871                  4-22-1968   TSO II
872                  5-20-1968   TSO XIII
873                             Rep. by 913
874                  7-15-1968   TSO II
875                  8-9-1968    TSO XIII
876                  8-19-1968   TSO XIII
877                             Rep. by 1419
878                  11-18-1968  TSO XIII
879                  11-18-1968  TSO II
880                             Superseded by 1008
881                  12-16-1968  TSO XIV
882                  1-31-1969   30.01
883                  1-31-1969   Rep. by 1406
884                  2-24-1969   TSO XIII
885                             Rep. by 1419
886                             Rep. by 991
887                  7-24-1969   31.20
888                             Rep. by 993
889                  10-24-1969  TSO II
890                  12-15-1969  TSO XIV
891                  12-15-1969  TSO II
892                             Rep. by 991
893                  3-16-1970   31.03
894                             Rep. by 998
895                  8-17-1970   TSO XIII
896                             Rep. by 1419
897                  8-17-1970   Rep. by 1469
897, § 2            8-17-1970   Removed in 2018 codification
898                  10-19-1970  TSO XIII
899                  10-19-1970  TSO XIII
900                             Rep. by 1018
901                             Rep. by 1048
902                  12-21-1970  TSO XI
903                  12-28-1970  TSO XIV
904                  1-22-1971   TSO XIII
905                  1-18-1971   TSO XIII
906                  12-28-1970  TSO XIV
907                             Vetoed
908                  1-18-1971   TSO XV
909                  2-22-1971   TSO XIII
910                  2-22-1971   TSO XIII
911                  3-15-1971   TSO XIII
912                             Rep. by 1018
913                             Rep. by 996
914                  5-17-1971   TSO XIII
915                             Rep. by 966
916                  6-28-1971   TSO XIII
917                  7-22-1971   TSO XIII
918                  7-19-1971   TSO II
919                  12-20-1971  TSO XIV
920                  12-20-1971  TSO XIII
921                  12-20-1971  TSO XIII
                                 96.01,
922                  12-20-1971  96.02,
                                 96.99
923                             Rep. by 956
924                  12-20-1971  TSO XIV
925                             Rep. by 973
926                             Rep. by 966
927                  4-28-1972   Rep. by 1491
928                             Rep. by 1000
929                             Rep. by 1000
930                  4-28-1972   TSO XIII
931                  4-28-1972   Removed in 2018 codification
932                  6-5-1972    Rep. by 1469
933                             Rep. by 1050
934                             Rep. by 1047
935                             Rep. by 99
936                             Rep. by 1419
937                             Superseded by 1008
938                             Rep. by 1018
939                             Superseded by 1048
940                  8-4-1972    53.080—
                                 53.088
941                  8-23-1972   TSO XIII
942                             Rep. by 998
943                  11-21-1972  Rep. by 1469
944                  12-20-1972  TSO XIV
945                  1-3-1973    TSO XIV
                                 37.015—
946                  1-3-1973    37.023,
                                 37.999
947                  1-15-1973   TSO VI
948                             Rep. by 973
949                             Rep. by 998
950                  2-19-1973   TSO II
951                             Rep. by 999
952                             Rep. by 998
953                             Rep. by 1419
954                             Rep. by 1048
955                  8-20-1973   TSO XIII
956                             Repealer
957                             Rep. by 100
958                             Rep. by 1002
959                             Rep. by 1419
960                             Vetoed
961                             Void
962                  1-21-1974   TSO XIV
963                  12-19-1973  TSO XIII
964                             Vetoed
965                  1-9-1974    TSO XIV
966                             Repealer
967                  1-21-1974   54.020,
                                 54.999
968                  1-21-1974   54.043,
                                 54.999
969                             Rep. by 1031, 1052
970                             Superseded by 1008
971                  1-21-1974   53.015—
                                 53.018
972                  1-21-1974   53.036,
                                 54.036
973                  1-21-1974   31.04,
                                 31.05
974                             Rep. by 1432
975                  1-21-1974   Rep. by 1492
976                  1-21-1974   35.15
976, §§ 1—4      1-21-1974   Rep. by 1445
977                  1-21-1974   Rep. by 1484
978                  1-21-1974   Rep. by 1491
979                             Rep. by 1419
980                             Rep. by 1050
981                  1-21-1974   132.30,
                                 132.99
982                  1-21-1974   Rep. by 1469
983                  1-21-1974   37.001,
                                 37.002
983, § 1            1-21-1974   Removed in 2018 codification
984                             Superseded by 1303
985                             Rep. by 1048
986                  1-21-1974   Removed in 2018 codification
987                             Rep. by 1047
988                  1-21-1974   Rep. by 1492
989                  1-21-1974   37.015,
                                 37.999
990                  1-21-1974   32.01
991                  1-21-1974   33.01,
                                 33.02
992                             Rep. by 1243
993                  1-21-1974   130.01,
                                 130.99
                                 133.01,
994                  1-21-1974   133.02,
                                 133.99
                                 131.01—
995                  1-21-1974   131.05,
                                 131.99
996                  1-21-1974   50.001
                                 111.01—
997                  1-21-1974   111.08,
                                 111.99
                                 70.01—
                                 70.07,
                                 70.99,
                                 71.01—
                                 71.03,
                                 71.99,
                                 72.01—
                                 72.05,
                                 72.07,
                                 72.99,
                                 73.01—
                                 73.03,
                                 73.99,
                                 74.01—
998                  1-21-1974   74.11,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. I,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. II,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. III,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. IV,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. V,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. VI,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. VII,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. VIII,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. X,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. I,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. II,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. III,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. VII,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. VIII,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. IX
999                             Rep. by 1083
1000                            Repealed, prior code water ordinance
1001                            Rep. by 1005
1002                            Repealer
1003                 5-20-1974   TSO IX
1004                 5-29-1974   96.15—
                                 96.19
1005                            Repealer
1006                 6-17-1974   TSO IX
1007                 6-17-1974   TSO XIII
                                 51.01—
                                 51.28,
1008                 5-20-1974   51.30—
                                 51.33,
                                 51.36
1009                            Superseded by 1206
1010                 7-29-1974   TSO VI
1011                            Rep. by 1419
1012                 8-19-1974   72.99
1013                 11-5-1974   TSO III
1014                 11-18-1974  TSO XIII
1015                 12-16-1974  TSO XIV
1016                 12-16-1974  TSO XIV
1017                            Superseded by 1377
1018                            Rep. by 1043
1019                 2-17-1975   Rep. by 1445
1020                 4-23-1975   Removed in 2018 codification
1021                 5-19-1975   111.02,
                                 111.03
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. II,
1022                 5-19-1975   Ch. 75 Sch. V,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. I,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. III
1023                            Vetoed
1024                 6-16-1975   95.060—
                                 95.062
1024, § 4           6-16-1975   Removed in 2018 codification
1025                 6-16-1975   TSO XI
1026                 6-16-1975   Removed in 2018 codification
1027                 6-16-1975   33.03,
                                 33.04
1027, §§ 2—4     6-16-1975   Removed in 2018 codification
1027, §§ 6 & 7     6-16-1975   Removed in 2018 codification
1028                            No ord.
1029                 8-18-1975   32.01
1030                 7-21-1975   TSO I
1031                            Rep. by 1052
1032                 10-6-1975   TSO XI,
                                 TSO XIII
1033                 10-20-1975  TSO XIII
1034                            Rep. by 1419
1035                 12-30-1975  TSO XIV
1036                            Rep. by 1419
1037                 3-15-1976   31.07
1038                 3-15-1976   TSO VI
1039                 4-28-1976   95.062
1040                            Rep. by 1419
1041                            Superseded by 1051
1042                 10-4-1976   TSO XIII
1043                            Resolution 1093
1044                            Rep. by 1419
1045                            Rep. by 1419
1046                 12-31-1976  TSO XIV
1047                 12-23-1976  51.15,
                                 150.99
1048                            Resolution 1088
1049                 1-25-1977   TSO X
1050                 2-21-1977   Removed in 2018 codification
1051                            Rep. by 1070
1052                 3-23-1977   95.001—
                                 95.008
1053                            Rep. by 1432
1054                 7-18-1977   TSO X
1055                            Rep. by 1419
1056                 7-19-1977   TSO III
1057                 8-22-1977   TSO IX
                                 51.28,
1058                 9-7-1977    51.30—
                                 51.32
1059                 9-7-1977    TSO XIII
1060                            Rep. by 1419
1061                 9-22-1977   Removed in 2018 codification
1062                            Rep. by 1432
1063                 9-30-1977   TSO XIII
1064                 10-20-1977  Removed in 2018 codification
1065                 11-28-1977  TSO XIII
1066                 12-21-1977  TSO XIV
1067                 12-21-1977  TSO VI
1068                 12-21-1977  TSO VI
1069                            Rep. by 1088
1070                            Repealing prior code, Ch. 1, Part 1, § 1
1071                 3-22-1978   TSO XIII
1072                 8-17-1978   TSO XIII
1073                 5-15-1978   50.015
1074                            Rep. by 1419
1075                            Rep. by 1419
1076                 12-1-1978   95.002—
                                 95.004
1077                 1-8-1979    TSO XIV
1078                            Rep. by 1088
1079                 1-8-1979    51.31,
                                 51.32
1080                 1-29-1979   35.15
1080                 1-29-1979   Rep. by 1445
1081                            Repealer
1082                 5-21-1979   TSO XIII
                                 94.01—
1083                 7-16-1979   94.08,
                                 94.99
1084                 8-20-1979   51.32
1085                            Repealed, prior code water ordinance
1086A                8-20-1979   Ch. 76 Sch. I
1086-B               10-23-1979  94.06,
                                 94.99
1087                 9-17-1979   Rep. by 1469
1087, §§ 2 & 4     9-17-1979   Removed in 2018 codification
                                 53.050—
1088                 11-7-1979   53.061,
                                 53.063
1089                            Rep. by 1419
1090                 12-17-1979  37.015
1091                            1980 taxes
1092                 12-27-1979  37.060—
                                 37.063
1093                            Repealed
1094                 2-25-1980   Rep. by 1491
1095                            Rep. by 1419
1096                 4-1-1980    TSO III
1097                 4-26-1980   53.054
1098                            Rep. by 1419
1099                 4-26-1980   94.20,
                                 94.21
1100                 5-5-1980    36.01—
                                 36.07
1101                 5-5-1980    95.061,
                                 95.062
                                 113.01—
1102                 5-19-1980   113.09,
                                 113.99
                                 112.01—
1103                 6-26-1980   112.03,
                                 112.05—
                                 112.09
1104                 6-16-1980   TSO XIII
1105                 6-16-1980   TSO XIII
1106                 6-26-1980   TSO XIII
1107                 6-16-1980   TSO XIII
1107                 6-26-1980   112.04,
                                 112.99
1108                 8-23-1980   Rep. by 1491
1109                 8-18-1980   53.036,
                                 54.036
1110                 8-23-1980   TSO VI
1111                            Rep. by 1419
1112                 10-20-1980  TSO XIII
1113                            Rep. by 1419
1114                            Re-adopting ordinance
1115                            1981 taxes
                                 54.001—
1116                 1-2-1981    54.008,
                                 54.999
                                 51.28,
1117                 1-2-1981    51.30—
                                 51.32
                                 53.053,
1118                 12-29-1980  53.054,
                                 53.056,
                                 53.057
1119                            Rep. by 1419
1120                            Rep. by 1419
1121                 2-16-1981   Rep. by 1484
1122                 2-16-1981   Ch. 76 Sch. I
1123                            Expired
1124                 5-15-1981   Ch. 76 Sch. I
1125                 8-3-1981    111.02
1126                 8-17-1981   92.05—
                                 92.07
1127                 10-12-1981  Ch. 76 Sch. III
1128                            Repealer
                                 153.01—
1129                 11-19-1981  153.04,
                                 153.99
1130                            Expired
1131                 12-28-1981  TSO XIII
1132                 12-28-1981  TSO VI
                                 53.053—
                                 53.054,
                                 53.056,
1133                 1-8-1982    53.057,
                                 54.004,
                                 54.005,
                                 54.007,
                                 54.008
                                 34.15—
                                 34.17,
1134                 1-8-1982    51.12,
                                 51.21,
                                 54.024,
                                 112.04
1134, § 7           1-8-1982    Removed in 2018 codification
1135                 4-30-1982   TSO XIII
1136                            Superseded by 1354
1137                 6-21-1982   TSO VI
1138                            Rep. by 1419
                                 72.99,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. I,
1139                 7-19-1982   Ch. 76 Sch. III,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. IV,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. V
                                 51.28,
                                 51.30—
1140                 8-2-1982    51.32,
                                 51.34,
                                 51.36
1141                 8-16-1982   TSO VI
                                 132.01,
1142                 9-20-1982   132.02,
                                 132.99
1143                 10-25-1982  53.085
1144                 11-15-1982  51.34
1145                            Rep. by 1419
1146                            Rep. by 1419
1147                 4-18-1983   37.015
1148                 4-18-1983   91.25—
                                 91.27
1149                 5-16-1983   TSO XIII
1150                 11-7-1983   94.07,
                                 94.99
1151                            Rep. by 1419
1152                 12-19-1983  Ch. 76 Sch. VI
1153                 12-19-1983  TSO VI
                                 51.28,
1154                 1-3-1984    51.30—
                                 51.34
                                 53.053,
1155                 1-3-1984    53.054,
                                 53.056,
                                 53.057
1156                 1-3-1984    94.20
1157                 2-20-1984   Ch. 76 Sch. III
1158                            Rep. by 1419
1159                 5-21-1984   TSO XIII
1160                 5-21-1984   TSO XIII
1161                 5-21-1984   Ch. 76 Sch. V
                                 51.35,
1162                 6-18-1984   53.062,
                                 54.009
1163                 7-16-1984   111.02
1164                 9-17-1984   TSO I
1165                            1985 taxes
1166                 12-17-1984  53.053
1167                 1-21-1985   TSO III
1168                            Rep. by 1419
1169                 6-27-1985   TSO I
1170                 8-19-1985   Ch. 76 Sch. I
1171                 9-25-1985   TSO III
1172                 10-7-1985   TSO IX
1173                            1986 taxes
1174                 1-20-1986   94.06
1175                            Rep. by 1419
1176                 2-17-1986   TSO VI
1177                 2-17-1986   TSO VI
1178                 2-17-1986   TSO VI
1179                 3-17-1986   TSO VI
1180                 3-17-1986   TSO VI
1181                 6-2-1986    Ch. 76 Sch. I
1182                 6-2-1986    TSO VI
1183                 6-16-1986   TSO VI
1184                 9-15-1986   TSO XIII
1185                 11-3-1986   TSO VI
1186                            Rep. by 1198
1187                            1987 taxes
1188                            Superseded by 1354
1189                 1-19-1987   TSO III
1190                 2-16-1987   TSO VI
1191                 3-16-1987   Rep. by 1484
1192                 4-20-1987   TSO I
1193                 7-20-1987   Ch. 75 Sch. I
1194                 7-20-1987   Ch. 75 Sch. I
                                 51.28,
1195                 10-19-1987  51.30—
                                 51.32
1196                            1988 taxes
                                 90.03,
1197                 1-18-1988   90.04,
                                 90.99
1198                 5-16-1987   Ch. 76 Sch. III
1199                 5-16-1988   Ch. 76 Sch. I
1200                 10-17-1988  131.06,
                                 131.99
1201                 11-21-1988  Rep. by 1445
1201                 11-21-1988  TSO VI
1202                 12-19-1988  Rep. by 1445
1203                            1989 taxes
1204                 2-13-1989   30.01
1205, § 1           2-13-1989   Rep. by 1406
1205                 2-13-1989   37.090
1206                 4-17-1989   TSO V
1207                 4-17-1989   TSO IX
                                 54.004,
1208                 11-20-1989  54.005,
                                 54.035
1209                            1990 taxes
1210                 2-19-1990   54.035
1211                 4-5-1990    TSO XIII
1212                 4-5-1990    TSO XIII
1213                 4-5-1990    TSO XIII
1214                 4-5-1990    TSO XIII
1215                 4-5-1990    TSO XIII
                                 50.030—
1216                 8-13-1990   50.037,
                                 50.051—
                                 50.055
1217                 8-13-1990   TSO I
1218                 9-17-1990   Ch. 75 Sch. VI
1219                            1991 taxes
1220                 12-17-1990  54.004,
                                 54.005
                                 53.053,
1221                 12-17-1990  53.054,
                                 53.056
                                 51.28,
1222                 12-17-1990  51.30—
                                 51.32,
                                 51.34
1223                            Repealed by 1225
1224                 2-18-1991   TSO VI
1225                 3-18-1991   TSO III
1226                 3-18-1991   53.100—
                                 53.104
1227                 8-12-1991   TSO X
1228                 8-26-1991   TSO X
1229                 9-16-1991   Removed in 2018 codification
                                 51.28,
                                 51.32,
1230                 10-21-1991  51.30,
                                 51.31,
                                 51.34
1231                            1992 taxes
1232                 3-16-1992   TSO XIII
1233                            Not codified
                                 51.28,
1234                 7-13-1992   51.30—
                                 51.34
1235                 9-21-1992   111.06
1236                 9-21-1992   111.07,
                                 111.99
1237                 9-21-1992   53.101
1238                 9-21-1992   TSO XIII
1239                            1993 taxes
1240                 12-21-1992  Ch. 75 Sch. V
1241                 12-21-1992  72.06,
                                 72.99
1242                 12-21-1992  TSO XIII
1243                            Repealer 992
1244                            Not codified
1245                 4-14-1993   TSO III
1246                 9-20-1993   90.01,
                                 90.99
                                 51.28,
1247                 11-15-1993  51.30,
                                 51.31
1248                            1994 taxes
1249                            Not codified
1250                 4-18-1994   TSO X
1251                 8-15-1994   Ch. 76 Sch. III
1252                            1995 taxes
1253                 12-19-1994  54.004,
                                 54.005
                                 51.28,
1254                 12-19-1994  51.30—
                                 51.32,
                                 51.34
1255                 2-20-1995   Ch. 75 Sch. X
1256                 2-20-1995   TSO XIII
1257                 2-20-1995   TSO XIII
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. I,
1258                 6-5-1995    Ch. 76 Sch. III,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. IV,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. V
1259                            Not codified
1260                 8-21-1995   Ch. 76 Sch. I
1261                 9-18-1995   Ch. 75 Sch. V
                                 114.01,
1262                 10-16-1995  114.02,
                                 114.99
1263                 11-20-1995  Ch. 75 Sch. V
1264                            1996 taxes
1265                 5-20-1996   TSO XIII
1266                            Not codified
1267                 9-16-1996   51.29
                                 132.15—
1268                 9-16-1996   132.17,
                                 132.99
1269                 11-18-1996  TSO XIII
1270                 11-18-1996  53.101,
                                 53.102
1271                            1997 taxes
1272                 12-16-1996  TSO VI
                                 72.99,
1273                 3-17-1997   73.99,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. I,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. I
1274                 4-21-1997   Ch. 75 Sch. V
1275                 4-21-1997   70.06
1276                 8-18-1997   TSO V
1277                 10-20-1997  Ch. 75 Sch. I,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. I
1278                            1998 taxes
1279                 12-15-1997  33.20
1280                 1-19-1998   51.28—
                                 51.34
1281                            Repealed, prior code water ordinance
1282                 4-20-1998   51.28—
                                 51.34
1283                 4-20-1998   Rep. by 1445
1283                 4-20-1998   TSO VI
1284                 5-18-1998   TSO XIII
1285                 10-19-1998  Ch. 75 Sch. V,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. I
1286                 11-16-1998  54.004,
                                 54.005
1287                 11-16-1998  TSO XIII
1288                            1999 taxes
1289                 12-21-1998  Rep. by 1406
1290                 12-20-1999  Ch. 76 Sch. I
1291                 5-17-1999   51.15
1292                 5-17-1999   94.01,
                                 94.06
1293                 5-17-1999   Ch. 76 Sch. I
1294                 12-20-1999  Ch. 76 Sch. V
1295                 8-16-1999   Rep. by 1445
1295                 8-16-1999   TSO VI
1296                 11-15-1999  Ch. 75 Sch. V
1297                            2000 taxes
1298                 9-18-2000   Ch. 75 Sch. I
1299                 11-20-200-  74.11
                                 90.15,
1300                 11-20-2000  90.16,
                                 90.99
1301                 11-20-2000  Ch. 76 Sch. I
1302                            2001 taxes
1303                            Superseded by 1397
1304                 1-15-2001   30.01
1305                 1-15-2001   37.090
1306                 2-19-2001   TSO III
1307                            Not codified
                                 134.01—
1308                 10-15-2001  134.07,
                                 134.99
1309                            2002 taxes
1310                 7-15-2002   Ch. 76 Sch. I
1311                            Not codified
                                 95.001,
1312                 10-21-2002  95.007,
                                 95.008
1313                 10-21-2002  TSO VI
1314                 10-21-2002  TSO VI
1315                 12-16-2002  TSO IX
                                 53.053,
                                 53.054,
                                 53.056,
1316                 12-16-2002  53.057,
                                 54.004,
                                 54.005,
                                 54.007,
                                 54.008
1317                            2003 taxes
1318                 12-16-2002  Rep. by 1445
1318                 12-16-2002  TSO VI
1319                 4-21-2003   TSO XIV
1320                 4-21-2003   Ch. 76 Sch. I,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. V
1321                 7-21-2003   134.02
1322                 10-20-2003  Ch. 75 Sch. I
1323                 10-20-2003  53.036,
                                 54.036
1324                            2004 taxes
1325                 5-17-2004   150.25
1326                 7-19-2004   TSO VI
1327                 10-18-2004  94.05
1328                            2005 taxes
1329                 2-21-2005   37.016
1330                 2-21-2005   113.02,
                                 113.03
1331                 2-21-2005   Rep. by 1445
1331                 2-21-2005   TSO VI
1332                 3-21-2005   50.085—
                                 50.087
1333                 4-18-2005   TSO VI
                                 70.03,
                                 70.99,
                                 71.01,
                                 72.02,
                                 72.07,
                                 72.99,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. I,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. II,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. III,
1334                 4-18-2005   Ch. 75 Sch. IV,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. V,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. VI,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. VII,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. I,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. II,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. III,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. VI,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. VII,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. IX
1335                 5-16-2005   Ch. 76 Sch. IV,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. V
1336                 6-20-2005   53.036
                                 54.060—
1337                 6-20-2005   54.063,
                                 54.999
1338                 12-19-2005  53.036
1339                            2006 taxes
1340                 12-19-2005  TSO VI
                                 132.30—
1341                 1-16-2006   132.33,
                                 132.99
1342                 2-20-2006   TSO III
1343                            Not codified
1344                 6-19-2006   150.26
1345                            2007 tax rate
1346                 12-18-2006  TSO III
1347                 12-18-2006  54.004,
                                 54.005
1348                 12-18-2006  TSO I
                                 51.08,
                                 51.12,
1349                 12-18-2006  51.16,
                                 51.28—
                                 51.32,
                                 51.34
1350                 4-16-2007   94.02,
                                 94.99
1351                 4-16-2007   Ch. 76 Sch. IV,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. VI
1352                            Not used
1353                 4-16-2007   TSO VI
1354                 7-16-2007   37.075—
                                 37.078
1355                 7-16-2007   Ch. 76 Sch. II
1356                 7-16-2007   Ch. 76 Sch. II
1357                 7-16-2007   Ch. 76 Sch. V
1358                 7-16-2007   Ch. 75 Sch. II
1359                 8-20-2007   TSO I
1360                 9-17-2007   TSO I
1361                            2008 taxes
1362                            Repealed
                                 51.28—
1363                 1-7-2008    51.31,
                                 51.34
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. V,
1364                 2-18-2008   Ch. 76 Sch. I,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. IX
1365                 3-17-2008   TSO VI
1366                 4-21-2008   TSO VI
1367                 3-17-2008   34.15,
                                 34.16
1368                            Not codified
1369                            Not codified
1370                 4-21-2008   TSO I
1371                 7-21-2008   Ch. 75 Sch. V
1372                 8-18-2008   34.01
1373                 11-17-2008  Rep. by 1488
1374                            Number not used
1375                 11-17-2008  TSO I
1376                 11-17-2008  TSO I
                                 37.035—
                                 37.042,
1377                 11-24-2008  37.044—
                                 37.047,
                                 37.999
1378                 12-15-2008  54.075—
                                 54.078
1379                            2009 taxes
1380                 12-15-2008  37.090
1381                 1-19-2009   TSO III
1382                 1-19-2009   TSO X
1383                 2-16-2009   51.50
1384                 8-17-2009   TSO XIII
1385                 5-18-2009   TSO VI
1386                 5-18-2009   TSO III
1387                 8-17-2009   Ch. 75 Sch. V
                                 51.03,
                                 51.11,
1388                 10-19-2009  54.041,
                                 53.052—
                                 53.058
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. I,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. II,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. IX,
1389                 11-16-2009  Ch. 76 Sch. I,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. III,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. V,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. VI,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. IX
1390                 11-16-2009  TSO I
1391                            2010 taxes
1392                 3-15-2010   TSO III
1393                            Not codified
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. VIII,
1394                 6-21-2010   Ch. 76 Sch. I,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. III
                                 90.30—
1395                 8-16-2010   90.33,
                                 90.99
1396                 9-20-2010   Rep. by 1445
1396                 9-20-2010   35.15,
                                 TSO VI
1397                 3-21-2011   35.30,
                                 35.31
1398                            2011 taxes
1399                 1-20-2011   TSO IX
1400                            Not adopted
1401                            Not adopted
1402                 6-20-2011   94.08,
                                 94.20
                                 52.001—
                                 52.007,
                                 52.020,
                                 52.035—
                                 52.039,
                                 52.050—
                                 52.057,
                                 52.070—
1403                 7-18-2011   52.072,
                                 52.085,
                                 52.086,
                                 52.100,
                                 52.115—
                                 52.117,
                                 52.130—
                                 52.135,
                                 52.999
1404                 8-15-2011   53.087
1405                 9-19-2011   Ch. 75 Sch. IX
1406                 12-19-2011  37.090
1407                 12-19-2011  51.28—
                                 51.34
1408                 12-19-2011  54.004,
                                 54.005
1409                            2012 taxes
                                 154.01—
1410                 12-19-2011  154.03,
                                 154.99
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. I,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. V,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. VIII,
1411                 3-19-2012   Ch. 75 Sch. IX,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. I,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. VI,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. VII
1412                 7-2-2012    TSO III
1413                            2013 taxes
                                 53.052—
                                 53.054,
1414                 12-17-2012  53.056—
                                 53.058,
                                 54.041
1415                 2-18-2013   TSO XIII
1416                 6-17-2013   51.37,
                                 51.38
1417                            Not adopted
                                 54.006,
1418                 8-19-2013   54.009,
                                 54.020
                                 156.001—
                                 156.008,
                                 156.020,
                                 156.035—
                                 156.044,
                                 156.055—
                                 156.092,
                                 156.105—
                                 156.114,
1419                 9-16-2013   156.125—
                                 156.134,
                                 156.145,
                                 156.146,
                                 156.160—
                                 156.170,
                                 156.185—
                                 156.188,
                                 156.200—
                                 156.204,
                                 156.999
1420                 12-16-2013  54.004,
                                 54.005
1421                            Repealed, prior code water ordinance
                                 152.001—
                                 152.007,
                                 152.020—
                                 152.030,
                                 152.045—
                                 152.049,
                                 152.060—
                                 152.066,
1422                 4-21-2014   152.080—
                                 152.083,
                                 152.095,
                                 152.096,
                                 152.110,
                                 152.111,
                                 152.125,
                                 152.126,
                                 152.999
1423                 3-17-2014   Zoning map amendment, not codified
1424                 4-21-2014   Ch. 75 Sch. I,
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. V
1425                            Not adopted
1426                 5-19-2014   51.28—
                                 51.34
1427                 12-15-2014  TSO I
1428                 12-15-2014  TSO I
1429                 12-15-2014  2015 taxes
                                 51.28—
1430                 12-15-2014  51.32,
                                 51.34
                                 Ch. 75 Sch. V,
1431                 3-16-2015   Ch. 75 Sch. IX,
                                 Ch. 76 Sch. I
                                 155.001—
                                 155.008,
                                 155.020,
                                 155.021,
                                 155.035—
                                 155.046,
                                 155.060—
1432                 5-18-2015   155.063,
                                 155.075—
                                 155.090,
                                 155.105—
                                 155.111,
                                 155.125—
                                 155.135,
                                 155.999
1433                            Not adopted
1434                 12-21-2015  2016 taxes
1435                 12-21-2015  TSO I
1436                 12-21-2015  TSO XIII
1437                 3-21-2016   Ch. 75 Sch. II
1438                 11-21-2016  38.01
1439                 11-21-2016  37.105,
                                 38.01
1440                 11-21-2016  TSO I
1441                 12-19-2016  54.004,
                                 54.005
1442                 12-19-2016  TSO XIV
1443                 12-19-2016  92.25—
                                 92.30
1444                 2-20-2017   94.09,
                                 94.99
1445                 4-17-2017   35.15
1446                 5-3-2017    TSO XIII
1447                 10-16-2017  53.120—
                                 53.131
1448                 11- -2017   TSO XIII
1449                 12-18-2017  TSO XIV
1450                 2-19-2018   TSO XIII
1451                 4-16-2018   TSO XIII
1452                 7-16-2018   Adopting Ordinance
1453                 11-19-2018  TSO III
                                 115.01—
1454                 12-17-2018  115.16,
                                 115.99
1456                 12-17-2018  54.004,
                                 54.005
                                 53.052,
1457                 12-17-2018  53.053,
                                 53.056 -
                                 53.058
1458                 12-17-2018  TSO XIV
                                 50.031,
                                 50.032,
1459                 2-18-2019   50.037,
                                 50.050 -
                                 50.052
1460                 2-18-2019   TSO III
1461                 3-18-2019   TSO V
                                 156.037,
                                 156.039,
1462                 7-15-2019   156.044,
                                 156.065,
                                 156.093,
                                 156.146
1463                 6-17-2019   Ch. 75, Sch. V
1464                 8-19-2019   Adopting Ordinance
1465                 9-16-2019   TSO I
                                 53.053,
1466                 1-6-2020    53.054,
                                 53.056
1467                 12-16-2019  TSO XIV
1468                 1-23-2020   TSO XIII
1469                 3-16-2020   151.01,
                                 151.02
1470                 3-16-2020   31.08
1471                 5-18-2020   TSO III
1472                 12-21-2020  54.004
1473                 12-21-2020  53.053,
                                 53.056
1476                 3-15-2021   TSO VI
1477                 3-15-2021   32.01
                                 116.01—
1479                 10-18-2021  116.11,
                                 116.99
1480                 11-15-2021  94.01
1481                 12-20-2021  54.004
1482                 12-20-2021  53.053,
                                 53.056
1483                 1-17-2022   156.041,
                                 156.133
                                 95.006,
1484                 4-18-2022   95.035—
                                 95.050,
                                 95.999
                                 92.01—
1485                 4-18-2022   92.07,
                                 92.99
1486                 9-19-2022   TSO III
                                 54.004,
                                 54.010,
                                 54.011,
                                 54.022,
1487                 9-19-2022   54.035,
                                 54.036,
                                 54.038,
                                 54.039,
                                 54.041,
                                 54.050
                                 50.002—
1488                 12-19-2022  50.010,
                                 50.999
1489                 12-19-2022  54.004
1490                 4-17-2023   156.038,
                                 156.066
                                 91.01—
1491                 7-17-2023   91.04,
                                 91.99
                                 53.140—
1492                 8-21-2023   53.145,
                                 53.999
1493                 11-20-2023  51.51
1494                 11-20-2023  TSO X
1495                 12-18-2023  54.004
                                 53.035,
1496                 12-18-2023  53.036,
                                 53.053,
                                 53.056
                                 51.28—
1497                 12-18-2023  51.32,
                                 51.34
1498                 1-16-2024   TSO III
1499                 4-15-2024   51.15,
                                 51.17
1500                 7-15-2024   156.041
1501                 7-15-2024   95.045,
                                 95.047
                                 51.28—
1502                 12-16-2024  51.32,
                                 51.34
                                
 
 
