CODE OF ORDINANCES
of the
BOROUGH OF MILLHEIM
Centre County, Pennsylvania
Published by Authority of the Borough
 
Adopted by Ord. 151, November 12, 1984
Code originally published by:
PENNS VALLEY PUBLISHERS
Code supplemented and revised through February 13, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
This Code of Ordinances was originally completed November 12, 1984 by PENNS
VALLEY PUBLISHERS:
Revised as of:
1/12/1987
12/14/1987
12/10/1990
3/3/1998
6/1/1999
11/11/2003
Code revised and supplemented by Keystate Publishers, Inc., through:
October 10, 2006
December 14, 2010
Code subsequently revised and supplemented by American Legal Publishing
Corporation, through:
May 9, 2017
April 14, 2020
February 13, 2024
OFFICIALS of the
BOROUGH OF MILLHEIM
County of Centre
Pennsylvania
ELECTED OFFICIALS
Mayor          Steve Myers
Council
President      Katie Blume
Vice-President Robert Zeigler
              Nickelaus Engle
              Cecilia Gallup
              Beth Cottrell
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
Treasurer      Cim Besecker
Secretary      Denise Immel
Solicitor      John R. Miller, III, Esquire
 
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION AND GOVERNMENT
Part 1
Appointed Officials
A.   Secretary-Treasurer
   §
101.   Offices Combined
   §
102.   Council to Appoint Secretary-Treasurer
   §
103.   Duties
B.   Auditor
   §
111.   Requirements
   §
112.   Office Abolished
   §
113.   Compensation
   §
114.   Right to Abolish Office Reserved
Part 2
Compensation of Elected Officers
   §
201.   Compensation of Councilmen
   §
202.   Compensation of Mayor
   §
203.   No Compensation for Special Meetings
Part 3
Boards and Commissions A. Planning Commission
   §
301.   Commission Created
   §
302.   Membership
   §
303.   Duties
   §
304.   Comprehensive Plan
   §
305.   Zoning
   §
306.   Land Subdivision
B. Regional Human Relations Commission
   §
310.   Establishment
   §
311.   Procedure
   §
312.   Multiple Filings
   §
313.   Operational Costs
   §
314.   Effective Date
Part 4
Firemen's Relief Association
   §
401.   Recognition of Firemen's Relief Association
   §
402.   Foreign Fire Insurance Tax Moneys Received
   §
403.   Annual Appropriation
Part 5
Employee Pension Plan
   §
501.   Title
   §
502.   Effective Date
   §
503.   Eligibility
   §
504.   Entry Date
   §
505.   Contributions
   §
506.   Administering the Plan
   §
507.   Death Benefits
   §
508.   Vested Account
   §
509.   Retirement
   §
510.   Termination of Plan
   §
511.   Implementation of Plan
Part 1
Appointed Officials
A.   Secretary-Treasurer
§ 101. Offices Combined.
The Office of Secretary and Treasurer are hereafter consolidated into a single
office to be known as the Office of Secretary-Treasurer pursuant to the
provisions of Section 1104 of the Borough Code, Act of February 1, 1966, P.L.
1656, 581 as amended.
(Ord. 145, 11/8/1982, § 1)
§ 102. Council to Appoint Secretary-Treasurer.
The Council of the Borough of Millheim shall appoint a Secretary-Treasurer as
required.
(Ord. 145, 11/8/1982, § 2)
§ 103. Duties.
The person holding the Office of Secretary-Treasurer shall faithfully perform
all of the duties and obligations of the individual offices of Treasurer and
Secretary as required by law.
(Ord. 145, 11/8/1982, § 3)
B.   Auditor
§ 111. Requirements.
The Borough Council of the Borough of Millheim shall, by Resolution adopted
annually in January of each fiscal year, appoint an independent auditor who
shall be a certified public accountant, registered in Pennsylvania, a firm of
certified public accountants so registered or a competent public accountant or
a competent firm of public accountants to audit, for such fiscal year, the
accounts, records and all other evidences of financial transactions of the
Borough of Millheim and file a report thereof with the Borough Council of the
Borough of Millheim. The independent auditor shall perform all other duties and
exercise such powers as required of, or conferred upon said auditor by law.
(Ord. 153, 5/13/1985, § 1)
§ 112. Office Abolished.
Upon appointment of an independent as provided for in § 1 of this Part, the
office of elected auditor is hereby abolished; however, the elected auditors
now in office shall continue to hold such office for the term for which
elected, and shall perform the duties of their office, except that they shall
not audit, settle or adjust accounts audited by such independent auditor.
(Ord. 153, 5/13/1985, § 2)
§ 113. Compensation.
The Resolution appointing an independent auditor shall state the compensation,
if any, to be paid from Borough funds for said services.
(Ord. 153, 5/13/1985, § 3)
§ 114. Right to Abolish Office Reserved.
The Millheim Borough Council hereby reserves the right at any time to repeal
this Part, thereupon abolishing the office of appointed auditor, and re-
establish the office of elected auditor.
(Ord. 153, 5/13/1985, § 4)
Part 2
Compensation of Elected Officers
§ 201. Compensation of Councilmen.
Effective January 1, 1981, the compensation to be paid to the duly elected or
appointed councilmen of the Borough Council of the Borough of Millheim, for
attendance at the regular monthly meeting, is fixed at the rate of twenty
dollars ($20.00).
(Ord. 117, 1/8/1973, § 1; as amended by Ord. 139, 3/9/1981)
§ 202. Compensation of Mayor.
The compensation of the duly elected or appointed mayor of the Borough of
Millheim is also fixed at the sum of thirty dollars ($30.00) per month to be
paid for each month the Mayor attends the regular meeting of the Borough
Council.
(Ord. 117, 1/8/1973, § 1; as amended by Ord. 139, 3/9/1981; and by Ord. 148, 2/
14/1983)
§ 203. No Compensation for Special Meetings.
No compensation shall be paid for special meetings.
(Ord. 117, 1/8/1973, § 3)
Part 3
Boards and Commissions
A.   Planning Commission
§ 301. Commission Created.
Pursuant to the provisions contained in Act 247, P.S. 53, § 10201 of the State
of Pennsylvania, and in order to carry the said provisions into effect, there
is hereby created in the Borough of Millheim, a Planning Commission, which
shall be in charge of the planning for the Borough of Millheim and shall have
all of the powers vested in it by law or ordinance.
(Ord. 98, 12/4/1967, § 1; as amended by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 302. Membership.
The Planning Commission shall consist of five members who shall be appointed by
the Millheim Borough Council and shall serve without compensation, except that
they shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred in carrying out commission
duties.
(Ord. 98, 12/4/1967, § 2)
§ 303. Duties.
The Planning Commission shall make an annual report to the Millheim Borough
Council showing their transactions and recommendations. They may employ
planning technicians and persons whose salaries and wages, together with other
necessary expenses of the commission shall be provided for at the discretion of
the Millheim Borough Council by proper appropriations and resolutions. The
commission may also receive and expend for the purposes of its planning work,
any gift, grants and appropriations of money from any source, including
Commonwealth, federal or local funds or any contract with governmental or
private agencies or individuals with respect thereof.
(Ord. 98, 12/4/1967, § 3)
§ 304. Comprehensive Plan.
The Planning Commission shall have the power and duty to make, adopt, and
maintain a Comprehensive Plan for the physical development of the Borough and
surrounding territory, said Comprehensive Plan shall include, among other
things, a land use plan, a thoroughfare plan, a community facilities plan, and
a public improvements program. In the preparation of the Comprehensive Plan,
the Commission shall study population trends, existing land use, the economic
base, traffic, existing thoroughfare systems and other factors related to the
development of the community. The purpose of the Comprehensive Plan should be
to accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the community and its
environs in accordance with present and future needs. The Commission would have
a continuing responsibility for maintaining the Comprehensive Plan in an up to
date condition and in so doing would view and make recommendations to the
Millheim Borough Council on all ordinances which pertain to the physical
development of the Borough.
(Ord. 98, 12/4/1967, § 4)
§ 305. Zoning.
The Planning Commission may, in pursuance of its duties, prepare or cause to be
prepared, a zoning ordinance for consideration by the Millheim Borough Council.
The Commission shall have a continuing responsibility to review the ordinance
and make recommendations of proposed amendments.
(Ord. 98, 12/4/1967, § 5; as amended by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 306. Land Subdivision.
The Planning Commission shall prepare and present to the Millheim Borough
Council, land subdivision regulations or amendments to existing land
subdivision regulations. The Commission shall assist the Millheim Borough
Council to administer said regulations by reviewing and recommending to the
Millheim Borough, the action to be taken on subdivisions submitted in
accordance with established procedures.
(Ord. 98, 12/4/1967, § 6)
B. Regional Human Relations Commission
§ 310. Establishment.
   1.   Utilizing the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act and pursuant to Section
962.1 of the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act, there is hereby established a
Regional Human Relations Commission in and for the municipalities who elect to
participate in the program as described herein. The Commission shall consist of
seven (7) members who shall serve overlapping terms of three (3) years each.
Members of the Commission shall be appointed by Millheim Borough. Each
municipality that is part of the Commission shall have at least one
representative as submitted to the Millheim Borough Council for appointment to
the Commission. If there are more than seven (7) municipalities that are part
of the Commission, the appointments will be rotated among the municipalities.
Members shall be residents of the participating municipalities. No member of
the Commission shall hold any office in any municipality or political party.
Members of the Commission shall serve without salary but may be reimbursed
expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
   2.   Annually at the first meeting of each year, Commission members shall
elect from its members a Chair and Vice-Chair. The Chair shall be responsible
for setting Commission meetings, coordinating the receipt of complaints and
answers and generally ensuring the duties of the Commission, as described
herein, are fulfilled. In the absence of the Chair, the Vice-Chair shall
perform the duties of the Chair.
   3.   The Managers or designated representative of the Municipalities that
have enacted the Regional Human Relations Commission Ordinance shall meet to
prepare administrative procedures for the implementation of this Ordinance.
Such procedures shall be approved by the Managers or designated representative
no later than December 31, 2023 and will become the procedures used by the
Commission in adjudicating all complaints brought before the Commission. In no
event shall the Commission have any regulatory or other power beyond
considering and adjudicating complaints filed with the Commission.
   4.   The Commission shall have jurisdiction to hear complaints brought
before it under the terms and provisions of anti-discrimination ordinances of
municipalities who have adopted this Ordinance.
(Ord. 274, 9/12/2023)
§ 311. Procedure.
In carrying out their duties, Commission shall proceed in accordance with the
local ordinance adopted and amended from time to time existing in each of the
member municipalities.
   1.   Filing a Complaint. Any person aggrieved by an unlawful discrimmatory
practice may make, sign and file a verified complaint with the Manager or other
designated representaive of the municipality in which the discriminatory act
allegedly took place. Complaints shall be filed in a form similar to that
attached to Ordinance 274 as Exhibit A Complaint Form.
   2.   Place of Filing. Complaints may be filed in person at the local
municipality's Manager's office, or other designated employee, or by mailing
such complaint to the Chair of the Human Relations Commission utilizing the
mailing address of the Borough of Millheim.
   3.   Time Limitations. Complaints of alleged discriminatory acts must be
filed within one hundred eighty (180) days of the alleged act of
discrimination.
   4.   Format. The complaint shall contain the following information:
      A.   The name and address of the aggrieved person(s);
      B.   The name and address of the person(s) alleged to have committed the
discriminatory acts;
      C.   A concise statement of the particulars, including pertinent dates,
constituting the alleged discriminatory acts;
      D.   lf applicable, the address and a description of the dwelling or
commercial property which is involved; and
      E.   Such other information as may be required by the Regional Human
Relations Commission.
   5.   The municipality shall convey all original complaints received to the
Chair of the Regional Human Relations Commission within ten (10) days of the
filing of the complaint.
   6.   Commission Review. The Commission, within thirty (30) days of the
filing, shall schedule a meeting to review the complaint and make a preliminary
determination as to whether the alleged discriminatory acts are prohibited by
the Anti- Discrimination Ordinance in effect in the municipality where the
alleged discriminatory act occurred. If the Commission determines that the
alleged discriminatory act is not prohibited by the Municipal Anti-
Discrimination Ordinance, it shall so notify the complainant who may then
proceed to follow whatever other filings may be applicable, specifically PAHRC
and EEOC or if applicable, the complainant may appeal the decision of the
Commission to the Centre County Court of Common Pleas within thirty (30) days
of the decision date.
   7.   If Commission determines that it has jurisdiction to hear the
complaint, it shall:
      A.   Send a copy of the complaint to the person or entity charged with
the discriminatory practice ("Respondent") with notice that the Respondent has
thirty (30) days to file a verified answer to the complaint; and
      B.   The notice provided to the respondent will further advise the
respondent that retaliation against any person because a complaint has been
filed constitutes a discriminatory practice under this Ordinance and is
prohibited by this Ordinance.
   8.   Answer. Respondent shall file with the Commission a written verified
answer to the complaint within thirty (30) days of respondent's receipt of the
complaint from the Commission and, further, shall send a copy of the answer to
the complainant.
   9.   Mediation.
      A.   After the respondent's answer has been received, the Commission
shall, within fifteen (15) days, invite the parties to voluntarily participate
in the mediation of their dispute. The parties shall respond to the invitation
to mediate within fifteen (15) days of being invited to mediate. Mediation
shall be conducted in accordance with procedures promulgated by the Commission;
      B.   If the mediation has successfully resolved the complaint, the
Commission shall promptly notify the parties that it has dismissed the
complaint; and
      C.   If the mediation has not successfully resolved the complaint, and
only if the complaint alleges a violation of this Ordinance which is not
otherwise prescribed under the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act and over which
the Pennsylvania Human Relations commission does not have jurisdiction, the
Commission shall proceed to investigation.
    10.   Investigation. The Commission shall, in a timely fashion, investigate
the allegations of the alleged discriminatory practice. The Commission, in
consultation with staff assigned to assist the Commission, and the Manager or
other designated representative in the municipality where the complaint was
filed, shall designate an investigator to conduct the investigation. Commission
may, in the conduct of such investigation and upon review and approval, issue
subpoenas to any person or entity who may be of interest in the investigation,
commanding such person or entity to furnish information, records or other
documents, as necessary to assist in the Commission's investigation.
   11.   Finding of No Cause. Following investigation, if it shall be
determined by the Commission that there is no probable cause, it shall notify
both complainant and respondent in writing of its decision. Complainant may
then proceed to file complaints with other commissions or courts as it may deem
appropriate in its own judgment or it may appeal the Commission's determination
to the Centre County Court of Common Pleas within thirty (30) days of the
issuance of the Commission's determination.
   12.   Finding a Probable Cause. If the Commission determines that probable
cause exists and if an unlawful discriminatory practice has occurred, it shall
establish a date and time for hearing, providing at least twenty (20) days'
notice thereof to complainant and respondent.
      A.   The hearing shall be public, at which time complainant and
respondent shall be given the opportunity to appear with or without counsel, to
provide testimony and submit evidence for the Commission's consideration.
Formal rules of evidence shall not apply but irrelevant or unduly repetitive
evidence may be excluded by the Commission in its discretion.
      B.   A transcript shall be kept of the proceedings unless waived in
writing by all parties. Minutes shall be kept regarding the proceedings.
   13.   Findings. If upon all of the evidence at the hearing the Commission
shall find that a respondent has engaged in or is engaging in an unlawful
discriminatory practice as defined by the local municipality's Anti-
Discrimination Ordinance, the Commission shall state its findings and shall
issue and cause to be served on the respondent an order requiring such
respondent to cease and desist from unlawful discriminatory practices and to
take such additional action as the Commission deems appropriate. The Commission
shall have the authority to order any remedies available under the local Anti-
Discrimination Ordinance, including assessment of fines, penalties and costs as
those ordinances may authorize. Commission may also order the making of
reasonable accommodations if appropriate and may also enter orders confirming
resolutions that have been obtained by agreement of the parties or through
mediation. Any decision of the Commission herein may be appealed by either
party to the Centre County Court of Common Pleas, all such appeals must be
filed within thirty (30) days of the issuance of findings by the Commission.
Any appeals under this Ordinance shall be handled in accordance with
Pennsylvania Local Agency Law.
(Ord. 274, 9/12/2023)
§ 312. Multiple Filings.
This ordinance shall have no effect over matters which are the subject of
pending or prior filings made by an aggrieved person before any state or
federal court or agency of competent jurisdiction. However, the filing of any
civil state or federal action with a court of competent jurisdiction or an
agency of competent jurisdiction shall prevent further proceedings under the
within ordinance.
(Ord. 274, 9/12/2023)
§ 313. Operational Costs.
   1.   Operational Costs. Participating municipalities shall share equally the
costs necessary to create the Commission as well as provide for its staffing
and operation. As complaints are filed, the costs of proceeding to review,
investigate and hold hearings shall be borne exclusively by the municipality in
which the discriminatory act or practice is alleged.
   2.   Annual Budget. The Borough of Millheim shall prepare an operational
cost budget annually to provide for the routine and recurring expenses
necessary for the regular meetings of the Commission and staff support. Said
budget shall be delivered to the municipalities that have enacted the Regional
Human Relations Commission ordinance on or before September 15 annually. The
managers or other designated representative shall meet within 30 days of the
delivery of the budget to review and approve the budget.
(Ord. 274, 9/12/2023)
§ 314. Effective Date.
This Ordinance shall become effective upon the date of its enactment.
(Ord. 274, 9/12/2023)
Part 4
Firemen's Relief Association
§ 401. Recognition of Firemen's Relief Association.
The Millheim Volunteer Fire Co. No. 1 is recognized as an organization formed
for the purpose of maintaining an association for beneficial and protective
purposes for its members and their families in case of death, sickness,
temporary or permanent disability or accident from the funds collected therein.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 402. Foreign Fire Insurance Tax.
Moneys Received. The Millheim Volunteer Fire Co. No. 1 is designated the proper
association to receive such funds as are due and payable to the Borough
Treasurer by the Treasurer of the State of Pennsylvania from the tax on
premiums from foreign fire insurance companies.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 403. Annual Appropriation.
There is annually appropriated from the Borough Treasury all such sums of money
that may hereafter be paid into the Borough Treasury by the Treasurer of the
State of Pennsylvania on account of taxes paid on premiums of foreign fire
insurance companies in pursuance of 72 P.S. §§ 2262 (1982) as hereafter
amended, supplemented, modified or reenacted by the General Assembly of
Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
Part 5
Employee Pension Plan
§ 501. Title.
The plan shall be known as the Millheim Borough Retirement Plan.
(Ord. 190, 11/2/1999)
§ 502. Effective Date.
The effective date of this plan, as revised, is November 1, 1999.
(Ord. 190, 11/2/1999)
§ 503. Eligibility.
Eligibility applies only to all full-time employees, including all elected
council persons, but excludes part-time employees. A full-time employee shall
be deemed to be an employee whose regular work week is comprised of an average
of thirty-five (35) hours and who has worked an average of thirty-five (35)
hours per week for a continuous period of at least six (6) months.
(Ord. 190, 11/2/1999)
§ 504. Entry Date.
The entry date shall be the date of initial full-time employment provided,
however, that such employment has been for a continuous period of at least six
(6) months.
(Ord. 190, 11/2/1999)
§ 505. Contributions.
   1.   No employee shall be required to contribute to the plan. Voluntary
employee contributions are permitted, including optional 457 plans, subject to
any applicable tax regulations and any restrictions of the plan. All employees'
contributions, including accumulated interest, shall be fully vested at all
times.
   2.   The Borough shall contribute seven (7) percent of gross wages for each
eligible employee.
   3.   In the event an employee shall work full-time as herein defined for
only part of a calendar year, then and in that event, the Borough contributions
shall be prorated for each eligible employee.
(Ord. 190, 11/2/1999)
§ 506. Administering the Plan.
The Borough shall pay the expense of administering the plan and be the owner of
the policies.
(Ord. 190, 11/2/1999)
§ 507. Death Benefits.
If an employee, while employed by the Borough and covered under the plan, shall
die prior to the commencement of any benefit, his/her beneficiary shall receive
a death benefit value of the employee's account.
(Ord. 190, 11/2/1999)
§ 508. Vested Account.
In case of termination of employment, the employee shall be fully vested in
this account.
(Ord. 190, 11/2/1999)
§ 509. Retirement.
   1.   If an employee elects to retire prior to his/her normal retirement
date, he/she shall be deemed to have retired early and such employee shall be
fully vested in the value of his/her account.
   2.   If by mutual agreement of the Borough and the employee, the employee
continues in active employment following his/her normal retirement date, he/she
shall continue to participate under this plan.
(Ord. 190, 11/2/1999)
§ 510. Termination of Plan.
The Borough reserves the right to amend or terminate this plan at any time and
to any extent that it may deem advisable, without the consent of any
participant or any beneficiary, provided, however, that no amendment shall
deprive any employee of any vested interest.
(Ord. 190, 11/2/1999)
§ 511. Implementation of Plan.
The appointed Secretary of the Council of Millheim Borough is authorized to
execute any and all documents necessary for the implementation of the herein
described pension plan.
(Ord. 190, 11/2/1999)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMALS
Part 1
Keeping of Animals
   §
101.   Definitions
   §
102.   Certain Animals Prohibited
   §
103.   Keeping of Animals Regulated
   §
104.   Household Pets
   §
105.   Violation of State Law
   §
106.   Penalty
Part 2
Animal Noises
   §
201.   Noise Disturbances
   §
202.   Penalty
Part 1
Keeping of Animals
§ 101. Definitions.
As used in this
Part 1, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated, unless a
different meaning clearly appears from the context:
   ANIMAL - any domestic animal or fowl, any wild animal or any household pet.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL - any animal normally or ordinarily domesticated or raised
in this area and climate as livestock or for work or breeding purposes, or
normally or ordinarily kept as a household pet.
   HOUSEHOLD PET - any dog, cat or other domestic animal normally and
ordinarily kept in or permitted to be at large in the dwelling of its owner.
   LARGE ANIMAL - any wild or domestic animal of the bovine, equine or sheep
family.
   PERSON - any person, firm or partnership, association or corporation.
   SMALL ANIMAL - any wild or domestic animal such as a rabbit, hare, guinea
pig, rat, mouse or chinchilla; and any wild or domestic fowl such as a chicken,
turkey, goose, duck or pigeon (excepting homing pigeons).
   WILD ANIMAL - any animal, including bird, fowl or reptile not normally or
ordinarily domesticated; nor normally or ordinarily raised in this area and
climate as livestock or for work or breeding purposes; or not capable of being
kept as a household pet.
   In this Part, the singular shall include the plural, the plural shall
include the singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 102. Certain Animals Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any pigs, hogs or swine at any
place within the Borough of Millheim. (Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 103. Keeping of Animals Regulated.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any domestic animals, except
household pets, except as provided in this Section:
   1.   Large animals shall be confined in quarters no part of which shall be
closer than one hundred feet (100') from the exterior limits of any dwelling or
of any property line.
   2.   No more than six (6) small animals shall be kept confined in quarters
no part of which shall be closer than twenty-five (25) feet from the exterior
limits of any dwelling or of any property line. [Ord. 239]
   3.   The keeper of every such animal shall confine the same in an enclosure
sufficient to prevent such animal from running at large, and such enclosure
shall be of a size conducive to good sanitary practices and adequate and
sanitary drainage facilities shall be provided.
   4.   Every keeper of any animal shall cause the litter and droppings
therefrom to be collected daily in a container or receptacle that when closed
shall be rat-proof and fly-tight, and after every such collection shall cause
such container or receptacle to be kept closed. At least twice a week, every
such keeper shall cause all litter and droppings so collected to be disposed of
in such manner as not to permit the presence of fly larvae.
   5.   Every keeper of any animal shall cause all feed provided therefor to be
stored and kept in a rat-proof and fly-tight building, box, container, or
receptacle.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 239, 12/8/2009, § 1)
§ 104. Household Pets.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any household pet, except as
provided in this Section:
   1.   If any such pet shall be kept in a dwelling owned or occupied by its
owner, such owner shall be required to follow such procedures and practices, as
to the number of such pets to be kept there, and as to sanitation, to insure
that no public nuisance shall be created or maintained and no threat to the
health of person living elsewhere that in such dwelling shall be created.
   2.   If any such pet shall be kept in an enclosure outside such dwelling,
the provisions of §
103 of this
Part 1, insofar as the same applies to small animals, shall be applicable to
the keeping of such household pet.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 105. Violation of State Law.
Any violation of this
Part 1 that would also violate any state law shall be prosecuted under that
state law and not under this
Part 1.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 106. Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days. Each day
that a violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 189, 6/1/1999)
Part 2
Animal Noises
§ 201. Noise Disturbance.
It shall be illegal within the Borough of Millheim for any person or persons to
own, possess, harbor, or control any animal or bird which makes any noise
continuously and/or incessantly for a period of ten (10) minutes or make such
noise intermittently for one-half (1/2) hour or more to the disturbance of any
person any time of the day or night regardless of whether the animal or bird is
physically situated in or upon private property, said noise being a nuisance;
provided, that at the time the animal or bird is making such noise no person is
trespassing or threatening to trespass upon private property in or upon which
the animal or bird is situated nor is there any other legitimate cause which
justifiably provoked the animal or bird.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 202. Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days. Each day
that a violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 189, 6/1/1999)
CHAPTER 3
BICYCLES
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
CHAPTER 4
BUILDINGS
Part 1
Building Regulations and Permits
   §
101.   Definitions
   §
102.   Building Committee
   §
103.   Building Permits
   §
104.   Lot Size
   §
105.   Setback of Buildings
   §
106.   Size of Dwelling
   §
107.   Foundations for Dwellings and Commercial Buildings
   §
108.   Siding of Certain Buildings
   §
109.   Fire Zone
   §
110.   Trailers and Their Appurtenances
   §
111.   Farm Buildings
   §
112.   Board of Adjustment
   §
113.   Penalties
   §
114.   Compliance with Sewage Facilities Act
Part 2
Numbering of Buildings
   §
201.   Buildings to be Numbered
   §
202.   Numbering Plan
   §
203.   Planning Commission to Implement
   §
204.   Owners Responsible for Number
   §
205.   Borough to Erect Street Signs
   §
206.   Enforcement
Part 3
Historic District
   §
301.   Legal Authorization and Purpose
   §
302.   Definitions
   §
303.   Delineation of Historic Districts
   §
304.   Historical Architectural Review Board
   §
305.   Design Guidelines
   §
306.   Application Review Procedure
   §
307.   Unreasonable Economic Hardship
   §
308.   Demolition by Neglect
   §
309.   Administration
Part 1
Building Regulations and Permits
§ 101. Definitions.
Certain words and terms used in this
Part 1 are defined for the purpose thereof:
   BUILDING or STRUCTURE - anything enclosing an area of twenty-five (25)
square feet or more constructed or erected, the use of which demands a location
on the soil, or attachment to something located in or on the soil.
   COMMERCIAL or INDUSTRIAL BUILDING - any building or structure designed,
built or altered for use entirely or in part for commercial or industrial
purposes.
   DWELLING - any building, which is designed for and occupied in whole or in
part as a residence. [Ord. 195]
   FAMILY - a family is (i) a person or (ii) no more than two (2) unrelated
persons or (iii) two (2) or more persons, all of whom are related by blood,
marriage, parentage or adoption, including foster children, living together as
a single housekeeping unit. Domestic servants employed on the premises and
temporary gratuitous guests may be housed on the premises without being counted
as part of the family. [Ord. 195]
   MULTIFAMILY DWELLING UNIT - any building which is designed for or occupied
in whole or in part as a home or residence for two (2) or more families. [Ord.
195]
   PRIVATE GARAGE - a building or structure or any part thereof used
appurtenant to a dwelling home primarily for the storage of motor vehicles.
   ROADS - roads and road right-of-way include all lands established by
dedication, usage, Borough ordinances or laid out upon Borough plans as
highways, and shall be synonymous with "streets", "avenue", "highway",
"parkway" and other terms commonly applied to public highways.
   SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING UNIT - any building which is designed for and
occupied in whole or in part as a home or residence for a single family unit.
[Ord. 195]
(Ord. 125, 2/16/1976, § A; as amended by Ord. 195, 5/8/2001, §§ 1, 2)
§ 102. Building Committee.
Council shall appoint a Building Committee, consisting of three (3) members of
the Borough Council. Said Building Committee shall have charge of the
inspection of plans and specifications for all buildings, additions or
alterations submitted in connection with requests for permits to erect or alter
buildings in the said Borough and shall act in the approval or disapproval of
the said plans and specifications and shall perform the duties of regulation
and inspection of buildings in the Borough of Millheim in accordance with this
Part 1.
(Ord. 125, 2/16/1976, § B)
§ 103. Building Permits.
   1.   No excavation for a construction of a dwelling, private garage,
commercial or industrial building to be erected or moved; and no excavation or
construction altering or enlarging a dwelling, private garage, commercial or
industrial building, which when completed will change the exterior dimensions
of the dwelling, private garage, commercial or industrial building shall be
begun until or unless the person excavating, constructing, erecting or moving
the same shall have first obtained a permit hereof. Such permit shall be issued
by the Borough Secretary, only when he shall have received an approval from the
Building Committee or from the Council.
Applications for a building permit shall be accompanied by a fee, based upon
the following schedule:
      Building permit application fee (non-refundable) $25.00
      In the event the application is approved by the Borough, an additional
building permit fee shall be paid based upon five cents ($0.05) per square foot
of the proposed residential or agricultural construction (including the square
footage of porches, decks, garages and basements) or fifteen cents ($0.15) per
square foot of the proposed commercial or industrial construction.
Upon completion of the construction, occupancy or use of the new construction
shall not take place until an occupancy permit is issued by the Borough.
Future amendments to building permit fees shall be adopted by resolution(s) of
Millheim Borough.
[Ord. 200]
   1.1.   Grading & Excavation. Any grading or excavation shall require a
building permit from the Borough, shall be subject to Centre County Planning
Commission approval and shall require an Erosion and Sedimentation Plan from
the Centre County Conservation Office prior to any work being done.
[Ord. 250]
   2.   Each application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a plot,
showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size and
location of the building to be erected, or in the case of a building already in
existence which is being altered or enlarged, it's present size and its
contemplated size at the completion of the alteration, or enlargement, together
with a set of plans in duplicate of the construction, excavation, alteration or
enlargement as the case may be, and any other information necessary for the
Building Committee to determine whether or not the requirements of the
ordinance will be satisfied with respect thereto. A file of such applications
and plots and plans together with a notation indicating whether or not a permit
was issued therefor shall be kept in the Borough office.
   3.   The plot and plans accompanying each application for a building permit
must conform with the present or any future Flood Zone Regulations promulgated
by the State or Federal government.
   4.   After the issue of a permit for any construction as covered by this
Part 1, and before any excavation or construction shall be begun, the permit
for said construction shall be posted conspicuously at the front of said
construction, and the permit shall remain posted until the construction is
completed.
(Ord. 125, 2/16/1976, §6; as amended by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; by Ord. 200, 7/
10/2001, §§1, 2; and by Ord. 250, 6/11/2013, §I)
§ 104. Lot Size.
The minimum requirements as to lot areas for a dwelling house and other
buildings to be built or erected shall be as follows:
   1.   Lots where private wells and septic tanks are provided shall have a
minimum width of one hundred feet (100') at the building line and a minimum
area of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet per single family dwelling unit.
Special exception shall be granted below the minimum if soil percolation tests
indicate a smaller lot has been accepted and approved by the Department of
Environmental Resources, provided that this exception shall not be greater than
twenty percent (20%) of the minimum lot area.
   2.   Lots served by either public water or sanitary sewers shall have a
minimum of eighty feet (80') at the building line and a minimum area of ten
thousand (10,000) square feet per single family dwelling unit.
   3.   Lots where both public water and sanitary sewers are provided shall
have a minimum width at the building line of seventy-five feet (75') and a
minimum area of seventy-five hundred (7,500) square feet per single family
dwelling unit.
   4.   Lots where private wells and septic tanks are provided shall have a
minimum width of one hundred (100) feet at the building line and a minimum area
of forty-three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet per multifamily
dwelling unit. Special exception may be granted for less than the minimum lot
size if soil percolation tests indicate a smaller lot has been accepted and
approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, provided
that this exception shall not be greater than twenty percent (20%) of the
minimum lot area. [Ord. 195]
   5.   Lots served by either public water or sanitary sewers shall have a
minimum width of eighty (80) feet at the building line and a minimum area of
twenty-two thousand (22,000) square feet per multifamily dwelling unit. [Ord.
195]
   6.   Lots where both public water and public sewers are provided shall have
a minimum width at the building line of seventy-five (75) feet and a minimum
area of five thousand (5,000) square feet per multifamily dwelling unit. [Ord.
195]
Provided, however, that if the land affected be an unplotted lot having area or
frontage less than that stated herein and held under separate ownership, the
area of such unplotted and so held under separate ownership from the adjoining
land at the time of the adoption of this Part shall be minimum requirements for
such unplotted land, and provided further, that a lot in a recorded plan of
lots divided at the time of the adoption of the ordinance having area and/or
frontage less than that stated herein shall constitute the minimum area
requirement for such plot of ground. That portion of a lot on which is located
the right-of-way for a road shall not be included in the determination of
minimum requirements as to the area of the lot
(Ord. 125, 2/16/1976, § D; as amended by Ord. 195, 5/8/2001, § 3)
§ 105. Setback of Buildings.
   1.   Buildings erected or to be erected, altered or enlarged shall not be
placed so that any portion of the structure shall be nearer to the edge of the
road right-of-way than forty feet (40') on a primary state highway or more than
thirty feet (30') on all other roads except that where an existing building
within two hundred and fifty feet (250') on either side of the location of the
proposed building is closer to the highway or road right-of-way than the
distance specified herein, this closer distance shall constitute the minimum
setback for the proposed building.
   2.   Buildings erected or to be erected, altered or enlarged shall not be
placed nearer to a side or rear property line than eight feet (8'), except that
for a lot recorded or held under separate ownership at the time of the adoption
of this Part having less than fifty-six feet (56'), this setback shall be
decreased by one foot (1') for each three feet (3') of width less than fifty-
six feet (56') except that under no circumstances shall the setback be less
than six feet (6').
   3.   A dwelling to be erected, altered or enlarged on a lot on which there
previously exists one or more dwellings shall be so located that the aforesaid
lot can be subdivided in a manner consistent with §
104 of this
Part 1 and in such a manner consistent with the minimum setback regulations set
forth in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section.
(Ord. 125, 2/16/1976, § E; amended by Ord. 155, 5/12/1986, § 1)
§ 106. Size of Dwelling.
The foundation of a dwelling erected or to be erected, altered or enlarged
shall not cover less ground than five hundred (500) square feet. This provision
is not applicable to trailers used as a home or residence.
(Ord. 125, 2/16/1976, § F)
§ 107. Foundations for Dwellings and Commercial Buildings.
   1.   Except when erected upon hardpack or solid rock, foundation walls and
other permanent supports shall be carried not less than three feet (3') below
the finish grade ground level.
   2.   Foundations under dwellings shall be solid faced masonry wall.
(Ord. 125, 2/16/1976, § G)
§ 108. Siding of Certain Buildings.
No dwelling, private garage or commercial building shall be left standing
without approved permanent siding for more than twenty-four (24) months. One
(1) year extensions may be granted by the Borough Council for cases of
practical difficulty and unnecessary hardship.
(Ord. 125, 2/16/1976, § H)
§ 109. Fire Zone.
Within the following fire zone, to-wit: all that portion of the Borough or
territory, bounded on the east by Sugar Alley, on the south by Race Street, on
the west by State Street and on the north by Poplar Street, no building shall
be constructed, rebuilt, enlarged or materially changed with materials other
than brick, stone, cement blocks or other incombustible materials, nor shall
any shingle roof, or any roof with combustible material be erected, repaired or
constructed within said zone, nor shall any building constructed with material
mentioned herein, be moved into the zone described. Provided this shall not
apply to one story out buildings containing not over one thousand (1000) cubic
feet.
(Ord. 125, 21/6/1976, § I)
§ 110. Trailers and Their Appurtenances.
All setback provisions of §
105 above, shall apply to any trailer used as a home or residence or for
commercial purposes. All of the foregoing provisions of this Part shall apply
to trailers.
(Ord. 125, 2/16/1976, § J)
§ 111. Farm Buildings.
Farm buildings do not come under the provisions of this
Part 1 except a dwelling or garage or a building being altered for the use of a
dwelling or a garage.
(Ord. 125, 2/16/1976, § K)
§ 112. Board of Adjustment.
A Board of Adjustment is hereby established which shall consist of all the
Borough Council. This Board shall have the powers, upon cause shown, to change
or modify any decision made by the Building Committee, which will, in their
opinion, better effectuate the provisions of this
Part 1.
(Ord. 125, 2/16/1976, § L)
§ 113. Penalties.
   1.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than six hundred dollars ($600.00) plus costs and, in default of payment of
said fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days.
Each day that a violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate
offense. [Ord. 222]
   2.   In addition to the penalty set forth in paragraph 1 above, the Borough
Council is hereby authorized, or their properly appointed agents are hereby
authorized to issue stop, cease, and desist orders, to any person, partnership
or corporation, who or which shall violate any provisions of this Part by the
instituting of appropriate action or proceedings, at law or in equity, to
enjoin and restrain any such persons, partnership or corporation, from
violating any of the provisions of this Part.
(Ord. 125, 2/16/1976, § M; as amended by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; by Ord. 189, 6/
1/1999; and by Ord. 222, 12/14/2004, § 1)
§ 114. Compliance with Sewage Facilities Act.
No building permit shall be issued until the applicant has complied with the
provisions of the Sewage Permits Act 537.
(Ord. 125, 2/16/1976, § N)
Part 2
Numbering of Buildings
§ 201. Buildings to be Numbered.
In accordance with Section 1202 (25) of the Borough Code, from and after the
effective date of this
Part 2, all buildings erected within the Borough used for residential,
commercial or industrial purposes shall be numbered as hereinafter set forth:
(Ord. 106, 12/12/1969, § 1)
§ 202. Numbering Plan.
The plan for establishing numbers for all such buildings as hereinbefore
mentioned shall be as follows:
   1.   Numbering will start at the intersection of Main, Penn and North
Streets; buildings on the north side of all streets running east and west shall
have even numbers beginning with 100; buildings on the south side of streets
running east and west will have odd numbers beginning with 101;
   2.   Streets running north and south, the buildings on the west side will
have even numbers beginning with 100 and buildings on the east side will have
odd numbers beginning with 101;
   3.   Streets intersecting with Main Street, Penn Street and North Street,
other than these three mentioned streets, will have numbers 100 and 101 as the
starting numbers at the intersection with the before named streets, with the
even numbers and odd numbers on the sides of the street as herein-before
designated;
   4.   Other outlying streets not intersecting Main Street, Penn Street or
North Street, will have numbers 100 and 101 as starting numbers at the street
intersection nearest to the main center of town; i.e., Hillcrest Avenue will
start with 100 and 101 at the intersection with North High Street and be
numbered eastward; even numbers and odd numbers will be on the sides of these
respective outlying streets where hereinbefore designed;
   5.   Apartments will be designated with the house number of the apartment
building following the letters "A", "B" etc. for each individual apartment;
   6.   Double houses will each receive a separate number;
   7.   All vacant lots upon which buildings for residential, commercial or
industrial use could be erected will be assigned a number on the plan; and
   8.   East Main Street shall be divided into two (2) blocks, the 100 block
from the main square east to High Street; the 200 block from High Street east
to the Borough line.
(Ord. 106, 12/12/1969, § 2)
§ 203. Planning Commission to Implement.
The Planning Commission for the Borough is designated as the agent of the
Borough to implement this
Part 2, to assign the numbers to each building and vacant lot as herein set
forth.
(Ord. 106, 12/12/1969, § 3)
§ 204. Owners Responsible for Number.
Upon the numbering plan being completed, the owner of each property will be
notified of the designated number for his building or vacant lot, as the case
may be, and each property owner shall, within thirty (30) days thereafter,
procure at his expense the appropriate number as assigned and place the same on
the building as designated. Property owners shall be responsible to continually
maintain the designated number on the building. As buildings are hereafter
erected on vacant lots, the property owner shall immediately place and maintain
the designated number on the building.
(Ord. 106, 12/12/1969, § 4)
§ 205. Borough to Erect Street Signs.
The Borough will furnish and erect, at its expense, street signs designating
the name of the particular street.
(Ord. 106, 12/12/1969, § 5)
§ 206. Enforcement.
Any person subject to the provisions of this
Part 2 failing to comply with the terms hereof by placing the designated number
on the building, after notice, shall be deemed to be in violation hereof and
the Borough shall have the right to purchase and install the appropriate number
and charge the cost and expense thereof to the property owner and collect the
same as a municipal lien in accordance with the Act of Assembly regulating
municipal liens.
(Ord. 106, 12/12/1969, § 6)
Part 3
Historic District
§ 301. Legal Authorization and Purpose.
   1.   Legal Authorization.
   A.   Pursuant to authority contained in the Act of June 13, 1961, P.L. 282,
No. 167, as amended, there is hereby created a Historic District within the
Borough of Millheim, Centre County, Pennsylvania.
   B.   This Part shall be known and may be cited as the “Millheim Borough
Historic Preservation Ordinance” or “Historic District Ordi nance.”
   2.   Purposes. This District is created for the following purposes:
   A.   Pursuant to Article I, § 27 of the Pennsylvania Constitution which
states that:
   The people have a right to clean air, pure water, and to the preservation of
the natural, scenic, historic and aesthetic values of the environment.
Pennsylvania's public natural resources are the common property of all the
people, including generations yet to come. As trustees of these resources, the
Commonwealth shall conserve and maintain them for the benefit of all the
people.
   Now therefore it is the purpose and intent of the Borough of Millheim to
promote, protect, enhance, perpetuate, and preserve historic districts for the
educational, cultural, economic and general welfare of the public through the
preservation, protection and regulation of buildings, structures, and areas of
historic interest or importance within the Borough of Millheim to safeguard the
heritage of the Borough of Millheim by preserving and regulating historic
districts which reflect elements of its cultural, social, economic, political,
and architectural history; to preserve and enhance the environmental quality of
neighborhoods; to strengthen the Borough's economic base by the stimulation of
the tourist industry; to establish and improve property values; to foster
economic development; to foster civic pride in the beauty and accomplishments
of the Borough's past; and to preserve and protect the cultural, historical and
architectural assets of the Borough of Millheim for which the Borough has
determined to be of local, state or national, historical and/or architectural
significance.
(Ord. 213, 1/21/2004, Art. I)
§ 302. Definitions.
For the purpose of this Part, all words used in the present tense include the
future tense. All words in the plural number include the singular number and
all words in the singular number include the plural number, unless the natural
construction of the word clearly indicates otherwise. The word “shall” is
mandatory. The word “used” includes “designated, intended, built, or arranged
to be used.”
   ALTERATION - any act or process requiring a building permit and any other
act or process not requiring a building permit but specifically listed in this
Section as a reviewable action including, without limitation, the demolition or
razing of any structure or object, or any part of a structure or object, which
is visible from the public way.
   BUILDING - any enclosed or open structure which is a combination of
materials to form a construction for occupancy and/or use for human or animal
habitation and is permanently affixed to the land, including manufactured
homes.
   BUILDING PERMIT - an approval statement signed by the Code Enforcement
Officer authorizing the demolition or razing of all or a part of any building
(within a historic district).
   BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION - the request filed by any person with the Code
Enforcement Officer that seeks authorization to demolish or raze all or a part
of any building or structure within a historic district that requires a
certificate of appropriateness.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER - a municipal employee of or individual retained by
or contracted with by the Borough of Millheim designated by the Millheim
Borough Council as the individual who enforces compliance of building and/or
other Borough codes and issues the permit for the demolition or razing of all
or a part of any building or structure within a historic district.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS - the approval statement signed by the
Borough of Millheim which certifies to the historical appropriate ness of a
particular request for the demolition or razing of all or a part of any
building or structure within a historic district and authorizes the issuance of
a building permit for said request.
   COMPLETED APPLICATION - a completed permit or certificate of appropriateness
application is an application which conforms to the submittal criteria for
specific historic preservation projects, as determined by the Historical
Architectural Review Board.
   DEMOLITION - the dismantling or tearing down of all or part of any building
and all operations incidental thereto, including neglecting routine maintenance
and repairs which can lead to deterioration and decay.
   DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT - the absence of routine maintenance and repair which
can lead to a building's or structure's structural weakness, decay and
deterioration resulting in its demolition.
   ERECTION - the result of construction such as a building, struc ture,
monument, sign, or object on the ground or on a structure or building.
   RECONSTRUCTION - the act or process of reproducing by new construc tion the
exact form and detail of a vanished building, structure, or object, or a part
thereof, as it appeared at a specific period of time but not necessarily of
original material.
   STRUCTURE - anything constructed or erected, having a permanent or semi-
permanent location on another structure or in the ground including, without
limitation, buildings, sheds, manufactured homes, garages, fences, gazebos,
freestanding signs, billboards, antennas, satellite sending or receiving
dishes, vending machines, decks, and swimming pools.
   MILLHEIM BOROUGH HISTORICAL ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW BOARD (HARB) - the agency
that advises the Millheim Borough Council on any requests for authorization to
demolish or raze all or part of any building within a historic district.
   MILLHEIM BOROUGH COUNCIL - the governing body of the Borough of Millheim,
Centre County, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 213, 1/21/2004, Art. II)
§ 303. Delineation of Historic Districts.
   1.   The Millheim Borough Historic District shall be described in writing
and delineated on a map designated as the Historic District Map of the Borough
of Millheim.
   2.   The Historic District Map of the Borough of Millheim shall be located
in the office of the Code Enforcement Officer and made available for public
inspection.
   3.   The Millheim Borough Historic District is more fully described on
Exhibit A and more fully shown on Exhibit B, both of which Exhibits are
attached hereto and made a part hereof by reference.
(Ord. 213, 1/21/2004, Art. III)
§ 304. Historical Architectural Review Board.
   1.   The Creation and Membership of the Historical Architectural Review
Board.
      A.    A Historical Architectural Review Board, hereinafter referred to as
HARB, is hereby established to be composed of five (5) members appointed by the
Millheim Borough Council. The membership of HARB shall be as follows:
         (1)   One (1) member shall be a registered architect;
         (2)   One (1) member shall be a licensed real estate broker;
         (3)   One (1) member shall be the Code Enforcement Officer;
and two (2) member(s) shall be person(s) with demonstrated interest, knowledge,
ability, experience or expertise in restoration, historic rehabilitation, or
neighborhood conservation or revitalization who have interest in the
preservation of the Historic District and are property owners who reside in the
District.
      B.   The initial terms of the first member(s) shall be so fixed that no
more than two (2) members shall be replaced or reappointed during any one (1)
calendar year. Vacancies on the HARB shall be filled within one hundred and
twenty (120) days. However, every member shall continue in office after
expiration of the term until a successor has been appointed. Their successors
shall serve for a term of five (5) years. The position of any member of HARB
appointed in his/her capacity such as a registered architect, a licensed real
estate broker, Code Enforcement Officer, Planning Commission member, etc., who
ceases to be so engaged shall be automatically considered vacant. An
appointment to fill a vacancy shall be only for the unexpired portion of the
term.
      C.   It shall be the duty of each HARB member to remain conscious of and
sensitive to any possible conflict of interest (including but not limited to
financial considerations) which may arise by virtue of his/her membership on
the Board. A member, promptly upon determining that said member has a conflict
relative to any matter brought before the Board, shall disqualify said member
from participating, in any manner, publicly or privately, in the presentation,
discussion or deliberation of and the voting on any such matter, including
temporarily absenting said member from the room in which the discussion is
being held.
   2.   Powers and Duties of HARB.
      A.   Advisory Role. HARB shall give recommendations to the Millheim
Borough Council regarding the advisability of issuing any certificate of
appropriateness required to be issued in accordance with the said Act of June
13, 1961, as amended and this Part.
      B.   Board Role Making Power. HARB may make and alter rules and
regulations for its own organization and procedure, provided that they are
consistent with the laws of the Commonwealth and all provisions of this Part.
      C.   Removal of Members. Any Board member may be removed for misconduct
or wrongdoing, unlawful execution of this Act, or failure to perform his or her
responsibility pursuant to this Act, or for other just cause by a majority vote
of the Millheim Borough Council, but not before he or she has been given the
opportunity of a hearing to defend to any alleged infractions of said Act.
      D.   Annual Reports. The members of HARB shall make an annual report to
the Millheim Borough Council which shall include:
         (1)   Any recommendations for changes in the ordinance.
         (2)   The number and types of cases reviewed.
         (3)   The number of cases for which a certificate of appropri ateness
was either approved or denied.
         (4)   Number of HARB meetings which each member attended.
         (5)   Historic preservation related training which each member
attended.
         (6)   A narrative summary describing the state of preservation in the
Millheim Borough Historic District with recommendations on policy, goals, and
objectives for consideration by Millheim Borough Council.
      E.   Compensation. HARB may employ secretarial and professional
assistance, and incur other necessary expenses with the approval of the
Millheim Borough Council.
      F.   Meetings. HARB shall meet publicly at least once every month at
regularly scheduled intervals. Further, HARB may hold any additional meetings
it considers necessary to carry out its powers and duties indicated in this
Part. Such meetings shall be open to the public. A majority of HARB shall
constitute a quorum and action taken at any meeting shall require the
affirmative vote of a majority of the members present.
      G.   Training. HARB members and HARB support staff may be required to
attend up to eight (8) hours annually of seminars, conferences or workshops
related to historic preservation and HARB administration.
   3.   Additional Powers and Duties of HARB. In addition to the above, HARB
shall have the following powers and duties:
      A.   To conduct a survey of buildings, structures, objects and monuments
for the purpose of determining those of historic and/or architectural
significance and pertinent facts about them; action in coordination with the
Millheim Borough Council, Planning Commission, Zoning Hearing Board (if any)
and other appropriate groups and to maintain and periodically revise the
detailed listings (resource inventories) of historic resources and data about
them, appropriately classified with respect to national, state and local
significance in accordance or consistent with the Pennsylvania Historical and
Museum Commission's “Cultural Resource Management in Pennsylvania: Guidelines
for Historic Resource Surveys.”
      B.   To propose, from time to time as deemed appropriate, the
establishment of additional historic districts and revisions to existing
historic districts.
      C.   To formulate recommendations concerning the establishment of an
appropriate system of markers for selected historic and/or architec tural site
and buildings including proposals for the installation and care of such
historic markers.
      D.   To formulate recommendations concerning the preparation and
publication of maps, brochures and descriptive material about the Borough of
Millheim historical and/or architectural sites and buildings.
      E.   To cooperate with and advise the Millheim Borough Council and other
agencies of the Borough of Millheim in matters involving histori cally and/or
architecturally significant sites and buildings.
      F.   To cooperate with and enlist assistance from the National Park
Service, the National Trust for Historic Preservation, Preservation
Pennsylvania, the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission and other
agencies, public and private, from time to time, concerned with the
preservation of historic sites and buildings.
      G.   To advise owners of historic buildings regarding rehabilita tion,
repairs, maintenance methods and technologies, adaptive use, economic and tax
incentives and other historical preservation strate gies.
      H.   To promote public interest in the purpose of this Part by carrying
on educational and public relations programs.
(Ord. 213, 1/21/2004, Art. IV)
§ 305. Design Guidelines.
In determining the recommendations to be made to the Millheim Borough Council
concerning the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness, HARB shall
consider only those matters that are pertinent to the preservation of the
historical and/or architectural aspects and nature of the building, site, area,
or district, certified to have historical significance, including the
following:
      A.   Broad historical values representing the cultural, political,
economic, or social history of the Borough of Millheim.
      B.   The relationship of the building or structure to historic personages
or events.
      C.   Significant architectural types representative of a certain
historical period and a style or method of construction.
      D.   The effect of the proposed change upon the general historical and
architectural nature of the District.
      E.   The appropriateness of the exterior architectural features which can
be seen from a public street or way.
      F.   The general design, arrangement, texture, and material of the
building or structure and the relation of such factors to similar features of
buildings or structures in the District. Consideration shall be given but not
limited to the following:
         (1)   Proportion of Buildings Front Facades. Preserving the
relationship between the width of the front of the building and the height of
the front of the building.
         (2)   Proportion of Openings Within the Building. Preserving the
relationship of width or height of windows and doors.
         (3)   Rhythms of Solids to Voids in the Front Facade. Preserving the
relationship between a recurrent alteration of strong and weak architectural
elements thereby maintaining a rhythm of solids to voids.
         (4)   Rhythm of Spacing of Buildings on Streets. Preserving the
existing rhythm of recurrent or repeated building masses to spaces between each
building.
         (5)   Rhythm of Entrance and/or Porch Projections. Preserving the
existing rhythm of entrances or porch projections to maintain a pedestrian
scale.
         (6)   Relationship of Materials. Preserving the predominant materials
of the District such as brick, stone, stucco, wood siding, or other material.
         (7)   Relationship of Textures. Preserving the predominant textures of
the District which may be smooth, such as stucco or rough such as brick, with
tooled joints or horizontal wood siding or other textures.
         (8)   Relationship of Architectural Details. Preserving character
defining features of buildings, such as architectural details including, but
not limited to, cornices, lintels, arches, quoins, balustrades and iron work,
chimneys, etc.
         (9)   Relationship of Roof Shapes. Preserving compatible roof shapes
such as gable, mansard, hip, flat, gambrel, and/or other kinds of roof shapes.
         (10)   Walls of Continuity. Preserving physical elements which
comprise streetscapes such as brick walls, wrought iron fences, building
facades or combinations of these which form visual continuity and cohesiveness
along the street.
         (11)   Directional Expression of Front Elevation. Preserving the
orientation of structural shapes, plan of openings and architectural detail
that reflect a predominantly vertical, or horizontal character to the
building’s facade.
         (12)   Scale. Preserving the scale of the built environment created by
the size of units of construction and architectural detail that relate to the
size of persons. In addition, preserving building mass its relation to open
space.
      G.   Variations. The HARB shall grant variations in a manner that will be
in harmony with the character of the other buildings or structures on the
street and/or districts.
      H.   The height of any new building or structure shall not exceed the
height of the tallest adjacent building or structure by ten (10) percent. This
requirement shall also apply to any proposed modifica tions to existing
buildings or structures.
      I.   In such rare cases where the HARB recommends and the Millheim
Borough Council approves demolition of a historic building or structure a good
faith effort shall be made by the Millheim Borough Council and the owner(s) to
move said building or structure to a proximate site. If moving a building or
structure slated to be demolished is economi cally or practically infeasible,
efforts shall be made to salvage architectural features of said building or
structure for use within the Borough of Millheim.
      J.   In addition to the above the Millheim Borough Zoning Ordinance (if
any) shall be so amended as to be compatible with the purpose of and objectives
of this Part.
      K.   All other Millheim Borough laws and ordinances shall be complied
with, including the zoning and subdivision ordinances (if any).
      L.   Financial Feasibility. The HARB shall consider the financial
feasibility of its recommendations in response to a request for a certificate
of appropriateness or building permit for the demolition or razing of a
building or structure. Financial feasibility shall be determined by the HARB on
the basis of an unreasonable cost for demolition or razing of whole or part of
a building or structure. The applicant shall submit a minimum of three (3)
estimates from bona fide contractors and or vendors substantiating his or her
claim that the financial feasibility of repair in-kind is unreasonable. The
Board shall determine as to the condition of said architectural feature based
on its inspection, photographs or report from the building inspector or
preservation staff or consultant. No substitute material shall be approved
which is inappropriate, incompatible, or is destructive or has the potential to
be destructive to the original fabric of the building or structure. No vinyl or
aluminum siding or other material shall be allowed on the exterior of any
masonry wall of a building or structure. No capping with aluminum or vinyl or
other material shall be allowed on the exterior of character defining features
of a building or structure.
(Ord. 213, 1/21/2004, Art. V)
§ 306. Application Review Procedure.
   1.   Upon receipt of a completed application for a building permit or a
certificate of appropriateness for work to be done within the District, the
Code Enforcement Officer shall act in accordance with the procedures being
followed in that office, except those procedures that are modified by the
following requirements:
      A.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall determine whether the work
proposed needs to be forwarded to HARB staff for administrative approval
review. If not, he shall forward copies of the completed application for a
building permit together with copies of any plot plan and building plans and
specifications filed by the applicant to HARB.
      B.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall not issue a building permit for
any demolition or razing of all or part of any building in the District until
the Millheim Borough Council has issued a certificate of appropriateness (COA).
If the Code Enforcement Officer or his represen tative issues a building permit
without a COA due to an administrative or clerical error said building permit
shall be voided.
      C.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall require applicants to submit a
sufficient number of additional copies of material required to be attached to a
completed application for a building permit or certificate of appropriateness
so that the information needed to make the determination set forth in
subsection (7)(A) through (H) will be available.
      D.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall maintain in his office a record
of all such applications and final dispositions of the same.
   2.   Board Review of Applications. Upon receipt of a completed building
permit or certificate of appropriateness application under the jurisdiction of
this Part, HARB shall consider such at its next regularly scheduled meeting or
special meeting.
   3.   Notification of Application of HARB Meeting. The owner of record or his
or her representative(s) applying for a certificate of appropriateness and/or a
building permit shall be advised of the time and place of said meeting and be
invited to appear to explain his or her reasons at least ten (10) days before
the HARB meeting. HARB may invite such other persons as it desires to attend
its meeting.
   4.   Design Guidelines. In determining both oral and written recommen
dations to be presented to the Millheim Borough Council concerning the issuance
of a certificate of appropriateness authorizing a permit for the demolition or
razing of all or a part of any building within the Historic District, HARB
shall consider the design guidelines set forth in §
305  and such design guidelines developed by the HARB pursuant to and congruent
with the objectives of this Part.
   5.   Time Frame for Board Decision. HARB shall render a decision and
recommendation on any application for a building permit under its review no
later than forty-five (45) working days after the hearing/meeting provided for
in §
304 (2) of this Part and shall submit, in writing to the Millheim Borough
Council, recommendations concerning the issuance of a certificate of
appropriateness.
   6.   Application Disapproval by HARB. If the HARB decides to advise against
the granting of a certificate of appropriateness, it shall so indicate to the
applicant for a building permit. The disapproval shall indicate to the
applicant the changes in plans and specifications, if any, which would protect
(A) the distinctive historical character of the Historic District and (B) the
architectural integrity of the building or structure. The HARB shall withhold
its report for five (5) days to allow the applicant to decide whether or not to
make the suggested changes in the applicant's plans and specifications. If the
applicant determines that the applicant will make the necessary changes, the
applicant shall so advise the HARB, which shall in turn advise Millheim Borough
accordingly.
   7.   Contents of Written Report. The written report to Millheim Borough
Council concerning HARB's recommendations on the issuance of a certificate of
appropriateness shall set out the findings of fact which shall include, but not
be limited to, the following matters:
      A.   The exact location of the area in which the work is to be done.
      B.   The exterior changes to be made or the exterior character of the
structure to be erected.
      C.   A list of the surrounding structures with their general exterior
characteristics.
      D.   The effect of the proposed change upon the general historic and
architectural nature of the District.
      E.   The appropriateness of exterior architectural features of the
building which can be seen from a public street or way.
      F.   The general design, arrangement, texture, and material of the
building and the structure and the relation of such factors to similar features
of building or structures in the District.
      G.   The opinion of HARB (including any dissent) as to the
appropriateness of the work or project proposed as it will preserve or destroy
the historic character and nature of the District.
      H.   The specific recommendations of HARB based on findings of fact as to
the issuance by the Millheim Borough Council or its refusal to issue a
certificate of appropriateness.
   8.   Notification of Applicant by the Millheim Borough Council of Their
Consideration. Upon receipt of the written report from HARB as provided in
subsection .7 of this Section, the Millheim Borough Council shall consider, at
the next regularly scheduled or special meeting, the question of issuing to the
Code Enforcement Officer a certificate of appropriateness authorizing a permit
for work covered by the application. The applicant shall be advised by the
Millheim Borough Secretary of the time and place of the meeting at which the
applicant's application shall be considered. The applicant shall have the right
to attend this meeting and be heard as to the reasons for filing the
application.
   9.   Design Guidelines. In determining whether or not to certify to the
appropriateness of the proposed demolition or razing, of all or a part of any
building within the Historic District, Millheim Borough Council shall consider
the same factors as HARB set forth in §
305  of this Part and the report of the Board.
   10.   Approval by the Millheim Borough Council. If the Millheim Borough
Council approves the application, it shall issue a certificate of appropri
ateness authorizing the Code Enforcement Officer to issue a (building) permit
for the work covered.
   11.   Disapproval by the Millheim Borough Council. If the Millheim Borough
Council disapproves, a written reason(s) shall be given to the Code Enforcement
Officer, the applicant and to the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum
Commission. The disapproval shall indicate what changes in the plans and
specifications would meet the conditions for protecting (A) the distinctive
historical character of the District and (B) the architectural integrity of the
building or structure. Upon receipt of a written disap proval of the Millheim
Borough Council, the Code Enforcement Officer shall disapprove the application
for a building permit and so advise the applicant. The applicant may appeal
this disapproval to the Centre County Court of Common Pleas within the time
specified by law.
   12.   Final Notification by Millheim Borough Council. In either case of
approval or disapproval the Millheim Borough Council shall notify the applicant
of its decision within five (5) days of its meeting at which the application
was considered.
(Ord. 213, 1/21/2004, Art. VI)
§ 307. Unreasonable Economic Hardship.
   1.   When a claim of unreasonable economic hardship is made due to the
effect of this Part, the owner of record must present evidence sufficient to
prove that as a result of the HARB's action, he is unable to obtain a
reasonable return or a reasonable beneficial use from a resource. The owner of
record shall submit by affidavit to the HARB some or all of the informa tion
below at the discretion of the HARB which shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:
      A.   Date the property was acquired by its current owner.
      B.   Price paid for the property (if acquired by purchase) and a
description of the relationship, if any, between the buyer and the seller of
the property.
      C.   Mortgage history of the property, including current mortgage and the
annual debt service, if any, for the previous two (2) years.
      D.   Current market value of the property.
      E.   Equity in the property.
      F.   Past and current income and expense statements for the past two (2)
years.
      G.   Past capital expenditures during ownership of current owner.
      H.   Appraisals of the property obtained within the previous two (2)
years.
      I.   Income and property tax factors affecting the property.
      J.   All appraisals obtained within the previous two (2) years by the
owner or applicant in connection with purchase, offerings for sale, financing
or ownership of the property, or state that none was obtained.
      K.   All studies commissioned by the owner as to profitable renovation,
rehabilitation or utilization of any structures or objects on the property for
alternative use, or a statement that none were obtained.
      L.   Estimate(s) of the cost of the proposed demolition or razing and an
estimate(s) of any additional cost(s) that would be incurred to comply with the
recommendations of the Planning Board for changes necessary for it to approve a
certificate of appropriateness.
      M.   Form of ownership or operation of the property, whether sole
proprietorship, for-profit or nonprofit corporation, limited partner ship,
joint venture or other.
   2.   The HARB may require that an applicant furnish additional information
relevant to its determination of unreasonable economic hardship.
   3.   The HARB may receive and consider studies and economic analyses from
other Borough agencies and from private organizations relating to the property
in question.
   4.   Should the HARB determine that the owner's present return is not
reasonable, it must consider whether there are other uses currently allowed
that would provide a reasonable return and whether such a return could be
obtained through investment in the property for rehabilitation purposes. The
HARB may choose to recommend to the Millheim Borough Council that special
economic incentives be developed to assist the owner of the resource in
maintaining it and obtaining a suitable economic return or achieving a
reasonable beneficial use.
   5.   The HARB may seek the assistance of appropriate local, statewide or
national preservation organizations in developing solutions which would relieve
the owner's economic hardship. If the HARB chooses to explore such options, the
HARB may delay issuing a certificate of appropriateness for demolition on the
basis of economic hardship for a period of ninety (90) days in addition to time
periods otherwise applicable.
   6.   Should the applicant satisfy the HARB that the applicant will suffer an
unreasonable economic hardship if a certificate of appropriateness is not
approved, and should the HARB be unable to develop with the Millheim Borough
Council or appropriate local, statewide and national preservation organization
a solution which can relieve the owner's economic hardship, the HARB must
recommend a certificate of appropriateness for demolition.
(Ord. 213, 1/21/2004, Art. VII)
§ 308. Demolition by Neglect.
All buildings and structures within the Millheim Borough Historic District
shall be maintained in good repair, structurally sound, and reasonably
protected against decay and deterioration. Examples of such deterioration
include:
      A.   Deterioration of exterior walls or other vertical supports.
      B.   Deterioration of roofs or other horizontal members.
      C.   Deterioration of exterior chimneys.
      D.   Deterioration of crumbling of exterior stucco or mortar.
      E.   Ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roofs, or foundations,
including broken windows or doors.
      F.   Deterioration of any feature so as to create a hazardous condition
which could lead to the claim that a demolition is necessary for the public
safety.
(Ord. 213, 1/21/2004, Art. VIII)
§ 309. Administration.
   1.   Notice of Violation. The Code Enforcement Officer shall serve a notice
of violation on the person in violation of this Part which would result in but
not be limited to (A) failure to apply for a certificate of appropriateness or
a building permit required for the demolition or razing of any building or
structure, in whole or in past, which can be seen from a public way, and (B)
failure to comply with HARB approved work. Such notice shall direct the
abatement of said violation.
   2.   Enforcement. The Code Enforcement Officer or his designated
representative shall have the power to institute any proceedings at law or in
equity necessary for the enforcement of this Part.
   3.   Penalty. Any person, property owner, occupant, firm or contractor
failing to obtain a building permit or certificate of appropriateness pursuant
to this Part shall be fined the sum of three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each
day the violation is unabated.
   4.   Amendments. The provisions of this Part may be amended in the future by
the Millheim Borough Council after notice and hearing as provided by law.
(Ord. 213, 1/21/2004, Art. IX)
Exhibit A
   Starting at a point along the eastside of North Street and lot 219 moving
north along street for 100 feet to north line of lot 219; then NE along lot
line of lot 219 crossing to east bank of Elk Creek for 133 ft.; then south
along east bank of Elk Creek for 3850 feet to north boundary line of lot 167;
then SE along north lime of lot 167 for 462 ft.; then south and south east
along the eastern boundaries of lots 167, 168, 177 for 1232 ft.; then west
along southern boundaries of lots 177, 178, 179, 180, 191, to east bank of Elk
Creek for 550 ft.; then southeast along east bank of Elk Creek to South St.,
for 2112 ft.; then southwest along north side of South St. for 715 ft.; then
north along lots 63, 64, 65, 67, 68 for 462 ft.; then southwest along southern
lot line of lot 70 for 200 ft.; then northwest along western lot lines of lots
70, 75, 79, 80, 93 for 1012 ft.; then east along north line of lot 83 for 132
ft.; then north along western lot lines of lots 84, 90, 99, 101 for 715 ft.;
then west along southern line of lots 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118 for 650
ft.; then northwest along western lot line of lot 118 & crossing Main St. for
264 ft.; then west along north side of Main St. for 200 ft.; then north along
western lot line of lots 139, 140 for 462 ft.; then east along south side of
alley to western lot of lot 253 for 682 ft.; then north along western side of
lot 253 for 33 ft.; then east along north lines of lots 253, 252, for 231 ft.;
then north along western lot line of lot 251 for 198 ft.; then east along
northern lot line . . .1 for 99 ft.; then north along western side of North St.
to the southern point of lot . . . for 1045 ft.; then north along western lot
lines of lots 249, 248, 246, 245, 244-224 . . . 3300 ft.; then east along
northern lot line of lot 224 and crossing North St. for 231 ft. to starting
point.
1 Editor’s Note: Material omitted in Exhibit A to Ord. 213, 1/21/2004
Exhibit B
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/841fd9811923a8c3eaa098b86cab83035ac5032e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-30.png]
CHAPTER 5
CODE ENFORCEMENT
Part 1
Office of Code Enforcement
   §
101.   Title
   §
102.   Establishment of Office of Code Enforcement
   §
103.   Enforcement Authority
   §
104.   Duties and Powers of Code Enforcement Officer
   §
105.   Association with Other Municipalities
Part 2
Uniform Construction Code
   §
201.   Local Administration Election
   §
202.   Adoption of Uniform Construction Code
   §
203.   Administration and Enforcement
   §
204.   Board of Appeals
   §
205.   Repealer and Savings Clause
   §
206.   Fees
Part 1
Office of Code Enforcement
§ 101. Title.
This Part shall be known and may be cited as the "Code Enforcement Ordinance of
the Borough of Millheim." (Ord. 196, 6/12/2001, § 1)
§ 102. Establishment of Office of Code Enforcement.
   1.   Creation of Office of Code Enforcement. There is hereby created by the
Millheim Borough Council an office of the Borough to be known as the Office of
Code Enforcement. The official(s) appointed thereto by the Millheim Borough
Council shall have the responsibility for administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this Part and other codes and/or ordinances of the Borough.
   2.   Relief from Personal Liability. The Code Enforcement Officer charged
with the enforcement of this Part and those other codes and/or ordinances of
the Borough who act in good faith and without malice in the discharge of their
duties shall not thereby be rendered liable personally and the Code Enforcement
Officer is hereby relieved from all personal liability from any damage that may
accrue to persons or property as a result of any act, required or committed, or
any omission in the discharge of official duties. Any suit instituted against
the Code Enforcement Officer because of an act performed by that person in the
lawful discharge of duties shall be defended by the Borough's Solicitor or his
designee until final determination of the proceedings. The Code Enforcement
Officer shall not be liable for costs in any action, suit or proceeding.
   3.   Records and Reports. The Code Enforcement Officer shall keep a written
record of the activities of said officer and shall monthly report to the
Borough of Millheim of the Code Enforcement Officer's activities for the prior
month.
(Ord. 196, 6/12/2001, § 2)
§ 103. Enforcement Authority.
There shall be appointed by the Millheim Borough Council a Code Enforcement
Officer, who shall be in charge of the Office of Code Enforcement of the
Borough.
(Ord. 196, 6/12/2001, § 3)
§ 104. Duties and Powers of Code Enforcement Officer.
   1.   Enforcement of Codes. The Code Enforcement Officer shall enforce and
administer all of the provisions of this Part and of those other applicable
codes and ordinances of the Borough.
   2.   Duties. The duties of the Code Enforcement Officer shall include, but
not be limited to, the undertaking of such investigations and other activities
as may be required to determine compliance with the applicable codes and
ordinances of the Borough; to issue all necessary notices to abate illegal or
unsafe conditions to insure compliance with the Borough's Code of Ordinances
for the safety, health and general welfare of the public; and to make
inspections to determine compliance with the applicable codes and ordinances of
the Borough.
   3.   Credentials. The Code Enforcement Officer shall disclose proper
credentials of his office for the purpose of inspecting any and all buildings
and premises and in the performance of his duties under the applicable codes or
ordinances where requested.
   4.   Legal Action. The Code Enforcement Officer shall be authorized to
initiate, on behalf of the Borough, appropriate legal actions against persons
or other legal entities for violations of the Borough's codes and ordinances.
(Ord. 196, 6/12/2001, § 4)
§ 105. Association with Other Municipalities.
The Borough shall have the power to enter into an agreement with other
municipalities for the joint appointment of the Code Enforcement Officer by
such other municipalities to provide for the Code Enforcement Officer to
provide the services permitted pursuant to this Part for the Borough and the
other municipalities which are a party to said agreement. The Borough shall be
authorized to contribute money to the association of such other municipalities
for the services and expenses of the Code Enforcement Officer while he may be
employed and/or acting for said association.
(Ord. 196, 6/12/2001, § 5)
Part 2
Uniform Construction Code
§ 201. Local Administration Election.
Millheim Borough hereby elects to administer and enforce the provisions of the
Pennsylvania Construction Code Act, Act 45 of 1999, 35 P.S. §§
7210.101–7210.1103, as amended from time to time, with its accompanying
regulations.
(Ord. 218, 6/22/2004, § 1)
§ 202. Adoption of Uniform Construction Code.
The Uniform Construction Code, as contained in 34 Pa.Code, Chapters 401-405, as
amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference as the municipal building code for Millheim Borough.
(Ord. 218, 6/22/2004, § 2)
§ 203. Administration and Enforcement.
Administration and enforcement of the Code within Millheim Borough shall be
undertaken in any of the following ways as determined by Millheim Borough
Council from time to time by resolution:
      A.   By designation of an employee of Millheim Borough to serve as the
municipal code official to act on behalf of Millheim Borough.
      B.   By the retention of one or more construction code officials or
third-party agencies to act on behalf of Millheim Borough.
      C.   By agreement with one or more other municipalities for the joint
administration and enforcement of this Act through an inter municipal
agreement.
      D.   By entering into a contract with another municipality for the
administration and enforcement of this Act on behalf of Millheim Borough.
      E.   By entering into an agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of
Labor and Industry for plan review, inspections and enforcement of structures
other than one-family or two-family dwelling units and utility and
miscellaneous use structures.
(Ord. 218, 6/22/2004, § 3)
§ 204. Board of Appeals.
A Board of Appeals shall be established by resolution of Millheim Borough
Council in conformity with the requirements of the relevant provisions of the
Code, as amended from time to time, and for the purposes set forth therein. If
at any time enforcement and administra tion is undertaken jointly with one or
more other municipalities, said Board of Appeals shall be established by joint
action of the participating municipalities.
(Ord. 218, 6/22/2004, § 4)
§ 205. Repealer and Savings Clause.
   1.   All building code ordinances or portions of ordinances which were
adopted by Millheim Borough on or before July 1, 1999, and which equal or
exceed the requirements of the Code shall continue in full force and effect
until such time as such provisions fail to equal or exceed the minimum
requirements of the Code, as amended from time to time.
   2.   All building code ordinances or portions of ordinances which are in
effect as of the effective date of this Part and whose requirements are less
than the minimum requirements of the Code are hereby amended to conform with
the comparable provisions of the Code.
   3.   All relevant ordinances, regulations and policies of Millheim Borough
not governed by the Code shall remain in full force and effect.
Ord. 218, 6/22/2004, § 5)
§ 206. Fees.
Fees assessable by Millheim Borough for the administration and enforcement
undertaken pursuant to this Part and the Code shall be established by Millheim
Borough Council by resolution from time to time.
(Ord. 218, 6/22/2004, § 6)
CHAPTER 6
CONDUCT
Part 1
Disorderly Conduct
   §
101.   Disorderly Conduct Prohibited
   §
102.   Penalty
Part 2
Discharge of Firearms
   §
201.   Discharge of Firearms Prohibited
   §
202.   Use of Air Rifles, Bow and Arrows or Similar Devices Restricted
   §
203.   Exceptions
   §
204.   Penalty
Part 3
Public Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages
   §
301.   Definitions
   §
302.   Consumption
   §
303.   Possession
   §
304.   Exceptions
   §
305.   Penalty
Part 4
Protecting Public Property
   §
401.   Definition and Interpretation
   §
402.   Tampering with Public Property on Streets, Alleys or Public Ground
Prohibited
   §
403.   Tampering with Stakes, Posts and Monuments Prohibited
   §
404.   Tampering with Warning Lamps, Signs or Barricades Prohibited
   §
405.   Removal of Materials from Streets, Alleys or Public Grounds Prohibited
   §
406.   Deposit of Harmful Substances on Streets, Alleys, Sidewalks or Public
Grounds Prohibited
   §
407.   Exceptions
   §
408.   Penalty
Part 5
Throwing of Missiles
   §
501.   Prohibited Acts
   §
502.   Penalty
Part 6
Curfew
   §
601.   Definitions and Interpretations
   §
602.   Purposes
   §
603.   Curfew; Exceptions
   §
604.   Parents Not to Permit Violation
   §
605.   Owner or Operator of Motor Vehicle Not to Permit Violation
   §
606.   Operator of Establishment Not to Permit Violation
   §
607.   Violation to Furnish False Information
   §
608.   Procedure upon Violation
   §
609.   Penalties
Part 7
Anti-Discrimination
   §
701.   Intent and Policy
   §
702.   Definitions
   §
703.   Exceptions and Exclusions
   §
704.   Unlawful Housing Practices
   §
705.   Unlawful Public Accommodations Practices
   §
706.   Unlawful Residential Real Estate Transactions
   §
707.   Unlawful Employment Practices
   §
708.   Obstruction of Fair Practices
   §
709.   Statute of Limitations
   §
710.   Multiple Filings
   §
711.   Penalties
Part 1
Disorderly Conduct
§ 101. Disorderly Conduct Prohibited.
Disorderly conduct, as defined in the Pa. Crime Code of 1972 [18 C.S.A. §§
5503], is hereby prohibited within the Borough of Millheim. A person is guilty
of disorderly conduct if they:
   1.   engage in fighting or in threatening, violent or tumultuous behavior;
   2.   make unreasonable noise;
   3.   use obscene language, or makes an obscene gesture; or
   4.   create a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act which
serves no legitimate purpose of the actor.
Provided: as used in this section, the word public means affecting or likely to
affect persons in a place to which the public or a substantial group has
access. Among the places included are streets, alleys and sidewalks, transport
facilities, schools, prisons, apartment houses, places of business or
amusement, any neighborhood, or any premises which are open to the public.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 102. Penalty.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this Part shall, upon conviction
thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 189, 6/1/1999)
Part 2
Discharge of Firearms
§ 201. Discharge of Firearms Prohibited.
Except in necessary defense of person and property and except as provided in §
203 of this
Part 2, it shall be unlawful for any person to use, fire, or discharge any gun
or other firearm within the Borough of Millheim.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 202. Use of Air Rifles, Bow and Arrows, or Similar Devices Restricted.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any air rifle, air pistol,
spring gun, spring pistol, B-B gun, bow and arrow, or similar device or any
implement that is not a firearm but which impels a pellet of any kind with a
force that can reasonably be expected to cause bodily harm, at any place within
the Borough, except as provided in §
203 of this Part.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 203. Exceptions.
This
Part 2 shall not apply to:
   1.   persons licensed to hunt in this Commonwealth while actually engaged in
hunting where permitted under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania;
   2.   members of any organization incorporated under laws of this
Commonwealth engaged in target shooting upon the grounds or property belonging
to or under the control of such organization; and
   3.   the use of target ranges which are properly constructed to trap or stop
the projectile as ascertained by the Mayor or Borough Council.
   4.   any law enforcement officers when used in the discharge of their
official duties.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 204. Penalty.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this Part shall, upon conviction
thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 189, 6/1/1999)
Part 3
Public Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages
§ 301.   Definitions.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following words or phrases shall be
construed according to the definitions set forth below:
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES - any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid
containing more than one-half of a percent (1/2%) of alcohol by volume which is
fit for beverage purposes.
   CONTAINER - any bottle, can or other vessel in which alcoholic beverages are
contained.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 302. Consumption.
No person shall consume any alcoholic beverage in any quantity upon any street,
avenue, alley, sidewalk, stairway, thoroughfare, or other public property
within the Borough of Millheim, nor shall any person consume any alcoholic
beverage within five feet (5') of any public way or thoroughfare while on a
private stairway, doorway or other private property open to public view without
the express or implied permission of the owner, his agent or other party in
lawful possession thereof.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 303. Possession.
No person shall possess any container of alcoholic beverage whether wrapped or
unwrapped which has been opened or on which the seal has been broken in any
manner on any public street, avenue, alley, thoroughfare or other public
property within the Borough of Millheim, nor shall any person possess any
container or alcoholic beverage within five feet (5') of any public way or
thoroughfare while on a private stairway, doorway, or other private property
open to public view without the express or implied permission of the owner, his
agent or other person in lawful possession thereof.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 304. Exceptions.
Provided, however, that the provisions of §§
302 and
303 above shall not apply to interior portions of any private dwelling, habitat
or building, nor to the consumption or possession by persons in the areas
herein designated of any duly prescribed and dispensed medication having
alcoholic content as set forth in §
301 hereof; and provided further that the provisions of said §§
302 and
303 above shall not apply to premises duly licensed by the Pennsylvania Liquor
Control Board and to persons then and there patrons of said licensee.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 305. Penalty.
Whosoever violates any provision of this Part shall, upon conviction thereof,
be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of
imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 189, 6/1/1999)
Part 4
Protecting Public Property
§ 401. Definition and Interpretation.
As used in this
Part 4, the term PERSON shall include any individual, corporation, partnership,
association, firm or other legal entity. The singular shall include the plural;
the plural shall include the singular; and the masculine shall include the
feminine and the neuter.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 402.   Tampering with Public Property on Streets, Alleys or Public Ground
Prohibited.
No person shall destroy, injure, tamper with or deface any public property of
the Borough of Millheim, or any grass, walk, lamp, ornamental work, building or
street light on or in any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds
in the Borough of Millheim.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 403. Tampering with Stakes, Posts and Monuments Prohibited.
No person shall in any manner interfere or meddle with, or pull, drive, change,
alter or destroy any stake, post, monument or other marking, made, placed or
set, or hereafter made, placed or set, or caused to be done by the authorities
of the Borough, to evidence the location, elevation, line, grade, corner, or
angle of any public street, alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter, drain or other
public work, or thing.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 404. Tampering with Warning Lamps, Signs or Barricades Prohibited.
No person shall destroy, remove, deface, obliterate or cover up any lamp, sign
or barricade erected as a warning of danger by the authorities of the Borough
of Millheim or by any person doing work by permission of the authorities of the
Borough on any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks or bridges in the Borough of
Millheim or on any public grounds of the Borough within or without the Borough.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 405.   Removal of Material from Streets, Alleys or Public Grounds Prohibited.
No person shall take any earth, stone or other material from any street, alley,
or public grounds in the Borough.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 406.   Deposit of Harmful Substances on Streets, Alleys, Sidewalks or Public
Grounds Prohibited.
No person shall pour, throw or deposit any harmful or destructive substance or
matter on any street, alley, sidewalk or public grounds in the Borough of
Millheim.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 407. Exceptions.
This
Part 4 shall not apply to normal activities in connection with construction,
maintenance and repair of streets, alleys, sidewalks and public grounds and the
structures and fixtures located thereon or therein, or to incidental results of
work done thereon or therein upon permit from or by authority of the Borough of
Millheim.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 408. Penalty.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this Part shall, upon conviction
thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days. Each day that a violation
of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 189, 6/1/1999)
Part 5
Throwing of Missiles
§ 501. Prohibited Acts.
The throwing of snowballs, stones or any other missile upon or into any of the
public streets, alleys or sidewalks in the Borough of Millheim is hereby
prohibited.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 502. Penalty.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this Part shall, upon conviction
thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 189, 6/1/1999)
Part 6
Curfew
§ 601. Definitions and Interpretations.
As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated,
unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
   BOROUGH - the Borough of Millheim, Centre County, Pennsylvania.
   CURFEW HOURS - the hours of 11:00 p.m. through 5:00 a.m.
   EMERGENCY - unforeseen circumstances, or the status or condition resulting
therefrom, requiring immediate action to safeguard life, limb or property. The
term includes, but is not limited to, fires, natural disasters, automobile
accidents, or other similar circumstances.
   ESTABLISHMENT - any privately-owned place of business within the Borough
operated for a profit, to which the public is invited including, but not
limited to, any place of amusement or entertainment. With respect to such
establishment, the term "operator" shall mean any person, and any firm,
association, partnership (and the members or partners thereof) and/or any
corporation (and the officers thereof) conducting or managing that
establishment.
   MINOR - any person under eighteen (18) years of age who has not been
emancipated by court order.
   OFFICER - a police or other code enforcement officer charged with the duty
of enforcing the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and/or ordinances of
the Borough.
   PARENT -
         (1)   A person who is a minor's biological or adoptive parent and who
has legal custody of a minor (including either parent, if custody is shared
under a court order or agreement).
         (2)   A person who is the biological or adoptive parent with whom a
minor regularly resides.
         (3)   A person judicially appointed as a legal guardian of the minor.
         (4)   A person eighteen (18) years of age or older standing in loco
parentis (as indicated by the authorization of an individual listed in
paragraph(s) (1), (2) or (3) of this definition, above, for the person to
assume the care or physical custody of the child, or as indicated by any other
circumstances).
   PERSON - refers to an individual, not to any association, corpora tion, or
any other legal entity.
   PUBLIC PLACE - any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access including, but not limited to: streets, highways, roads,
sidewalks, alleys, avenues, parks, and/or the common areas of schools,
hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings, transportation facilities and
shops.
   REMAIN - the following actions:
         (1)   To linger or stay at or upon a place; and/or
         (2)   To fail to leave a place when requested to do so by an officer
or by the owner, operator or other person in control of that place.
(Ord. 216, 4/13/2004, § 1)
§ 602. Purposes.
The purposes of this Part are to:
      A.   Promote the general welfare and protect the general public through
the reduction of juvenile violence and crime within the Borough.
      B.   Promote the safety and well being of the Borough's youngest
citizens, persons under the age of eighteen (18), whose inexperience renders
them particularly vulnerable to becoming participants in unlawful activities,
particularly unlawful drug activities, and to being victimized by older
perpetrators of crime.
      C.   Foster and strengthen parental responsibility for children.
(Ord. 216, 4/13/2004, § 2)
§ 603. Curfew; Exceptions.
It shall be unlawful for a minor, during curfew hours, to remain in or upon any
public place within the Borough, to remain in any motor vehicle operating or
parked therein or thereon, or to remain in or upon the premises of any
establishment within the Borough, unless:
      A.   The minor is accompanied by a parent.
      B.   The minor is involved in an emergency.
      C.   The minor is engaged in an employment activity, or is going to or
returning home from such activity, without detour or stop.
      D.   The minor is on the sidewalk directly abutting a place where he or
she resides with a parent.
      E.   The minor is attending an activity sponsored by a school, religious,
or civic organization, by a public organization or agency, or by another
similar organization or entity, which activity is supervised by adults, and/or
the minor is going to or returning from such an activity without detour or
stop.
      F.   The minor is on an errand at the direction of a parent, and the
minor has in his or her possession a writing signed by the parent containing
the following information: the name, signature, address and telephone number of
the parent authorizing the errand, the telephone number where the parent may be
reached during the errand, the name of the minor, and a brief description of
the errand, the minor's destina tion(s) and the hours the minor is authorized
to be engaged in the errand.
      G.   The minor is involved in interstate travel through, or beginning or
terminating in, the Borough.
      H.   The minor is exercising First Amendment rights protected by the
United States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech and the right of assembly.
(Ord. 216, 4/13/2004, § 3)
§ 604. Parents Not to Permit Violation.
It shall be unlawful for a minor's parent to knowingly permit, allow or
encourage such minor to violate this Part.
(Ord. 216, 4/13/2004, § 4)
§ 605. Owner or Operator of Motor Vehicle Not to Permit Violation.
It shall be unlawful for a person who is the owner or operator of any motor
vehicle to knowingly permit, allow or encourage a violation of this Part.
(Ord. 216, 4/13/2004, § 5)
§ 606. Operator of Establishment Not to Permit Violation.
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any establishment, or for any person
who is an employee thereof, to knowingly permit, allow or encourage a minor to
remain upon the premises of the establishment during curfew hours. It shall be
a defense to prosecution under this Section that the operator or employee of an
establishment promptly notified the Penns Valley Code Enforcement Agency that a
minor was present at the establishment after curfew hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. 216, 4/13/2004, § 6)
§ 607. Violation to Furnish False Information.
It shall be unlawful for any person (including any minor) to give a false name,
address, or telephone number to any officer investigating a possible violation
of this Section.
(Ord. 216, 4/13/2004, § 7)
§ 608. Procedure upon Violation.
   1.   Minors. Before taking any enforcement action hereunder, an officer
shall make an immediate investigation for the purpose of ascertaining whether
or not the presence of a minor in a public place, motor vehicle and/or
establishment within the Borough during curfew hours is in violation of this
Part.
      A.   If such investigation reveals that the presence of such minor is in
violation of this Part, then:
         (1)   If the minor has not previously been issued a warning for any
such violation, the officer shall issue a verbal warning to the minor, which
shall be followed by a written warning mailed by the Penns Valley Code
Enforcement Agency to the minor and his or her parent(s); or,
         (2)   If the minor has previously been issued a warning for any such
violation, the officer shall charge the minor with a violation of this Part and
shall issue a citation for violation of this Part; and
   2.   Others. If an investigation by an officer reveals that a person has
violated §§
603 ,
604 ,
605 ,
606  or
607  of this Part, and if the person has not previously been issued a warning
with respect to any such violation, an officer shall issue a verbal warning to
the person, which shall be followed by a written warning mailed by the Penns
Valley Code Enforcement Agency to the person; however, if any such warning has
been previously issued to that person then the officer shall charge the person
with a violation and shall issue a citation to the person for violation of this
Part.
(Ord. 216, 4/13/2004, § 8)
§ 609. Penalties.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this Part shall, upon conviction
thereof before the District Justice, be sentenced to a pay a fine of not more
than six hundred dollars ($600.00) plus court costs and in default of payment
to imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 216, 4/13/2004, § 9)
Part 7
Anti-Discrimination
§ 701. Intent and Policy.
   1.   This Part is enacted to ensure that all persons regardless of race,
color, religion, ancestry, age), national origin, sex, sexual orientation,
gender identity or expression, source of income, disability or handicap,
presence of a service animal (public accommodations and housing, and real
estate transactions), assistance animal (housing, and real estate
transactions), pregnancy, marital or familial status or family responsibility
enjoy the full benefits of citizenship and are afforded equal opportunities,
unburdened by unjust discrimination, for housing, employment, and use of public
accommodation. In order to achieve this purpose, legislation must be enacted
with appropriate oversight and enforcement remedies for founded violations of
the provisions contained herein.
   2.   It is the policy of the Municipality to prohibit discrimination in
employment, housing, public accommodations, and residential real estate-related
transactions because of race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex,
sexual orientation, gender identity, or expression, source of income,
disability or handicap, presence of a service animal (public accommodation),
Assistance Animal(housing and real estate transactions), pregnancy, family
responsibility, marital or familial status, and to provide for the resolution
of housing, public accommodation and residential real estate-related
transaction discrimination disputes at the local level in a timely, cost-
efficient and effective manner. Finally, to obtain substantial equivalency with
the state and federal governments' housing and anti- discrimination enforcement
efforts.
   3.   It is the policy of the Municipality to ensure that employment of all
individuals is considered in accordance with their fullest capacities and to
safeguard their right to obtain all employment without discrimination
regardless of race, color, religion, ancestry, age, national origin, sex,
sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, source of income, disability
or handicap, presence of a service animal (public accommodation), assistance
animal (housing and real estate transactions), pregnancy, marital or familial
status, or family responsibility.
   4.   It is the policy of the Municipality that the Regional Human Relations
Commission shall have jurisdiction to hear complaints brought before it under
the terms and provisions of this Ordinance and the ordinance establishing the
Commission enacted by the participating Municipalities.
(Ord. 275, 9/12/2023)
§ 702. Definitions.
   AGE - Persons of those ages specified in Section 4 of the Pennsylvania Human
Relations Act, Act of 1955, P.L. 744, No. 222, as amended by Act 51 of 1991.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON - Any person who claims to have been injured by a
discriminatory practice as defined below.
   ASSISTANCE ANIMAL - Animals that work, provide assistance or perform tasks
for the benefit of a person with a disability, or animals that provide
emotional support that alleviates one or more identified symptoms or effects of
a person's disability. Assistance Animals perform many disability-related
functions, including but not limited to guiding individuals who are blind or
have low vision, alerting individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing to
sounds, providing minimal protection or rescue assistance, pulling a
wheelchair, fetching items, alerting persons to impending seizures, or
providing emotional assistance to persons with disabilities who have a
disability-related need for such assistance.
   COMMISSION - The Regional Human Relations Commission was established to
enforce the provisions of this ordinance and adjudicate complaints filed
pursuant to this Part.
   DISABILITY OR HANDICAP- With respect to a person, means:
      A.   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or
more of such person's major life activities;
      B.   A record of having such an impairment; or
      C.   Being regarded as having such an impairment, but such term does not
include current, illegal use of or addiction to a controlled substance, as
defined in Section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (Public Law 91-513, 21
U.S.C. § 802).
   DISCRIMINATE AND DISCRIMINATION - Includes any difference in treatment based
on race, color, religion, age, ancestry, national origin, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, source of income, disability or
handicap, presence of a service animal (public accommodations), assistance
animal (housing and real estate transactions), pregnancy, marital or familial
status or family responsibility.
      A.   Housing discrimination pertaining to people with a disability or
handicap includes a refusal to permit, at the expense of the person with a
disability or handicap, reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied
or to be occupied by such person if such modifications may be necessary to
afford such person full enjoyment of the premise; a refusal to make reasonable
accommodations in rules, policies, practices or services when such
accommodations may be necessary to afford such person equal opportunity to use
and enjoy a dwelling.
      B.   Nothing in this Part requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
   DWELLING - Any building, structure (or portion thereof) which is occupied
as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more
families, and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion
thereof.
   EMPLOYER - Any person who employs four or more employees, including the
Municipality; its departments; authorities, boards, and commissions; and any
other government agency within its jurisdiction.
   EMPLOYMENT AGENCY - Includes any person regularly undertaking, with or
without compensation, to recruit, refer or place employees.
   ELDERLY - A person who is at least 62 years of age or a family whose head or
spouse is 62 years of age.
   FAMILIAL STATUS-
      A.   One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of 18 years)
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or individuals; or
      B.   The designee of such parent or other person having such custody,
with the written permission of such parent or other person.
   Any protection afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial
status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of
securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY RESPONSIBILITY - Being a provider of care, or being perceived to be a
provider of care, for a family member of any age, whether in the past, present,
or future.
   GENDER EXPRESSION - External appearance of one's gender identity, usually
expressed through behavior, clothing, haircut, or voice, chosen name, and/or
pronouns, and which may or may not conform to socially defined behaviors and
characteristics typically associated with being masculine or feminine.
   GENDER IDENTITY OR EXPRESSION - Self-perception, or perception by others, as
male or female, and shall include a person's appearance, behavior, or physical
characteristics, that may be in accord with, or opposed to, one's physical
anatomy, chromosomal sex, or sex assigned at birth, and shall include, but is
not limited to, persons who are undergoing or have completed gender-confirming
surgery.
   GENDER IDENTITY - Self-perception, or perception by others, as male, female,
non-binary, or gender neutral, and shall include an individual's appearance,
behavior, or physical characteristics, may refer to gender expression, sex
assigned at birth, transgender identity, gender transition, that may be in
accord with, or opposed to, physical anatomy, DNA, chromosomal sex, or sex
assigned at birth, and shall include, but is not limited to, persons who are
gender variant, persons who have completed or are in the process of gender
transition, or who are undergoing or have completed sex affirmation hormonal
treatments or gender affirming surgeries.
   GENETIC INFORMATION - Any information relating to genes, gene products, and
inherited characteristics that may derive from an individual or a family
member. This term includes, but is not limited to:
      A.   Information regarding carrier status and increased likelihood of
future disease or increased sensitivity to any substance; or
      B.   Information derived from laboratory tests that identify mutations in
specific genes or chromosomes; physical medical examinations; family histories;
inquiries; tests of gene products; direct analysis of genes or chromosomes.
   HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS -
      A.   Provided under any Federal, State, or local program that the
Municipality determines is specifically designed and operated to assist elderly
persons as defined in the Federal, State, or local program;
      B.   Is intended for and solely occupied by persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      C.   Is intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION - Includes any organization which exists for the purpose,
in whole or in part, of collective bargaining or of dealing with employers
concerning grievance, terms or conditions of employment or of other mutual aid
or protection in relation to employment.
   LIVE-IN AIDE - A person who resides with the elderly person or a person with
a disability or handicap and who:
      A.   Is determined to be essential to the care and well-being of the
elderly person or person with a disability or handicap;
      B.   Is not obligated for the support of the elderly person or person
with a disability or handicap; and
      C.   Would not be living in the unit except to provide the necessary
supportive services.
   MANAGER - The Municipal Manager of the municipality where the complaint
originated or his or her designee. If there's no Municipal Manager, the
Municipal Secretary shall serve in this capacity.
   MARITAL STATUS - The state of being married, unmarried, divorced, separated
or widowed.
   MUNICIPALITY - Any Township, Borough, City or Home Rule Municipality that is
incorporated under Pennsylvania law and is a Party to the Regional Human
Relations Commission as established by Ordinance 274.
   OWNER- Includes any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation, having a
legal or equitable interest in the property, or recorded in the official
records of the State, County or Municipality as holding title to the property.
   PERSON - Any person, fraternal, civic or other membership organization or
association including those acting in a fiduciary or representative capacity,
proprietorship, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or other
for-profit or nonprofit organizations, including the Municipality, its
departments, boards, and commissions.
   PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION-Any accommodation, resort or amusement which is open
to, accepts or solicits the patronage of the general public, including but not
limited to inns, taverns, roadhouses, hotels, motels, whether conducted for the
entertainment of transient guests or for the accommodation of those seeking
health, recreation or rest, or restaurants or eating houses, or any place where
food is sold for consumption on the premises, buffets, saloons, barrooms or any
store, park or enclosure where spirituous or malt liquors are sold, ice cream
parlors, confectioneries, soda fountains and all stores where ice cream, ice
and fruit preparations or their derivatives, or where beverages of any kind are
retailed for consumption on the premises, drugstores, dispensaries, clinics,
hospitals, bathhouses, swimming pools, barber shops, beauty parlors, retail
stores and establishments, theaters, motion picture houses, air domes, roof
gardens, music halls, race courses, skating rinks, amusement and recreation
parks, fairs, bowling alleys, gymnasiums, shooting galleries, billiard and pool
parlors, public libraries, kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, high
schools, academies, colleges and universities, extension courses and all
educational institutions, nonsectarian cemeteries, garages and all public
conveyances operated on land or water or in the air as well as the stations,
terminals and airports, financial institutions and all Municipal facilities and
services, but not any accommodations which are in their nature distinctly
private.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER - Any person, partnership, corporation or other
association which, for a fee or other valuable consideration, manages, sells,
purchases, exchanges, or rents or negotiates, or offers or attempts to
negotiate the sale, purchase, exchange or rental of the real property of
another, or holds itself out as one engaged in the business of managing,
selling, purchasing, exchanging or renting the real property of another and
includes those engaging in real estate sales or any other person employed by a
real estate broker to perform or to assist in the performance of his or her
business.
   RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS-The making of loans or
providing other financial assistance for purchasing, constructing, improving,
repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or the selling, brokering or appraising of
residential real property.
   SERVICE ANIMAL - Any animal that is individually trained to do work or
perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability, including a
physical, sensory, psychiatric, intellectual, or other mental disability. The
work or tasks performed by a service animal must be directly related to the
handler's disability. Examples of work or tasks include, but are not limited
to, assisting individuals who are blind or have low vision with navigation and
other tasks, alerting individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing to the
presence of people or sounds, providing non-violent protection or rescue work,
pulling a wheelchair, assisting an individual during a seizure, alerting
individuals to the presence of allergens, retrieving items such as medicine or
the telephone, providing physical support and assistance with balance and
stability to individuals with mobility disabilities, and helping persons with
psychiatric and neurological disabilities by preventing or interrupting
impulsive or destructive behaviors. The crime deterrent effects of an animal's
presence and the provision of emotional support, well-being, comfort, or
companionship do not constitute work or tasks for the purposes of this
definition. While dogs are the most common type of service animal, other
animals can also be service animals.
   SEXUAL ORIENTATION - Inherent or immutable enduring emotional, romantic, or
sexual attraction to other people. Includes being gay, lesbian, bisexual,
pansexual, heterosexual, asexual, by preference, practice, or as perceived by
others.
   SOURCE OF INCOME - Income received through any legal means including, but
not limited to, wages, salaries, interest, dividends, child support, alimony,
public assistance, pensions or others retirement benefits, social security or
other documentation of ability to pay.
(Ord. 275, 9/12/2023)
 § 703. Exceptions and Exclusions.
   1.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Part, it shall not be an
unlawful employment practice for a religious corporation or association, not
supported in whole or in part by government appropriations, to refuse to hire
or employ an individual on the basis of the religion of the religious
organization.
   2.   Nothing in this Part shall be interpreted to prohibit a religious
organization that is exempt from federal taxation under Section 50l(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code, or any organization affiliated with that religious
organization from engaging in any conduct or activity that is required by, or
that implements or expresses its religious beliefs or tenets of faith. Further,
nothing in this Chapter shall be interpreted to require any such religious
organization to engage in any conduct or activity that is prohibited by its
religious beliefs or tenets of faith.
   3.   Nothing in this Part shall be interpreted as applying to any state or
federal agencies.
   4.   The provisions regarding familial and marital status and family
responsibility in this Part shall not apply to housing provided by educational
institutions which is restricted to occupancy by students of such institution
who:
      A.   Reside with the student's spouse; or
      B.   Reside with children under the age of 18 years of age; or
      C.   Reside with the student's spouse and children under the age of 18
years of age; and
      D.   The relationship of the student to the children must be a biological
or adoptive parent or legal guardian.
   5.   Age-Restricted Housing. The provisions of this Part regarding familial
status and age in this Part shall not apply to housing for older persons if it
meets the conditions in this section. In determining whether housing qualifies
as housing for older persons under this clause, the Municipality's requirements
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      A.   At least 80% of the units are occupied by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit;
      B.   There is a publication of, and adherence to, policies and procedures
which demonstrate an intent by the owner or manager to provide housing for
persons 55 years of age or older;
       C.   The housing complies with regulations promulgated by the
Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission for verification of occupancy.
Regulations under this paragraph shall do all of the following:
         (1)   Provide for verification by reliable surveys and affidavits.
Surveys and affidavits under this subparagraph shall be admissible m
administrative and judicial proceedings for the purpose of verification under
this paragraph; and
         (2)   Include examples of the types of policies and procedures
relevant to a determination of compliance with the requirement of Paragraph C.
      D.   Housing shall not fail to meet the requirements for housing for
older persons by reason of unoccupied units provided that such units are
reserved for occupancy by persons who meet the age requirements of this clause.
   6.   Local Limits on Maximum Occupancy of a Dwelling. Nothing in this Part
shall limit the applicability of any local, state or federal, or any reasonable
private land use restrictions, condominium articles, or by-laws regarding the
maximum number of occupants permitted to occupy a dwelling.
   7.   Controlled Substances. Nothing in this Part with respect to housing
shall prohibit conduct against a person because such person has been convicted
by any court of competent jurisdiction of the illegal manufacture or
distribution of a controlled substance, as defined in Section 102 of the
Controlled Substances Act (21 USC 802).
   8.   Owner-Occupied Dwellings. This Part shall not apply to owner-occupied
dwellings containing four units or less, providing the landlord occupies one of
the units as his/her primary residence.
   9.   Subleasing a Dwelling Unit. This Part shall not apply to the subleasing
of a dwelling unit where one or more of the tenants named on the lease in
effect at the time of the subleasing will continue to reside in the unit.
   10.   Nothing herein shall be construed to mean a landlord must rent to
someone who does not have the ability to pay.
(Ord. 275, 9/12/2023)
  § 704. Unlawful Housing Practices.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice, except as otherwise provided in
this Part:
   1.   For any owner, real estate broker or any other person to refuse to
discuss or confer with a view to reaching an agreement for a sale, lease,
sublease, rental, assignment or other transfer of the title, leasehold or other
interest in any dwelling to any person, or to represent that any dwelling is
not available for any inspection, sale, lease, sublease, rental, assignment or
other transfer when, in fact, it is so available, or otherwise to deny or
withhold any dwelling from any person because of race, color, religion,
ancestry, age, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or
expression, source of income, disability or handicap, presence of service
animal, pregnancy, marital or familial status or family responsibility or to
discriminate against, segregate or assign quotas to any person or group of
persons in connection with the sale, lease, sublease, rental, assignment or
other transfer of title, leasehold or other interest in any dwelling or
dwellings.
   2.   For any person, including any owner or real estate broker, to include
in the terms, conditions or privileges of any sale, lease, sublease, rental,
assignment or other transfer of any dwelling any clause, condition or
restriction discriminating against or requiring any other person to
discriminate against any person in the use or occupancy of such dwelling
because of race, color, religion, ancestry, age, national origin, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, source of income, disability or
handicap, presence of a service animal, pregnancy, marital or familial status
or family responsibility.
   3.   For any person, including any owner or real estate broker, to refuse to
permit, at the expense of the person with a disability or handicap, reasonable
modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by such person if
such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full enjoyment of the
premises. In the case of a rental, the landlord may, where it is reasonable to
do so, condition permission for a modification on the renter agreeing to
restore the condition of the interior of the premises to the condition that
existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted. Where it is
necessary in order to ensure, with reasonable certainty, that funds will be
available to pay for the restorations at the end of the tenancy, the landlord
may negotiate as part of such restoration agreement a provision requiring that
the tenant pay into an interest- bearing escrow, over a reasonable period, a
reasonable amount of money not to exceed the cost of the restorations. The
interest in any such account shall accrue to the benefit of the tenant.
   The application of Paragraph 3. of this section may be illustrated by the
following examples:
      A.   Example 1. A tenant with a disability or handicap asks his or her
landlord for permission to install grab bars in the bathroom at his or her own
expense. It is necessary to reinforce the walls with blocking between studs in
order to affix the grab bars. It is unlawful for the landlord to refuse to
permit the tenant at the tenant's own expense, from making the modifications
necessary to add the grab bars. However, the landlord may condition permission
for the modification on the tenant agreeing to restore the bathroom to the
condition that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear
excepted. It would be reasonable for the landlord to require the tenant to
remove the grab bars at the end of the tenancy. The landlord may also
reasonably require that the wall to which the grab bars are to be attached be
repaired and restored to its original condition, reasonable wear and tear
excepted. However, it would be unreasonable for the landlord to require the
tenant to remove the blocking, since the reinforced walls will not interfere in
any way with the landlord's or the next tenant's use and enjoyment of the
premises and may be needed by some future tenant.
      B.   Example 2. An applicant for rental housing has a child who uses a
wheelchair. The bathroom door in the dwelling unit is too narrow to permit the
wheelchair to pass. The applicant asks the landlord for permission to widen the
doorway at the applicant's own expense. It is unlawful for the landlord to
refuse to permit the applicant to make the modification. Further, the landlord
may not, in usual circumstances, condition permission for the modification on
the applicant paying for the doorway to be narrowed at the end of the lease
because a wider doorway will not interfere with the landlord's or the next
tenant's use and enjoyment of the premises.
   4.   For any person, including any owner or real estate broker, to refuse to
make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies, practices or services
(except for federally regulated lending institutions{'}'} when such
accommodations may be necessary to afford a person with a disability or
handicap the opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling.
   The application of Paragraph 4. of this section may be illustrated by the
following examples:
      A.   Example 1. An applicant with a vision impairment for rental housing
wants to live in a dwelling unit with a seeing-eye dog. The building has a
policy that prohibits tenants from keeping pets. It is a violation for the
owner or manager of the apartment complex to refuse to permit the applicant to
live in the apartment with a seeing eye dog because, without the seeing eye
dog, the person with a vision impairment will not have an equal opportunity to
use and enjoy a dwelling.
      B.   Example 2. An applicant for an apartment dwelling that does not
typically reserve spaces for tenants has a disability that precludes him or her
from walking more than a short distance. It is a violation for the owner or
manager of the apartment dwelling to refuse to reserve a space for him or her
within a short walking distance to the dwelling. Because the applicant may not
be able to live in the dwelling without this accommodation, it is necessary to
provide the accommodation to provide the applicant equal opportunity to use and
enjoy the dwelling. This is considered a reasonable accommodation because it is
feasible and practical considering the circumstances.
   5.   For any person, including any owner or real estate broker, to
discriminate in the providing of any facilities or services (except for
federally funded lending institutions) for any dwelling because of race, color,
religion, ancestry, age, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity or expression, source of income, disability or handicap, presence of a
service animal, pregnancy, marital or familial status or family responsibility.
   6.   For any person, including any owner or real estate broker, to publish,
circulate, issue or display, or cause to be published, circulated, or
displayed, any communication, notice, advertisement, or sign of any kind
relating to the sale, rental, lease, sublease, assignment, transfer or listing
of a dwelling or dwellings which indicates any orientation, limitation,
specification or discrimination based on race, color, religion, ancestry, age,
national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, source
of income, disability or handicap, presence a service animal, pregnancy,
marital or familial status or family responsibility.
   7.   For any person, including any owner or real estate broker or associate,
or any other person for business or economic purposes, to induce directly or
indirectly, or to attempt to induce directly or indirectly, the sale or rental
or the listing for sale or rental of a dwelling by representing that a change
has occurred or will or may occur with respect to the race, color, religion,
ancestry, age, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or
expression, source ofincome, disability or handicap, presence of a service
animal, pregnancy, marital or familial status or family responsibility
composition of the street, block, neighborhood or area in which said dwelling
is located.
   8.   For any person, including any real estate broker or associate, to deny
a person access to membership or participation in a multiple listing service,
real estate brokers' organization or other service because of race, color,
religion, ancestry, age, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity or expression, source of income, disability or handicap, presence of a
service animal, pregnancy, marital or familial status or family responsibility.
   9.   For any person, including any real estate broker or associate, to aid,
incite, compel, coerce or participate in the doing of any act declared to be an
unlawful housing practice under this Part, to obstruct or prevent enforcement
or compliance with the provisions of this Part or any rule or regulation, or to
attempt directly or indirectly to commit any act declared by this Part to be an
unlawful housing practice.
   10.   For any person or entity whose business includes engaging in
residential real estate-related transactions to discriminate against any person
in making available such a transaction or in the terms or conditions of such a
transaction because of race, color, religion, ancestry, age, national origin,
sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, source of income,
disability or handicap, presence of a service animal, pregnancy, marital or
familial status or family responsibility.
   11.   The notice provided to the respondent as referenced in Section 21 l
(B.) will advise the respondent that retaliation against any person because he
or she made a complaint or testified, assisted or participated in an
investigation or mediation under this Part is a discriminatory practice that is
prohibited by this Part.
(Ord. 275, 9/12/2023)
§ 705. Unlawful Public Accommodations Practices.
   It shall be an unlawful public accommodations practice, except as otherwise
provided in this Part for any person being the owner, lessee, proprietor,
manager, superintendent, agent, or employee of any public accommodation to:
   1.   Refuse, withhold from, or deny to any person because of race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity
or expression, source of income, disability or handicap, presence of a service
animal, pregnancy, marital or familial status or family responsibility either
directly or indirectly, any of the accommodations, advantages, facilities, or
privileges of such public accommodation.
   2.   Publish, circulate, issue, display, post or mail, either directly or
indirectly, any written or printed communication, notice or advertisement to
the effect that any of the accommodations, advantages, facilities and
privileges of any such place shall be refused, withheld from or denied to any
person on account race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, source of income, disability or
handicap, presence ofa service animal, pregnancy, marital or familial status or
family responsibility, or that the patronage or custom thereat of any person,
belonging to or purporting to be of any particular race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or
expression, source of income, disability or handicap, presence ofa service
animal, pregnancy, marital or familial status or family responsibility, is
unwelcome, objectionable or not acceptable, desired or solicited.
   3.   Exclude or otherwise deny equal goods, services, facilities,
privileges, advantages, accommodations, or other opportunities to a person
because of the disability or handicap of an individual with whom the person is
known to have a relationship or association.
   4.   Construct such place of public accommodation which is not accessible.
   5.   Refuse to remove any barrier to accessibility to such existing place of
public accommodation, where barrier removal is readily achievable, meaning
easily accomplishable and able to be carried out without much difficulty or
expense. Where barrier removal is not readily achievable, it shall be unlawful
to refuse to take any readily achievable alternative steps to make such public
accommodation accessible.
   6.   The notice provided to the respondent as referenced in Section 21 l(B.)
will advise the respondent that retaliation against any person because he or
she made a complaint or testified, assisted or participated in an investigation
or mediation under this Part is a discriminatory practice that is prohibited by
this Part.
(Ord. 275, 9/12/2023)
§ 706. Unlawful Residential Real Estate Transactions.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity whose business includes
engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to discriminate
against any person in making available loans or other financial assistance for
a dwelling, or which is or is to be secured by a dwelling, because of race,
color, religion, ancestry, age, national origin, sex, sexual orientation,
gender identity or expression, source of income, disability or handicap,
presence of a service animal, pregnancy, marital or familial status or family
responsibility.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity engaged in the making of
loans or in the provision of other financial assistance relating to the
purchase, construction, improvement, repair or maintenance of dwellings or
which are secured by residential real estate to impose different terms or
conditions for the availability of such loans or other financial assistance
because of race, color, religion, ancestry, age, national origin, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, source of income, disability or
handicap, presence of a service animal, pregnancy, marital or familial status
or family responsibility.
   3.   The notice provided to the respondent as referenced in Section 21 l(B.)
will advise the respondent that retaliation against any person because he or
she made a complaint or testified, assisted, or participated in an
investigation or mediation under this Part is a discriminatory practice that is
prohibited by this Part.
(Ord. 275, 9/12/2023)
 § 707. Unlawful Employment Practices.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any employer to discriminate against any
employee or prospective employee in employment practices because of race,
color, religion, ancestry, age, national origin, sex, sexual orientation,
gender identity or expression, source of income, disability or handicap,
presence of a service animal, pregnancy, marital or familial status or family
responsibility.
   2.   Retaliation against any person, either directly or by aiding, inciting,
compelling, coercing or participating, because such person has opposed any
practice forbidden by this Part, or because such person has made a charge,
testified or assisted in any manner in any investigation, proceeding or hearing
authorized by this Part is prohibited.
   3.   Aiding, abetting, inciting, compelling, or coercing the doing of any
act declared by this Part to be an unlawful practice, or obstructing or
preventing any person from complying with the provisions of this Part is
prohibited under this Part.
(Ord. 275, 9/12/2023)
 § 708. Obstruction of Fair Practices.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether or not within the named
classifications set forth in this Part, to aid, incite, compel, coerce or
participate in the doing of any act declared to be an unlawful practice under
this Part, or to obstruct or prevent enforcement of compliance with the
provisions of this Part or any rule, regulation or order of the Municipality to
be an unlawful practice.
(Ord. 275, 9/12/2023)
§ 709. Statute of Limitations.
   A complaint must be filed with the Manager's Office within 180 days of the
alleged act of discrimination. Applicants may also wish to file a complaint
with the PHRC and/or EEOC, as applicable, to preserve any filing deadlines with
those agencies but if such filings are made by the complainant, the Commission
will have no further jurisdiction over the complaint.
(Ord. 275, 9/12/2023)
§ 710. Multiple Filings.
   This Part shall have no effect over matters which are the subject of pending
or prior filings made by an aggrieved person before any state or federal court
or agency of competent jurisdiction. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit
any aggrieved person from pursuing any civil, state or federal remedy available
following completion of proceedings under this Part provided that all
timeframes and statutes of limitation prescribed by this Part and all
applicable state and federal legislation shall occur contemporaneously and the
process for investigation and adjudication by all relevant jurisdictions shall
not be held in abeyance while another jurisdiction carries out its procedures.
The Regional Human Relations Commission shall not file on behalf of the
complainant with another agency or court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 275, 9/12/2023)
§ 711. Penalties.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this Part or who resists or
interferes with any authorized representative of the Municipality in the
performance of his or her duties shall, upon conviction thereof before any
District Justice, be guilty of a misdemeanor and sentenced to pay a fine, not
less than $100 nor more than $500 and the costs of prosecution and, in default
of payment of any such fine and costs, may be committed to a term of
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each time that a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 275, 9/12/2023)
CHAPTER 7
FIRE PREVENTION AND FIRE PROTECTION
Part 1
Burning
   §
101.   Title
   §
102.   Authority
   §
103.   Policy
   §
104.   Definitions
   §
105.   Regulations
   §
106.   Enforcement
   §
107.   Penalties
Part 1
Burning
§ 101. Title.
This Part shall be known and may be cited as the "Millheim Borough Burn
Ordinance."
(Ord. 207, 11/11/2003, § 1)
§ 102. Authority.
The Millheim Borough Council, under, and by virtue of and pursuant to the
authority granted by The Borough Code hereby enacts and ordains this Part.
(Ord. 207, 11/11/2003, § 2)
§ 103. Policy.
The purpose of this Part is to prevent public and private nuisances caused by
outdoor fires deliberately or carelessly set and maintained; to avoid
unnecessary calls or alarms to the local fire department; to provide for safety
of the citizens, air quality or buildings of Millheim Borough.
(Ord. 207, 11/11/2003, § 3)
§ 104. Definitions.
   ADULT PERSON - a person of at least eighteen (18) years of age.
   BURN CONTAINER - any container (3 feet by 3 feet by 3 feet) used for the
purpose of burning materials as authorized herein; constructed of masonry,
metal or other noncombustible rigid material; containing a bottom, sides and a
cover as herein defined. Burn containers shall not be allowed to deteriorate to
the point where they contain holes or missing surface in the structure. Outdoor
fireplaces or incinerators shall be considered as burning containers for the
purpose of this Part. If metal drums are being used, they shall not have
contained toxic or flammable or other regulated materials. They shall be free
from holes in the sides and/or bottom, except that they may contain drain or
vent holes in the bottom of the drum no larger than two (2) square inches each.
   BURN CONTAINER COVER - a metal screen with spaces not more than one-half (1/
2) square inch, or other comparable material, which covers the entire open area
above the burn container opening. Such screen shall be maintained in good order
as to prevent large particles from escaping the burn container during
operation. The cover shall not be allowed to deteriorate to any point whereby
it loses its maximum efficiency.
   BURNING - the act of consuming by fire; to flame, char, scorch or blaze. As
used in this Part, smoldering shall be deemed a burning.
   CONTAINED FIRE - any fire contained in an incinerator, fireplace designed
for outdoor cooking or a fireproof container.
   DOMESTIC REFUSE - any solid waste including, but not limited to, putrescible
animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking
and consumption of food, nonputrescible wastes including rubbish, ashes, dead
animals and any other solid waste that results from the normal occupancy of the
structure.
   ENFORCING OFFICER – the Penns Valley Code Enforcement Agency or any other
duly authorized agent.
   FIRE - any fire set or maintained outside a building.
   SMOLDER - burning sluggishly with little or no flame and with much smoke.
   SOLID WASTE - waste including, but not limited to, municipal, residual or
hazardous wastes, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous
materials resulting from municipal, industrial, commercial, agricultural and
residential activities.
   UNCONTAINED FIRE - any fire except a contained fire.
   WASTE - material whose original purpose has been completed and which is
directed to a disposal or processing facility or is otherwise disposed. The
term does not include source separated recyclable material.
   YARD WASTE - leaves, grass clippings, garden residue, tree trimmings,
chipped shrubbery and other vegetative materials.
(Ord. 207, 11/11/2003, § 4)
§ 105. Regulations.
   1.   From and after the effective date of this Part, no person shall cause,
suffer or permit the burning of any material in an uncontained fire with the
exception of the following:
      A.   A fire set for ceremonial purposes with a permit.
      B.   Fires set for outdoor cooking such as charcoal grill fires or
smokehouses.
      C.   A fire set in conjunction with agricultural production.
      D.   A fire set to abate a hazard.
      E.   A fire set to generate heat.
      F.   A fire set for the control and prevention of disease.
      G.   A fire necessary for carrying out the Borough's Emergency Operation
Plan.
      H.   Fires necessary to save life and property.
      I.   Fires set for the purpose of burning that amount of domestic refuse,
except plastic, generated from one (1) dwelling, when the fire is on the
premises of a structure occupied solely as a dwelling by two (2) families or
less, and when the refuse results from the normal occupancy of said structure.
   2.   Restrictions for All Fires.
      A.   All fires shall be constantly attended by at least one (1) adult
person until they are completely extinguished.
      B.   Any fire, contained or uncontained, permitted to burn in an unsafe
manner under adverse weather conditions or unsupervised or determined unsafe by
the Penns Valley Code Enforcement Agency Official, shall be extinguished
immediately upon demand by such official.
      C.   Fires are not permitted during adverse wind and weather conditions.
      D.   Fires shall not be permitted to smolder.
      E.   Fires shall not be set for the purpose of burning plastic or
plastic-coated products, treated lumber, asphalt products, furniture,
mattresses, tires and rubber products, automotive parts and batteries and the
like.
      F.   No burning container shall be used or stored within twenty (20) feet
of any property line or public sidewalk area. No burning container shall be
used or stored without the proper cover in place. No burning container shall be
used for any other purpose.
(Ord. 207, 11/11/2003, § 5)
§ 106. Enforcement.
The Penns Valley Code Enforcement Agency or any other duly authorized agent
shall have the power and duty to enforce the provisions of this Part.
(Ord. 207, 11/11/2003, § 6)
§ 107. Penalties.
Any person who violates any provision of this Part or any order of Millheim
Borough issued pursuant to this Part, will receive a written warning and any
subsequent violations will receive a minimum fine of fifty dollars ($50.00). If
further action needs to be taken, a complaint may be filed with the District
Justice's Office for prosecution.
(Ord. 207, 11/11/2003, § 7)
CHAPTER 8
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
Part 1
General Provisions
   §
101.   Intent
   §
102.   Applicability
   §
103.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions
   §
104.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability
Part 2
Administration
   §
201.   Building Permits Required
   §
202.   Issuance of Building Permit
   §
203.   Application Procedures and Requirements
   §
204.   Review by County Conservation District
   §
205.   Review of Application by Others
   §
206.   Changes
   §
207.   Placards
   §
208.   Start of Construction
   §
209.   Inspection and Revocation
   §
210.   Fees
   §
211.   Enforcement
   §
212.   Appeals
Part 3
Identification of Floodplain Areas
   §
301.   Identification
   §
302.   Determination of Floodplain Areas
   §
303.   Changes in Identification of Area
   §
304.   Boundary Disputes
Part 4
General Technical Requirements
   §
401.   General
   §
402.   Design and Construction Standards
   §
403.   Development Which May Endanger Human Life
   §
404.   Special Requirements for Manufactured Homes
Part 5
Activities Requiring Special Permits
   §
501.   General
   §
502.   Application Requirements for Special Permits
   §
503.   Application Review Procedures
   §
504.   Special Technical Requirements
Part 6
Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas
   §
601.   Existing Structures
Part 7
Variances
   §
701.   General
   §
702.   Variance Procedures and Conditions
Part 8
Definitions
   §
801.   General
   §
802.   Specific Definitions
Part 1
General Provisions
§ 101. Intent.
The intent of this Chapter is to:
   1.   Promote the general health, welfare, and safety of the community.
   2.   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future.
   3.   Minimize danger to public health by protecting water supply and natural
drainage.
   4.   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units, and its residents, by preventing excessive development in areas subject
to flooding.
   5.   Comply with federal and state floodplain management requirements.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 1.00)
§ 102. Applicability.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or
corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any construction or
development anywhere within the Borough of Millheim unless a building permit
has been obtained from the Building Permit Officer.
   2.   A building permit shall not be required for minor repairs to existing
buildings or structures.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 1.01)
§ 103. Abrogation and Greater Restrictions.
This Chapter supersedes any other conflicting provisions which may be in effect
in identified floodplain areas. However, any other ordinance provisions shall
remain in full force and effect to the extent that those provisions are more
restrictive. If there is any conflict between any of the provisions of this
Chapter, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 1.02)
§ 104. Warning and Disclaimer of Liability.
   1.   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this Chapter
is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on acceptable
engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur. Flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings
restricted by debris. This Chapter does not imply that areas outside any
identified floodplain areas, or that land uses permitted within such areas,
will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   2.   This Chapter shall not create liability on the part of the Borough or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this Chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 1.04)
Part 2
Administration
§ 201. Building Permits Required.
Building Permits shall be required before any construction or development is
undertaken within any area of the Borough of Millheim.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 2.00)
§ 202. Issuance of Building Permit.
   1.   The Building Permit Officer shall issue a building permit only after it
has been determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in
conformance with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes and
ordinances.
   2.   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building Permit
Officer shall review the application for the permit to determine if all other
necessary government permits required by State and Federal laws have been
obtained, such as those required by the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act
1966- 537, as amended); the Pennsylvania Dam Safety and Encroachments Act (Act
1978-325, as amended); the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Act (Act 1937- 394, as
amended); and the U.S. Clean Water Act, § 404, 33 U.S.C. 1344. No permit shall
be issued until this determination has been made.
   3.   No encroachment, alteration, or improvement of any kind shall be made
to any watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected by
such action, have been notified by the Borough and until all required permits
or approvals have been first obtained from the Department of Environmental
Protection Regional Office.
   4.   In addition, the Federal Emergency Management Agency and Pennsylva nia
Department of Community and Economic Development shall be notified by the
Borough prior to any alteration or relocation of any watercourse.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 2.01)
§ 203. Application Procedures and Requirements.
   1.   Application for such a building permit shall be made, in writing, to
the Building Permit Officer on forms supplied by the Building Permit Officer.
Such application shall contain the following:
      A.   Name and address of applicant.
      B.   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construc tion is
to occur.
      C.   Name and address of contractor.
      D.   Site location including address.
      E.   Listing of other permits required.
      F.   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost, including a
breakout of the flood-related cost and the market value of the building before
the flood damage occurred.
      G.   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
   2.   If any proposed construction or development is located entirely or
partially within any identified floodplain area, applicants for building
permits shall provide all the necessary information in sufficient detail and
clarity to enable the Building Permit Officer to determine that:
      A.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and conform with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes
and ordinances.
      B.   All utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage.
      C.   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   3.   Applicants shall file the following minimum information plus any other
pertinent information (e.g., any or all of the technical information contained
in § 502) as may be required by the Building Permit Officer to make the above
determination:
      A.   A completed building permit application form.
      B.   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of
one (1) inch being equal to one hundred (100) feet or less, showing the
following:
         (1)   North arrow, scale, and date.
         (2)   Topographic contour lines, if available.
         (3)   All property and lot lines including dimensions, and the size of
the site expressed in acres or square feet.
         (4)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures,
and other improvements, including the location of any existing or proposed
subdivision and land development.
         (5)   The location of all existing streets, drives, and other
accessways.
         (6)   The location of any existing bodies of water or water courses,
identified floodplain, areas, and, if available, informa tion pertaining to the
floodway, and the flow of water including direction and velocities.
      C.   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
         (1)   The proposed lowest floor elevation of any proposed building
based upon North American Vertical Datum of 1988.
         (2)   The elevation of the one hundred (100) year flood.
         (3)   If available, information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with a one
hundred (100) year flood.
         (4)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproof ing
measures.
         (5)   Supplemental information as may be necessary under 34 Pa.Code,
Chapters 401-405 as amended, and §§ 1612.5.1, 104.7 and 109.3 of the 2003 IBC
and §§ R106.1.3 and R104.7 of the 2003 IRC.
      D.   The following data and documentation:
         (1)   A document, certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect, which states that the proposed construction or development has been
adequately designed to withstand the one hundred (100) year flood elevations,
pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces associated with the one hundred
(100) year flood.
   Such statement shall include a description of the type and extent of
floodproofing measures which have been incorporated into the design of the
structure and/ or the development.
         (2)   Detailed information needed to determine compliance with §
402.F, “Storage,” and § 403, “Development Which May Endanger Human Life,”
including:
            (a)   The amount, location and purpose of any dangerous materials
or substances which are intended to be used pro duced, stored or otherwise
maintained on site.
            (b)   A description of the safeguards incorporated into the design
of the proposed structure to prevent leaks or spills of the dangerous materials
or substances listed in § 403 during a one hundred (100) year flood.
         (3)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environ mental
Protection's “Planning Module for Land Development.”
         (4)   Where any excavation of grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection, to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 2.02)
§ 204. Review by County Conservation District.
A copy of all applica tions and plans for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval
shall be submitted by the Building Permit Officer to the Centre County
Conservation District for review and comment prior to the issuance of a
building permit. The recommendations of the Conservation District shall be
considered by the Building Permit Officer for possible incorporation into the
proposed plan.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 2.03)
§ 205. Review of Application by Others.
A copy of all plans and applications for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval may
be submitted by the Building Permit Officer to any other appropriate agencies
and/ or individuals (e.g., planning commission, municipal engineer, etc.) for
review and comment.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 2.04)
§ 206. Changes.
After the issuance of a building permit by the Building Permit Officer, no
changes of any kind shall be made to the application, permit or any of the
plans, specifications or other documents submitted with the application without
the written consent or approval of the Building Permit Officer. Requests for
any such change shall be in writing, and shall be submitted by the applicant to
the Building Permit Officer for consider ation.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 2.05)
§ 207. Placards.
In addition to the building permit, the Building Permit Officer shall issue a
placard which shall be displayed on the premises during the time construction
is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the building permit, the
date of its issuance and be signed by the Building Permit Officer.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 2.06)
§ 208. Start of Construction.
   1.   Work on the proposed construction and/ or development shall begin
within six (6) months and shall be completed within twelve (12) months after
the date of issuance of the building permit or the permit shall expire unless a
time extension is granted, in writing, by the Building Permit Officer.
Construction and/or development shall be considered to have started with the
preparation of land, land clearing, grading, filling, excavation of basement,
footings, piers, or foundations, erection of temporary forms, the installa tion
of piling under proposed subsurface footings, or the installation of sewer, gas
and water pipes, or electrical or other service lines from the street.
   2.   Time extensions shall be granted only if a written request is submitted
by the applicant, which sets forth sufficient and reasonable cause for the
Building Permit Officer to approve such a request.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 2.07)
§ 209. Inspection and Revocation.
   1.   During the construction period, the Building Permit Officer or other
authorized official shall inspect the premises to determine that the work is
progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable municipal laws and ordinances. He shall
make as many inspections during and upon completion of the work as are
necessary.
   2.   In the discharge of his duties, the Building Permit Officer shall have
the authority to enter any building, structure, premises or development in the
identified floodplain area, upon presentation of proper credentials, at any
reasonable hour to enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
   3.   In the event the Building Permit Officer discovers that the work does
not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances,
or that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant,
the Building Permit Officer shall revoke the building permit and report such
fact to the Borough Council for whatever action it considers necessary.
   4.   A record of all such inspections and violations of this Chapter shall
be maintained.
   5.   The requirements of the 34 Pa.Code Chapters 401-405 and the IBC (§§
109.3.3, 1612.5.1, 104.7 and 103.8) and the 2003 IRC (R106.1.3, 109.1.3 and
R104.7) or latest revisions thereof pertaining to elevation certificates and
record retention shall be considered.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 2.08)
§ 210. Fees.
Applications for a building permit shall be accompanied by a fee, as
established by the Borough from time to time by ordinance or resolution.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 2.09)
§ 211. Enforcement.
   1.   Notices. Whenever the Building Permit Officer or other authorized
Borough representative determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe
that there has been a violation of any provisions of this Chapter, or of any
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, the Building Permit Officer shall give
notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter provided. Such notice shall (A)
be in writing; (B) include a statement of the reasons for its issuance; (C)
allow a reasonable time not to exceed a period of thirty (30) days for the
performance of any act it requires; (D) be served upon the property owner or
his agent as the case may require; provided, however, that such notice or order
shall be deemed to have been properly served upon such owner or agent when a
copy thereof has been served with such notice by any other method authorized or
required by the laws of this State; (E) contain an outline of remedial action
which, if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   2.   Penalties. Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the
requirements or provisions of this Chapter or who fails or refuses to comply
with any notice, order of direction of the Building Permit Officer or any other
authorized employee of the Borough shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction, shall pay a fine to the Borough of not less than Twenty-five
Dollars (S25.00) nor more than Six Hundred Dollars (S600.00) plus costs of
prosecution. In default of such payment, such person shall be imprisoned in
county prison for a period not to exceed ten (10) days.  Each day during which
any violation of this Chapter continues shall constitute a separate offense. In
addition to the above penalties all other actions are hereby reserved including
an action in equity for the proper enforcement of this Chapter. The imposition
of a fine or penalty for any violation of, or noncompliance with, this Chapter
shall not excuse the violation or noncompli ance or permit it to continue and
all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations and
noncompliances within a reasonable time. Any development initiated or any
structure or building constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, altered, or
relocated, in noncompliance with this Chapter may be declared by the Borough
Council to be a public nuisance and abatable as such.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 2.10)
§ 212. Appeals.
   1.   Any person aggrieved by any action or decision of the Building Permit
officer concerning the administration of the provisions of this Chapter, may
appeal to the Borough Council. Such appeal must be filed, in writing, within
thirty (30) days after the decision or action of the Building Permit Officer.
   2.   Upon receipt of such appeal the Borough Council shall set a time and
place, within not less than ten (10) nor more than thirty (30) days, for the
purpose of considering the appeal. Notice of the time and place at which the
appeal will be considered shall be given to all parties.
   3.   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Borough Council may seek
relief therefrom by appeal to court, as provided by the laws of this
Commonwealth including the Pennsylvania Flood Plain Management Act.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 2.11)
Part 3
Identification of Floodplain Areas
§ 301. Identification.
The identified floodplain area shall be any areas of Millheim Borough, Centre
County, Pennsylvania, subject to the one hundred (100) year flood, which is
identified as Zone A (Area of Special Flood Hazard) in the Flood Insurance
Study (FIS) dated May 4, 2009 and the accompanying maps or the most recent
revision thereof as issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Including all digital data developed as part of the Flood Insurance Study.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 3.00)
§ 302. Determination of Floodplain Areas.
   1.   For the purposes of this Chapter, the one hundred (100) year flood
elevation shall be used as the basis for regulation. When available,
information from other Federal, State, and other acceptable sources shall be
used to determine the one hundred (100) year elevation, as well as a floodway
area, if possible. When no other information is available, the one hundred
(100) year elevation shall be determined by using a point on the boundary of
the identified floodplain area which is nearest the construction site in
question.
   2.   In lieu of the above, the Borough may require the applicant to
determine the elevation with hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques.
Hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by professional
engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the
technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
Studies, analyses, computations, etc., shall be submitted in sufficient detail
to allow a thorough technical review by the Borough.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 3.01)
§ 303. Changes in Identification of Area.
The identified floodplain area may be revised or modified by the Borough
Council where studies or information provided by a qualified agency or person
documents the need for such revision. However, prior to any such change,
approval must be obtained from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 3.02)
§ 304. Boundary Disputes.
Should a dispute concerning any identified floodplain boundary arise, an
initial determination shall be made by the Millheim Borough Planning Commission
and any party aggrieved by this decision may appeal to the Borough Council. The
burden of proof shall be on the appellant.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 3.03)
Part 4
General Technical Requirements
§ 401. General.
   1.   In the identified floodplain area, the development and/or use of any
land shall be permitted provided that the development and/or use complies with
the restrictions and requirements of this and all other applicable codes and
ordinances in force in the Borough.
   2.   Within any floodway area, no new construction or development shall be
permitted that would cause any increase in the one hundred (100) year flood
elevation.
   3.   Within any identified floodplain area, no new construction or
development shall be located within the area measured fifty (50) feet landward
from the top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless a permit is obtained from the
Department of Environmental Protection Regional Office.
   4.   Within any identified floodplain area, any new construction or
substantial improvement of a residential structure shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated up to, or above the regulatory flood elevation.
The design and construction standards and specifications contained in the 2003
IBC (§§ 1612.4,1603.1.6 and 3403.1) and in the 2003 IRC (§§ R323.1.4, R323.2.1,
and R323.2.2) and ASCE 24 (§§ 2.4 and 2.5, Chap. 5) and 34 Pa.Code (Chapters
401–405 as amended) shall be utilized.
   5.   Within any identified floodplain area, any new construction or
substantial improvement of a non-residential structure shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood
elevation, or be designed and constructed so that the space enclosed by such
structure shall remain either completely or essentially dry during any flood up
to that height.
   Any non-residential structure, or part thereof, having a lowest floor
(including basement) which is not elevated to at least one and one half (1- 1/
2) feet above the one hundred (100) year flood elevation, shall be floodproofed
in a completely or essentially dry manner in accordance with the W1 or W2 space
classification standards contained in the publication entitled “Flood-Proofing
Regulations” published by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (June 1972, as
amended March 1992) or with some other equivalent standard. All plans and
specifications for such floodproofing shall be accompanied by a statement
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect which states that
the proposed design and methods of construction are in conformance with the
above referenced standards.
   The design and construction standards and specifications contained in the
IBC (§§ 1603.1.2, 1603.1.6, 1605.2.2, 1606.5, 1612.5.1 and 3403.1. and ASCE 24
(§ 2.4 Chap. 7) and 34 Pa.Code (Chapters 401–405 as amended) shall be utilized.
   6.   Fully enclosed space below the lowest floor (including basement) is
prohibited.
   7.   Partially enclosed space below the lowest floor (including basement)
which will be used solely for the parking of a vehicle, building access, or
incidental storage in an area other than a basement, shall be designed and
constructed to allow for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters for the
purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on exterior walls. The term “partially
enclosed space,” also includes crawl spaces.
   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      A.   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less than
one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed space.
      B.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot
above grade.
      C.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, etc. or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   8.   Consideration may be given to the requirements of 34 Pa.Code (Chapters
401–405 as amended) and the 2003 IRC (§§ R323.2.2 and R323.1.4) and the 2003
IBC (§§ 1612.4, 1612.5, 1202.3.2 and 1203.3.3).
   9.   Accessory Structures. Structures accessory to a principal building need
not be elevated or floodproofed to remain dry, but shall comply, at a minimum,
with the following requirements:
      A.   The structure shall not be designed or used for human habitation,
but shall be limited to the parking of vehicles, or to the storage of tools,
material, and equipment related to the principal use or activity.
      B.   Floor area shall not exceed 600 square feet.
      C.   The structure will have a low damage potential.
      D.   The structure will be located on the site so as to cause the least
obstruction to the flow of floodwaters.
      E.   Power lines, wiring, and outlets will be at least one and one- half
(1-1/2) feet above the 100 year flood elevation.
      F.   Permanently affixed utility equipment and appliances such as
furnaces, heaters, washers, dryers, etc. are prohibited.
      G.   Sanitary facilities are prohibited.
      H.   The structure shall be adequately anchored to prevent flotation or
movement and shall be designed to automatically provide for the entry and exit
of floodwaters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on the walls.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (1)   Minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less than
one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed space.
         (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot
above grade.
         (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, etc. or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 4.00)
§ 402. Design and Construction Standards.
The following minimum standards shall apply for all construction and
development proposed within any identified floodplain area:
   1.   Fill. If fill is used, it shall:
      A.   Extend laterally at least fifteen (15) feet beyond the building line
from all points.
      B.   Consist of soil or small rock materials only; sanitary landfills
shall not be permitted.
      C.   Be compacted to provide the necessary permeability and resistance to
erosion, scouring, or settling.
      D.   Be no steeper than one (1) vertical to two (2) horizontal, feet
unless substantiated data, justifying steeper slopes are submitted to, and
approved by the Building Permit Officer.
      E.   Be used to the extent to which it does not adversely affect adjacent
properties.
   2.   Drainage Facilities. Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to
convey the flow of stormwater runoff in a safe and efficient manner. The system
shall insure proper drainage along streets, and provide positive drainage away
from buildings. The system shall also be designed to prevent the discharge of
excess runoff onto adjacent properties.
   3.   Water and Sanitary Sewer Facilities and Systems.
      A.   All new or replacement water and sanitary sewer facilities and
systems shall be located, designed and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damages and the infiltration of flood waters.
      B.   Sanitary sewer facilities and systems shall be designed to prevent
the discharge of untreated sewage into flood waters.
      C.   No part of any on-site sewage system shall be located within any
identified floodplain area except in strict compliance with all State and local
regulations for such systems. If any such system is permitted, it shall be
located so as to avoid impairment to it, or contamination from it, during a
flood.
      D.   The design and construction provisions of the UCC and 34 Pa.Code
(Chapters 401–405 as amended) and contained in the 2003 IBC (Appendix G. §§
401.3 and 401.4), the 2003 IRC (§ 323.1.6), the ASCE 24-98 (§ 8.3), FEMA #348,
Protecting Building Utilities From Flood Damages and The International Private
Sewage Disposal Code (Chapter 3) shall be utilized.
   4.   Other Utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical and
telephone systems shall be located, elevated (where possible) and constructed
to minimize the chance of impairment during a flood.
   5.   Streets. The finished elevation of all new streets shall be no more
than one (1) foot below the regulatory flood elevation.
   6.   Storage. All materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive or, in
times of flooding, could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life, and not
listed in § 403, “Development Which May Endanger Human Life,” shall be stored
at or above the regulatory flood elevation and/or floodproofed to the maximum
extent possible.
   7.   Placement of Buildings and Structures. All buildings and structures
shall be designed, located, and constructed so as to offer the minimum
obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to have a minimum effect
upon the flow and height of flood water.
   8.   Anchoring.
      A.   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement.
      B.   All air ducts, large pipes, storage tanks, and other similar objects
or components located below the regulatory flood elevation shall be securely
anchored or affixed to prevent flotation.
      C.   The design and construction requirements of the UCC pertaining to
this subsection as referred to in 34 Pa.Code (Chapters 401–405 as amended) and
contained in the 2003 IBC (§§ 1605.2.2, 1605.3.1.2, 1612.4 and Appendix
G501.3), the IRC (§§ R301.1 & R323.1.1) and ASCE 24-98 (§ 5.6) shall be
utilized.
   9.   Floors, Walls and Ceilings.
      A.   Wood flooring used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be installed to accommodate a lateral expansion of the flooring, perpendicular
to the flooring grain without causing structural damage to the building.
      B.   Plywood used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be of
a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
      C.   Walls and ceilings at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be designed and constructed of materials that are “water-resis tant” and will
withstand inundation.
      D.   Windows, doors, and other components at or below the regula tory
flood elevation shall be made of metal or other “water-resistant” material.
      E.   The provisions of the UCC pertaining to this subsection and
referenced in the 34 Pa.Code (Chapters 401–405 as amended) and contained in the
2003 IBC (§§ 801.1.3, 1403.2, 1403.4, 1403.6 and 1404.2), the 2003 IRC (§§
R323.1.7 & R501.3) and ASCE 24-98 (Chapter 6).
   10.   Paints and Adhesives.
      A.   Paints and other finishes used at or below the regulatory flood
elevation shall be of “marine” or “water-resistant” quality.
      B.   Adhesives used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
of a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
      C.   All wooden components (doors, trim, cabinets, etc.) shall be
finished with a “marine” or “water-resistant” paint or other finishing
material.
      D.   The standards and specifications contained in 34 Pa.Code (Chapters
401–405, as amended) the 2003 IBC (§§ 801.1.3, 1403.7 and Appendix G) and the
2003 IRC (§ R323.1.7).
   11.   Electrical Components.
      A.   Electrical distribution panels shall be at least three (3) feet
above the one hundred (100) year flood elevation.
      B.   Separate electrical circuits shall serve lower levels and shall be
dropped from above.
      C.   The provisions pertaining to the above provisions and referenced in
the UCC and 34 Pa.Code (Chapters 401–405) as amended and contained in the 2003
IBC (§ 1612.4), the IRC (§ R323.1.5), the 2000 IFGC (§§ R301.5 and R1601.3.8)
and ASCE 24 (Chapter 8) shall be utilized.
   12.   Equipment. Water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and ventilating
units, and other mechanical or utility equipment or apparatus shall not be
located below the regulatory flood elevation.
   The provisions pertaining to the above provision and referenced in the UCC
and 34 Pa.Code (Chapters 401–405), as amended and contained in the 2003 IBC (§
1612.4), the 2003 IRC (§ R323.1.5) the 2000 IFGC (§§ R301.5 and R1601.3.8) and
ASCE 24 (Chapter 8) shall be utilized.
   13.   Fuel Supply Systems. All gas and oil supply systems shall be designed
to prevent the infiltration of flood waters into the system and discharges from
the system into flood waters. Additional provisions shall be made for the
drainage of these systems in the event that flood water infiltration occurs.
   14.   Uniform Construction Code Coordination. The Standards and
Specifications contained 34 Pa.Code (Chapters 401–405), as amended and not
limited to, the following provisions shall apply to the above and other
sections and sub-sections of this Chapter, to the extent that they are more
restrictive and/or supplement the requirements of this Chapter.
   International Building Code (IBC) 2003 or the latest edition thereof: §§
801, 1202, 1403, 1603, 1605, 1612, 3402, and Appendix G.
   International Residential Building Code (IRC) 2003 or the latest edition
thereof: §§ R104, R105, R109, R323, Appendix AE101, Appendix E and Appendix J.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 4.01)
§ 403. Development Which May Endanger Human Life.
   1.   In accordance with the Pennsylvania Flood Plain Management Act, and the
regulations adopted by the Department of Community and Economic Development as
required by the Act, any new or substantially improved structure which:
      A.   Will be used for the production or storage of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances.
      B.   Will be used for any activity requiring the maintenance of a supply
of more than 550 gallons, or other comparable volume, of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances on the premises.
      C.   Will involve the production, storage, or use of any amount of
radioactive substances.
      D.   Shall be subject to the provisions of this Section, in addition to
all other applicable provisions. The following list of materials and substances
are considered dangerous to human life:
         (1)   Acetone.
         (2)   Ammonia.
         (3)   Benzene.
         (4)   Calcium carbide.
         (5)   Carbon disulfide.
         (6)   Celluloid.
         (7)   Chlorine.
         (8)   Hydrochloric acid.
         (9)   Hydrocyanic acid.
         (10)   Magnesium.
         (11)   Nitric acid and oxides of nitrogen.
         (12)   Petroleum products (gasoline, fuel oil, etc.).
         (13)   Phosphorus.
         (14)   Potassium.
         (15)   Sodium.
         (16)   Sulphur and sulphur products.
         (17)   Pesticides (including insecticides, fungicides, and
rodenticides).
         (18)   Radioactive substances, insofar as such substances are not
otherwise regulated.
   2.   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, any new or
substantially improved structure of the kind described in subsection .1, above,
shall be:
      A.   Elevated or designed and constructed to remain completely dry up to
at least one and one half (1 1/2) feet above the one hundred (100) year flood.
      B.   Designed to prevent pollution from the structure or activity during
the course of a one hundred (100) year flood.
   Any such structure, or part thereof, that will be built below the regulatory
flood elevation shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
standards for completely dry floodproofing contained in the publication “Flood-
Proofing Regulations” (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, June 1972 as amended March
1992), or with some other equivalent watertight standard.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 4.02)
§ 404. Special Requirements for Manufactured Homes.
   1.   Where permitted within any identified floodplain area, all manufactured
homes, and any improvements thereto, shall be:
      A.   Placed on a permanent foundation.
      B.   Elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is one
and one half (1-1/2) feet or more above the elevation of the one hundred (100)
year flood.
      C.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement.
      D.   Installation of manufactured homes shall be done in accordance with
the manufacturers' installation instructions as provided by the manufacturer.
Where the applicant cannot provide the above information, the requirements of
Appendix E of the 2003 International Residential Building Code or the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development's Permanent Foundations for
Manufactured Housing, 1984 Edition, draft or latest revision thereto shall
apply and 34 Pa.Code Chapters 401-405.
      E.   Consideration shall be given to the installation requirements of the
2003 IBC (Appendix G, § 501.1-3) and the 2003 IRC (§ R323.2, R323.3, R102.7.1,
and Appendix AE101, 604 and 605) or the most recent revisions thereto and 34
Pa.Code Chapters 401-405, as amended where appropriate and/or applicable to
units where the manufacturers' standards for anchoring cannot be provided or
were not established for the units(s) proposed installation.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 4.03)
Part 5
Activities Requiring Special Permits
§ 501. General.
In accordance with the administrative regulations promulgated by the Department
of Community and Economic Development to implement the Pennsylvania Flood Plain
Management Act, the following activities shall be prohibited within any
identified floodplain area unless a special permit has been issued by the
Borough:
   1.   The commencement of any of the following activities; or the
construction, enlargement, or expansion of any structure used, or intended to
be used, for any of the following activities:
      A.   Hospitals.
      B.   Nursing homes.
      C.   Jails or prisons.
   2.   The commencement of, or any construction of, a new manufactured home
park or manufactured home subdivision, or substantial improvement to an
existing manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 5.00)
§ 502. Application Requirements for Special Permits.
Applicants for special permits shall provide five copies of the following
items:
   1.   A written request including a completed building permit application
form.
   2.   A small scale map showing the vicinity in which the proposed site is
located.
   3.   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of one
(1) inch being equal to one hundred (100) feet or less, showing the following:
      A.   North arrow, scale and date.
      B.   Topography based upon the North American Vertical Datum of 1988,
showing existing and proposed contours at intervals of two (2) feet.
      C.   All property and lot lines including dimensions, and the size of the
site expressed in acres or square feet.
      D.   The location of all existing streets, drives, other access ways, and
parking areas, with information concerning widths, pavement types and
construction, and elevations.
      E.   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
buildings, structures and other public or private facilities, including
railroad tracks and facilities, and any other natural and man-made features
affecting, or affected by, the proposed activity or development.
      F.   The location of the floodplain boundary line, information and spot
elevations concerning the one hundred (100) year flood elevations, and
information concerning the flow of water including direction and velocities.
      G.   The location of all proposed buildings, structures, utilities, and
any other improvements.
      H.   Any other information which the Borough considers necessary for
adequate review of the application.
   4.   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
clearly and legibly drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
      A.   Sufficiently detailed architectural or engineering drawings,
including floor plans, sections, and exterior building elevations, as
appropriate.
      B.   For any proposed building, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and, as required, the elevation of any other floor.
      C.   Complete information concerning flood depths, pressures, velocities,
impact and uplift forces, and other factors associated with the one hundred
(100) year flood.
      D.   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing measures.
      E.   Cross section drawings for all proposed streets, drives, other
accessways, and parking areas, showing all rights-of-way and pavement widths.
      F.   Profile drawings for all proposed streets, drives, and vehicular
accessways including existing and proposed grades.
      G.   Plans and profiles of all proposed sanitary and storm sewer systems,
water supply systems, and any other utilities and facilities.
   5.   The following data and documentation:
      A.   Certification from the applicant that the site upon which the
activity or development is proposed is an existing separate and single parcel,
owned by the applicant or the client he represents.
      B.   Certification from a registered professional engineer, architect, or
landscape architect that the proposed construction has been adequately designed
to protect against damage from the one hundred (100) year flood.
      C.   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, landscape architect, or other qualified person which contains a
complete and accurate description of the nature and extent of pollution that
might possibly occur from the development during the course of a one hundred
(100) year flood, including a statement concerning the effects such pollution
may have on human life.
      D.   A statement certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
description of the effects the proposed development will have on one hundred
(100) year flood elevations and flows.
      E.   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
description of the kinds and amounts of any loose buoyant materials or debris
that may possibly exist or be located on the site below the one hundred (100)
year flood elevation and the effects such materials and debris may have on one
hundred (100) year flood elevations and flows.
      F.   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection “Planning Module for Land Development.”
      G.   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control.
      H.   Any other applicable permits such as, but not limited to, a permit
for any activity regulated by the Department of Environmental Protections under
§ 302 of Act 1978-166.
      I.   An evacuation plan which fully explains the manner in which the site
will be safely evacuated before or during the course of a one hundred (100)
year flood.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 5.01)
§ 503. Application Review Procedures.
Upon receipt of an application for a special permit by the Borough the
following procedures shall apply in addition to those of
Part 2:
   1.   Within three (3) working days following receipt of the application, a
complete copy of the application and all accompanying documentation shall be
forwarded to the Centre County Planning Commission by registered or certified
mail for its review and recommendations. Copies of the application shall also
be forwarded to the Millheim Borough Planning Commission and Millheim Borough
Engineer for review and comment.
   2.   If an application is received that is incomplete, the Borough shall
notify the applicant in writing, stating in what respect the application is
deficient.
   3.   If the Borough decides to disapprove an application, it shall notify
the applicant, in writing, of the reasons for the disapproval.
   4.   If the Borough approves an application, it shall file written
notification, together with the application and all pertinent information, with
the Department of Community Affairs, by registered or certified mail, within
five (5) working days after the date of approval.
   5.   Before issuing the special permit, the Borough shall allow the
Department of Community and Economic Development thirty (30) days, after
receipt of the notification by the Department, to review the application and
the decision made by the Borough.
   6.   If the Borough does not receive any communication from the Department
of Community and Economic Development during the thirty (30) day review period,
it may issue a special permit to the applicant.
   7.   If the Department of Community and Economic Development should decide
to disapprove an application, it shall notify the Borough and the applicant, in
writing, of the reasons for the disapproval, and the Borough shall not issue
the special permit.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 5.02)
§ 504. Special Technical Requirements.
   1.   In addition to the requirements of
Part 4 of this Chapter, the following minimum requirements shall also apply to
any proposed development requiring a special permit. If there is any conflict
between any of the following requirements and those in
Part 4 of this Chapter or in any other code, ordinance, or regulation, the more
restrictive provision shall apply.
   2.   No application for a special permit shall be approved unless it can be
determined that the structure or activity will be located, constructed and
maintained in a manner which will:
      A.   Fully protect the health and safety of the general public and any
occupants of the structure. At a minimum, all new structures shall be designed,
located, and constructed so that:
         (1)   The structure will survive inundation by waters of the one
hundred (100) year flood without any lateral movement or damage to either the
structure itself, or to any of its equipment or contents below the one hundred
(100) year flood elevation.
         (2)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) will be
at least one and one half (1 1/2) feet above the one hundred (100) year flood
elevation.
         (3)   The occupants of the structure can remain inside for an
indefinite period of time and be safely evacuated at any time during the one
hundred (100) year flood.
      B.   Prevent any significant possibility of pollution, increased flood
levels or flows, or debris endangering life and property.
   All hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by
professional engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall
certify that the technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted
technical concepts. Studies, analyses, computations, etc., shall be submitted
in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the Borough and
the Department of Community and Economic Development.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 5.03)
Part 6
Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas
§ 601. Existing Structures.
The provisions of this Chapter do not require any changes or improvements to be
made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an improvement is made to
any existing structure, the provisions of § 602 shall apply.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 6.00)
§ 602. Improvements.
The following provisions shall apply whenever any improvement is made to all
existing structure located within any identified floodplain area:
   1.   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within any floodway area that would cause any increase in the elevation of the
one hundred (100) year flood.
   2.   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement, of any
kind to an existing structure, to an extent or amount of fifty (50) percent or
more of its market value, shall constitute a substantial improvement and shall
be undertaken only in full compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   The above activity shall also address the requirements of the 34 Pa.Code
Chapters 401–405, as amended and the 2003 IBC (§ 3402.1 and 1612.4) and the
2003 IRC (§ R 323,1.4).
   3.   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure, to an extent or amount of less than fifty (50)
percent of its market value, shall be elevated and/or floodproofed to the
greatest extent possible.
   4.   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind that meets the definition of “repetitive loss” shall be undertaken only in
full compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   5.   The requirements of 34 Pa.Code Chapter 401-405, as amended and the 2003
IRC (§§ R102.7.1, R105.3.1, and Appendices E and J) or the latest revision
thereof and the 2003 IBC (§§ 101.3, 3403.1 and Appendix G) or the latest
revision thereof shall also be utilized in conjunction with the provisions of
this Section.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 6.01)
Part 7
Variances
§ 701. General.
If compliance with any of the requirements of this Chapter would result in an
exceptional hardship to a prospective builder, developer or landowner, the
Borough may, upon request, grant relief from the strict application of the
requirements.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 7.00)
§ 702. Variance Procedures and Conditions.
Requests for variances shall be considered by the Borough in accordance with
the procedures contained in § 212 and the following:
   1.   Except for a possible modification of the one and one half (1-1/2) foot
freeboard requirement involved, no variance shall be granted for any of the
other requirements pertaining specifically to development regulated by special
permit (
Part 5) or to development which may endanger human life (§
403).
   2.   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use, or
activity within any floodway area that would cause any increase in the one
hundred (100) year flood elevation.
   3.   If granted, a variance shall involve only the least modification
necessary to provide relief.
   4.   In granting any variance, the Borough shall attach whatever reasonable
conditions and safeguards it considers necessary in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare, and to achieve the objectives of this Chapter.
   5.   Whenever a variance is granted, the Borough shall notify the applicant
in writing that:
      A.   The granting of the variance may result in increased premium rates
for flood insurance.
      B.   Such variances may increase the risks to life and property.
   6.   In reviewing any request for a variance, the Borough shall consider, at
a minimum, the following:
      A.   There is good and sufficient cause.
      B.   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship
to the applicant.
      C.   The granting of the variance will (1) neither result in air
unacceptable or prohibited increase in flood heights, additional threats to
public safety, or extraordinary public expense, (2) nor create nuisances, cause
fraud on, or victimize the public, or conflict with any other applicable state
or local ordinances and regulations.
   7.   A complete record of all variance requests and related actions shall be
maintained by the Borough. In addition, a report of all variances granted
during the year shall be included in the annual report to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   Notwithstanding any of the above, however, all structures shall be designed
and constructed so as to have the capability of resisting the one hundred (100)
year flood.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 7.01)
Part 8
Definitions
§ 801. General.
Unless specifically defined below, words and phrases used in this Chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give this Chapter its most reasonable application.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 8.00)
§ 802. Specific Definitions.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE - a use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or
structure.
   BASEMENT - means any area of the building having its floor below ground
level on all sides.
   BOROUGH - the geographical area included within the Borough of Millheim,
Centre County, Pennsylvania, and/or the Borough Council of Millheim Borough
(the governing body of Millheim Borough).
   BUILDING - a combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all manufactured homes and trailers to be
used for human habitation.
   BUILDING PERMIT OFFICER - the Millheim Borough Code Enforcement Officer or
other individual/entity designated by the Borough Council.
   COMPLETELY DRY SPACE - a space which will remain totally dry during
flooding; the structure is designed and constructed to prevent the passage of
water and water vapor.
   DEVELOPMENT - any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion, or alteration of buildings or other structures; the
placement of manufactured homes; streets, and other paving; utilities; filling,
grading and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of
equipment or materials; and the subdivision of land.
   ESSENTIALLY DRY SPACE - a space which will remain dry during flooding,
except for the passage of some water vapor or minor seepage; the structure is
substantially impermeable to the passage of water.
   FLOOD - a temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOODPLAIN AREA - a relatively flat or low land area which is subject to
partial or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river or
watercourse; and/or any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPROOFING - any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY - the designated area of a floodplain required to carry and
discharge flood waters of a given magnitude. For the purposes of this Chapter,
the floodway shall be capable of accommodating a flood of the one hundred (100)
year magnitude.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE - any structure that is:
      A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or prelimi narily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register.
      B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district.
      C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior.
      D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (1)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior.
         (2)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREA - the floodplain area specifically identified in
this Chapter as being inundated by the one hundred (100) year flood.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT - Any of the following activities:
      A.   The improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots, tracts,
or parcels of land for any purpose involving:
         (1)   A group of two or more residential or nonresidential buildings,
whether proposed initially or cumulatively, or a single nonresidential building
on a lot or lots regardless of the number of occupants or tenure.
         (2)   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially
or cumulatively, between or among two or more existing or prospective occupants
by means of, or for the purpose of streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups or other features.
      B.   A subdivision of land.
   LOWEST FLOOR - the lowest floor of the lowest fully enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished, flood resistant partially enclosed area, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, and incidental storage, in an area
other than a basement area is not considered the lowest floor of a building,
provided that such space is not designed and built so that the structure is in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this Chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME - a structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis, and is designed for use with or without
a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
includes park trailers, travel trailers, recreational and other similar
vehicles which are placed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK - a parcel of land under single ownership, which has
been planned and improved for the placement of two or more manufactured homes
for non-transient use.
   MINOR REPAIR - the replacement of existing work with equivalent materials
for the purpose of its routine maintenance and upkeep, but not including the
cutting away of any wall, partition or portion thereof, the removal or cutting
of any structural beam or bearing support, or the removal or change of any
required means of egress, or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting
the exitway requirements; nor shall minor repairs include addition to,
alteration of, replacement or relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer,
drainage, drain leader, gas, soil, waste, vent, or similar piping, electric
wiring or mechanical or other work affecting public health or general safety.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION - structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after May 22, 1989, and includes any subsequent improvements thereto.
   ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD - a flood that, on the average, is likely to occur
once every one hundred (100) years (i.e., that has one (1) percent chance of
occurring each year, although the flood may occur in any year).
   PERSON - an individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility or any other legal entity whatsoever, which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE - a vehicle which is (A) built on a single chassis; (B)
not more than 400 square feet, measured at the largest horizontal projections;
(C) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-duty truck;
(D) not designed for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION - the one hundred (100) year flood elevation plus
a freeboard safety factor of one and one-half (1-1/2) feet.
   REPETITIVE LOSS - flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such flood event, on average, equals or exceeds twenty-five (25)
percent of the market value of the structure before the damages occurred.
   SPECIAL PERMIT - a special approval which is required for hospitals, nursing
homes, jails, and new manufactured home parks and subdivisions and substantial
improvements to such existing parks, when such development is located in all,
or a designated portion of, a floodplain.
   STRUCTURE - anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground including, but not limited to, buildings, sheds, manufactured homes, and
other similar items.
   SUBDIVISION - the division or redivision of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs, or
devisees, transfer of ownership or building or lot development: Provided,
however, that the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into
parcels of more than ten (10) acres, not involving any new street or easement
of access or any residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   SUBSTANTIAL ADDITIONS TO MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS - any repair,
reconstruction, or improvement of an existing manufactured home park or
manufactured home subdivision, where such repair, reconstruction, or
improvement of the streets, utilities, and pads will equal or exceed fifty (50)
percent of the value of the streets, utilities, and pads before the repair,
reconstruction, or improvement is started.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE - damage from any cause sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed fifty (50) percent or more of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT - any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty
(50) percent of the market value of the structure before the “start of
construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred “substantial damage” or “repetitive loss” regardless of the actual
repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
      A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifica tions
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or,
      B.   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
“historic structure.”
   UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE - the statewide building code adopted by the
Pennsylvania General Assembly in 1999, applicable to new construction in all
municipalities whether administered by the Borough, a third party, or the
Department of Labor and Industry. Applicable to residential and commercial
buildings, the Code adopted the International Residential Code (IRC) and
International Building Code (IBC) of 2003 by reference as the construction
standard applicable with the Commonwealth floodplain construction. For
coordination purposes, references to the above are made specifically to various
sections of the IRC and the IBC.
(Ord. 237, 3/10/2009, § 8.01)
CHAPTER 9
GRADING AND EXCAVATING
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
See also 
Ch. 4, §103 , Building permits.
CHAPTER 10
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Part 1
Property Maintenance
   §
101.   Short Title
   §
102.   Preface
   §
103.   Authority
   §
104.   Definitions
   §
105.   Application
   §
106.   Turf Grass, Weeds and Other Vegetation a Nuisance Under Certain
Conditions
   §
107.   Responsibility for Removing, Trimming or Cutting Grass, Weeds and Other
Vegetation
   §
108.   Notice to Remove, Spray, Trim or Cut; Authority for Borough to do Work
and Collect Cost and Additional Amount
   §
109.   Buildings and Structures
   §
110.   Abandoned Buildings and Conditions of Disrepair Constituting a Nuisance
   §
111.   Unlawful to Accumulate Refuse on Private Property
   §
112.   Yards, Open Lots, Parking Areas
   §
113.   Infestation, Prevention and Correction
   §
114.   Miscellaneous Provisions
   §
115.   Responsibilities of Occupants
   §
116.   Responsibilities of Owners
   §
117.   Notice of Violation
   §
118.   Compliance
   §
119.   Penalty
   §
120.   Owners Severally Responsible
   §
121.   Inspection
Part 2
Outdoor Fuel Burning Appliances
   §
201.   Definitions and Interpretation
   §
202.   Purposes
   §
203.   Prohibition
   §
204.   Grandfather Clause
   §
205.   Penalties
Part 1
Property Maintenance
§ 101. Short Title.
This Part shall be known and cited as the "Borough of Millheim Property
Maintenance Ordinance." (Ord. 131, 4/3/1978; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/
1984)
§ 102. Preface.
Recognizing the need within the Borough to establish certain minimum health and
safety requirements for those buildings, structures, or properties which are
used or associated with human occupancy; this Part hereby establishes standards
which the Borough Council considers to be fair and effective in meeting those
minimum requirements.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 103. Authority.
This Part, and the objectives leading to its enactment, are authorized by the
following provisions of the Borough Code, to wit:
53 PS § 46202(6)
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 104. Definitions.
   BUILDING - a roofed structure, enclosed by one or more walls, for the
shelter, housing, storage or enclosure of persons, goods, materials, equipment
or animals.
   COURT - an open and unoccupied space on a lot enclosed on at least three (3)
sides by the walls of a building.
   GARBAGE - putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   INFESTATION - the presence of insects, rodents, vermin and/or other pests.
   LOT - plot, tracts, premises or parcel of land, with or without improvements
thereto.
   OWNER - any person or persons, jointly or severally, firm, corporation or
other entity which, either by conveyance or inheritance or otherwise, is vested
with the title to a lot and/or improvements thereto or who retains the
exclusive control of such a lot and/or improvements thereto or who retains the
exclusive control of such lot and/or improvement in his capacity as a legal
representative, such as an administrator, trustee, executor, etc.
   REFUSE - all putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, including garbage,
rubbish, ashes, dead animals and market and industrial wastes.
   UNOCCUPIED HAZARD - any building, or part thereof, or manmade structure,
which remains unoccupied for a period of more than six (6) months, with either
doors, windows, or other openings broken, removed, boarded or sealed up, or any
building under construction upon which little or no construction work has been
performed for a period of more than six (6) months.
   YARD - any open space on the same lot with a building and, for the most part
unobstructed from the ground up.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 105. Application.
The provisions of this Part shall supplement local laws, ordinances or
regulations existing in the Borough or those of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania. Where a provision of this Part is found to be in conflict with
any provision of a local law, ordinance, code or regulations or those of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the provisions which is more restrictive or which
establishes the higher standard shall prevail.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 106. Turf Grass, Weeds and Other Vegetation a Nuisance Under Certain
Conditions.
   1.   Purpose. A variety of landscapes add diversity and richness to the
quality of life in Millheim Borough. There are, nonetheless, reasonable
expectations regarding the Borough's landscapes which, if not met, may decrease
the value of nearby properties, degrade the natural environment, may have a
blighting effect on neighborhoods and can threaten public health and safety by
providing a refuge for vermin and insects. It is therefore in the public
interest, and within the purview of this section, to provide standards for the
development and maintenance of the Borough's landscapes, whether private,
corporate or public.
   The Borough seeks to encourage each landowner to create and sustain a
condition of ecological stability on his or her land, that is, a state of good
health and vigor, as opposed to one of impairment and decline. It is the intent
of this section to not allow vegetated areas to be unmanaged or overgrown in
ways that may adversely affect human health or safety, decrease the value of
nearby properties or pose a threat to agricultural activity, It is the express
intent of this Borough that it shall be lawful to grow plants, including, but
not limited to ferns, grasses, forbs, aquatic plants, trees, and shrubs in a
landscape, when these plants are not in violation of local, state or federal
laws.
   2.   Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings indicated:
      FORB - A herbaceous flowering plant that does not include grasses, sedges
and rushes. Such plants include herbs and may be annual, biennial, or
perennial.
      INVASIVE SPECIES - Those species that grow aggressively and spread and
displace native vegetation. Invasive plants are generally undesirable because
they are difficult and costly to control and can dominate whole habitats,
making them environmentally destructive. The list that shall be used by this
Part is the Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural Resources
(DCNR) Invasive Plants list.
      LANDOWNER - One who owns or controls land within the Borough (including
the Borough itself), any person, agent, operator, partnership, association,
firm or corporation having a legal or equitable interest in the property; or
recorded in the official records of the County as holding title to the
property; or otherwise having control of the property, including the Guardian,
Executor or Administrator of the estate of any such person.
      NOXIOUS WEED - A generally invasive plant that once declared noxious
becomes illegal to sell, transport, plant or otherwise propagate within the
Commonwealth. The list of Pennsylvania Noxious Weeds is periodically updated
and is available from the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources
Conservation Service.
      OVERGROWN - Covered with plants and vegetation that have grown in an
uncontrolled way.
      PROPERTY - Any legal lot, plot or parcel of land, whether improved or
unimproved.
      TURF GRASS - Grass commonly used in regularly cut lawns or play areas,
such as, but not limited to bluegrass, fescue, and ryegrass blends.
   3.   Turf Grass, Weeds and Certain Other Vegetation Not Permitted Under
Certain Conditions. No landowner within the Borough shall permit any turf
grass, weeds (noxious or otherwise) or any other vegetation to grow or remain
upon such property, if such managed turf grass, weeds or vegetation exceeds a
height of six (6) inches, emits any unpleasant or noxious odor or conceals any
filthy deposit. No noxious or invasive plant species shall be permitted. In
addition, no turf grass, weeds (noxious or otherwise) or other vegetation shall
be permitted in excess of six (6) inches where a property adjoins a street or
an alley, between the property line and the cartway of any adjacent street or
alley. Vegetation commonly recognized as having an ornamental purpose shall not
be permitted in the right-of-way. Vegetation commonly recognized as having an
ornamental purpose over six (6) inches in height on any property shall not
encroach into the clear sight triangle at an intersection of public streets
and/or alleys.
   All such vegetation growing on any property, any public right-of-way or any
public utility easement adjoining or adjacent to such property is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and detrimental to the health, safety, welfare,
cleanliness and comfort of the inhabitants of the Borough.
   The Borough will not be responsible for damage to landscaped areas resulting
from Borough improvements, maintenance or snow removal activities in the public
right-of-way.
   4.   Exceptions to Subsection 3.
      A.   Trees, hedges and ornamental vegetation.
      B.   Regulated wetlands.
      C.   Riparian buffers.
      D.   Steep slopes (over 60%).
      E.   Weeds or grass intermingled with growing cultivated crops or on
premises (i.e. fence rows and tree rows) adjacent to legal agricultural land or
land substantiated and registered as a nonconforming agricultural use.
      F.   Portions of lots used for flower gardens and shrubbery commonly
recognized as having an ornamental purpose.
      G.   Vegetable gardens and vegetation which is edible, planted and
cultivated for the purpose of human consumption.
      H.   Vegetation growing more than one hundred (100) feet from any
property line.
      I.   Vegetation growing more than one hundred fifty (150) feet from a
dwelling (occupied or unoccupied) and any other occupied structure, provided
such vegetation is not within one hundred (100) feet of any property line.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978, §3; as amended by Ord. 263, 4/20/2018, §1, as amended by
Ord. 268, 4/14/2020, §1)
§ 107. Responsibility for Removing, Trimming or Cutting Grass, Weeds and Other
Vegetation.
The owner of any premises as to vacant premises or premises occupied by the
owner, and the occupant thereof in case of premises occupied by other than the
owner thereof, shall remove, trim or cut all grass, weeds or other vegetation
growing or remaining upon such premises in violation of the provisions of this
Part.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978, § 4)
§ 108. Notice to Remove, Spray, Trim or Cut; Authority for Borough to do Work
and Collect Cost and Additional Amount.
The Borough Council or any officer or employee of the Borough designated
thereby for the purpose, is hereby authorized to give notice, by personal
service or by United States mail to the owner or occupant as the case may be,
of any premises whereon grass, weeds or other vegetation is growing or
remaining in violation of the provisions of §
110 of this Part directing and requiring such occupant to remove, spray, trim
or cut such grass, weeds or vegetation, so as to conform to the requirements of
this Part within five (5) days after issuance of such notice. In case any
person, firm or corporation shall neglect, fail or refuse to comply with such
notice, within the period of time stated therein, the Borough authorities may
remove, spray, trim or cut such grass, weeds or vegetation, and the cost
thereof, together with any additional penalty authorized by the law, may be
collected by the Borough from such person, firm or corporation, in the manner
provided by law.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978, § 5)
§ 109. Buildings and Structures.
   1.   No owner of any building or structure shall fail to take steps and
perform such maintenance thereto, as may be required from time to time, to
ensure the property is safe, sound, sanitary and secure and does not present a
health and/or safety hazard to surrounding properties and to the general
populace.
   2.   No owner of any unoccupied building or structure shall fail to take
such steps as may be required to insure that these are securely closed so as to
prohibit and deter entry thereto and to insure that no health and/or safety
hazard, or threat thereof, is precipitated due to a lack of maintenance or due
to neglect.
   3.   Owners of any and all unoccupied buildings and/or structures which,
through neglect, have deteriorated to the point of being classified as
unoccupied hazards, and therefore constitute a severe health and/or safety
hazard, shall, upon direction of the Borough Council, remove, or cause the
removal of, the building and/or structure.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 110.* Abandoned Buildings and Conditions of Disrepair Constituting a
Nuisance.
No person, firm or corporation owning or occupying any property within the
Borough shall permit any abandoned building or other structure to become in
such a state of disrepair as to be detrimental to the health, safety and
welfare of the residents of the Borough to allow any materials to accumulate on
said property which might be unsafe to the residents of the Borough. Any
abandoned buildings or other structure or materials accumulated on any premises
in the Borough in violation of the provisions of this section constituting an
unsafe and unhealthy condition are declared to be a nuisance and detrimental to
the health, safety, cleanliness and comfort of the inhabitants of the Borough.
Any such nuisance so determined by the Borough shall be abated as provided in §
116 of this Part and/or prosecuted under §
117 of this Part as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978, § 7)
* Chapter note: Sections 110 and 111 correspond to section 7 and 6 respectively
of Ordinance 131; there placement and reordering was for maintaining continuity
in the new ordinances.
§ 111. Unlawful to Accumulate Refuse on Private Property.
From after the effective date of this Part, for reasons of health and
sanitation, it shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate or permit to
accumulate upon his private property in the Borough of Millheim, garbage,
refuse, riffraff, junkcars, debris and any other type of combustible or
incombustible refuse or rubbish. Any accumulation of said garbage, refuse,
riffraff, junkcars, debris and other type of combustible or incombustible
refuse or rubbish on any premises in the Borough of Millheim, in violation of
the provisions of this section is hereby determined to be a nuisance and
detrimental to the health, safety, cleaniness and comfort of the residents of
the Borough. Said nuisance shall be abated or removed as set forth in §
116 of this Part.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978, § 6)
§ 112. Yards, Open Lots, Parking Areas.
No person shall permit:
   1.   Fences and/or minor structures to be constructed and maintained so as
to present a safety or health hazard to persons and/or property;
   2.   the development of accumulation of hazards, rodent harborage and/or
infestation upon yards, courts, lots;
   3.   objectionable materials to accumulate and to be blown about the
surrounding neighborhood;
   4.   wells, cesspools, cisterns, sedimentation ponds, stormwater management
impoundment ponds and/or ponds of a similar nature to remain open without
adequate fencing or barricades to prevent access thereto by the general public;
   5.   the accumulation of heavy undergrowth and/or vegetation which would
impair the health and/or safety of the neighborhood; nor shall they permit any
trees, plants or shrubbery, or any portion thereof, to grow on their property
and which constitute a safety hazard to pedestrian and/or vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 113. Infestation, Prevention and Correction.
   1.   Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insect,
vermin and rodent harborage and infestation.
   2.   Adequate sanitary facilities and methods shall be used for the
collection, storage, handling and disposal of garbage and refuse.
   3.   Where there exists rodent and vermin infestation, corrective measures
shall be undertaken by the property owner and/or occupant to alleviate the
existing problem(s), to include screening, extermination and/or garbage and
refuse control. Methods employed for extermination shall conform with generally
accepted practices.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 114. Miscellaneous Provisions.
No person shall permit:
   1.   Roof, surface and/or sanitary drainage to create a safety and/or health
hazard to persons and/or property by reason of inadequate and/or improper
construction, or maintenance or manner of discharge;
   2.   roof gutters, drains, or any other system designed and constructed to
transport stormwater, to be discharged into any sanitary sewage system and/or
any part thereof;
   3.   any refrigerator, freezer and/or other similar storage chest to be
discarded, abandoned or stored in any place or location which is accessible to
the general public without first completely removing any and all locking
devices and/or doors.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 115. Responsibilities of Occupants.
Any occupant of a premises shall be responsible for compliance with the
provisions of this Part with respect to the maintenance of that part of the
premises which he occupies and/or controls in a safe, sound and/or sanitary
condition pursuant to the terms of the contract/agreement under which he
exercises occupancy and/or control thereof.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 116. Responsibilities of Owners.
   1.   Owner of premises shall comply with the provisions of this Part as well
as operators and occupants, regardless of any agreements between owners and
operators or occupants as to which party shall assume such responsibility.
   2.   In instances where an occupant is responsible, or shares responsibility
with an owner, for the existence of one (1) or more violations of this Part,
said occupant shall be deemed responsible and taken to be the owner within the
true intent and meaning of this Part.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 117. Notice of Violation.
Upon failure to comply with any terms or conditions of this Part, the owner
and/or occupant shall be notified by the Borough Council or its authorized
representative, by certified mail, or through personal service, of said
violation or violations. Such notification shall be in writing and shall
identify the premises and shall cite the specific violation or violations;
shall direct the owner and/or occupant to correct the deficiency and/or
deficiencies within a specified period from the receipt of such notice and
shall inform the owner and/or occupant of the fines and penalties which would
accrue for the failure to comply. The notice shall also advise that, in lieu
of, or in addition to, fines and penalties, and subsequent to the time period
for voluntary compliance, the Borough may itself correct the deficiencies or
contract for the correction thereof and assess the cost thereof as a lien
against the premises and/or recover the expenses so incurred in a manner as
prescribed by law. In the event the owner and/or occupant cannot be ascertained
or is not able to be located, a notice, containing the above required
information in summary form, shall be published once in each of two (2)
consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the Borough,
advising of the existence of the violation and requiring correction thereof, in
accordance with the terms and conditions herein established; detailed notice
thereof shall be posted on the subject premises and at the Borough office.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 118. Compliance.
For violations of §§ 109 through 117, the owner and/or occupant shall have
thirty (30) days from the receipt of a notice of violation or, alternatively,
from the date of the second appearance of the published notice of violation, to
correct any and all stipulated deficiencies. Extensions to the thirty (30) day
period in which deficiencies must be corrected may be granted by the Borough
upon demonstration by the owner and/or occupant that such an extension thereto
is warranted and justified. Failure to comply shall constitute a violation of
this Part. A conviction of an owner and/or occupant shall not ban further
prosecutions for noncompliance with this Part subsequent to such conviction.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 119. Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days. Each day
that a violation of this Part exists beyond the thirty (30) day voluntary
compliance period shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord.
189, 6/1/1999)
§ 120. Owners Severally Responsible.
If the premises are owned by more than one (1) owner, each owner shall
severally be subject to prosecution for the violation of this Part.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 121. Inspection.
The Borough Council may, or may cause, through an authorized representative of
the Borough, entry onto premises for the purpose of inspection of any and all
premises, properties, buildings and/or structures located within the Borough
for ascertaining the existence of violations. In those matters where the nature
of an alleged violation is such that an inspection of the interior of a
building or structure is necessitated, prior arrangements must be made with the
owner, or his agent, to secure access thereof.
(Ord. 131, 4/3/1978; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
Part 2
Outdoor Fuel Burning Appliances
§ 201. Definitions and Interpretations.
As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated,
unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
   BOROUGH - the Borough of Millheim, Centre County, Pennsylvania.
   OUTDOOR FUEL BURNING APPLIANCE - a device constructed to burn oil, wood,
coal or other fuels manufactured for placement outdoors for the purpose of
heating a structure and/or the heating of domestic water.
   PERSON - an individual, firm, corporation or any other legal entity.
(Ord. 217, 11/9/2004, § 1)
§ 202. Purposes.
The purpose of this Part is to promote the general health, welfare and safety
of the residents of the Borough of Millheim and the general public.
(Ord. 217, 11/9/2004, § 2)
§ 203. Prohibition.
Outdoor fuel burning appliances are hereby prohibited within the Borough of
Millheim except as otherwise provided in this Part.
(Ord. 217, 11/9/2004, § 3)
§ 204. Grandfather Clause.
This Part shall not be construed to be retroactive and shall not require the
removal of any outdoor fuel burning appliance existing on any property within
the Borough of Millheim at the effective date of this Part. Provided, however,
that the use of all outdoor fuel burning appliances in existence in the Borough
of Millheim on the effective date of this Part shall be prohibited from May 1
through September 1 of each calendar year and shall have or must have erected a
flue or chimney which has a minimum termination height of two (2) feet higher
than the eave line of the structure upon which the appliance is located. In the
event an outdoor fuel burning appliance is more than fifty (50) percent torn
down, physically deteriorated or decayed, any repair, remodeling, rebuilding or
restoration of said appliance shall be prohibited by this Part and shall
constitute a violation hereof.
(Ord. 217, 11/9/2004, § 4)
§ 205. Penalties.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this Part shall, upon conviction
thereof before the District Justice, be sentenced to a pay a fine of not more
than three hundred dollars ($300.00) plus court costs and in default of payment
to imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Every day that a violation of this Part
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 217, 11/9/2004, § 5)
CHAPTER 11
HOUSING
Part 1
Landlord Rental Reports
   §
101.   Purposes
   §
102.   Definitions and Interpretation
   §
103.   Reports by Landlords
   §
104.   Reports by Persons upon Becoming Landlords
   §
105.   Reports of Changes in Use or Occupancy
   §
106.   Duties of the Borough Secretary
   §
107.   Penalties
Part 1
Landlord Rental Reports
§ 101. Purposes.
This Part is enacted to provide for the uniform and equitable distribution of
the tax levies in the Borough of Millheim and upon the inhabitants thereof and
to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the inhabitants of
the Borough.
(Ord. 217, 4/13/2004, § 1)
§ 102. Definitions and Interpretation.
As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated,
unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
   DWELLING UNIT - one (1) or more rooms used for living and sleeping purposes
arranged for occupancy by one (1) family or by one (1) or more persons.
   LANDLORD - a lessor, or person who acts as agent for the lessor, of any
parcel of real estate located in the Borough, or a lessor, or person who acts
as agent for the lessor, of any improvements on real estate or any building
located in the Borough.
   PERSON - any individual, partnership, association, firm, corpora tion or
other legal entity. In this Part, the singular shall include the plural; the
plural shall include the singular; and the masculine shall include the feminine
and the neuter.
   TENANT - a person, eighteen (18) years of age or older, or any person who is
a wage earner, regardless of age, who has the use, either by himself or with
others, of a dwelling unit owned by a person other than himself, for a period
exceeding sixty (60) days.
(Ord. 217, 4/13/2004, § 2)
§ 103. Reports by Landlords.
Within thirty (30) days from the effective date of this Part, each landlord
shall submit to the Borough Secretary a report form supplied by the Borough
Secretary which includes the following information:
      A.   List of the dwelling units owned by the landlord, located within the
Borough limits, whether occupied or not occupied.
      B.   Address of each dwelling unit.
      C.   Brief description of each dwelling unit.
      D.   Whether or not said dwelling unit is inhabited or utilized by
tenants.
      E.   Names of the tenant or tenants utilizing the aforementioned dwelling
unit, if any.
(Ord. 217, 4/13/2004, § 3)
§ 104. Reports by Persons upon Becoming Landlords.
After the effective date of this Part, any person who becomes a landlord of any
parcel of real estate or any improvement on real estate or building located in
the Borough by agreement of sale, by deed, or by any other means, shall, within
thirty (30) days thereafter, report to the Borough Secretary the information
and data set forth in §
103 above, and on forms to be provided by the Borough Secretary.
(Ord. 217, 4/13/2004, § 4)
§ 105. Reports of Changes in Use or Occupancy.
After the effective date of this Part, each and every landlord of property
within the Borough shall report to the Borough Secretary on a report form to be
supplied by the Borough Secretary, any change in the use or occupancy of any
dwelling unit owned by such landlord. The reported change shall include the
name or names of new tenants of such dwelling unit, the date when such change
was effected, and the forwarding address of the old tenant or tenants if known.
A landlord of a hotel, inn or boarding house shall not be required to report a
person as a “tenant” until that person has resided in such landlord's
establishment for a period exceeding sixty (60) days. In the event that a
dwelling unit was used or utilized by a tenant and then becomes vacant, this
change shall also be reported to the Borough Secretary. All reports required by
this Section shall be made within ten (10) days after a landlord has knowledge
that such a unit has had a change in occupancy or has become vacant.
(Ord. 217, 4/13/2004, § 5)
§ 106. Duties of the Borough Secretary.
The Borough Secretary, under the authority of this Part, shall:
      A.   Maintain on file at the Borough office, the names of the landlords
owning dwelling units in the Borough, said list to include the names of the
current tenants of said dwelling units.
      B.   Maintain a supply of forms for landlords to use in making reports to
the Borough Secretary as required by §§
103,
104 and
105 of this Part.
      C.   Notify the Fire Chief of the Millheim Fire Company of the address
and description of any dwelling unit that is vacant, unoccupied and not in use.
(Ord. 217, 4/13/2004, § 6)
§ 107. Penalties.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this Part shall, upon conviction
thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than three hundred dollars
($300.00) plus court costs, and in default of payment, to imprisonment for a
term not to exceed thirty (30) days.
(Ord. 217, 4/13/2004, § 7)
CHAPTER 12
LIBRARIES
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
CHAPTER 13
LICENSES, PERMITS AND GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Part 1
Regulating and Licensing Transient Retail Business
   §
101.   Definitions
   §
102.   License Required; Conditions of Issuance; Fee
   §
103.   Exceptions
   §
104.   License Application
   §
105.   Issuance of License; Custody; Display and Exhibit
   §
106.   Prohibited Acts
   §
107.   Supervision; Records and Reports
   §
108.   Suspension and Revocation of License; Appeal
   §
109.   Penalty
Part 2
Sexually Oriented Businesses
   §
201.   Purpose
   §
202.   Definitions
   §
203.   Location of Sexually Oriented Businesses
   §
204.   Inspection
   §
205.   Hours of Operation
   §
206.   Enforcement Remedies
Part 3
Pawn Shops
   §
301.   Purpose
   §
302.   Definitions
   §
303.   Location of Pawn Shops
   §
304.   License
   §
305.   Application for License
   §
306.   License Fee
   §
307.   Hours of Operation
   §
308.   Enforcement Remedies
Part 4
Yard Sales
   §
401.   Definitions
   §
402.   Yard Sale Permit; Removal of Yard Sale Signs
   §
403.   Frequency and Duration Limitations
   §
404.   Fee for Permit
   §
405.   Violation
   §
406.   Enforcement
Part 1
Regulating and Licensing Transient Retail Business
§ 101. Definitions.
As used in this
Part 1, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated, unless a
different meaning clearly appears from the context:
   LEGAL HOLIDAY - New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas.
   PERSON - any natural person, partnership, association, corporation, or other
legal entity.
   TRANSIENT RETAIL BUSINESS -
      A.   engaging in peddling, soliciting, or taking orders, either by sample
or otherwise, for any goods, wares, or merchandise upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or public ground, or from house to house, within the Borough of
Millheim;
      B.   selling, soliciting, or taking orders for any goods, wares, or
merchandise, from a fixed location within the Borough, on a temporary basis,
which shall include, but not be limited to, such activities conducted at the
time of special occasions or celebrations, for seasonal purposes, or for or in
advance of specific yearly holidays.
The singular shall include the plural, the plural shall include the singular,
and the masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 102. License Required; Conditions of Issuance; Fee.
No person shall engage in any transient retail business within the Borough of
Millheim without first having obtained from the Borough Secretary a license,
for which a fee, which shall be for the use of the Borough, shall be charged:
   five dollars ($5.00) for one day
   ten dollars ($10.00) for one week
   fifteen dollars ($15.00) for one month
   twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for one year
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 103. Exceptions.
No license fee shall be charged:
   1.   to farmers selling their own produce;
   2.   for the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, donated by the owners
thereof, the proceeds whereof are to be applied to any charitable or
philanthropic purpose;
   3.   to any manufacturer or producer in the sale of bread and bakery
products, meat and meat products, or milk and milk products;
   4.   to children under the age of eighteen (18) years who take orders for
and deliver newspapers, greeting cards, candy, bakery products, and the like,
or who represent the Boy Scouts or Girl Scouts or similar organizations;
   5.   to any honorable discharged member of any of the armed services who
complies with the Act of 1867, April 8, P.L. 50, 60 P.S. § 61(1982), hereafter
amended, supplemented, modified or reenacted by the General Assembly of
Pennsylvania, and who procures from the Prothonotary a certificate in pursuance
of the Act of 1867;
   6.   to the seeking or taking of orders by insurance agents or brokers
licensed under the insurance laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania;
   7.   to any person who has complied with the provisions of the Solicitation
of Charitable Funds Act, August 9, 1963, P.L. 628, 10 P.S. §§ 160-1 et seq.
(1982), as hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or reenacted by the
General Assembly of Pennsylvania; or
   8.   for taking orders for merchandise, by sample, from dealers or merchants
for individuals or companies who pay a license or business privilege tax at
their chief place of business.
But all persons exempted hereby from the payment of the license fee shall be
required to register with the Borough Secretary and obtain a license without
fee; provided, any person dealing in one or more of the above mentioned
exempted categories, and dealing with other goods, wares, or merchandise not so
exempted, shall be subject to the payment of the license fee fixed by this
section for his activities in connection with the sale of goods, wares, and
merchandise not in such exempted categories. Provided further, the Borough
Secretary may similarly exempt from payment of the license fee, but not from
registering with him, persons working without compensation and selling goods,
wares, or merchandise for the sole benefit of any nonprofit corporation.
Provided further: every license issued under the provisions of this ordinance
shall be issued on an individual basis to any person or persons engaging in
such business; every individual shall obtain a separate license, issued to him
in his name, and the license fee hereby imposed shall be applicable to every
such individual license, except that a representative of a charitable
organization may obtain licenses for the applicants therein.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 104. License Application.
Every person desiring a license under this ordinance shall first make
application to the Borough Secretary for such license. He shall, when making
such application, exhibit a valid license from any state or county officer, if
such license is also required. The applicant shall state:
   1.   his criminal record, if any;
   2.   name and address of the person by whom he is employed;
   3.   type of goods, wares, and merchandise he wishes to deal with in such
transient retail business;
   4.   length of time for which license is to be issued; and
   5.   type and license number of the vehicle to be used, if any.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 105. Issuance of License; Custody, Display, or Exhibit.
Upon receipt of such application and the prescribed fee, the Borough Secretary,
if he shall find such application in order, shall issue the license required
under this ordinance. Such license shall contain the information required to be
given on the application therefor. Every license holder shall carry such
license upon his person if engaged in transient retail business from house to
house or upon any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds, or
shall display such license at the location where he shall engage in such
business if doing so at a fixed location. He shall exhibit such license, upon
request, to all police officers, municipal officials, and citizens or residents
of the Borough of Millheim.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 106. Prohibited Acts.
No person in any transient retail business shall:
   1.   sell any product or type of product not mentioned in his license;
   2.   hawk or cry his wares upon any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or
public grounds in the Borough;
   3.   when operating from a vehicle, stop or park such vehicle upon any of
the streets or alleys in the Borough for longer than necessary in order to sell
therefrom to persons residing or working in the immediate vicinity;
   4.   park any vehicle upon any of the streets or alleys in the Borough for
the purpose of sorting, rearranging, or cleaning any of his goods, wares, or
merchandise or of disposing of any carton, wrapping material or of any stock or
wares or foodstuffs which have become unsaleable through handling, age or
otherwise;
   5.   engage in any business activity, except by prior appointment, at any
time on a Sunday or legal holiday or at any time before 8:30 A.M. or after 8:00
P.M. on any day of the week other than a Sunday or legal holiday.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 107. Supervision; Records and Reports.
The Borough Secretary shall supervise the activities of all persons holding
licenses under this Part. He shall keep a record of all licenses issued
hereunder, and shall make a report thereof each month to the Borough Council.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 108. Suspension and Revocation of License; Appeal.
The Borough Secretary is hereby authorized to suspend or revoke any license
issued under this ordinance when he deems such suspension or revocation to be
beneficial to the public health, safety, or morals, for violation of any
provision of this ordinance, or for giving false information upon any
application for a license hereunder. Appeals from any suspension or revocation
may be made to the Borough Council at any time within ten (10) days after such
suspension or revocation. No part of a license fee shall be refunded to any
person whose license shall have been suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 109. Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days. Each day
that a violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 189, 6/1/1999)
Part 2
Sexually Oriented Businesses
§ 201. Purpose.
The purpose of this Part is to promote the health, cleanliness, comfort and
safety of the citizens of the Borough of Millheim, by regulating the location
of sexually oriented businesses within the Borough of Millheim in order to
minimize and control the adverse affects of such businesses on the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the Borough of Millheim.
(Ord. 205, 5/14/2002, § 1)
§ 202. Definitions.
   ADULT ARCADE - any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated, slug-operated or for any form of consideration or
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture
machines, projectors, video or laser disc players, or other image-producing
devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine
at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas."
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE - a commercial
establishment which, as one of its principal purposes, offers for sale or
rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the following:
      A.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations which are characterized by the depiction
or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas."
      B.   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
connection with "specified sexual activities."
A commercial establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale or rental of materials depicting or
describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" and
still be characterized as adult bookstore, adult novelty or adult video store.
Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial
establishments from being characterized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store or adult video store so long as one of its business purposes is the
offering for sale or rental for any consideration the specified materials which
are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
   ADULT CABARET - a nightclub, bar and/or restaurant or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity; and
      B.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities;" or
      C.   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, laser discs or
similar photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER - a commercial establishment where, for any
form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, laser
discs or similar photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are
characterized by the depiction of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas."
   ADULT THEATER - a theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or semi-nudity, or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified sexual activities" or by "specified anatomical areas."
   NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY - the showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the nipple or the showing of the covered male
genitals in a discernable turgid state.
   PERSON - any individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, joint venture or other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE or SEMI-NUDE CONDITION - the state of dress in which clothing
partially or opaquely covers specified anatomical areas.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER - a business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      A.   Physical contact in   form of wrestling or tumbling between persons
of the opposite sex.
      B.   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one (1) or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-
nudity.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS - an adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, adult
theater or sexual encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS - human genitals, pubic region, anus, buttocks,
female breast(s) below a point immediately above the top of the areola or human
male genitals in a discernable turgid state, even if completely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES - any of the following:
      A.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breast(s).
      B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy.
      C.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections (A) and (B) above.
(Ord. 205, 5/14/2002, § 2)
§ 203. Location of Sexually Oriented Businesses.
   1.   A person commits a violation of this Part if the person operates or
causes to be operated a sexually oriented business within one thousand (1,000)
feet of:
      A.   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related activities.
      B.   A public or private educational facility including, but not limited
to, child day-care facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, special education schools, junior colleges and
universities; school includes the school grounds.
      C.   A licensed premises licensed pursuant to the alcoholic beverage
control regulations of the Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      D.   Any other sexually oriented business.
      E.   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trail, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness area or other similar
public land within the Borough of Millheim which is under the control,
operation or management of the Borough or the Borough's Park and Recreation
Authority/Committee.
      F.   A cemetery.
      G.   A building or other structure owned or operated by the Borough of
Millheim for municipal purposes.
   2.   For purposes of subsection (1) of this Section, measurement shall be in
a straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or objects, from
the nearest portion of the building or structure used as the part of the
premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises of a use listed in subsection (1).
Presence of a municipal, county or other political subdivision boundary shall
be irrelevant for purposes of calculating and applying the distance
requirements of this Section.
(Ord. 205, 5/14/2002, § 3)
§ 204. Inspection.
   1.   A person who operates a sexually oriented business shall permit
representatives of the Borough, including the Code Enforcement Officer or other
official, to inspect the premises of any sexually oriented business for the
purposes of insuring compliance with this Part at any time it is occupied or
open for business.
   2.   A person who operates a sexually oriented business, or any agent or
employee thereof, commits a violation of this Part if he/she refuses to permit
such lawful inspection of the premises at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
(Ord. 205, 5/14/2002, § 4)
§ 205. Hours of Operation.
No sexually oriented business may remain open at any time after 1:00 a.m. on
Sundays and between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays.
(Ord. 205, 5/14/2002, § 5)
§ 206. Enforcement Remedies.
   1.   Any person who or which has violated any provision of this Part shall,
upon being found liable therefore in a civil enforcement proceeding commenced
by the Borough, pay a judgment of not more than six hundred dollars ($600.00)
plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the
Borough as a result thereof. If the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals
the judgment, the Borough may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable
rule of civil procedure. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation.
   2.   The Borough may also institute proceedings in equity in the Court of
Common Pleas of Centre County, Pennsylvania, against any person who violates or
clearly is about to violate this Part for the purpose of enjoining such
violation. The Court shall issue an injunction only after written notice and
hearing and only against the defendant to the action. The request for
injunctive relief contained herein shall be in addition to all other remedies
contained herein.
(Ord. 205, 5/14/2002, § 6)
Part 3
Pawn Shops
§ 301. Purpose.
The purpose of this Part is to promote the health, cleanliness, comfort and
safety of the citizens of the Borough of Millheim, by regulating the location
of pawn shops within the Borough of Millheim in order to minimize and control
the adverse affects of such businesses on the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the Borough of Millheim.
(Ord. 215, 4/13/2004, § 1)
§ 302. Definitions.
   APPLICANT - any individual, partnership, association, business corporation,
nonprofit corporation, common law trust, joint-stock company or any other group
of individuals however organized applying for a license under this Part and/or
any person appearing as owner, partner, officer, director, trustee or other
official of a partnership, association, business corporation, nonprofit
corporation, common law trust, joint-stock company or any other group of
individuals however organized, on such application for license under this Part.
   BOROUGH - the Borough of Millheim, Centre County, Pennsylvania.
   PAWN SHOP - the place of business of a pawnbroker.
   PAWNBROKER - any person, who (A) engages in the business of lending money on
the deposit or pledge of personal property, other than choses in action,
securities, or written evidences of indebtedness; of (B) purchases personal
property with an expressed or implied agreement or understanding to sell it
back at a subsequent time at a stipulated price; or (C) lends money upon goods,
wares or merchandise pledged, stored or deposited as collateral security.
   PAWNBROKING - the business of a pawnbroker as defined in this Part.
   PERSON - an individual, partnership, association, business corporation,
nonprofit corporation, common law trust, joint-stock company or any other group
of individuals however organized.
   PLEDGE - an article or articles deposited with a pawnbroker as security for
a loan in the course of the pawnbroker's business as defined in the preceding
paragraphs.
   PLEDGER - the person who obtains a loan from a pawnbroker and delivers a
pledge in the possession of the pawnbroker unless such person discloses that he
or she is or was acting for another in which case a "pledger" means the
disclosed principal.
(Ord. 215, 4/13/2004, § 2)
§ 303. Location of Pawn Shops.
   1.   A person commits a violation of this Part if the person operates or
causes to be operated a pawn shop within one thousand (1,000) feet of:
      A.   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related activities.
      B.   A public or private educational facility including, but not limited
to, child daycare facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, special education schools, junior colleges, and
universities; school includes the school grounds.
      C.   A licensed premises licensed pursuant to the alcoholic beverage
control regulations of the Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      D.   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trail, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness area, or other similar
public land within the Borough of Millheim which is under the control,
operation or management of the Borough or the Borough's Park and Recreation
Authority/Committee.
      E.   A cemetery.
      F.   A building or other structure owned or operated by the Borough of
Millheim for municipal purposes.
   2.   For purposes of subsection .1 of this Section, measurement shall be in
a straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or objects, from
the nearest portion of the building or structure used as the part of the
premises where a pawn shop is conducted, to the nearest property line of the
premises of a use listed in subsection .1. Presence of a municipal, county or
other political subdivision boundary shall be irrelevant for purposes of
calculating and applying the distance requirements of this Section.
(Ord. 215, 4/13/2004, § 3)
§ 304. License.
Any person, partnership, association, business corporation, nonprofit
corporation, common law trust, joint-stock company or any group of individuals
however organized, on and after the effective date of this Part prior to
engaging in the business of a pawnbroker or operating a pawn shop in the
Borough, shall first obtain a license from the Borough.
(Ord. 215, 4/13/2004, § 4)
§ 305. Application for License.
The application for such license shall be in writing, under oath and in the
form prescribed by the Borough and shall contain the name and address of
residence of the applicant, and if the applicant is a partnership, association,
joint-stock company or common law trust of every member thereof, and if the
applicant is a business corporation or nonprofit corporation of each officer
and director thereof; also the specific address where the pawn shop business is
to be conducted and such further information as the Borough may require. The
application shall be signed by the individual owner if the applicant is an
individual, by all the partners if the applicant is a partnership, by two
officers if the applicant is an association, joint-stock company or common law
trust, and by the president and secretary if the applicant is a business
corporation or a nonprofit corporation.
(Ord. 215, 4/13/2004, § 5)
§ 306. License Fee.
Every application for license under this Part shall be accompanied by a license
fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. 215, 4/13/2004, § 6)
§ 307. Hours of Operation.
No pawn shop business may remain open at any time between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 7:00 am. on weekdays and Saturdays and no pawn shop shall be open at
anytime on Sundays.
(Ord. 215, 4/13/2004, § 7)
§ 308. Enforcement Remedies.
   1.   Any person who or which has violated any provision of this Part shall,
upon being found liable therefore in a civil enforcement proceeding commenced
by the Borough, pay a judgment of not more than six hundred dollars ($600.00)
plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the
Borough as a result thereof. If the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals
the judgment, the Borough may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable
rule of civil procedure. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation.
   2.   The Borough may also institute proceedings in equity in the Court of
Common Pleas of Centre County, Pennsylvania, against any person who violates or
clearly is about to violate this Part for the purpose of enjoining such
violation. The court shall issue an injunction only after written notice and
hearing and only against the defendant to the action. The request for
injunctive relief contained herein shall be in addition to all other remedies
contained herein.
(Ord. 215, 4/13/2004, § 9)
Part 4
Yard Sales
§ 401. Definitions.
The following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
   BOROUGH - Millheim Borough, Centre County, Pennsylvania.
   HOUSEHOLD - the individual who applies for a permit and anyone who resides
in that individual's residence.
   PERMIT - the form that must be obtained, completed, and submitted along with
the respective fee to the Code Enforcement Officer prior to conducting a yard
sale.
   YARD SALE - any public sale of goods (excluding the sale of a single item)
on residential property including, but not limited to, the residential
property's garage, home, lawn, or yard.
(Ord. 225, 7/11/2006, § 1)
§ 402. Yard Sale Permit; Removal of Yard Sale Signs.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any individual, group, corporation or other
legal entity to conduct within the Borough a yard sale or permit a yard sale to
be held within the Borough on residential property under the control of the
individual, group, corporation or other legal entity without first obtaining a
yard sale permit from the Borough; provided, however, that no permit shall be
required for a town-wide yard sale.
   2.   Any individual, group, corporation or other legal entity conducting a
yard sale within the Borough limits or any individual, group, corporation or
other legal entity, posting advertisements within the Borough limits for a yard
sale to be held inside or outside the Borough limits must remove, from within
the Borough rights-of-way, all signs, flyers, posters, and bulletins no later
than the day after the yard sale. Should the yard sale for any reason not be
held all signs, flyers, posters, and bulletins advertising the yard sale must
be removed no later than the scheduled last day for the yard sale.
   3.   All merchandise and equipment used in conducting the yard sale shall be
cleaned up no later than the day after the yard sale.
(Ord. 225, 7/11/2006, § 2)
§ 403. Frequency and Duration Limitations.
   1.   Two (2) - three (3) day or three (3) - two (2) day yard sales for a
total of six (6) days are permissible per household in any twelve (12) month
period.
   2.   The maximum duration of any yard sale shall be three (3) consecu tive
calendar days.
   3.   The approved yard sale must be held within twenty (20) days of the
issuance of the permit for that yard sale.
   4.   Town-wide yard sales are not included in frequency and duration
limitations.
(Ord. 225, 7/11/2006, § 3)
§ 404. Fee for Permit.
   1.   No fee shall be charged for a permit issued to a household for the
first two yard sales conducted within any twelve (12) month period (which does
not include the town-wide yard sale). The fee for each permit issued to a
household for any subsequent yard sale conducted within any twelve (12) month
period shall be ten ($10.00) dollars each. [Ord. 230]
   2.   All permit fees shall be paid to the Penns Valley Code Enforcement
Agency prior to issuance of the permit.
   3.   The permit must be posted and clearly visible during the event.
   4.   Nonprofit service organizations and charitable organizations may obtain
two (2) - three (3) day or three (3) - two (2) day yard sale permits in any
twelve (12) month period without fee.
(Ord. 225, 7/11/2006, § 4; as amended by Ord. 230, 6/12/2007)
§ 405. Violation.
Any individual, group, corporation or other legal entity who shall violate any
provision of this Part shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than fifty ($50.00) dollars and costs of prosecution for the
first offense, a fine of not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars plus costs
of prosecution for the second offense; and a fine of not more than three
hundred ($300.00) dollars plus costs of prosecution for the third and any
subsequent offense and any offense thereafter.
(Ord. 225, 7/11/2006, § 5)
§ 406. Enforcement.
The Code Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized to act on behalf of the
Borough.
(Ord. 225, 7/11/2006, § 6)
CHAPTER 14
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
CHAPTER 15
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Part 1
General Regulations
   §
101.   Definitions and Interpretation
   §
102.   Manner of Adopting Permanent Traffic and Parking Regulations
   §
103.   Continuation of Prior Regulations
   §
104.   Temporary and Emergency Regulations
   §
105.   Experimental Regulations
   §
106.   Authority of Police Officers
   §
107.   Authorization for Use of Speed Timing Devices
Part 2
Traffic Regulations
   §
201.   Motor Vehicles Not to Stop, Stand, Park or Be Driven on Sidewalks
   §
202.   Speed Limits Established
   §
203.   Traffic Signals at Certain Intersections
   §
204.   Right Turn on Red Signal Prohibited at Certain Intersection
   §
205.   Stop Intersections
   §
206.   Through Streets Established
   §
207.   One-Way Streets
   §
208.   U-Turns Prohibited on Certain Streets or Portions Thereof
   §
209.   Unlawful to Operate Motor Vehicles on Streets Closed for Construc tion
or Repair
   §
210.   Play Streets Authorized
Part 3
General Parking Regulations
   §
301.   Parking Without Lights Authorized
   §
302.   Loading and Unloading
   §
303.   Angle Parking Required on Portions of Certain Streets
   §
304.   Vehicles to be Parked Within Marked Spaces; Parking Prohibited in
Certain Marked Areas
   §
305.   Parking Prohibited at All Times in Certain Locations
   §
306.   Parking Prohibited at Certain Times on Certain Streets and Alleys
   §
307.   Parking Time Limited in Certain Locations
   §
308.   [Insert time] Parking Limit for Certain Types of Vehicles
   §
309.   Special Purpose Parking Zones Established; Parking Otherwise Prohibited
   §
310.   Parking for Repairs
   §
311.   Trailer Parking Restricted
   §
312.   Parking of Boats, Truck Tractors, Trailers and Trucks Prohibited on
Streets in Residential Zones
   §
313.   Penalties
Part 4
Unlicensed, Uninspected and Dismantled Vehicles
   §
401.   Parking and Storage of Unlicensed and Uninspected Vehicles on Streets
and Alleys Restricted
   §
402.   Dismantled Vehicles not to be Stored or Parked on Streets and Alleys
   §
403.   Removal of Vehicle
   §
404.   Reclamation Costs
   §
405.   Penalty
Part 5
Removal and Impoundment of Illegally Parked Vehicles
   §
501.   Authority to Remove and Impound Illegally Parked Vehicles
   §
502.   Approved Storage Garages
   §
503.   Towing and Storage Charges
   §
504.   Garage to Post Bond
   §
505.   Notification to Owners of Impounded Vehicles
   §
506.   Effect of Payment of Towing and Impoundment Charges Without Protest
   §
507.   Effect of Payment of Towing and Impoundment Charges Under Protest
   §
508.   Records of Vehicles Removed and Impounded
   §
509.   Owner or Operator of Vehicle Remains Liable for Fine or Penalty
   §
510.   Restrictions upon Removal of Vehicles
Part 6
Snow and Ice Emergency
   §
601.   Definitions
   §
602.   Declaration of Snow Removal Condition
   §
603.   Unattended Vehicles Prohibited During Emergency
   §
604.   Certain Streets Designated for Snow Removal
   §
605.   Snow Tires or Chains Required
   §
606.   Penalties
Part 7
Storage of Motor Vehicle Nuisances
   §
701.   Definitions
   §
702.   Motor Vehicle Nuisances Prohibited
   §
703.   Storage of Motor Vehicle Nuisances Permitted
   §
704.   Inspection of Premises; Notice to Comply
   §
705.   Authority to Remedy Noncompliance
   §
706.   Penalties
   §
707.   Remedies Not Mutually Exclusive
Part 8
Engine Brake Retarders
   §
801.   Purpose
   §
802.   Engine Brake Retarders Prohibited
   §
803.   Emergency Situations
   §
804.   Emergency Vehicles
   §
805.   Signs
   §
806.   Violations and Penalties
Part 9
Recreational Motor Vehicles
   §
901.   Purpose
   §
902.   Definitions
   §
903.   Operation
   §
904.   Exclusions
   §
905.   Compliance with Pennsylvania Law
   §
906.   Enforcement
   §
907.   Jurisdiction
   §
908.   Violations and Penalties
   §
909.   Impoundment of Vehicle
Part 1
General Regulations
§ 101. Definitions and Interpretation.
Words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed
in the Vehicle Code, 75 P.S. §§ 101 et seq. (1977), as hereafter amended,
supplemented, modified or reenacted by the General Assembly of Pennsylvania,
unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   LEGAL HOLIDAYS - New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas.
In this Chapter, the singular shall include the plural, the plural shall
include the singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 102. Manner of Adopting Permanent Traffic and Parking Regulations.
All traffic and parking regulations of a permanent nature shall be enacted as
ordinances, as parts of ordinances, as amendments to ordinances, or as
amendments to this chapter.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 103. Continuation of Prior Regulations.
The provisions of this Chapter 15, so far as they are the same as those of
ordinances in force immediately prior to the adoption of this chapter, are
intended as a continuation of such ordinances and regulations and not as new
enactments. The provisions of this chapter shall not affect any act done or
liability incurred, nor shall they affect any suit or prosecution pending or to
be instituted to enforce any right or penalty or to punish any offense under
any such ordinances or regulations as aforesaid.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 104. Temporary and Emergency Regulations.
The Mayor shall have the following powers to regulate traffic and parking
temporarily and in time of emergency:
   1.   in the case of fire, flood, storm or other emergency, to establish
temporary traffic and/or parking regulations;
   2.   in the case of emergency or to facilitate public works, or in the
conduct of parades, processions or public events, to restrict or prohibit
traffic and/or parking in limited areas for periods of not more than seventy-
two (72) hours.
   Such temporary and emergency regulations shall be enforced by the duly
authorized representative of Millheim Borough Council in the same manner as
permanent regulations. Any person who shall violate this Section shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to the penalty set forth in the applicable
Section of the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, Title 75 Pa.C.S.A. for a
violation of such nature, and, in cases of a violation for which no specific
penalty is set forth in the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, to a fine in an
amount as established from time to time by a Resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
§ 105. Experimental Regulations.
The Borough Council may, from time to time by resolution, designate places upon
and along the highways in the Borough where for a period of not more than
ninety (90) days, specific traffic and/or parking regulations, prohibitions and
restrictions shall be in force and effect, and shall designate such locations
by proper signs and markings. Such regulations, prohibitions and restrictions
shall be effective as if they had been specified in this chapter. No person
shall operate or park a vehicle or tractor in violation of any such regulation,
prohibition or restriction, and no person shall move, remove, destroy or deface
any sign or marking erected, posted or made by authority of this section. Any
person who shall violate any provision of this section shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to the penalty set forth in the law or elsewhere in this
chapter for a violation of such nature, and in case of a violation for which no
specific penalty is set forth in the law or elsewhere in this chapter, to a
fine of not more than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) together with costs of
prosecution; provided, the purpose of this section is to allow for the test and
experimental determination of the feasibility and desirability of permanent
changes in the ordinances of the Borough relative to traffic and parking.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
§ 106. Authority of Police Officers.
Reserved for future use if necessary.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
§ 107. Authorization for Use of Speed Timing Devices.
Reserved for future use if necessary.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
Part 2
Traffic Regulations
§ 201. Motor Vehicles Not to Stop, Stand, Park or Be Driven on Sidewalks.
No person shall stop, stand, park or drive any vehicle, except a pedicycle,
human powered vehicle or other motorized vehicle approved by the Borough, upon
a sidewalk or sidewalk area except upon a permanent or duly authorized
temporary driveway. Any person who shall violate this Section shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to the penalty set forth in the applicable
Section of the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, Title 75 Pa.C.S.A. for a
violation of such nature, and, in cases of a violation for which no specific
penalty is set forth in the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, to a fine in an
amount as established from time to time by a Resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 223, 7/12/2005, §1; and by Ord. 261,
5/9/2017, §1)
§ 202. Speed Limits Established.
The following speed limits are hereby established:
Street Between Speed Limit
Street        Between                              Speed Limit
East Main     Red light to High Street             25 mph
             High Street to Borough line          35 mph
Long Lane     W. Main Street to Penn Township Line 30 mph
Mill Street   Penn Street to Long Lane             25 mph
Church Street Main to Church                       20 mph
Penn Street   Main Street to Borough line          25 mph
West Main     Red light to Walnut Street           25 mph
             Walnut Street to Borough line        35 mph
 
Any person who shall violate this Section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to the penalty set forth in the applicable Section of the Pennsylvania
Motor Vehicle Code, Title 75 Pa.C.S.A. for a violation of such nature, and, in
cases of a violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the
Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, to a fine in an amount as established from
time to time by a Resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 157, 8/11/1986, §1; and by Ord. 261,
5/9/2017, §1)
§ 203. Traffic Signals at Certain Intersections.
At the following intersections, official traffic signals shall be erected (or
are hereby ratified if heretofore erected), and traffic at such intersections
shall be directed by such signals:
   Main Street with North Street and Penn Street
   Any person who shall violate this Section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to the penalty set forth in the applicable Section of the Pennsylvania
Motor Vehicle Code, Title 75 Pa.C.S.A. for a violation of such nature, and, in
cases of a violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the
Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, to a fine in an amount as established from
time to time by a Resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
§ 204. Right Turn on Red Signal Prohibited at Certain Intersection.
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle traveling on the first-named
street at any of the following intersections, in the direction or directions
hereby indicated in each case to make a right turn when his or her vehicle is
facing a steady red traffic signal:
 
Street      Intersecting Street Direction of Travel
Main Street North and Penn      All directions
 
   Any person who shall violate this Section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to the penalty set forth in the applicable Section of the Pennsylvania
Motor Vehicle Code, Title 75 Pa.C.S.A. for a violation of such nature, and, in
cases of a violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the
Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, to a fine in an amount as established from
time to time by a Resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
§ 205. Stop Intersections.
The following intersections are hereby established as stop intersections, and
official stop signs shall be erected (or are hereby ratified if heretofore
erected) in such a position as to face traffic approaching the second-named
street upon the first-named street, in the direction or directions hereby
indicated. It shall be unlawful for all vehicles approaching any such
intersection upon the first-named street, in the direction or directions hereby
indicated, to not come to a full stop, within a reasonable distance, before
entering any such intersection:
Stop Street Through Street Direction of Travel
Stop Street       Through Street    Direction of Travel
Cherry Street     Hillcrest Avenue  south
Elk Street        Center Street     north and south
                 Elk Street Ext.   south
Gramley Avenue    Park Road         west
Hillcrest Avenue  North High Street west
                 Pine Street       west
Maple Street      Poplar Street     north
Mill Street       Long Lane         west
North High Street Gramley Avenue    north
Oak Street        Walnut Street     east
Public Road #2    Park Road         north
Race Street       Maple Street      west
South Street      Locust Street     east and west
                 Long Lane         east and west
                 Walnut Street     east and west
Second Street     Church Street     east
Stover Avenue     Pine Street       west
Walter Street     South High Street east and west
Water Street      South Street      south
West Street       Mill Street       south
                 South Street      north
 
Any person who shall violate this Section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to the penalty set forth in the applicable Section of the Pennsylvania
Motor Vehicle Code, Title 75 Pa.C.S.A. for a violation of such nature, and, in
cases of a violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the
Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, to a fine in an amount as established from
time to time by a Resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 197, 7/10/2001; by Ord. 206, 9/10/
2002; and by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
§ 206. Through Streets Established.
The following streets are hereby established as through streets, and the driver
of a vehicle upon approaching any such street at any intersection thereof
(except for intersections where there are now or shall hereafter be located
official traffic control signals) shall come to a full stop, within a
reasonable distance, before entering any such through street:
 
Street       Between
Main Street  Entire length
North Street Entire length
Penn Street  Entire length
 
Any person who shall violate this Section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to the penalty set forth in the applicable Section of the Pennsylvania
Motor Vehicle Code, Title 75 Pa.C.S.A. for a violation of such nature, and, in
cases of a violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the
Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, to a fine in an amount as established from
time to time by a Resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
§ 207. One-Way Streets.
The following are hereby established as one-way streets with operation of
vehicles thereupon to be in the direction hereby indicated:
Streets From To Direction of Travel
Streets        From             To                 Direction of Travel
Church Street  East Main Street East Poplar Street north
Maple Alley    East Main Street East Poplar Street north
Poplar Street  State Street     North Street       east
Poplar Street  North Street     Sugar Alley        east
Public Road #2 E. Main Street   Park Road          north
State Street   Main Street      Poplar Street      north
State Street   West Main Street Race Street        south
Sugar Alley    East Main Street East Poplar Street north
Sugar Alley    East Main Street Race Street        south
 
Any person who shall violate this Section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to the penalty set forth in the applicable Section of the Pennsylvania
Motor Vehicle Code, Title 75 Pa.C.S.A. for a violation of such nature, and, in
cases of a violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the
Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, to a fine in an amount as established from
time to time by a Resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 177, 2/14/1994, §1; and by Ord. 261,
5/9/2017, §1)
§ 208. U-Turns Prohibited on Certain Streets or Portions Thereof.
It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to make a U-turn on any
of the following streets or portions of streets:
 
Street      Between
Main Street Main Street Bridge and Plum Street
 
Any person who shall violate this Section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to the penalty set forth in the applicable Section of the Pennsylvania
Motor Vehicle Code, Title 75 Pa.C.S.A. for a violation of such nature, and, in
cases of a violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the
Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, to a fine in an amount as established from
time to time by a Resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
§ 209. Unlawful to Operate Motor Vehicles on Streets Closed for Construction or
Repair.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle upon any street that
is under construction, resurfacing or repair, in disregard of any official
sign, barricade or notice that the same is closed to vehicular traffic. Any
person who shall violate this Section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to the penalty set forth in the applicable Section of the Pennsylvania
Motor Vehicle Code, Title 75 Pa.C.S.A. for a violation of such nature, and, in
cases of a violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the
Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, to a fine in an amount as established from
time to time by a Resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
§ 210. Play Streets Authorized.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to designate as play streets, whenever and
for whatever period of time he/she shall deem advisable, any portion of any
street whereon sledding and coasting shall be permitted. Such street shall be
set apart for this purpose under the direction of the Mayor.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon any play street at any time
when such street shall be so designated, except in case of emergency, with
special permission of the duly authorized representative of Millheim Borough
Council in charge, who shall first clear such play street of all persons using
such street for the purpose for which it was set aside.
   Any person who shall violate this Section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to the penalty set forth in the applicable Section of the Pennsylvania
Motor Vehicle Code, Title 75 Pa.C.S.A. for a violation of such nature, and, in
cases of a violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the
Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, to a fine in an amount as established from
time to time by a Resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
Part 3
General Parking Regulations
§ 301. Parking Without Lights Authorized.
The boundary limits of the Borough of Millheim are hereby established as a zone
in which motor vehicles may remain standing without lights, and all highways
within such boundary limits are hereby designated as highways where motor
vehicles may remain standing without lights.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 302. Loading and Unloading.
The loading and unloading of goods, wares and merchandise is hereby restricted
to such length of time as is absolutely necessary for the purpose of loading or
unloading of such goods, wares and merchandise. For the purpose of enforcement
of this Section, such loading or unloading of any vehicle shall not be
considered as parking; provided, without having first obtained permission from
the duly authorized representative of Millheim Borough Council to do so, no
person shall load or unload a vehicle from any place upon any street or alley
in the Borough where parking is prohibited; or shall allow a vehicle to remain,
for loading or unloading, in any place upon any street or alley where parking
is limited as to time, for longer than the time for which parking is permitted;
or shall load or unload upon any street or alley in such a way that one lane
for vehicular traffic shall not be kept open at all times. Where such
permission is granted by the duly authorized representative of Millheim Borough
Council, he may, at his discretion, block off the portion of the street or
alley affected by such loading or unloading.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
§ 303. Angle Parking Required on Portions of Certain Streets.
Only angle parking shall be permitted on the following portions of the streets:
 
Street Between
   (Reserved)
 
On all streets or portions thereof where angle parking is now or shall
hereafter be authorized, all vehicles parked thereon shall be parked with the
front thereof nearest the curb.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 304. Vehicles to be Parked Within Marked Spaces; Parking Prohibited in
Certain Marked Areas.
   1.   Wherever a particular parking space shall be lined or marked off on any
public parking lot or street or alley or upon the adjacent curb, every vehicle
parked shall be parked within the lines marking such parking space. All
vehicles parked on streets or alleys whether parking spaces are marked or not
shall be parked only in the direction of the permitted traffic flow.
   2.   Parking shall be prohibited at all times by any vehicle which in any
way will block the intersection of any street or alley or the entrance or exit
of any street or alley. Parking shall at all times be prohibited within the
painted line area adjacent to any fire hydrant or within fifteen (15) feet of
any fire hydrant where no painted line area is marked; within the painted line
area marking the permissible distance to park from any intersection or within
20 feet of the crosswalk at any intersection where no painted line area is
marked; in any area where erected signs or painted lines indicate a “No
Parking” area; in any manner so as to block any private or public driveway or
access way to a parking lot or parking facility or other facility of the
Borough. Vehicles must be parked no more than six (6) inches from the curb.
[Ord. 223]
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 223, 7/12/2005, §2; and by Ord. 261,
5/9/2017, §1)
§ 305. Parking Prohibited at All Times in Certain Locations.
Parking shall be prohibited at all times in the following locations, except
where otherwise permitted by proper signage:
Street Side Between
Street          Side  Between
Center Street   Both  Penn Street and Water Street
East Main       South Main Street Bridge and Sugar Alley
Elk Street Ext. South Elk and Penn
Mensch Street   Both  East Main Street and Walter Street
North           Both  Main and Second
Penn            East  Mill and Main
               Both  Fox Alley and Penn Township line
               Both  Race Alley and Mill Street
South           Both  Penn and West
West Main       Both  Plum and Walnut
               North Walnut Street and Borough line
               South Plum Street and State Street
 
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 193, 12/9/2001; and by Ord. 261, 5/9/
2017, §1; and by Ord. 273, 1/10/2023; and by Ord. 276, 12/12/2023)
§ 306. Parking Prohibited at Certain Times on Certain Streets and Alleys.
   For street sweeping purposes, parking will be prohibited on certain streets
at certain times according to a schedule which will be published in a local
newspaper or posted at prominent locations in the Borough.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 239, 12/8/2009, §§ 2, 3)
§ 307. Parking Time Limited in Certain Locations.
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle or allow the same to remain parked,
for more than the indicated length of time in any of the following locations:
 
Street           Between                                      Side  Time Limit
Main Street      Race and Plum                                Both  Two hours
                 First parking space west of the intersection
West Main Street of Main Street and Penn Street in front of   South 15 minutes
                 the post office
 
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 271, 5/10/2022)
§ 308. Two Hour Parking Limit for Certain Types of Vehicles.
No person shall park any truck of the weight classification of the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania of V-plate capacity or heavier, or any tractor or trailer, or
tractor-trailer combination, or allow the same to remain parked, on any street
or alley in the Borough of Millheim, for a period longer than two (2) hours.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 309. Special Purpose Parking Zones Established; Parking Otherwise Prohibited.
The following are hereby established as special purpose parking zones, and it
shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle or tractor or to allow the
same to remain parked, in any such zone, except as specifically provided for
such zone:
 
Street     Between Side Purpose
(Reserved)
 
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 310. Parking for Repairs.
The parking of any motor vehicle, tractor or trailer, or combination thereof,
upon streets and highways of the Borough for repairs, whether upon the traveled
or untraveled portion thereof, shall be temporary only and limited to times for
emergency repairs. This section shall not be construed to permit parking for
repairs at locations where parking is otherwise prohibited.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 311. Trailer Parking Restricted.
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a trailer (which shall mean a
vehicle without motive power, designed to carry property of passengers or
designed and used exclusively for living quarters wholly on its own structure,
and to be drawn by a motor vehicle or tractor and including, but not limited
to, house trailers, boat trailers, and rental handling trailers), upon any
street or highway in the Borough, without having attached to such trailer a
means of mechanical traction constructed or designed for the purpose of drawing
such trailer.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 312. Parking of Boats, Truck Tractors, Trailers and Trucks Prohibited on
Streets in Residential Zones.
The parking of boats, truck tractors, trailers, and trucks except those not
exceeding three-fourth (3/4) ton capacity, shall be prohibited on all streets
in the Borough; provided, trucks, truck tractors and trailers shall be
permitted upon any street for the purpose of making deliveries to or picking up
goods, wares, merchandise or materials from premises situated upon any such
street or alley.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 313. Penalties.
Any person who shall violate this Section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to the penalty set forth in the applicable Section of the Pennsylvania
Motor Vehicle Code, Title 75 Pa.C.S.A. for a violation of such nature, and, in
cases of a violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the
Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, to a fine in an amount as established from
time to time by a Resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
Part 4
Unlicensed, Uninspected and Dismantled Vehicles
§ 401. Parking and Storage of Unlicensed and Uninspected Vehicles on Streets
and Alleys Restricted.
It shall be unlawful for any owner of any type of motor vehicle requiring a
registration plate and a state inspection sticker under the applicable
provisions of the Vehicle Code*, to park or store or permit the same to be
parked or stored on any public street or public alley within the limits of the
Borough for a period in excess of forty-eight (48) hours, if said motor vehicle
does not have attached to it a current valid registration plate and a current
valid State inspection sticker required under the applicable provisions of the
Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
*75 P.S. §§ 101 et seq. (1977) as hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or
reenacted by the General Assembly of Pennsylvania.
§ 402. Dismantled Vehicles not to be Stored or Parked on Streets and Alleys.
It shall be unlawful for any owner of any motor vehicle requiring a
registration plate and a state inspection sticker under the applicable
provisions of the aforesaid Vehicle Code, to park or store or to permit to be
parked or stored any such motor vehicle on any street or alley within the
Borough when such motor vehicle is to any extent partially dismantled and
inoperable.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 403. Removal of Vehicle.
   1.   Any duly authorized representative of Millheim Borough Council may
remove or cause to be removed to a nearby garage or other place of safety, a
vehicle in violation of any provision of this ordinance. Prior to removal of
such vehicle bearing a registration plate by which the last registered owner of
the vehicle can be determined, notice shall be sent by certified mail to the
last registered owner of the vehicle informing him that unless the vehicle is
moved to a suitable location within five (5) days of the date the notice is
mailed, the vehicle will be removed and held at a suitable facility where it
may be reclaimed. If the vehicle does not bear an identifiable registration
plate, the notice may be secured to the vehicle.
   2.   Within the five (5) day period, the owner shall be given, if requested,
an opportunity to explain to a duly authorized representative of Millheim
Borough Council or the Borough Council why the owner believes the vehicle
should not be removed. If the duly authorized representative of Millheim
Borough Council or Borough Council decide that the vehicle shall be moved, the
owner shall be given an additional forty-eight (48) hours to move the vehicle
or have it moved.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
§ 404. Reclamation Costs.
In order to reclaim the vehicle, the owner shall pay towing and storage costs
and any other fine or penalty as set forth in the applicable Section of the
Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, Title 75 Pa.C.S.A. for a violation of such
nature, and, in cases of a violation for which no specific penalty is set forth
in the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, to a fine in an amount as established
from time to time by a Resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
§ 405. Penalty.
Any person who shall violate this Section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to the penalty set forth in the applicable Section of the Pennsylvania
Motor Vehicle Code, Title 75 Pa.C.S.A. for a violation of such nature, and, in
cases of a violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the
Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, to a fine in an amount as established from
time to time by a Resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
Part 5
Removal and Impoundment of Illegally Parked Vehicles
§ 501. Authority to Remove and Impound Illegally Parked Vehicles.
The duly authorized representative of Millheim Borough Council of the Borough
of Millheim is hereby authorized to remove and impound, or to order the removal
and impoundment of any vehicle parked upon any street, alley, highway or public
property in the Borough in violation of any provision of the law or of any
ordinance of the Borough; provided, no vehicle shall be removed for overtime
parking.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
§ 502. Approved Storage Garages.
The Borough Council shall have authority to designate, from time to time, one
or more garages as approved storage garages, to serve as a pound for the
storage of such impounded vehicles.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 503. Towing and Storage Charges.
Every such approved storage garage shall have authority to charge the owner of
record of every such impounded vehicle the towing and storage charges that
shall be fixed and approved by resolution of the Borough Council.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 504. Garage to Post Bond.
Every such approved storage garage shall furnish a bond in an adequate amount
as shall be fixed by the Borough Council, for the indemnifying of the owner of
any such impounded vehicle against the loss thereof, or injury or damage
thereto, while in the custody of the keeper of the pound.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 505. Notification to Owners of Impounded Vehicles.
Within forty-eight (48) hours from the time of removal of any vehicle under
authority granted by this part, notice of the fact that such vehicle has been
impounded shall be sent by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation to the
owner of record of such vehicle and all lienholders of record. Such notice
shall include the make, model, title number, vehicle identification number and
registration plate number, if known, the location the vehicle is being held,
notification of the right to reclaim said vehicle within thirty (30) days after
the date of the notice upon payment of the current fee established by the
impound agent, and notification that failure to reclaim said vehicle is deemed
consent to the disposition of the vehicle and of all lien holders to
dissolution of their loss or claims.
   If the identity of the last registered owner and of all lienholders cannot
be determined with reasonable certainty, the contents of the notice set forth
above shall be published one time in one newspaper, of general circulation in
the area where the vehicle was abandoned. Notice by publication shall be the
responsibility of the storage garage.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
§ 506. Effect of Payment of Towing and Impoundment Charges Without Protest.
The payment of any towing and impounding charges, authorized by this part
shall, unless such payment shall have been made under protest, be final and
conclusive, and shall constitute a waiver of any right to recover the money so
paid.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 507. Effect of Payment of Towing and Impoundment Charges Under Protest.
In the event that any towing and impounding charges, authorized by this part,
shall be paid under protest, the offender shall be entitled to a hearing before
a District Justice or court of record having jurisdiction, in which case the
defendant shall be proceeded against and shall receive such notice as is
provided for by the Vehicle Code*, in other cases of summary offenses, and
shall have the same rights as to appeal and waiver of hearing.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
*75 P.S. §§ 101-9701 (1977), as hereafter amended, supplemented, modified or
reenacted by the General Assembly of Pennsylvania.
§ 508. Records of Vehicles Removed and Impounded.
The duly authorized representative of Millheim Borough Council shall keep a
record of all vehicles impounded, and it shall be able at all reasonable times
to furnish the owners or agents of the owners thereof, information as to the
place of storage of such vehicles. (Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord.
261, 5/9/2017, §1)
§ 509. Owner or Operator of Vehicle Remains Liable for Fine or Penalty.
The payment of towing and storage charges shall not operate to relieve the
owner or operator of any vehicle from liability for any fine or penalty for the
violation of any law or ordinance on account of which such vehicle was removed
and impounded.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 510. Restrictions upon Removal of Vehicles.
No vehicle shall be removed under the authority of this part if, at the time of
the intended removal thereof, the owner or person for the time being in charge
of such vehicle is present and expresses a willingness and intention to remove
such vehicle immediately.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
Part 6
Snow and Ice Emergency
§ 601. Definitions.
The following words when used in this part shall have the following meanings
unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CHAINS - full chains, strap chains or other types of chains mounted on both
rear wheels of a motorized vehicle.
   SNOW - any precipitation depositing any accumulation on the streets,
including snow, sleet, hail, ice and freezing rain.
   SNOW REMOVAL CONDITION - state of street conditions that are hazardous and
dangerous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic, as so declared by the duly
authorized representative of Millheim Borough Council or such person designated
by the duly authorized representative of Millheim Borough Council.
   SNOW TIRES - tires having treads designed for use in snow, which tires must
be in such condition as to serve the purpose for which they are designed.
   VEHICLE - any self-propelled motorized vehicle licensed to travel upon the
streets, roads and highways of the Borough of Millheim.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
§ 602. Declaration of Snow Removal Condition.
A snow removal condition is hereby declared to exist in the. Borough of
Millheim whenever snow falls accumulating at least three (3) inches in depth or
whenever, in the opinion of the Mayor, or such other person designated by the
Mayor, the street conditions are hazardous and dangerous to vehicular and
pedestrian traffic because of snow and ice accumulation. The Mayor, or such
other person designated by the Mayor, shall have authority to declare a snow
removal condition, notice of which shall immediately be issued to local radio,
television and other news services. A snow removal condition is presumed to
continue for a period of twenty-four (24) hours following the accumulation of
snow, or until such period of time is otherwise designated by the Mayor or the
person designated by the Mayor.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 194, 1/9/2001, § 1)
§ 603. Unattended Vehicles Prohibited During Emergency.
During such time as a snow removal condition is in effect, it shall be a
violation of this part for any person, firm, organization or entity to park,
abandon or leave unattended any vehicle on any streets, roads and highways and
their adjacent right-of-ways within the boundaries of the Borough that have
been publicly designated for snow removal or plowing.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 604. Certain Streets Designated for Snow Removal.
The following street within the Borough is hereby designated for snow removal
or plowing, and parking thereon shall be prohibited while a snow removal
condition is in effect:
 
Street      Between
Main Street Main Street bridge and Plum Street
 
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 194, 1/9/2001, § 2)
§ 605. Snow Tires or Chains Required.
During such time as a snow removal condition is in effect any person, firm,
organization or entity operating or causing to be operated a vehicle which is
not equipped with snow tires or chains upon any street, road or highway within
the boundaries of the Borough resulting in such vehicle becoming stalled or
incapable of moving under its own power, or who leaves such vehicle abandoned
or unattended on any street, road or highway within the boundaries of the
Borough as a result of its inability to move under its own power because of its
failure to be equipped with snow tires or chains, shall be in violation of this
Part 6 and shall be subject to the penalties and fines set forth in §
606.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 606. Penalties.
During such time as a snow removal condition is in effect, any person who shall
park a vehicle anywhere upon or along any of the streets of the Borough that
have been publicly designated for snow removal or plowing shall be guilty of a
violation of this
Part 6 , and upon conviction thereof, be subject to the penalty set forth in
the applicable Section of the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, Title 75
Pa.C.S.A. for a violation of such nature, and, in cases of a violation for
which no specific penalty is set forth in the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code,
to a fine in an amount as established from time to time by a Resolution of
Borough Council.
   Any person who shall operate a vehicle upon any street of the Borough of
Millheim, if such vehicle shall become stalled or immovable during such time as
a snow removal condition is in effect, and if such stalling or immovability
shall have been by reason of the failure to have such vehicle equipped as
prescribed in §
605 of this Chapter, shall be guilty of a violation of this
Part 6, and upon conviction thereof, be subject to the penalty set forth in the
applicable Section of the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, Title 75 Pa.C.S.A.
for a violation of such nature, and, in cases of a violation for which no
specific penalty is set forth in the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, to a fine
in an amount as established from time to time by a Resolution of Borough
Council.
(Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
Part 7
Storage of Motor Vehicle Nuisances
§ 701. Definitions.
As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated,
unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
   JUNK - any discarded material or article such as is not ordinarily disposed
of as rubbish or refuse and includes, but is not limited to, scrap metal and
scrap motor vehicles, but does not include garbage or other organic waste or
paper, rubbish, rags or other flammable articles or material. [Ord. 210]
   LESSEE - owner for the purpose of this Part when the lessor holds the lessee
responsible for maintenance and repairs.
   MOTOR VEHICLE - any type of mechanical device, propelled by a motor, in
which persons or property may be transported upon public streets or highways,
and including trailers or semi-trailers pulled thereby.
   NUISANCE - any condition, structure or improvement which shall constitute a
danger or potential danger to the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of
the Borough of Millheim.
   OWNER - the actual owner, agent or custodian of the property on which motor
vehicles are stored, whether individual or partnership, association or
corporation.
   PERSON - a natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
other legal entity. In this Part, the singular shall include the plural; the
plural shall include the singular; and the masculine shall include the feminine
and the neuter.
(Ord. 203, 12/11/2001, 51; as amended by Ord. 210, 2/11/2003, 51)
§ 702. Motor Vehicle Nuisances Prohibited.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner or lessee to maintain a
motor vehicle nuisance upon the open private grounds of such person, owner or
lessee within the Borough of Millheim. A motor vehicle nuisance shall include
any motor vehicle which is unable to move under its own power and/or has any of
the following physical defects:
      A.   Broken windshields, mirrors or other glass, with sharp edges.
      B.   One or more flat or open tires or tubes which could permit vermin
harborage.
      C.   Missing doors, windows, hood, trunk or other body parts which could
permit animal harborage.
      D.   Any body parts with sharp edges including holes resulting from rust.
      E.   Missing tires resulting in unsafe suspension of the motor vehicle.
      F.   Upholstery which is torn or open which could permit animal and/or
vermin harborage.
      G.   Broken headlamps or tail lamps with sharp edges.
      H.   Disassembled chassis parts apart from the motor vehicle stored in a
disorderly fashion or loose in or on the vehicle.
      I.   Protruding sharp objects from the chassis.
      J.   Broken vehicle frame suspended from the ground in an unstable
manner.
      K.   Leaking or damaged oil pan or gas tank which could cause fire or
explosion.
      L.   Exposed battery containing acid.
      M.   Inoperable locking mechanism for doors or trunk.
      N.   Open or damaged floor boards including trunk and firewall.
      O. Damaged bumpers pulled away from the perimeter of vehicle.
      P.   Broken grill with protruding edges.
      Q.   Loose or damaged metal trim and clips.
      R.   Broken communication equipment antennae.
      S.   Suspended on unstable supports.
      T.   Such other defects which could threaten the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the Borough of Millheim.
   2.   Junkyards Prohibited. No person shall establish, maintain, conduct or
allow any junkyard, either on public property or private property, within the
geographical limits of the Borough of Millheim, Centre County, Pennsylvania.
[Ord. 210]
   3.   Junk and/or Unlicensed Vehicles on Private or Public Property
Prohibited.
      A.   No person shall park, store, leave or permit the parking, storing or
leaving of any licensed or unlicensed motor vehicle of any kind for a period of
time in excess of thirty (30) days, which vehicle is in a rusted, wrecked,
junked or partially dismantled, inoperative or abandoned condition, whether
attended to or not, upon any private property within the Borough of Millheim
unless the same is completely enclosed within a building or other structure or
unless it is in connection with a business enterprise properly operated
pursuant to the ordinances of the Borough of Millheim.
      B.   No person shall park, store, leave or permit the parking, storing or
leaving of more than two (2) unlicensed motor vehicles of any kind for a period
in excess of thirty (30) days at any place or upon any property within the
Borough of Millheim, unless the vehicle is kept in an enclosed storage area.
Upon cause shown and after a hearing at a duly held meeting of Millheim Borough
Council, the Millheim Borough Council may make an exception to this requirement
for an antique, classic or registered collectable motor vehicle provided that
such motor vehicle is stored on premises owned or leased by the collector
seeking such exception and provided that such vehicle is covered with a
suitable covering.
[Ord. 210]
(Ord. 203, 12/11/2001, §2; as amended by Ord. 210, 2/11/2003, §2; and by Ord.
261, 5/9/2017, §1)
§ 703. Storage of Motor Vehicle Nuisances Permitted.
Any person, owner or lessee who has one (1) or more motor vehicle nuisances as
defined in § 702 above may store such vehicle(s) in the Borough of Millheim
only in strict compliance with the regulations provided herein. The motor
vehicle nuisance(s) must be stored within a garage or other enclosed building
or, outside within an opaque fence at least six (6) feet high which is locked
at all times when unattended. In addition, all gas and oil or other flammable
liquid shall be removed from the motor vehicle and it shall be kept free of
vermin infestation while being stored. The total area of storage of motor
vehicle nuisances on any one property may not exceed two hundred (200) square
feet.
(Ord. 203, 12/11/2001, § 3)
§ 704. Inspection of Premises; Notice to Comply.
   1.   The Millheim Borough Council or its designated Enforcement Officer are
hereby empowered to inspect private property on which motor vehicles are stored
to determine if there is compliance with the provisions of this Part. If
noncompliance with the provisions of this Part constitutes a nuisance, or if
any condition, structure or improvement poses a threat to the health, safety,
or welfare of the public, the Millheim Borough Council or its designated
Enforcement Officer shall issue a written notice to be served by registered or
certified mail upon the owner of said premises, or, if the owner's whereabouts
or identity be unknown, by posting the notice conspicuously upon the offending
premises.
   2.   Said notice shall specify the condition or structure or improvement
complained of and shall require the owner to commence to remove or otherwise
rectify the condition or structure or improvement as set forth therein within
ten (10) days of mailing or posting of said notice and thereafter, to fully
comply with the requirements of the notice.
(Ord. 203, 12/11/2001, § 4)
§ 705. Authority to Remedy Noncompliance.
   1.   If the owner of property on which motor vehicles are stored does not
comply with the notice to abate the nuisance, within the time limit prescribed,
the Borough of Millheim shall have the authority to take measures to correct
the conditions and collect the cost of such corrections plus ten percent (10%)
of all costs. The Borough of Millheim, in such event and pursuant to its
statutory or otherwise authorized police powers, shall have the right and power
to enter upon the offending premises to accomplish the foregoing.
   2.   Removal and Impounding of Vehicles and Junk. Upon fifteen (15) days
notice by registered or certified mail to the last known address of the
registered owner or the property owner upon which any junk and/or unlicensed
vehicle or other junk is located, the Code Enforcement Officer is hereby
authorized to remove and impound or to order the removal or impounding of any
vehicle or junk that is parked, placed, stored or located upon private property
within the Borough of Millheim in violation of any of the provisions of this
Part or any other ordinance of the Borough of Millheim. No vehicle or junk
shall be removed or impounded except in accordance with the provisions of this
Section of this Part or any other applicable ordinances of the Borough of
Millheim. The Code Enforcement Officer may remove and impound or order the
removal and impounding, without notice, of any vehicle or junk that is parked,
placed, stored or located on public property within the Borough of Millheim.
The impounder shall have the rights conferred upon such impounder by law for
disposal of unclaimed vehicles. [Ord. 210]
   3.   Notification to Owners of Impounded Vehicles or Junk. Within twelve
(12) hours from the time of removal of any vehicle or junk pursuant to the
provisions of this Part, notice that said vehicle or junk has been impounded
shall be sent by the salvager to the owner of record of such vehicle or to the
property owner or person having custody of the vehicle or junk. Such notice
shall designate the place from which the vehicle or junk was removed, the
reason for its removal and impounding and the location where said vehicle or
junk has been impounded. [Ord. 210]
   4.   Liability for Expense of Removal and Impounding. The costs and expenses
of removing, impounding and storing vehicles and junk pursuant to the
provisions of this Part shall be the responsibility of the owner of the vehicle
or junk or the owner of the property upon which the vehicle or junk is found or
the person in custody of said property upon which the vehicle or junk is found.
[Ord. 210]
   5.   Records. The Code Enforcement Officer shall keep and maintain a record
of all vehicles and junk impounded which shall be available to provide the
owner or agent of the owner thereof with information as to the place of storage
of such impounded vehicles and junk. [Ord. 210]
(Ord. 203, 12/11/2001, § 5; as amended by Ord. 210, 2/11/2003, § 3)
§ 706. Penalties.
Any person who shall violate this Section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to the penalty set forth in the applicable Section of the Pennsylvania
Motor Vehicle Code, Title 75 Pa.C.S.A. for a violation of such nature, and, in
cases of a violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the
Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, to a fine in an amount as established from
time to time by a Resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 203, 12/11/2001, §6; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
§ 707. Remedies Not Mutually Exclusive.
The remedies provided herein for the enforcement of this Part, or any remedy
provided by law, shall not be deemed mutually exclusive; rather they may be
employed simultaneously or consecutively, at the option of the Millheim Borough
Council.
(Ord. 203, 12/11/2001, § 7)
Part 8
Engine Brake Retarders
§ 801. Purpose.
The purpose of this Part is to prohibit the use of an engine brake retarder on
a gasoline powered or diesel powered motor vehicle not equipped with exhaust
mufflers, or equipped with defective or modified exhaust mufflers, which create
excessive noise through the use of said engine brake which adversely affects
the public health, safety and welfare of the residents of the Borough of
Millheim, which action constitutes a nuisance in fact.
(Ord. 235, 10/14/2008, § 1)
§ 802. Engine Brake Retarders Prohibited.
No gasoline powered or diesel powered motor vehicle shall be operated on State
Route 45, State Route 445 and State Route 2011 within the Borough of Millheim,
Centre County, Pennsylvania, utilizing in said operation, an engine brake,
without exhaust mufflers, or with defective or modified exhaust mufflers
permitting excessive noise to be created by said motor vehicle.
(Ord. 235, 10/14/2008, § 2)
§ 803. Emergency Situations.
The provisions of this Part shall not apply to emergency driving situations
requiring the utilization of an engine brake to protect the safety and property
of the residents of the Borough of Millheim, other motor vehicle operators,
pedestrians, and the operator and passengers of the motor vehicle involved in
said emergency situation.
(Ord. 235, 10/14/2008, § 3)
§ 804. Emergency Vehicles.
The provisions of this Part shall not apply to emergency vehicles operated by
volunteer fire companies when responding to emergency calls.
(Ord. 235, 10/14/2008, § 4)
§ 805. Signs.
Signs shall be erected along State Route 45, State Route 445 and State Route
2011 within the Borough of Millheim as required by law, advising of the
prohibition of the use of engine brake retarders.
(Ord. 235, 10/14/2008, § 5)
§ 806. Violations and Penalties.
Any person who shall violate this Section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to the penalty set forth in the applicable Section of the Pennsylvania
Motor Vehicle Code, Title 75 Pa.C.S.A. for a violation of such nature, and, in
cases of a violation for which no specific penalty is set forth in the
Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code, to a fine in an amount as established from
time to time by a Resolution of Borough Council.
(Ord. 235, 10/14/2008, §6; as amended by Ord. 261, 5/9/2017, §1)
Part 9
Recreational Motor Vehicles
§ 901. Purpose.
This ordinance seeks to improve the safety and quiet enjoyment of individuals
living and/or doing business in the Borough of Millheim, and to eliminate noise
and dust and other air and ground pollution incidental to the operation of
ATVs, dirt bikes or other recreational motor vehicles on property within the
limits of the Borough. This ordinance is also intended to prevent a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 253, 1/6/2014, §1)
§ 902. Definitions.
   A.   "SHALL" - For the purposes of this ordinance, the term "shall" is
always mandatory and not discretionary.
   B.   RECREATIONAL MOTORIZED VEHICLES -
   A recreational motor vehicle is defined for purposes of this ordinance as
follows: any self-propelled motorized vehicle used for recreational purposes,
including a trail bike or other all-terrain vehicle, dirt bike, motor scooter,
moped or snowmobile being used for off-road recreational purposes.
   Motor scooter, for purposes of this ordinance, means a vehicle that has
motive power, a seat, but not a saddle, for the driver, two wheels, and a floor
pad for the driver's feet and is not a vehicle intended for use due to the
health issues or disability of the operator.
   All-terrain vehicle, or ATV, for the purposes of this ordinance, means any
motorized vehicle with three or more wheels designed for use off of paved
trails or roads which operates on three or more inflatable tires which are (1)
a maximum of 50 inches and a maximum dry weight of 800 pounds (Class 1 ATV), or
(2) a width which exceeds 50 inches or a dry weight which exceeds 1000 pounds
(Class 2 ATV). The term ATV shall include all-terrain vehicles as described
above, "quads", "quad bikes", and tandem ATV's.
   C.   OWNER - Any person who has legal or equitable title to the property on
which an ATV or other motorized recreational vehicle is being operated.
   D.   OCCUPANT - A person who is legally entitled to reside on the property
on which an ATV, dirt bike or other motorized recreational vehicle is being
operated.
   E.   OPERATOR - A person who is operating an ATV, dirt bike or other
motorized recreational vehicle.
(Ord. 253, 1/6/2014, §2)
§ 903. Operation.
It shall be unlawful for any individual to operate an ATV, dirt bike or other
motorized recreational vehicle, as defined above, on any public or private
street or public or private property in the Borough of Millheim except under
the conditions set forth in §
904  herein.
(Ord. 253, 1/6/2014, §3)
§ 904. Exclusions.
   A.   Specifically excluded from this ordinance are all ATVs, dirt bikes and
other motorized recreational vehicles used by the Millheim Fire Company or
Penns Valley Emergency Medical Service for fire protection or medical rescue
purposes and other municipal and government employees, including military
personnel, using said vehicles for the purpose of carrying out the functions of
their official positions.
   B.   Excluded from this ordinance are motorized wheelchairs or scooters or
other necessary equipment used to transport an individual due to that
individual's physical disability or medical condition as certified by a medical
doctor.
   C.   Also excluded from this ordinance are all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) and
off-road motorized vehicles used as utility vehicles for lawn care, snow
removal or business operations, or any other "reasonable" property maintenance
and/or landscaping.
   D.   Excluded from this ordinance are any Borough sanctioned events such as
the annual Millheim Fire Company #1 tractor pull.
(Ord. 253, 1/6/2014, §4; as amended by Ord. 267, 3/10/2020, §1)
§ 905. Compliance with Pennsylvania Law.
To the extent applicable, this ordinance incorporates by reference
Pennsylvania's All-Terrain Vehicle Law as contained in Part 6, Chapter 77 of
the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code and state regulations set forth in Title 17 Pa.
Code, Chapter 51. All provisions shall be strictly enforced.
(Ord. 253, 1/6/2014, §5)
§ 906. Enforcement.
A violation of this ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance and a summary
offense and shall subject the owner/occupant of the property and/or any person
operating an ATV, dirt bike or other motorized recreational vehicle in
violation of this ordinance to summary offense enforcement proceedings.
   The Code Enforcement Officer(s) of the Millheim Borough are hereby
authorized to make an initial determination of violation of this ordinance and
to enforce provisions of this ordinance.
   All enforcement officers in the state, including local Code Enforcement and
state police, shall have the authority, as set forth in Pennsylvania's
Snowmobile and All-Terrain Vehicle Law and state regulations, to enforce
Pennsylvania's Snowmobile ATV Law, with municipal Code Enforcement and state
police having enforcement authority on private land.
(Ord. 253, 1/6/2014, §6)
§ 907. Jurisdiction.
Any violation of this ordinance shall be within the jurisdiction of the
Magisterial District Judge whose jurisdiction covers the Borough of Millheim as
well as the courts from which the Magisterial District Judge's decision may,
under the statutes of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, be appealed.
(Ord. 253, 1/6/2014, §7)
§ 908. Violations and Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this ordinance shall be fined not less
than $50.00 and not more than $200.00, plus the costs for prosecution, for his
or her first offense, and shall not be fined less than $100.00 nor more than
$300.00, plus the cost of prosecution, for each subsequent offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
   Violation of this ordinance shall be a summary offense, subject to summary
enforcement proceedings and the appropriate officers or agents of the Millheim
Borough are hereby authorized to seek equitable relief, including injunction,
to enforce compliance with this ordinance. Upon default in payment of a fine
and upon a guilty finding of violation of this ordinance, the violator may be
subject to a term of imprisonment up to the maximum allowed for a summary
offense.
(Ord. 253, 1/6/2014, §8)
§ 909. Impoundment of Vehicle.
The Code Enforcement Officer(s) of the Borough may confiscate and impound any
vehicle operated in violation of §
903  or
904 . The vehicle shall be returned to the owner thereof upon payment of any
fine imposed as a result of the violation of this ordinance and upon payment of
any storage charge incurred as a result of the impoundment.
(Ord. 253, 1/6/2014, §9)
CHAPTER 16
PARKS AND RECREATION
Part 1
Fountain Park
   §
101.   Definitions
   §
102.   Park Hours
   §
103.   Prohibited Conduct
   §
104.   Authorization to Promulgate Additional Rules
   §
105.   Authority to Close Park
   §
106.   Penalties
Part 2
Fountain Park Parking Lot
   §
201.   Definitions
   §
202.   Parking Lot Hours
   §
203.   Parking for Certain Types of Vehicles
   §
204.   Manner of Parking
   §
205.   Authorization to Promulgate Additional Rules
   §
206.   Authority to Close Parking Lot
   §
207.   Reserved Spaces for Handicapped and Horse and Buggy
   §
208.   Penalties
Part 1
Fountain Park
§ 101. Definitions.
As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meaning(s) indicated,
unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
   BOROUGH - the Borough of Millheim, Millheim Borough Council, its members,
officers, employees and designees.
   FOUNTAIN PARK - the park, recreation structures and facilities, entrances
and approaches thereto now owned by the Borough of Millheim along East Main
Street in the Borough of Millheim.
   PERSON - any natural person, corporation, organization of persons, company,
association, partnership or other legal entity.
   RULES AND REGULATIONS - any rules and regulations hereby or hereafter
promulgated by the Borough of Millheim by this Ordinance or by Resolution
hereafter adopted.
(Ord. 198, 7/10/2001, § 1)
§ 102. Park Hours.
Fountain Park shall be open daily to the public at such hours as the Borough
may from time to time designate, but in no event shall any person be permitted
to be in attendance in the park between 11:00 p.m. and sunrise, unless special
permission is granted by the Borough.
(Ord. 198, 7/10/2001, § 2)
§ 103. Prohibited Conduct.
No person in attendance at the park shall:
      A.   Injure, deface, remove, cut or damage any of the trees, plants,
shrubs, turf, buildings, structures, signs or fixtures or any other property of
the Borough located within the park.
      B.   Litter any area of the park with garbage, paper, bottles, cans or
other waste material, nor dispose of the same in any way except in receptacles
designed for such purpose.
      C.   Kindle or maintain any fire in the park.
      D.   Remove any bench, seat, table or other appliance from the park
without permission of the Borough.
      E.   Injure, deface, destroy or remove any notice, rule or regulation
posted at any place within the park by authority of the Borough; nor shall any
notice or placard be posted within the park other than by authority of the
Borough.
      F.   Set up any booth, table or stand for the sale or display of any
article or service whatsoever within the limits of the park without permission
of the Borough; distribute, sell, service or rent any services or commodity or
solicit for any purpose without permission of the Borough.
      G.   Operate, stop or park any vehicle, bicycle, skateboard, roller blade
or other means of conveyance.
      H.   Bring onto the park property, possess or consume any alcoholic
beverage or illegal substance of any kind; no person shall enter the park in an
intoxicated condition or otherwise be under the influence of alcohol or illegal
substances.
      I.   Carry or discharge any firearms, slingshots, firecrackers, fireworks
or other missile propelling instruments or explosives or arrows or other
dangerous weapons which have such properties as to cause annoyance or injury to
any person or property, unless permission has been granted by the Borough in
designated areas.
      J.   Disrobe or change clothing.
      K.   Disturb the peace by any conduct so as to annoy any other person
using the park.
      L.   Use threatening, abusive, insulting, profane or obscene language or
words.
      M.   Commit any disorderly or immoral acts.
      N.   Disobey, disregard or fail to comply with any rule, regulation,
warning, prohibition, instruction or direction given by an authorized person of
the Borough or posted or displayed by sign, notice, bulletin, card or poster.
      O.   Allow pets to run at large out of control or fail to clean up and
properly dispose of animal waste.
(Ord. 198, 7/10/2001, § 3)
§ 104.   Authorization to Promulgate Additional Rules.
The Borough is authorized to establish additional rules and regulations as
deemed necessary by resolution.
(Ord. 198, 7/10/2001, § 4)
§ 105. Authority to Close Park.
The Borough may close any part of the park which becomes hazardous for public
use due to weather, water, fire or unforeseeable conditions.
(Ord. 198, 7/10/2001, § 5)
§ 106. Penalties.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than six
hundred dollars ($600.00) and, in default of payment, to imprisonment for a
term not to exceed thirty (30) days.
(Ord. 198, 7/10/2001, § 6)
Part 2
Fountain Park Parking Lot
§ 201. Definitions.
As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meaning(s) indicated,
unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
   BOROUGH - the Borough of Millheim, Millheim Borough Council, its members,
officers, employees and designees.
   PARKING LOT - the municipal parking lot, entrances and approaches thereto
now owned by the Borough of Millheim adjacent to Fountain Park along East Main
Street in the Borough of Millheim.
   PERSON - any natural person, corporation, organization of persons, company,
association, partnership or other legal entity.
   RULES AND REGULATIONS - any rules and regulations hereby or hereafter
promulgated by the Borough of Millheim by this Part or by resolution hereafter
adopted.
(Ord. 199, 7/10/2001, § 1)
§ 202. Parking Lot Hours.
The parking lot shall be open twenty-four (24) hours per day seven (7) days per
week to the public for the unmetered parking of vehicles.
(Ord. 199, 7/10/2001, § 2)
§ 203. Parking for Certain Types of Vehicles.
The parking lot shall be for the use of passenger cars, passenger vans and
pickup trucks only, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park any other
kind or class of vehicle in the parking lot.
(Ord. 199, 7/10/2001, § 3)
§ 204. Manner of Parking.
Every vehicle parked in the parking lot shall be parked wholly within the lines
bounding or marking the individual parking spaces. It shall be unlawful for any
person:
      A.   To park a vehicle otherwise than as required by this Section.
      B.   To park a vehicle elsewhere than in an individual parking space, the
prohibited areas including, but not limited to, the access and exit driveways
and turning and maneuvering spaces.
      C.   To park a vehicle in the parking lot which is not currently licensed
and inspected.
      D.   To park any abandoned or unlicensed vehicle in the parking lot.
      E.   To repair or perform maintenance on any vehicle parked in the
parking lot.
      F.   To park any vehicle in a parking space designed for handicapped or
for use by handicapped persons or horse and buggy parking.
      G.   Litter any area of the parking lot with garbage, paper, bottles,
cans or other waste material, nor dispose of the same in any way except in
receptacles designed for such purpose.
      H.   Kindle or maintain any fire in the parking lot.
      I.   Injure, deface, destroy or remove any notice, rule or regulation
posted at any place within the parking lot by authority of the Borough, nor
shall any notice or placard be posted within the parking lot other than by
authority of the Borough.
      J.   Set up any booth, table or stand for the sale or display of any
article or service whatsoever within the limits of the parking lot without
permission of the Borough; distribute, sell, service or rent any services or
commodity or solicit for any purpose without permission of the Borough.
      K.   Operate, stop or park any bicycle, skateboard or roller blade.
      L.   Bring onto the parking lot, possess or consume any alcoholic
beverage or illegal substance of any kind; no person shall enter the parking
lot in an intoxicated condition or otherwise be under the influence of alcohol
or illegal substances.
      M.   Carry or discharge any firearms, slingshots, firecrackers, fireworks
or other missile propelling instruments or explosives or arrows, or other
dangerous weapons which have such properties as to cause annoyance or injury to
any person or property, unless permission has been granted by the Borough in
designated areas.
      N.   Disturb the peace by any conduct so as to annoy any other person
using the parking lot.
      O.   Use threatening, abusive, insulting, profane or obscene language or
words.
      P.   Commit any disorderly or immoral acts.
      Q.   Disobey, disregard or fail to comply with any rule, regulation,
warning, prohibition, instruction or direction given by an authorized person of
the Borough or posted or displayed by sign, notice, bulletin, card or poster.
      R.   Allow pets to run at large out of control or fail to clean up and
properly dispose of animal waste.
      S.   Injure, deface, remove, cut or damage any of the trees, plants,
shrubs, turf, buildings, structures, signs or fixtures, or any other property
of the Borough located within the parking lot.
(Ord. 199, 7/10/2001, § 4)
§ 205.   Authorization to Promulgate Additional Rules.
The Borough is authorized to establish additional rules and regulations as
deemed necessary by resolution.
(Ord. 199, 7/10/2001, § 5)
§ 206. Authority to Close Parking Lot.
The Borough may close all or any part of the parking lot which becomes
hazardous for public use due to weather, water, fire or unforeseeable
conditions.
(Ord. 199, 7/10/2001, § 6)
§ 207. Reserved Spaces for Handicapped and Horse and Buggy.
The Borough, at its discretion, may provide, at convenient and suitable
locations in the parking lot, reserved parking spaces for handicapped and horse
and buggy and shall designate those spaces by appropriate signs. It shall be
unlawful, and a violation of this Part, for any person to park in any such
reserved parking space, any vehicle unless that vehicle bears or displays
either a handicapped registration plate, a handicapped parking placard, a
disabled veteran registration plate or a disabled veteran placard, or is a
horse and buggy. Provided, that all provisions, requirements and restrictions
contained in the other sections of this Part shall apply to all vehicles
lawfully parked in reserved parking spaces for handicapped or for horse and
buggy.
(Ord. 199, 7/10/2001, § 7)
§ 208. Penalties.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than six
hundred dollars ($600.00) and in default of payment, to imprisonment for a term
not to exceed thirty (30) days.
(Ord. 199, 7/10/2001, § 8)
CHAPTER 17
PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
CHAPTER 18
SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
Part 1
Individual and Community Sewage Disposal Systems
   §
101.   Short Title
   §
102.   Definitions
   §
103.   Permits
   §
104.   Inspections
   §
105.   Adoption of the Rules and Regulations of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, Department of Environmental Resources, Including Title 25,
Chapter 71 and 73, as Amended
   §
106.   Fees
   §
107.   Restraining Violations
   §
108.   Penalty
Part 2
Millheim Borough Sewer System
A.   General Provisions.
   §
201.   Authority
   §
202.   Title
   §
203.   Declaration of Purpose
   §
204.   Definitions
B.   Connection to the Sewer System Required.
   §
211.   Connection to Public Sewers Required
   §
212.   Use of Sewer System
   §
213.   Prohibited Sanitary Sewage or Industrial Waste Disposal Methods
   §
214.   Privy Vaults, Cesspools, Sinkholes, Septic Tanks or Similar Receptacles
   §
215.   Connection Notice
   §
216.   Failure to Make Required Connection
C.   Application for Service Building Sewers and Connections.
   §
221.   General Rule
   §
222.   Change in Ownership or Tenancy
   §
223.   Acceptance of Application
   §
224.   Application Forms
   §
225.   Connection Prohibited
   §
226.   Conditions for Connection to Sewer
   §
227.   Building Sewers
   §
228.   Independent Connection
   §
229.   Temporary Service
D.   Rules and Regulations Governing Building Sewers and Connections to Sewers.
   §
231.   Building Sewers for Improved Properties
   §
232.   Separate Trench
   §
233.   Owner's Responsibility
   §
234.   Right to Reject
   §
235.   Required Connection
   §
236.   Unsatisfactory Conditions
   §
237.   Construction Materials and Methods
   §
238.   Procedure During Excavation
   §
239.   Grinder Pumps
   §
240.   Inspection
   §
241.   Service Prohibited In Floodplains
   §
242.   Service Prohibited In Wetlands
   §
243.   Service Prohibited In Agricultural Important Lands
   §
244.   Right to Adopt Additional Rules
E.   Fees, Rates and Charges.
   §
251.   Tapping Fees Required
   §
252.   Customer Facilities Fee Required
   §
253.   When Certain Fees Not Required
   §
254.   Rates and Charges
   §
255.   Multiple Use Improved Property
   §
256.   Surcharges
   §
257.   Information to be Provided by the Owner
   §
258.   Separate Agreements
   §
259.   Inspection Fee
   §
260.   Amendment of Fees and Rates
F.   Billing and Collection.
   §
261.   Frequency
   §
262.   Billing Due Date
   §
263.   Late Payment Charge
   §
264.   Billing Address
   §
265.   Change In Ownership
   §
266.   Returned Check Charges
   §
267.   Disputed Bills
   §
268.   Deposits
   §
269.   Liens for Fees and Charges
   §
270.   Civil Action
G.   Discontinuance of Service, Termination of Service and Restoration of
Service.
   §
271.   Discontinuance by User
   §
272.   Termination by Borough
   §
273.   Restoration of Service
H.   Extension of Sewer Mains.
   §
281.   General Provisions
   §
282.   Bona Fide Customer Initiated Sewer Main Extensions
   §
283.   Developer Initiated Sewer Main Extensions
   §
284.   Agreements
I.   Admission of Industrial Wastes Into the Sewer System.
   §
291.   Permits Required
   §
292.   Information Required
   §
293.   Reports by Major Contributors
   §
294.   Control Manholes and Sampling
   §
295.   Changes in Discharge
   §
296.   Grease and Oil Interceptors
   §
297.   Mechanical Garbage Grinders
   §
298.   Equalization of Flows
J.   Prohibited Wastes.
   §
299.1.   Prohibited Discharges
   §
299.2.
   Prohibited Waste Characteristics
   §
299.3.
   Permits Required
   §
299.4.
   Promulgation of Federal Standards
   §
299.5.
   Dilution Prohibited
   §
299.6.
   Continuation of Service
   §
299.7.
   Special Agreements
   §
299.8.
   Pretreatment Facilities
K.   Waivers and Amendments.
   §
299.11.
   Waivers
   §
299.12.
   Additional Rules and Regulations
L.   Violations and Enforcement.
   §
299.21.
   Separate Offenses
   §
299.22.
   Penalties for Violation
   §
299.23.
   Enforcement
M.   Miscellaneous.
   §
299.31.
   Number and Gender
   §
299.32.
   Right of Access
   §
299.33.
   Grinder Pumps
   §
299.34.
   Tenants
Part 1
Individual and Community Sewage Disposal Systems
§ 101. Short Title.
This
Part 1 shall be known and may be cited as the "Millheim Borough Ordinance
Implementing Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act".
(Ord. 123, 6/2/1975, § 1)
§ 102. Definitions.
The definitions as set forth in Section 2 of the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities
Act, being the Act of January 24, 1966, P.L. 1535, as amended are incorporated
herein by reference.
In addition to the definition set forth in the Act, the following words and
phrases shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section unless the
context clearly indicates otherwise:
   ACT - the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act, the Act of January 24, 1966,
P.L. 1535, hereinbefore or hereinafter amended.
   APPROVING BODY - Millheim Borough, Centre County, Pennsylvania. BOROUGH -
the Borough of Millheim, Centre County, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 123, 6/2/1975, § 2)
§ 103. Permits.
   1.   Notwithstanding Section 7 of the Act, no person shall install an
individual or community sewage disposal system or construct any building in
which an individual or community sewage disposal system is to be installed
within the Borough without first obtaining a permit indicating that the site
and the plans and specifications of such system are in compliance with the
provisions of this Part, the Act and the standards, rules and regulations
adopted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of Environmental
Resources.
   2.   Applications for a permit shall be in writing to the Secretary of the
Borough and shall be made on a formal application blank which shall be
furnished by the Secretary of the Borough, and each application shall include
such data as shall be prescribed by the technical standards adopted by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of Environmental Resources.
   3.   Issuance of permits shall be in accordance with Section 7 of the Act
and all of the provisions of Section 7 of the Act are incorporated herein by
reference.
(Ord. 123, 6/2/1975, § 3)
§ 104. Inspections.
Inspections of applications and the site and the installation itself shall be
in accordance with the provisions of Section 7 of the Act. The Borough Council
shall from time to time designate and appoint a sewage enforcement officer who
shall carry out the inspection in accordance with this Part, and Section 7 of
the Act and also with the rules and regulations of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, Department of Environmental Resources, which are incorporated
herein.
(Ord. 123, 6/2/1975, § 4)
§ 105. Adoption of the Rules and Regulations of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, Department of Environmental Resources, Including Title 25,
Chapter 71 and 73, as Amended.
This Borough hereby enacts and ordains and adopts as part of this
Part 1, the rules and regulations of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
Department of Environmental Resources, including Title 25, Chapter 71 and 73,
as amended. All such rules, regulations and standards are incorporated in this
Part 1 by reference. Copies of these regulations shall be available for
inspection at the time of application for a permit.
(Ord. 123, 6/2/1975, § 5)
§ 106.   Fees.
   1.   Permit Fees - The applicant shall pay a fee with the application for
the permit, which fee shall be made payable to the Borough and shall cover the
ordinary administration of this Part, including initial completion of the
application, issuance of the permit, and closer inspection of premises by the
sewage enforcement officer for a conventional subsurface sewerage system. Such
fee shall be established from time to time by resolution of the Borough.
   2.   Additional Inspections and Tests - In the event the municipality deems
it necessary to make additional inspections or to make additional percolation
tests or any other tests as required to be made by the applicant under the Act
and the regulations of the Department of Environmental Resources, the applicant
shall pay to the Borough, the actual cost of such additional inspections or
such percolation tests or other tests made by the Borough which shall be paid
to the Borough prior to the issuance of the permit.
   3.   Denial of Permit - In the event the application for the subsurface
sewerage system is denied and the applicant desires to install an alternate
subsurface sewerage system, a separate application and fee shall be required
before a permit is issued. Such additional fees shall be established from time
to time by resolution of the Borough.
(Ord. 123, 6/2/1975, § 6)
§ 107. Restraining Violations.
In accordance with Section 11 of the Act, the Borough shall have the power to
institute in the Court of Common Pleas of Centre County, Pennsylvania,
proceedings in law or in equity to restrain any and all violations of Section 7
of the Act and the provisions of this Part. Such proceedings shall be
instituted in the name of the Borough of Millheim.
(Ord. 123, 6/2/1975, § 7)
§ 108. Penalty.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this Part or of the Act
or the rules, regulations or standards promulgated hereunder, or who resist or
interfere with any officer, agent or employee of the Borough in the performance
of his duties shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) plus costs and, in default of
payment of said fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed thirty
(30) days.
(Ord. 123, 6/2/1975, § 8; as amended by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; and by Ord. 189,
6/1/1999)
Part 2
Millheim Borough Sewer System
A.   General Provisions.
§ 201. Authority.
This Part is adopted in conformance with and pursuant to authority granted by
§§ 1006(3), 1202(2), 1202(24), 2001, 2008, 2051, 2053 and 2061 of the Borough
Code, as amended.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 1.01)
§ 202.   Title.
This Part shall be known and may be cited as the "Millheim Borough Sewer System
Ordinance."
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 1.02)
§ 203. Declaration of Purpose.
It is declared that the enactment of this Part is necessary for the protection,
benefit and preservation of health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of
the Borough.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 1.03)
§ 204.   Definitions.
Unless the context specifically and clearly indicates otherwise, the meaning of
terms and phases used in this Part shall be as follows:
   APPLICANT - a person who applies to become a customer of the Borough in
accordance with
Part 2C. A person shall not be eligible to be a customer unless the person is
an owner or occupies the property to be served under a written lease of at
least twelve (12) months.
   AMMONIA NITROGEN AS "N" - ammonia nitrogen as determined pursuant to the
procedure set forth in the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater," published by American Public Health
Association.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND) - the quantity of oxygen, expressed in ppm
by weight, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under
standard laboratory procedure for five (5) days at twenty (20) degrees
Centigrade. The standard laboratory procedure shall be that found in the latest
edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,"
published by the American Public Health Association.
   BONA FIDE, PROSPECTIVE CUSTOMER - any owner or lessee who is or will be the
occupant of an existing premises, owned or leased by him, which premises has a
curbline abutting on that part of a street or highway in which there is or is
to be located a sewer and which premises will receive service to begin
immediately following installation of the sewer and lateral.
   BOROUGH - the Borough of Millheim, Centre County, Pennsylvania, a political
subdivision, acting by and through the Millheim Borough Council or, in
appropriate cases, by and through its authorized representatives.
   BUILDING SEWER - the extension from the sewage drainage system of any
improved property to the lateral serving such improved property.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT - any room, group of rooms, building or enclosure,
or group thereof, connected, directly or indirectly, to the sewer system and
used or intended for use in the operation of a business enterprise for the sale
and distribution of any project, commodity, article or service, which maintains
separate toilet, sink or other plumbing facilities in the room or group of
which rooms utilized for such business enterprise.
   COMMONWEALTH - the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   CONNECTION ORDINANCE - this Part, as enacted by the Borough, requiring all
owners of any improved property located in the Borough, which is benefitted,
improved or accommodated by a sewer, to connect to such sewer and use the same
in such manner as this Borough may ordain.
   COUNCIL - the Council of the Borough.
   DEVELOPER - any owner, promoter, broker, builder or contractor or similar
individual or entity engaged in the development or improvement of real estate
or in the construction of residences, as opposed to a person who will occupy
the subject property or premises at the time permanent sewer service is
established.
   DWELLING UNIT - any room, group of rooms, house trailer, apartment,
condominium, cooperative or other enclosure connected, directly or indirectly,
to the sewer system and occupied or intended for occupancy as living quarters
by an individual, a single family or other discrete group of persons, excluding
institutional dormitories.
   EDUCATIONAL ESTABLISHMENT - any room, group of rooms, building or other
enclosure connected, directly or indirectly, to the sewer system and used or
intended for use, in whole or in part, for educational purposes, including both
public and private schools or colleges.
   EPA - the Environmental Protection Agency of the United Sates of America.
   EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT or EDU - the unit of measure by which the user
charge and the tapping fee shall be imposed upon each improved property, as
determined in this Part or in any subsequent ordinance of the Borough, which
shall be deemed to constitute the estimated, equivalent amount of domestic
sanitary sewage discharged by a single-family dwelling unit.
   EXTENSION DEPOSIT AGREEMENT - an agreement between the Borough and either a
bona fide customer or a developer which includes (i) the specifications for the
sewer extension to be installed; (ii) amounts to be paid; and (iii) any other
reasonable terms and conditions.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY - any property upon which there is erected a structure
intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy or use by human
beings or animals and from which structure domestic sanitary sewage and/or
industrial wastes shall be or may be discharged, which is located within the
sewered area and is subject to this Part.
   INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT - any improved property used or intended for use,
wholly or in part, for the manufacturing, processing, cleaning, laundering or
assembling of any product, commodity or article, or any other improved property
from which wastes, in addition to or other than domestic sanitary sewage, shall
or may be discharged.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES - any and all wastes discharged from an industrial
establishment and/or any wastewater having characteristics which may have the
potential to be detrimental to the treatment plant, other than domestic
sanitary sewage.
   INSTITUTIONAL ESTABLISHMENT - any room, group of rooms, building or other
enclosure connected, directly or indirectly, to the sewer system, including
institutional dormitories and educational establishments, which do not
constitute a commercial establishment, a dwelling unit or an industrial
establishment.
   LARGE CONSUMER - a person whose metered or estimated consumption of water is
in excess of twenty-two thousand five hundred (22,500) gallons per calendar
quarter in the case of a dwelling unit, or any commercial establishment,
educational establishment, institutional establishment or industrial
establishment, regardless of water consumption or volume of domestic sanitary
sewage or industrial wastes discharged.
   LATERAL - that part of the sewer system extending from a sewer to the
curbline or, if there is no curbline, to the property line or, if no such
extension is provided, then "lateral" shall mean that portion of, or place in,
a sewer that is provided for connection of any building sewer.
   MULTIPLE USE IMPROVED PROPERTY - any improved property upon which there
shall exist any combination of a dwelling unit, commercial establishment,
industrial establishment, educational establishment or institutional
establishment.
   NONREFUNDABLE CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT - an agreement between the Borough and
a developer which is essentially identical to an extension deposit agreement,
except that the Borough will not be required to pay refunds pursuant to a
nonrefundable contribution agreement.
   OWNER - any person vested with title, legal or equitable, sole or partial,
of any improved property.
   PERSON - any individual, partnership, company, association, society, trust,
corporation or other group or entity, including municipalities, municipality
authorities, school districts and other units of government. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing or imposing a penalty, person shall mean, when applied
to a firm, partnership or association, the partners or members thereof, and
when applied to a corporation, the officers thereof.
   Ph - the logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions,
expressed in grams per liter of solution, indicating the degree of acidity or
alkalinity of a substance.
   PPM - parts per million parts water, by weight.
   SANITARY SEWAGE - normal water carried household and toilet wastes from any
improved property.
   SEWER - any pipe or conduit constituting a part of the sewer system used or
usable for collection of domestic sanitary sewage and/or industrial wastes.
   SEWERED AREA - that geographic area of the Borough served by the sewer
system as determined and designated, from time to time, by the Council of the
Borough.
   SEWER SYSTEM - all facilities, at any particular time, acquired,
constructed, operated and/or owned by the Borough for collecting, pumping,
transporting, treating and/or disposing of domestic sanitary sewage and/or
industrial wastes.
   STREET - any street, road, lane, court, cul-de-sac, alley, public way or
public square, including such streets as are dedicated to public use and such
streets as are owned by private persons.
   TAPPING FEE - a fee against the owner of any improved property in the area
served by the sewer system which actually connects or is required to be
connected pursuant to this Part, .then in effect requiring such connection or
otherwise connects to the sewer system.
   TOTAL PHOSPHORUS AS "P" - total phosphorus as determined pursuant to the
procedure set forth in the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater," published by the American Public Health
Association.
   TOTAL SOLIDS - solids determined by evaporating at one hundred (100) degrees
Centigrade, a mixed sample of wastewater as determined pursuant to the
procedure set forth in the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater," published by the American Public Health
Association. Total solids include floating solids, suspended solids, settleable
solids and dissolved solids, as defined below:
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS - solids determined by standard laboratory procedure in the
waste.
   SETTLEABLE SOLIDS - solids that settle in an Imhoff cone from a standard
sample of waste.
   DISSOLVED SOLIDS - solids that are dissolved in the waste and cannot be
removed by filtration but can be determined by evaporation.
   TREATMENT PLANT - the sewage treatment and disposal system facilities to be
acquired and constructed by the Borough, together with all appurtenant
facilities and properties and together with any additions, improvements,
enlargements and/or modifications thereto from time to time acquired or
constructed.
   USER - any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the sewer system or the treatment plant from an improved
property.
   USER CHARGE - the monthly rental or charge imposed by the Borough hereunder,
as amended from time to time, against the owner of each improved property, for
the use or availability of use of the sewer system.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 1.04)
B.   Connection to Sewer System Required.
§ 211. Connection to Public Sewers Required.
The owner of any improved property located within this Borough and benefitted,
improved or accommodated by a sewer shall connect such improved property with
such sewer, in such manner as this Borough may require, within forty-five (45)
days after notice to such owner from this Borough to make such connection for
the purpose of discharging all sanitary sewage and industrial wastes from such
improved property; subject, however, to such limitations and restrictions as
shall be established herein or otherwise shall be established by this Borough
from time to time.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 2.01)
§ 212. Use of Sewer System.
All sanitary sewage and industrial wastes from any improved property, after
connection of such improved property with a sewer shall be required under §
211, shall be conducted into such sewer; subject, however, to such limitations
and restrictions as shall be established herein or otherwise shall be
established by the Borough, from time to time.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 2.02)
§ 213. Prohibited Sanitary Sewage or Industrial Waste Disposal Methods.
   1.   No person shall place, shall deposit or shall permit to be placed or to
be deposited upon public or private property within this Borough any sanitary
sewage or industrial wastes in violation of §
211.
   2.   No person shall discharge or permit to be discharged to any natural
outlet within this Borough any sanitary sewage or industrial wastes in
violation of §
211, except where suitable treatment has been provided which is satisfactory to
this Borough.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 2.03)
§ 214.   Privy Vaults, Cesspools, Sinkholes, Septic Tanks, or Similar
Receptacles.
   1.   No privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or similar receptacle
shall be used or shall be maintained at any time upon any improved property
which has been connected to a sewer or that shall be required under §
211 to be connected to a sewer.
   2.   Every such privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or similar
receptacle in existence shall be abandoned and, at the discretion of the
Borough, shall be cleansed and shall be filled at the expense of the owner of
such improved property, unless otherwise provided for by the Borough, under the
direction and supervision of the Borough; and any such privy vault, cesspool,
sinkhole, septic tank or similar receptacle not so abandoned and, if required
by the Borough, not cleansed and filled shall constitute a nuisance, and such
nuisance may be abated, as provided by law, at the expense of the owner of such
improved property.
   3.   No privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or similar receptacle
at any time shall be connected with a sewer.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 2.04)
§ 215.   Connection Notice.
The notice by this Borough to make a connection to a sewer, referred to in §
211, shall include a reference to this Part, including any amendments or
supplements at the time in effect, or a summary of each Section thereof, and a
written or printed document requiring the connection in accordance with the
provisions of this Part and specifying that such connection shall be made
within forty-five (45) days from the date such notice is given or served. Such
notice may be given or served at any time after a sewer is in place that can
receive and can convey sanitary sewage and industrial wastes for treatment and
disposal from the particular improved property. Such notice shall be given or
served to the owner either by personal service or by registered mail or by such
other method in accordance with the law.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 2.05)
§ 216.   Failure to Make Required Connection.
If the owner of any improved property benefitted, improved or accommodated by a
sewer, after forty-five (45) days notice from this Borough requiring the
connection of such improved property with a sewer, in accordance with §
211, shall fail to connect such improved property and use the sewer system, as
required, this Borough may make such connection and may collect from such owner
the costs and expenses thereof by a municipal claim, an action in assumpsit or
such other legal proceeding in the manner permitted by law.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 2.06)
C.   Application for Service Building Sewers and Connections.
§ 221. General Rule.
All applications for service must be in the form provided by the Borough and
signed by the owner or owners of the improved property to which sewer service
can or will be provided; except, that, where a lessee of the improved property
occupies or uses the improved property under a lease having a fixed term of
more than twelve (12) months, a lessee may make an application for service in
his, her or its name. The Borough may also, at its sole discretion, require
that a separate contract for service be signed by the applicant.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 3.01)
§ 222. Change in Ownership or Tenancy.
A new application must be made to the Borough upon any change in ownership
where the owner of the improved property is the user, or upon any change in the
identity of a lessee where a lessee of the improved property is the user. The
Borough shall have the right to discontinue water service upon three (3) days
notice, if a new application has not been made for the new user.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 3.02)
§ 223. Acceptance of Application.
An application for service shall be considered accepted by the Borough only
upon oral or written approval by the Borough. The Borough may provide service
to the applicant, pending review and acceptance of the application.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 3.03)
§ 224. Application Forms.
Application forms may be obtained at the Borough office presently located at
225 West Main Street, Millheim, Pennsylvania 16854.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 3.04)
§ 225. Connection Prohibited.
No person shall uncover, connect with, make any opening into or shall use,
alter or disturb, in any manner, any sewer or any part of the sewer system
without first obtaining a permit, in writing, from the Borough.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 3.05)
§ 226. Conditions for Connection to Sewer.
No person shall make or shall cause to be made a connection of any improved
property with a sewer until such person shall have fulfilled each of the
following conditions:
      A.   Such person shall have notified the designated representative of the
Borough of the desire and intention to connect such improved property to a
sewer.
      B.   Such person shall have applied for and shall have obtained a permit
as required by §
225.
      C.   Such person shall have given the designated representative of the
Borough at least forty-eight (48) hours notice of the time when such connection
will be made so that the Borough may supervise and inspect, or may cause to be
supervised and inspected, the work of connection and necessary testing.
      D.   If applicable, such person shall have furnished satisfactory
evidence to the designated representative of the Borough that any fee that may
be charged and imposed by the Borough against the owner of each improved
property who connects such improved property to a sewer has been paid.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 3.06)
§ 227. Building Sewers.
   1.   All costs and expenses of construction of a building sewer and all
costs and expenses of connection of a building sewer to a sewer, including
testing, shall be borne by the owner of the improved property to be connected
and such owner shall indemnify and shall save harmless this Borough from all
loss or damage that may be occasioned, directly or indirectly, as a result of
construction of a building sewer or of connection of a building sewer to a
sewer.
   2.   A building sewer shall be connected to a sewer at the place designated
by the Borough and where, if applicable, the lateral is provided.
   3.   The invert of a building sewer at the point of connection shall be at
the same or a higher elevation than the invert of the sewer. A smooth, neat
joint shall be made and the connection of a building sewer to the lateral shall
be made secure and watertight.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 3.07)
§ 228. Independent Connection.
Except as otherwise provided in this Section, each improved property shall be
connected separately and independently with a sewer through a building sewer.
Grouping of more than one (1) improved property, or more than one (1) structure
on a single improved property, on one building sewer shall not be permitted,
except under special circumstances and for good sanitary reasons or other good
cause shown, but then only after special permission of the Borough, in writing,
shall have been secured and only subject to such rules, regulations and
conditions as may be prescribed by the Borough.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 3.08)
§ 229. Temporary Service.
In the case of temporary service for short term use, the Borough may require
the customer to pay all costs of making the service connection and removing the
material after the service has been discontinued, or to pay a fixed amount in
advance to cover such expenses. However, if the material is removed, the
customer shall be credited with the reasonable salvage which the Borough will
receive on discontinuance of service.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 2.09)
D.   Rules and Regulations Governing Building Sewers and Connection to Sewers.
§ 231. Building Sewers for Improved Properties.
The Borough reserves the right to determine the size, kind and depth of the
building sewer. The building sewer shall be furnished, installed, maintained
and/or replaced, when necessary, by and at the sole expense of the owner.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 4.01)
§ 232. Separate Trench.
The building sewer shall not be laid in the same trench with water line, the
facilities of any other public utility or of any municipality or municipal
authority that provides a public utility service, or within three (3) feet of
any open excavation or walk, unless a written exception is granted by the
Borough.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 4.02)
§ 233. Owner's Responsibilities.
Every building sewer of any improved property shall be maintained in a sanitary
and safe operating condition by the owner of such improved property.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 4.03)
§ 234. Right to Reject.
The Borough may refuse to connect with any building sewer or provide sewer
service through a building sewer already connected if such building sewer is
not properly installed or maintained.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 4.04)
§ 235. Required Connection.
Where an improved property, at the time connection to a sewer is required,
shall be served by its own sewage disposal system or sewage disposal device,
the existing house sewer line shall be broken on the structure side of such
sewage disposal system or sewage disposal device and attachment shall be made,
with proper fittings, to continue such house sewer line as a building sewer.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 4.05)
§ 236. Unsatisfactory Conditions.
If any person shall fail or shall refuse, upon receipt of a written notice from
this Borough, to remedy any unsatisfactory condition with respect to a building
sewer within twenty-one (21) days of receipt of such notice, this Borough may
refuse to permit such person to discharge sanitary sewage and industrial wastes
into the sewer system until such unsatisfactory condition shall have been
remedied to the satisfaction of the Borough.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 4.06; as amended by Ord. 239, 12/8/2009, § 4)
§ 237. Construction Materials and Methods.
The materials and methods used in constructing the building sewer shall be
subject to approval or rejection by the Borough. See the Schedule for
Construction Standards. 1  
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 4.07)
1 Editor's Note: Schedule F, “Construction Standards,” is on file at the
Borough office.
§ 238. Procedure During Excavation.
Every excavation for a building sewer shall be guarded adequately with
barricades and lights to protect all persons from damage and injury. Any
street, sidewalk and other public property disturbed in the course of
installation of a building sewer shall be restored, at the cost and expense of
the owner of the improved property being connected, in a manner satisfactory to
the Borough.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 4.08)
§ 239. Grinder Pumps.
If an improved property is unable to obtain sewer service by gravity flow, the
Borough may allow, upon review and approval, a residential grinder pump to lift
sanitary sewage to the sewer. However, such grinder pump will be the sole
responsibility of the owner of the improved property.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 4.09)
§ 240. Inspection.
   1.   The Borough shall have the right to inspect an improved property to
determine compliance with this Part and the rules and regulations governing
service from the sewer system.
   2.   No building sewer shall be covered until it has been inspected and
approved by the Borough. If any part of a building sewer is covered before so
being inspected and approved, it shall be uncovered for inspection at the cost
and expense of the owner of the improved property to be connected to a sewer.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 4.10)
§ 241. Service Prohibited in Floodplains.
Sewer service shall not be provided to new users located within the one hundred
(100) year floodplain as defined as Zones A, AE, AH, or AO on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map for Millheim Borough, Community Panel Number 4202650001B,
dated June 5, 1989, or updated version of said map.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 4.11)
§ 242. Service Prohibited in Wetlands.
Sewer service shall not be provided to new users located in wetlands. All users
located in hydric or hydric included soils as defined by the “Soil Survey of
Centre County, Pennsylvania,” prepared by the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
shall provide a wetland delineation prepared by a qualified wetlands expert
showing that the construction of roads and structures are located outside the
delineated wetland areas prior to approval of sewer service to the user.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 4.12)
§ 243. Service Prohibited in Agriculture Important Lands.
Sewer service shall not be provided to new users located in agricultural
important farmlands outside the project impact area identified on maps prepared
by the Borough. Agricultural important farmland is defined by soil types
identified as “Prime Farmland” or “Additional Farmland of Statewide Importance”
for Centre County. These soil types have been identified by the Centre County
Conservation District. The map prepared by the Borough identifies these areas
based on the above.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 4.13)
§ 244. Right to Adopt Additional Rules.
This Borough reserves the right to adopt, from time to time, additional rules
and regulations as it shall deem necessary and proper relating to connections
with a sewer and with the sewer system, which additional rules and regulations,
to the extent appropriate, shall be and shall be construed as part of this
Part.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 4.14)
E.   Fees, Rates and Charges.
§ 251. Tapping Fees Required.
   1.   A tapping fee is hereby imposed against the owner of any improved
property to be served by the sewer system which actually connects or is
required to be connected pursuant to this Part requiring such connection.
   2.   The tapping fee payable by the owner of an improved property shall be
the product of the applicable charge times the number of equivalent dwelling
units constituting such improved property. The minimum tapping fee applicable
to any improved property served by the sewer system shall be the applicable
amount times one (1) equivalent dwelling unit. To this minimum tapping fee
shall be added the applicable charge for each additional equivalent dwelling
unit that is determined at any time to be applicable to such improved property.
In the event an improved property, or use thereof (including number of
occupants), changes in a manner that causes the number of EDUs applicable to
such improved property calculated hereunder to increase, an additional tapping
fee based on such additional EDUs shall be immediately due and payable.
   3.   The tapping fee shall be due and payable the earlier of: (i) the time
application is made to the Borough to make connection to the sewer system, as
provided in
Part 2C hereof, or, if applicable, the date when the Borough shall connect any
such improved property to the sewer system, at the costs and expense of the
owner, when such owner shall have failed to make such connection as required by
this Part requiring such connection; or (ii) in the case of properties to be
connected following initial construction of the sewer system, the date which is
thirty (30) days after the date of issuance by the Borough of a written notice
to connect. Owners of an improved property which is attributed to an additional
number of equivalent dwelling units as defined by the Borough rate structure
herein shall pay a corresponding additional tapping fee at the time of being
attributed with the new EDU computation.
   4.   Calculation and itemization of the maximum lawful tapping fee is
attached hereto as Schedule A, "Schedule for the Calculation of Tapping Fees,"
2 and made a part hereof.
   5.   All tapping fees shall be payable to the Treasurer of the Borough or to
such other officer or representative of the Borough as shall be authorized,
from time to time, by the Borough, to accept payment thereof.
   6.   Payment of tapping fees imposed by the Borough pursuant to this Part
shall be enforced by the Borough in any manner appropriate under laws at the
time in effect.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 5.01)
2 Editor's Note: Schedule A, "Schedule for the Calculation of Tapping Fees," is
on file at the Borough office.
§ 252. Customer Facilities Fee Required.
Before connection to the sewer system, the owner of the improved property shall
pay the Borough a customer facilities fee, which fee shall not exceed the
actual cost of the building connection. The Borough shall not charge a customer
facilities fee for any facilities the owner of the improved property supplies
and installs.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 5.02)
§ 253. When Certain Fees Not Required.
In lieu of the payment of tapping fees, the Borough may require the owner of an
improved property to construct and dedicate to the Borough the building sewer,
lateral or special purpose facilities necessary for the improved property, as
the case may be.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 5.03)
§ 254. Rates and Charges.
   1.   A user charge is hereby imposed upon the owner of each improved
property which is or shall be connected to the sewer system, for use of the
sewer system, whether such use is direct or indirect, and for services rendered
by the Borough in connection therewith, and shall be payable as provided
herein. At the discretion of the Borough, such user charge may be imposed upon
the owner of an improved property who fails or refuses improperly to connect
such improved property to the sewer system, as compensation for the
availability of service by the Borough in connection with the sewer system.
   2.   The user charge shall be payable by the owner of each improved property
commencing the earlier of (i) the date of actual, physical connection of an
improved property to the sewer system; or (ii) forty-five (45) days from the
date of issuance of the notice to connect described in this Part, or such other
date established by the Borough for commencement of the payment of the user
charge.
   3.   The user charge applicable to any improved property constituting a
dwelling unit or large consumer shall be calculated, imposed and collected on
the basis of the method provided in this subsection:
      A.   Each improved property shall be charged a user charge as a specific
amount per equivalent dwelling unit applicable to such improved property, as
determined by the Borough, from time to time. The number of equivalent dwelling
units applicable to each improved property shall be determined as included in
Schedule B, "Schedule for Establishing EDUs." 3
      B.   The number of equivalent dwelling units applicable to commercial
establishments and industrial establishments shall be computed on the basis of
the average daily number of full and part-time employees (including the owner
(s) or employer(s)) for the calendar month preceding the date of the monthly
billing. The owners of such facilities shall be responsible for advising the
Borough, in writing, of the number of employees upon connection to the sewer
system and upon request of the Borough.
   The number of equivalent dwelling units applicable to educational and
institutional establishments shall be computed on the highest monthly average
daily attendance of occupants, pupils, faculty, administrators and staff for
the twelve (12) months preceding the date of the monthly billing. The owners of
such facilities shall be responsible for advising the Borough, in writing, of
the number of pupils, faculty, administrators and staff in attendance as an
average daily figure upon request of the Borough.
      C.   If the use or classification of any improved property changes within
a billing period, the user charge for such billing period may be prorated by
the Borough. The owner of the improved property shall be responsible for
advising the Borough, in writing, of any such change affecting the user charge
payable hereunder. The appropriate credit or additional charge shall appear on
the statement for the next succeeding billing period.
      D.   The monthly flat rate user charge payable per equivalent dwelling
unit shall be as shown in the Schedule of Fees and Rates. 4
      E.   User charges for any improved property, in the sole discretion of
the Borough, may be determined on a metered rate basis calculated according to:
         (1)   Metered volume of potable water usage by the improved property,
adjusted, if appropriate, by the Borough.
         (2)   Actual metered volume of wastewater discharged by the improved
property into the sewer system.
   In either of the foregoing cases, such user charges shall be computed in
accordance with a metered rate schedule to be established by the Borough.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 5.04)
3 Editor's Note: Schedule B, "Schedule for Establishing EDUs," is on file at
the Borough office.
4 Editor's Note: Schedule C, "Schedule for Fees and Rates," is on file at the
Borough office.
§ 255. Multiple Use Improved Property.
In the case of a multiple use improved property sharing a common connection to
the sewer system or a common structure, each such classification of improved
property shall pay a separate user charge, as though it was housed in a
separate structure and had a direct and separate connection to the sewer
system, computed in accordance with §
254(3) of this Part.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 5.05)
§ 256. Surcharges.
   1.   The owner of any improved property which shall discharge domestic
sanitary sewage and/or industrial wastes into the sewer system in excess of a
total flow of three hundred (300) gallons per day per equivalent dwelling unit
with a peak flow rate in excess of seven hundred fifty (750) gallons per day
for any ten (10) minute period, per equivalent dwelling unit as calculated
under §
254(3), as determined or reasonably estimated by the Borough, shall pay a
volume surcharge. The owner of any improved property which shall discharge
domestic sanitary sewage and/or industrial wastes to the sewer system having a
BOD greater than three hundred (300) ppm, or a suspended solids content greater
than three hundred (300) ppm, or a dissolved solids content greater than five
hundred (500) ppm, or a total solids content greater than eight hundred (800)
ppm, or a total phosphorus as p content greater than ten (10) ppm or an ammonia
nitrogen as n content greater than thirty (30) ppm shall, in the discretion of
the Borough, pay a strength of waste surcharge, in addition to applicable user
charges.
   2.   Surcharges shall be paid in addition to all user charges computed in
accordance with provisions of this
Part 2E and shall be computed on such basis as this Borough may from time to
time adopt. The strength of domestic sanitary sewage and/or industrial wastes
to be used for establishing the amount of surcharge shall be determined
periodically at the discretion of the Borough either (i) by suitable sampling
and analysis of such wastes for a consecutive three (3) day period during a
time of normal plant operation; or (ii) from estimates made by the Borough; or
(iii) from known relationships of products produced to strengths of such wastes
for those industries where such factors have been established. In establishing
such waste strengths for surcharge purposes by analysis, analyses shall be made
in accordance with procedures outlined in the latest edition of "Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater," published by the American
Public Health Association, Inc.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 5.06)
§ 257. Information To Be Provided By Owner.
   1.   The owner of any improved property discharging domestic sanitary sewage
and/or industrial wastes into the sewer system shall furnish to the Borough,
including by way of the application for permit described in this Part, all
information deemed essential or appropriate by the Borough for the
determination of all applicable user charges and surcharges. The costs of
obtaining such information shall be borne by such owner of the improved
property.
   2.   In the event of the failure of the owner to provide adequate
information, the Borough shall estimate the applicable user charge and
surcharges based upon available information, until such time as adequate
information is received. There shall be no rebate of past payments if the
owner's refusal to provide such information results in overpayment.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 5.07)
§ 258. Separate Agreements.
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to prohibit this Borough from entering
into separate or special agreements with owners of improved property or other
persons with respect to the user charge or surcharge to be imposed in those
cases where, due to special or unusual circumstances, the user charge set forth
herein shall be deemed by this Borough, in its sole discretion, to be
inequitable, or where it is in the best interests of this Borough to do so.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 5.08)
§ 259. Inspection Fee.
An inspection fee and charge may be imposed by the Borough for the inspection
by the Borough of any new connection or repair of an existing connection to the
sewer system, which fee shall be based upon the actual cost to the Borough of
inspecting said connection.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 5.09)
§ 260. Amendment of Fees and Rates.
From time to time, by resolution adopted at a public meeting, the Borough shall
set the fees and rates imposed under this Part and shall adopt and keep
available to the public a schedule of fees and rates.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 5.10)
F   Billing and Collection.
§ 261. Frequency.
The Borough will bill each customer within fifteen (15) days of the last day of
each billing period.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 6.01)
§ 262. Billing Due Date.
   1.   Payments of user charges and any applicable surcharges shall be due and
payable upon the applicable billing date, at the office of the Borough, in the
appropriate amount, computed in accordance with this Part, which shall
constitute the net bill.
   2.   Payment made or mailed and postmarked on or before the last day of such
thirty (30) day period shall constitute payment within such period. If the last
day for payment should fall on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday when the
offices of the Borough are not open to the general public, the due date shall
be extended to the next business day. For remittance of a bill for all
customers by mail, the payment shall be deemed to have been made on the date of
the postmark, or the Borough may grant a five (5) day grace period for receipt
after the due date.
   3.   Any and all payments received on account of delinquent accounts shall
be applied first to the oldest outstanding gross bill, including any
accumulated late fee.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 6.02)
§ 263. Late Payment Charge.
All amounts not paid when due shall accrue a penalty as defined in Schedule C,
"Schedule for Fees and Rates. 5 (Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 6.03)
5 Editor's Note: Schedule C, "Schedule for Fees and Rates," is on file at the
Borough office.
§ 264. Billing Address.
When the owner changes his/her or its billing address and fails to notify the
Borough, the owner shall remain liable to remit payment by the payment due
date.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 6.04)
§ 265. Change in Ownership.
Every owner of improved property shall remain liable for the payment of user
charges and surcharges until the later of (i) the receipt by the Borough of
written notice by such owner that the property has been sold, containing the
correct name and mailing address of the new owner; or (ii) the date on which
title to the improved property is transferred to a new owner. Failure to
provide notice renders an owner continuously liable for any charges that may
accrue until such time as the Borough has been properly notified of any change
in ownership as described above.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 6.05)
§ 266. Returned Check Charges.
The owner will be responsible for the payment of a charge of fifteen dollars
($15.00) per incident where a check which has been presented to the Borough for
payment of any bill is returned by the bank for any reason including, but not
limited to, nonsufficient funds, account closed, payment stopped, two (2)
signatures required, postdated, stale date, account garnished or unauthorized
signature. This charge is in addition to any and all charges assessed by the
bank.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 6.06)
§ 267. Disputed Bills.
   1.   In the event of a dispute between the owner and the Borough respecting
any bill, the Borough promptly will make such investigation as may be required
by the particular case and report the result to the owner. When the Borough has
made such a report to the owner sustaining the bill as rendered, the owner
shall have fifteen (15) days from the date of such report in which to pay the
bill. If the Borough determines that the bill originally rendered is incorrect,
the Borough will issue a corrected bill with a new due date for payment. Any
amounts received by the Borough in excess of the amount disclosed to be due by
the Borough's investigation of the dispute shall be returned to the owner.
   2.   No officer or employee of the Borough is authorized to reduce, vary or
exempt charges imposed herein or other provisions of this Part without official
action by the Council of this Borough.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 6.07)
§ 268. Deposits.
   1.   The Borough may require an existing user to post a deposit to
reestablish credit under the following circumstances:
      A.   Delinquent Accounts.
         (1)   Whenever a residential user has been delinquent in payment of
two (2) or more bills within the preceding twelve (12) months.
         (2)   Whenever any other than residential user has been delinquent in
payment of three (3) or more bills within the preceding twelve (12) months.
      B.   As a condition to the reconnection of service following a
termination.
      C.   Whenever a user fails to comply with a material term or condition of
settlement or payment agreement, whether or not service has been terminated.
   2.   The Borough may require any applicant for temporary service to post a
deposit.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 6.08)
§ 269. Liens for Fees and Charges.
Fees and charges imposed under this Part with respect to an improved property
shall be liens on the improved property until paid. Such liens shall be
promptly perfected by appropriate filings in the Office of the Prothonotary of
Centre County, Pennsylvania, and shall be enforced in the manner provided by
law for collection of municipal claims.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 6.09)
§ 270. Civil Action.
The Borough may collect delinquent sewer user fees and charges by civil action.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 6.10)
G.   Discontinuance of Service, Termination of Service and Restoration of
Service.
§ 271. Discontinuance by User.
A user who wishes to have service disconnected shall give at least five (5)
days notice to the Borough, specifying the date on which service is to be
discontinued. In the absence of proper notice, the user shall be responsible
for all service rendered until the time that the Borough shall have notice of
the user's intent to discontinue service. The user shall not disconnect or
remove service without the prior written consent of the Borough. A user
discontinuing service retains his status as a former user for purposes of
paying restoration fees for a period of nine (9) months.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 7.01)
§ 272. Termination by Borough.
Service to the user may be terminated by the disconnection or plugging of a
lateral or the disconnection of water service for good cause including, but not
limited to, the following:
      A.   For making an application for service that contains material
misrepresentations.
      B.   For willful or negligent infiltration or inflow of water through
improper or imperfect pipes, fixtures or connections, or for willful or
negligent failure to repair leaks in pipes or fixtures.
      C.   For tampering with any building sewer or lateral.
      D.   For theft of service, which shall include taking service without
having made a proper application for service.
      E.   For failure to pay, when due, any charges accruing under this Part.
      F.   For refusal of reasonable access to the property for purposes of
inspection.
      G.   For receipt by the Borough of an order or notice from the Department
of Environmental Protection, health authorities, plumbing inspectors or another
similar agency to discontinue service to the premises on the grounds of
violation of any Federal, State or local law or local ordinance, or upon notice
to the Borough from any such agency that it has ordered an existing violation
on the premises to be discontinued and that such order has not been complied
with.
      H.   For violation of any of the provisions of this Part not specified
above.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 7.02)
§ 273. Restoration of Service.
Whenever service is discontinued or terminated pursuant to the above Sections,
service shall be restored only upon the payment by the user of all fees as
specified in the schedule for fees and rates and the curing of the problem that
gave rise to the termination if under §
272.
H.   Extension of Sewer Mains.
§ 281. General Provisions.
At the time any request is made to the Borough for a sewer main extension, the
Borough may request a site plan for the lot(s) to which service is to be
provided. If such a request is made by the Borough, the site plan must be
provided within the time specified by the Borough, which shall not be less than
fourteen (14) days.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 8.01)
§ 282. Bona Fide Customer Initiated Sewer Main Extensions.
   1.   The Borough may extend, if feasible, existing sewer mains a distance of
thirty-five (35) feet for each bona fide, prospective customer making
application in accordance with these rules and regulations for connection to
the sewer system therefrom for a period of one (1) year or more. Such
extensions will be made without cost to such customer(s).
   2.   When an extension greater than thirty-five (35) feet in length for each
bona fide, prospective customer is required, or requested, such extension will
be made under the terms of a sewer system extension agreement as set forth in §
284. The Borough shall have the exclusive right to determine the type and size
of sewer mains and appurtenances to be installed and any other facilities
required to render adequate service; provided, however, that where the Borough
decides to install pipe larger than eight (8) inches in diameter, and an eight
(8) inch pipe would render adequate service throughout the extension, at the
Borough's discretion, estimated or actual cost figures contained in the sewer
system extension agreement will include the material cost based on pipe eight
(8) inches in diameter. All estimated or actual cost figures will include a
reasonable allowance for overheads.
   3.   In determining the length and size of, and necessity for, sewer main
extensions, the terminal point of such extensions will, in all cases, be at
that point in the curb line which is equidistant from the side property lines
of the lot for which sewer service is requested. A lateral will be provided
only for building sewers which are laid at right angles to the curb line or
which are otherwise approved by the Borough. Should it be necessary, in the
Borough's sole opinion, to extend beyond the last lot in any street to provide
more reasonable service, this additional extension shall be considered part of
the total and orderly system development and may be included in the cost of the
extension.
   4.   The Borough hereby agrees to refund to the bona fide, prospective
customer, on or before February 28 of the subsequent year, the average cost of
thirty-five (35) feet of sewer main for each additional bona fide customer for
whom a street service connection shall be directly attached to such sewer main
extension (as distinguished from extensions or branches thereof), during the
preceding calendar year. The refund period shall be five (5) years from the
actual date of the payment of the extension; provided, however, that the total
amount refunded shall not exceed the original deposit, without interest, and
that all or any part of the deposit not refunded within the five (5) year
period shall become the property of the Borough.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 8.02)
§ 283. Developer Initiated Sewer Main Extensions.
   1.   A developer, as defined in §
204, will be required to pay for all sewer main extensions or offsite
facilities undertaken by the Borough on his behalf, pursuant to either a
nonrefundable contribution agreement or a refundable deposit agreement, the
forms of which are set forth in §
284. The Borough shall have the unqualified right to require that the requested
extension be a nonrefundable contribution agreement if, in the Borough's sole
judgment, use of a refundable deposit agreement is neither economically
justified nor otherwise in the best interests of the Borough or its users.
   2.   A developer who is a part to a refundable sewer system extension
agreement shall be eligible for a refund for each bona fide customer who
connects to the sewer main extension funded under this agreement, as
distinguished from extensions or branches thereof. In no event shall the total
amount refunded exceed the original deposit, without interest. The developer
may be eligible for refunds for a period of no more than five (5) years. The
refund shall be made on or before February 28 of the subsequent calendar year.
The Borough, with the mutual consent of the entity making the advance, may
enter into an agreement specifying a different time or system for computing
refunds, so long as the refund amount is based on factors such as average
Borough investment per customer, revenues or potential revenues to be realized,
contributions made in the future by other developers who benefit by the
facility or other relevant factors.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 8.03)
§ 284. Agreements.
Refer to the attached Schedules for Sample Agreements for: 6
      A.   Schedule D, "Sewer System Extension Agreement."
      B.   Schedule E, "Nonrefundable Contribution Agreement."
      C.   Schedule F, "Refundable Deposit Agreement." (Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, §
8.04)
6 Editor's Note: Schedules D, E and F are on file at the Borough office.
I.   Admission of Industrial Wastes Into the Sewer System.
§ 291. Permits Required.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the sewer system any
industrial wastes without prior application for and receipt of a written permit
from the Borough.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 9.01)
§ 292. Information Required.
Any person desiring to make or use a connection through which industrial wastes
shall be discharged into the sewer system shall file with the Borough a
completed industrial wastes questionnaire, furnished by the Borough, which
shall supply pertinent data, including estimated quantity of flow,
characteristics and constituents of the proposed discharge. The cost of
obtaining all such data shall be borne by the person desiring to make or use
the connection to the sewer system.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 9.02)
§ 293. Reports by Major Contributors.
   1.   Ten (10) days prior to the first day of January, April, July and
October of each year, each major contributor of industrial wastes shall file
with the Borough a report on the quality and quantity of their discharge.
   2.   Major contributors shall consist of those whose total estimated or
metered discharge exceeds twenty-two thousand five hundred (22,500) gallons per
day, have in their waste a toxic pollutant or, in the judgment of the Borough,
would have a significant impact on the sewer system or the quality of its
effluent.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 9.03)
§ 294. Control Manholes and Sampling.
   1.   When required by the Borough, the owner of any improved property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install, at his
expense, a suitable control manhole, together with such necessary meters and
other appurtenances in the building sewer, to facilitate observation, sampling
and measurement of the waste flow.
   2.   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made herein shall be determined in accordance
with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for Examination of Water and
Wastewater," published by the American Public Health Association, Inc. and
shall be determined by or under the direct supervision of a qualified analyst
at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at such control
manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewer system and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb and property. (The particular analyses involved will determine
whether a twenty-four (24) hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is
appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples must be taken.)
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 9.04)
§ 295. Changes in Discharge.
Any industrial establishment discharging domestic sanitary sewage and/or
industrial wastes into the sewer system and contemplating a change in the
method of operation which will alter the characteristics and/or volume of such
wastes being discharged shall notify the Borough, in writing, at least ten (10)
days prior to institution of such change.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 9.05)
§ 296. Grease and Oil Interceptors.
   1.   Oil Interceptors Required - Any new or existing commercial
establishment where the presence of oils of any type are present, including
floor drains, such as automobile service stations, car-washing facilities, or
car lots, and connected to the public sewer shall have in place an oil
separator sized by the manufacturer or professional consultant in accordance
with the International Plumbing Code (latest edition) and plumbed to non-
sanitary fixtures. Calculations showing the required sizing of the oil
interceptor shall be provided to the Borough for review prior to installation.
   2.   Grease Interceptors Required - Any new or existing commercial
establishment manufacturing, processing, preparing, or serving foods, or having
the potential containing fats, oils, and grease in their waste flow and
connected to the public sewer shall install, use, and maintain appropriate
grease interceptors as required by this section. These facilities shall include
but are not limited to restaurants, food manufacturers, food processors,
hospitals, hotels and motels, prisons, nursing homes, and any other facility
preparing, serving, or otherwise making any foodstuff available for
consumption. All grease interceptors, regardless of type or sizing, must be
operated such that the limit for wastewater containing fats, oil, and grease
established under §
299.2 is not exceeded.
      A.   Types of Grease Interceptors - Two types of grease interceptors are
allowed:
         1.   Gravity Grease Interceptor (GGI) — A plumbing appurtenance or
appliance that is installed in a sanitary drainage system to intercept non-
petroleum fats, oils, and greases (FOG) from a wastewater discharge and is
identified by volume, retention time, baffle(s), a minimum of two compartments,
and gravity separation. Gravity Grease Interceptors are generally installed
outside.
         2.   Hydromechanical Grease Interceptor (HGI) - A plumbing
appurtenance or appliance that is installed in a sanitary drainage system to
intercept nonpetroleum fats, oils, and grease (FOG) from a wastewater discharge
and is identified by flow rate, grease capacity, and separation and retention
efficiency. The design incorporates air entrainment, hydro mechanical
separation, interior baffling, and/or barriers in combination or separately,
and an external flow control, with air intake (vent).
      B.   Grease Interceptor Sizing
         1.   Gravity Grease Interceptors - GGIs shall be sized according to
the most current standards of the International Association of Plumbing and
Mechanical Officials IAMPO/ANSI Z1001 for the expected volume. Calculations
showing the required sizing of the grease interceptor shall be provided to the
Borough for review prior to installation. The GGI must be designed by a
registered Professional Engineer and shall include the following features:
            a.   Minimum of two compartments
            b.   Baffles for each compartment
            c.   Access to each compartment for removing the collected grease
            d.   Traffic rated
            e.   Sampling port immediately downstream of the GGI
         2.   Hydromechanical Grease Interceptors - HGIs shall be sized
according to the method established by the Plumbing and Drainage Institute and
standard PDI-G101. Calculations showing the required sizing (flow rate and
grease capacity) of the grease interceptor shall be provided to the Borough for
review prior to installation. HGIs shall include the following features:
            a.   Flow control device which restricts the flow through the HGI
so that flow does not exceed the HGI's rated flow capacity.
            b.   Interior baffling for each compartment
            c.   Access to each compartment for removing the collected grease
            d.   Sampling port immediately downstream of each HGI.
            e.   Vent
            f.   Adequate grease capacity sized according to user's pump-out
schedule. If the pump-out schedule is less than 90 days, documentation of
cleaning activities must be provided to the Borough at the same frequency as
the pump-out. For example, if the HGI is sized such that it is required to be
pumped every 30 days, then the user must provide evidence of pumping every 30
days.
         3.   Any existing grease interceptor which is undersized for the
user's actual flow rates, grease generation rate, and cleaning schedule shall
be replaced with an appropriately sized grease interceptor at the user's cost.
Design and calculations for the replacement grease interceptor must be reviewed
by the Borough prior to installation.
         4.   When a user is notified by the Borough of a violation of the FOG
limit established in §299.2, the user shall respond to the Borough within 30
days of receipt of the notice as to how the problem will be corrected,
including design and calculations for a replacement grease interceptor if
required. The user will then have an additional 30 days to bring the waste
discharge back into compliance with §
299.2.
   C.   Cleaning and Maintenance
      1.   Grease interceptors shall be maintained in an efficient operating
condition at all times.
      2.   Each grease interceptor when cleaned shall be fully evacuated.
      3.   All grease interceptor waste shall be properly disposed of at a
facility in accordance with federal, state, and local regulations.
   D.   Cleaning Schedules
      1.   Grease interceptors shall be cleaned as often as necessary to ensure
that sediment and floating materials do not accumulate to impair the efficiency
of the grease interceptor; to ensure the discharge is in compliance with local
discharge limits; and to ensure no visible grease is observed in discharge.
      2.   Grease interceptors shall be completely evacuated, cleaned, and
inspected a minimum of every ninety (90) days, or more frequently when:
         a.   The grease interceptor has been sized for a more frequent
cleaning schedule; or
         b.   The discharge exceeds BOD, COD, TSS, FOG, pH, or other pollutant
levels established by the Borough; or
         c.   There is a history of non-compliance.
   E.   Reporting Requirements
      1.   Each cleaning of a grease interceptor must be accompanied by a
report to be used for record keeping purposes. The report shall include: name
of individual or company responsible for the cleaning, date the grease
interceptor was cleaned, amount of waste removed, and location where the waste
was deposited.
      2.   The Borough shall be provided a copy of the report within 30 days of
each pump-out activity.
   F.   Prohibited Practices
      1.   No person shall introduce, or cause, permit, or suffer the
introduction of any surfactant, solvent or emulsifier into a grease
interceptor. Surfactants, solvents, and emulsifiers are materials which allow
the grease to pass from the grease interceptor into the collection system, and
include but are not limited to enzymes, soap, diesel, kerosene, terpene, and
other solvents.
      2.   No person shall block or prevent access to the maintenance or
sampling ports of the grease interceptor.
   G.   Compliance Monitoring
      1.   The Borough shall have the right to enter the premises of any user
or potential user to determine whether the user is complying with all
requirements of this section and any wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder. Users shall allow the Borough ready access, with or without
prior notice, to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, records examination and copying, and the performance of any
additional duties.
      2.   The Borough shall have the right to set up on the user's property,
or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling
and/or metering of the user's operations, with or without prior notice.
      3.   The Borough may require the user to install monitoring equipment as
necessary such as FOG sensing and alarm devices complying with PDI G102. The
facility's monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and
proper operating condition by the user at its own expense.
      4.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the Borough and shall not be replaced.
The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
      5.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Borough access to the user's
premises shall be a violation of this section and subject to the penalties
provided herein.
   H.   Penalties
      1.   Any user or generator, whether a person, firm or corporation, who
shall violate any provisions of this §
296 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a civil penalty of
$600.00, plus costs. Each day that a violation of this Section continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
      2.   If the Borough determines that a user or generator is responsible
for a blockage of a collection system line, said generator shall, upon
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a civil penalty of $600.00, plus costs.
Each day that a violation of this Section continues shall constitute a separate
offense. Additionally, the User or generator shall be held solely responsible
for any costs incurred by the Borough in correcting any resulting difficulties
or malfunctions experienced in either the sewage collection system or the
sewage treatment plant. These costs shall include costs incurred in sewer
flushing, cleaning, repairing, and any investigation or analytical costs.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, §9.06; as amended by Ord. 258, 6/14/2016, §1)
§ 297. Mechanical Garbage Grinders.
The use of mechanical garbage grinders in an industrial establishment or a
commercial establishment shall not be permitted without prior approval from the
Borough.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 9.07)
§ 298. Equalization of Flows.
The Borough may require industrial establishments having large variations in
rates of waste discharge to install suitable regulating devices for equalizing
waste flows to the sewer system.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 9.08)
J.   Prohibited Wastes.
§ 299.1. Prohibited Discharges.
No person shall discharge or shall cause to be discharged into the sewer system
any stormwater, surface water, spring water, groundwater, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage, building foundation drainage, cellar drainage or drainage
from roof leader connections.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 10.01)
§ 299.2. Prohibited Waste Characteristics.
Except as otherwise provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged into the sewer system any matter or substance:
      A.   Having a temperature higher than one hundred forty (140) degrees
Fahrenheit (sixty (60) degrees Centigrade) or less than thirty-two (32) degrees
Fahrenheit.
      B.   Containing more than fifty (50) mg/l of fat, oil or grease.
      C.   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
treatment plant or to the operation of the treatment plant. At no time, shall
two (2) successive readings on an explosion hazard meter, at any point of
discharge into the system (or at any point in the system) be more than five (5)
percent, nor any single reading over ten (10) percent of the lower explosive
limits (LEL) of the meter. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited
to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols,
ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides,
hydrides and sulfides and any other substances which the Borough, the
Commonwealth or EPA has notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard to the
sewer system.
      D.   Containing any solid wastes with particles greater than one-half
('A) inch in any dimension, resulting from preparation, cooking and dispensing
of food and from handling, storage and sale of produce, which wastes commonly
are known as garbage, which have not been ground by household type garbage
disposal units or other suitable garbage grinders.
      E.   Containing any solids or viscous substances which may cause
obstruction to flow in the sewer system or other interference with the proper
operation of the treatment plant such as, but not limited to, animal guts or
tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, feathers, entrails,
whole blood, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal,
glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste
paper, strings, wood, plastics, gas tar, asphalt residues, residues from
refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud, glass grinding or
polishing wastes, dental floss, wool or other fibers.
      F.   Having a Ph lower than six (6.0) or higher than nine (9.0), or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazards to
structures or equipment of the sewer system or any sewer or to any person
engaged in operation and maintenance of the sewer system.
      G.   Containing toxic or poisonous substances in sufficient quantity to
injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, to constitute hazards
to humans or animals or to create any hazards in waters which shall receive
treated effluent from the sewer system.
      H.   Containing dyes or other materials with objectionable color, from
any source that will result in a treatment plant effluent exceeding limits in
compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
      I.   Any substance which may cause the treatment plant's effluent or any
other product of the treatment plant such as residues, sludges or scums to be
unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation
process. In no case, shall a substance discharged to the treatment plant cause
the Borough to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria,
guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal developed pursuant
to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, or Commonwealth criteria applicable to the sludge management
method being used.
      J.   Containing radioactive substances and/or isotopes of such half-life
or concentration that will result in a treatment plant effluent exceeding
limits in compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
      K.   Having a chlorine demand in excess of twelve (12) mg/l at a
detention time of twenty (20) minutes.
      L.   Prohibited by any permit issued by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
      M.   Containing wastes which are not amenable to biological treatment or
reduction in existing treatment facilities, specifically nonbiodegradable
complex carbon compounds.
      N.   Having a BOD content greater than three hundred (300) ppm (except as
authorized under §
256).
      O.   Having a suspended solids content greater than three hundred (300)
ppm (except as authorized under §
256).
      P.   Having a total phosphorus as p content greater than ten (10) ppm
(except as authorized under §
256).
      Q.   Having an ammonia nitrogen as n content greater than thirty (30) ppm
(except as authorized under §
256).
      R.   Having any waste containing toxic or poisonous substances in excess
of the following limits, measured at the point of discharge to the sewer
system:
Substance Maximum Concentration (ppm)
Substance             Maximum Concentration (ppm)
Arsenic               0.05
Cadmium (as Cd)       0.1
Chromium (trivalent)  1.0
Chromium (hexavalent) 0.05
Copper (as Cu)        0.5
Cyanides (free CN)    0.05
Lead                  0.3
Mercury               0.002
Nickel (as Ni)        2.0
Phenolic Compounds    0.005
Silver                0.05
Zinc (as Zn)          1.0
 
      S.   Containing any substance not mentioned in the foregoing list that
will pass through the treatment plant and exceed the maximum permitted levels
for such substance under the requirements of the EPA, the Commonwealth or other
governmental agencies having jurisdiction.
      T.   Any other substance prohibited by ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation of the Borough hereafter enacted or adopted from time to time.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 10.02)
§ 299.3. Permits Required.
Under no circumstances shall any person discharge or cause to be discharged
into the sewer system any of the substances listed in §
299.2, above, without first securing written permission to do so from the
Borough.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 10.03)
§ 299.4. Promulgation of Federal Standards.
Upon the promulgation of the Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards for a
particular industrial subcategory, the Federal standard, if more stringent than
limitations imposed under this Part for sources in that subcategory, shall
immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this Part. The Borough
shall notify all affected users of the applicable reporting requirements under
40 CFR § 403.12.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 10.04)
§ 299.5. Dilution Prohibited.
No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt to
dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment
to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the Federal Categorical
Pretreatment Standards, or in any other pollutant specific limitation developed
by the Borough or Commonwealth.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 10.05)
§ 299.6. Continuation of Service.
Whenever a person is authorized by the Borough and the appropriate governmental
agencies to discharge any polluted water, domestic sanitary sewage or
industrial waste containing any of the substances or possessing any of the
characteristics referred to in §
299.2, such discharge shall be subject to the continuing approval, inspection
and review of the Borough. If, in the opinion of the Borough, such discharges
are causing or will cause damage to the sewer system, or cause the Borough to
be in violation of any agreement or order, the Borough shall order the person
causing such discharge to cease doing so forthwith, or to take other
appropriate action, including exercising the remedies provided in this Part, to
eliminate the harmful discharge.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 10.06)
§ 299.7. Special Agreements.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed as prohibiting any special
agreement or arrangement between the Borough and the owner of an improved
property or other person allowing industrial wastes of unusual strength or
character to be admitted into the sewer system.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 10.07)
§ 299.8.   Pretreatment Facilities.
   1.   Where necessary or appropriate, in the opinion of the Borough, the
owner of an improved property shall provide, at the sole expense of the owner,
suitable pretreatment facilities acceptable to the Borough.
   2.   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed facilities for preliminary treatment and handling of industrial wastes
shall be submitted for approval of the Borough. No construction of any such
facility shall commence until approval has been obtained, in writing, from the
Borough, and until approval has been obtained from any and all regulatory
bodies having jurisdiction.
   3.   Such facilities for preliminary treatment and handling of industrial
wastes shall be continuously maintained, at the sole expense of the owner, in
good operating condition satisfactory to the Borough. The Borough shall have
access to such facilities at reasonable times for purposes of inspection and
sampling.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 10.08)
K.   Waivers and Amendments.
§ 299.11. Waivers.
The Borough may, in its sole discretion, waive any of the rules or regulations
contained herein, that operate for the benefit of the Borough; provided, that
no such waiver will be valid unless in writing and signed by the Borough, and
provided that no waiver will be allowed where the waiver would constitute a
violation of any applicable statute, law or regulation.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 11.01)
§ 299.12. Additional Rules and Regulations.
The Borough shall adopt, from time to time, such additional rules and
regulations as it shall deem necessary and proper in connection with the use
and operation of the sewer system, which rules and regulations shall be, shall
become and shall be construed as part of this Part.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 11.02)
L.   Violations and Enforcement.
§ 299.21. Separate Offenses.
Each violation of a separate provision of this Part and each day of violation
shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 12.01)
§ 299.22. Penalties for Violations.
Any person who shall violate this Part shall be liable, upon summary conviction
for a first offense and upon summary conviction for each subsequent offense, to
a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one
thousand dollars ($1000.00) and costs, or to undergo imprisonment in the Centre
County Jail for a period not in excess of (30) days. Such fine or imprisonment
shall be in addition to any other penalty imposed by any other Section of this
Part. Each day that a violation shall continue shall be deemed and shall be
taken to be separate offenses and shall be punishable as such.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 12.02)
§ 299.23. Enforcement.
Fines and costs imposed under provisions of this Part shall be enforceable and
recoverable in the manner at the time provided by applicable law.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 12.03)
M.   Miscellaneous.
§ 299.31.   Number and Gender.
The use of the singular in this Part shall include the plural, and the use of
the masculine shall include the feminine and neuter.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 13.01)
§ 299.32. Right of Access.
The Borough shall have the right of access, at all reasonable times, to any
part of any improved property as necessary for purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing and for performance of other
functions relating to service rendered by the Borough.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 13.02)
§ 299.33. Grinder Pumps.
The owner of any improved property, upon direction of the Borough, shall
acquire and install, at such owner's cost and expense, a grinder pump or
similar apparatus satisfactory to the Borough in the manner and at the location
directed by the Borough. Such grinder pump shall be installed at the time such
improved property is connected to the sewer system and shall be subject to
inspection and approval together with the remainder of the building sewer.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 13.03)
§ 299.34. Tenants.
The owner of any improved property shall be held liable for all acts of tenants
or other occupants of such improved property, as may be permitted by law,
insofar as such acts shall be governed by the provisions of this Part.
(Ord. 187, 3/3/1998, § 13.04)
CHAPTER 19
SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
Part 1
Signs
   §
101.   Title
   §
102.   Purpose
   §
103.   Definitions
   §
104.   Signs Permitted and Prohibited
   §
105.   Sign Licensing Regulations
   §
106.   General Regulations
   §
107.   Sign Regulations in Residential Areas
   §
108.   Types of Signs
   §
109.   Enforcement and Penalties
   §
110.   Variances
   §
111.   Fees
Part 1
Signs
§ 101.   Title.
This Part shall be known as the Millheim Borough Sign Ordinance.
(Ord. 202, 12/11/2001, § 1)
§ 102. Purpose.
The purpose of this Part is to permit such signs that will not, by their
reason, by their size, location, construction or manner of display, endanger
the public safety of individuals, confuse, mislead or obstruct the vision
necessary for traffic safety or otherwise endanger public health, safety and
morals and to permit and regulate signs in such a way as to support and
complement the Code of Ordinances for the Borough of Millheim.
(Ord. 202, 12/11/2001, § 2)
§ 103.   Definitions.
The following words and phrases shall have the meanings given in this Section:
   ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER - the officially designated Ordinance
Enforcement Officer/Code Enforcement Officer of Millheim Borough, County of
Centre, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   PROPERTY - the land area of a single tax parcel owned, rented or leased; a
lot of record.
   REFLECTOR - a device fitted over a lamp for reflecting or partially cutting
off its light.
   SIGN - any lettering, logo, or design on a manufactured structure or device
or directly on any part of a building or other object, which shall be used to
identify, advertise or attract attention to any business, institution or
organization and which is intended to be seen from off of the premises or from
a street or parking lot. The word "sign" shall include signs that are displayed
inside and are intended to be seen/read from off the premises and beyond the
adjoining sidewalk, excluding printed materials of a promotional nature that
are to be displayed for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days.
      Identification stickers or placards on dumpsters, fuel tanks and similar
pieces of equipment identifying the owner of the equipment shall not be
considered signs if the sticker or placard occupies less than ten percent (10%)
of the visible surface area of the piece of equipment.
      Posters, paper flyers, and other informational materials posted on the
interior or exterior of doors or windows and intended to be read only from the
sidewalk or other area directly in front of the posting shall not be considered
signs for the purpose of this ordinance. This usage shall be limited to
business locations and shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the total glass
area of each individual window or door area and this includes signs.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN - a sign denoting a business name, direction and distance
information containing no commercial advertisement.
   GROUND POLE SIGN - a sign supported by one or more uprights, poles or braces
placed in or upon the ground.
   HANGING SIGN - a sign suspended from a portion of an existing structure.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN - a sign that provides artificial light directly, or
through any transparent material, from a source of light connected with such
sign, or a sign illuminated by a light focused upon or chiefly directed at the
surface of the sign.
   MONUMENT/GROUND SIGN - a freestanding sign where the base of the sign
structure is on the existing grade or up to a maximum of twelve (12) inches
above existing grade. The sign is independent of any other structure and is
supported by a structural framework and/or integrated into landscaping.
   OFF-PREMISE SIGN - a sign which contains a message unrelated to a business
or profession conducted upon the premises where such sign is located or which
is unrelated to a commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the
premises where such sign is located.
   ON-PREMISE SIGN - a sign located on the property or attached to the exterior
of the building that houses the business or occupation.
   PERMANENT SIGN - any sign intended for display for an unlimited period of
time, or in excess of that associated with a temporary sign, as specifically
described in this Part.
   POLITICAL SIGN - a sign announcing or advocating a candidate or an issue to
be considered during an election.
   PROJECTING SIGN - a sign that projects from and is supported by a wall of a
building.
   REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT SIGN - a sign providing the name of a development,
the developer and/or the developer's telephone number.
   TEMPORARY SIGN - any sign intended for display for a limited period of time
or for less than that established for a permanent sign, as specifically
described in this Part.
   WALL SIGN - a sign which is attached directly to or painted upon a building
wall or window, which does not extend more than twelve (12) inches there from
or above the roofline.
   SIGN AREA - the area of the smallest triangle, rectangle or circle that can
wholly enclose the surface area of the sign. All visible faces of a
multifaceted sign shall be counted separately and then totaled in calculating
sign area. Three-dimensional signs shall be counted as dual-faced, such that
the total area shall be twice the area of the smallest triangle, rectangle or
circle which can wholly circumscribe the sign in the plane of its largest
dimension.
(Ord. 202, 12/11/2001, §3; as amended by Ord. 255, 8/12/2014, §I)
§ 104. Signs Permitted and Prohibited.
   1.   Signs Permitted. All signs must be reviewed and approved by the
Millheim Borough Council. Signs listed in this Section are permitted and shall
not require licenses and shall not be counted when calculating the number of
signs on premises. However, such signs shall conform to the general regulations
for signs enumerated in the remainder of this Part.
      A.   Name and address of resident, not to include any commercial
advertisement, of not more than two (2) square feet in sign area.
      B.   Signs regulating the use of property, such as "no trespassing," "no
hunting," "no fishing," etc., of no more than two (2) square feet of sign area
in residential areas and five (5) square feet of sign area in commercial areas.
      C.   Real estate signs not exceeding five (5) square feet in sign area in
residential areas and twenty-five (25) square feet of sign area in the downtown
and agricultural areas, which advertise the sale, rental or lease of the
property upon which said signs are located. Such real estate signs shall be
removed within ten (10) days after the premises advertised has been sold,
rented or leased.
      D.   Bulletin boards for public, charitable or religious institutions,
when located on the premises thereof, with a sign area of no more than twenty-
five (25) square feet if single-faced, nor more than fifty (50) square feet if
double-faced, and if used exclusively for noncommercial announcement.
      E.   Signs regulating on-premise traffic, parking or other functional
subdivision, such as lavatory facilities, telephone and signs denoting sections
of a building such as an office, etc., when such signs are less than five (5)
square feet in area and bear no commercial advertisement.
      F.   Signs erected by a governmental body, or under the direction of such
a body, and bearing no commercial advertisement, such as traffic signs, signs
identifying public schools and playgrounds, etc.
      G.   Memorial signs or tablets and signs denoting the date of erection of
buildings, not exceeding two (2) square feet of sign area on a single face.
      H.   The flag, pennant or insignia of any government, or of any
religious, charitable or fraternal organization.
      I.   Signs no larger than five (5) square feet of sign area advertising
the sale of edible farm products produced on the premises or advertising garage
sales, auctions or special events of charitable or public service groups, which
shall be removed at the conclusion of the event or activity.
      J.   Political signs not exceeding five (5) square feet in sign area if
single-faced or ten (10) square feet if double-faced, placed on private
property with the owner's permission. Signs shall be valid for a thirty (30)
day period prior to the voting date and must be removed within seven (7) days
after the voting date.
      K.   Signs identifying places of worship when located on the premises
thereof not exceeding five (5) square feet of sign area on a single face.
      L.   On-premise occupation signs containing only name and occupation and
of no more than two (2) square feet of sign area.
      M.   Decals affixed to the windows or door glass panes which indicate
membership in a business group or which denote credit cards accepted by an
establishment.
      N.   Movable "sandwich" signs shall be permitted in front of businesses
and not counted as signs, but only during open hours. Sign must allow thirty-
six (36) inches of unobstructed width for passage of pedestrians, wheelchairs
and other assistive devices.
   2.   Signs Prohibited.
      A.   Signs made of a plastic or similar type material.
      B.   Flashing, flood, obtrusive colored or oscillating sign lights.
      C.   Search lights, pennants, banners, balloons and streamers, except for
occasions such as grand openings and then only with special permission of the
Ordinance Enforcement Officer. "Open" flags are permitted for business premises
during business hours, but location must be approved prior to installation by
the Ordinance Enforcement Officer and permitted as specified in §
101.
      D.   Search lights, pennants, banners, balloons and streamers, except for
occasions such as grand openings and then only with special permission of the
Ordinance Enforcement Officer.
      E.   Signs which by reason of size, location, content, coloring or manner
of illumination obstruct or detract from the vision of drivers, either when
driving on a roadway or when entering a roadway from another roadway or
driveway, or obstruct or detract from the visibility or effectiveness of any
sign or control device on public streets and roads.
      F.   Any sign which obstructs free ingress to or egress from a fire
escape, door, window or other required exitway.
      G.   Signs which make use of words such as "stop," "look," "one-way,"
"danger," "yield," or any similar words or phrases, symbols, lights or
characters in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
      H.   Any signs that approximate in shape, design, color or wording any
traffic control sign or device installed by the Pennsylvania Department of
Transportation or the Millheim Borough.
      I.   Any obsolete sign which no longer advertises a bona fide business
conducted or a product sold. In any case, ninety (90) days shall be allowed for
removal of an obsolete sign.
      J.   Signs on public property or public rights-of-way, unless erected by
a government body or required to be so located by order of a government body.
No sign located on public property or a public right-of-way shall bear any
commercial advertisement or announcement with the exception of sandwich boards
referenced in Subsection 1(N) of this §
104.
      K.   Signs painted on, attached to or supported by a tree, stone or other
natural object.
(Ord. 202, 12/11/2001, §4; as amended by Ord. 255, 8/12/2014, §§II - V)
§ 105. Sign Licensing Regulations.
   1.   Permanent Signs.
      A.   All permanent signs except those enumerated in §
104(1), "Signs Permitted," must be licensed. A license shall be required prior
to constructing or installing a new sign and prior to altering or moving an
existing sign.
      B.   Application for a license for a permanent sign shall be made on a
form provided by the Ordinance Enforcement Officer. The Ordinance Enforcement
Officer shall issue a sign license only if the applicant has provided
sufficient information to assure that such sign will comply with all applicable
provisions of this Part and has been reviewed and approved by the Millheim
Borough Council.
         (1)   Any person desiring a sign license shall file application upon a
form which shall contain or have attached thereto the following information:
            (a)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
            (b)   A map showing the location of any building, structure or lot
to which the sign is to be attached or erected and showing the position of the
sign in relation to nearby buildings and thoroughfares; such a map shall be
drawn to scale.
            (c)   A plan showing the design of the sign, materials to be used,
lighting plans, method of construction and means of attachment to a building,
structure or the ground; such plans must be to scale and be drawn on eight and
one-half (81/Z) inch by eleven (11) inch paper.
            (d)   Name of person, firm, corporation or association erecting,
altering or installing said sign.
            (e)   Written consent of the owner of the land on which the sign is
to be erected, altered or relocated.
            (f)   Other information as the Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall
deem necessary in order to show full compliance with all applicable provisions
of this and other applicable ordinances of the Borough.
      C.   Licenses for permanent signs are valid for three (3) years and upon
application may be renewable for three (3) year intervals.
      D.   Licenses for permanent signs must be kept on the premises where the
sign is displayed and must be shown to the Ordinance Enforcement Officer upon
request.
      E.   A sign may be erected, installed, altered or relocated after a sign
license has been issued by the Ordinance Enforcement Officer. The owner of the
sign shall notify the Ordinance Enforcement Officer, who shall inspect the
sign.
         (1)   If the Ordinance Enforcement Officer finds that the sign has
been placed as specified in the license application and is in compliance with
all applicable provisions of this and other ordinances of the Borough, he (she)
shall issue a certificate of conformance.
         (2)   If the Ordinance Enforcement Officer finds that the sign has not
been placed as specified in the license application and/or is not in compliance
with all applicable provisions of this and other ordinances of the Borough, the
owner of the sign shall be notified in writing by the Ordinance Enforcement
Officer to remove said sign or correct any violations of the ordinance noted by
the Ordinance Enforcement Officer within thirty (30) days of the date of
notification. Any sign owner who shall fail to correct noted violations within
thirty (30) days of notification shall be subject to fines and penalties as
authorized by this Part.
   2.   Temporary Signs.
      A.   Temporary Signs as they are defined in this Part shall not require
approval or licensing but shall require notification to the Ordinance
Enforcement Officer and shall conform to the regulations established in this
Part regarding size and type of sign.
      B.   Application for a license for a temporary sign shall be made on a
form provided by the Ordinance Enforcement Officer. Licenses for temporary
signs must be kept on the premises where signs are displayed and must be shown
to the Ordinance Enforcement Officer upon request.
      C.   Licenses for temporary signs are valid for ninety (90) days and may
be renewed upon the filing of a new application and payment of the license fee.
      D.   Not more than two (2) temporary signs may be licensed for any
property at any one time.
   3.   License Fees.
      A.   The Millheim Borough Council shall establish, by resolution, a
schedule and a collection procedure for all sign fees, which shall be posted in
the office of the Ordinance Enforcement Officer.
      B.   All such fees shall be payable to the Millheim Borough at the office
of the Ordinance Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 202, 12/11/2001, §5; as amended by Ord. 255, 8/12/2014, §§VI, VII)
§ 106. General Regulations.
   1.   Limit on Number of Signs per Property.
      A.   No more than five (5) signs may be erected or maintained on any
property at any one time. However, when a property is located on a corner lot
and has public entrances on two or more public ways or where a building has
both a front and rear public entrance, one (1) additional sign may be erected.
      B.   In calculating the total number of signs on a property, only
permanent signs shall be used. A double-faced sign shall count as a single
sign.
   2.   Limit on Sign Area. The total permanent sign area per property shall
not exceed two (2) square feet per lineal front foot of the main building on
the property; however, no property shall be limited to less than twenty (20)
square feet of total sign area nor allowed to exceed fifty (50) square feet of
total sign area.
   3.   Limit on Height of Signs. No sign, or any part thereof (except
monument/ground signs) including braces, supports or lights shall exceed a
height of fifteen (15) feet. Height shall be measured from the median grade
level directly below the face of the sign to the highest part of the sign. The
maximum height of a monument/ground sign shall be five (5) feet above existing
grade.
   4.   Limit on Content of Largest Sign on Property. The largest sign on a
property shall not advertise any particular article of merchandise unless it is
the principal product sold or manufactured on the property.
   5.   Illumination of Signs.
      A.   Light sources which cast light on signs shall be shielded by opaque
materials so that the bulbs, floodlights or tubes are not visible off the
property on which the sign is located.
      B.   Any source of sign illumination shall be so located and arranged
that the direct rays of the light sources do not shine into a dwelling unit,
the eyes of a pedestrian or a vehicle operator.
   6.   Safety and Maintenance.
      A.   Every sign and all parts thereof, including framework, supports,
background, anchors and wiring systems shall be constructed and maintained in
compliance with the building, electrical and fire prevention codes as they now
exist, or as they may hereafter exist in the Millheim Borough.
      B.   All signs and parts thereof shall be kept in a good state of repair
and maintenance.
      C.   Any sign which has received damage or deterioration to fifty percent
(50%) or more of the sign area as estimated by the Ordinance Enforcement
Officer shall be considered a nuisance and must be repaired or removed within
thirty (30) days of notification by the Ordinance Enforcement Officer.
   7.   Map Delineating Residential and Downtown Areas. A map shall be
maintained in the Office of the Ordinance Enforcement Officer delineating the
residential areas and the downtown areas in the Borough of Millheim referenced
in this Part.
(Ord. 202, 12/11/2001, §6; as amended by Ord. 255, 8/12/2014, §§VIII - X)
§ 107. Sign Regulations in Residential Areas.
Signs in single-family, two-family and multifamily residential areas are
allowed only as follows:
   1.   All signs are prohibited in residential areas except those identified
in §§
104(1) and
108(2)(B)(1).
   2.   Illuminated signs are prohibited in residential districts, except for
street address signs, signs identifying doctors of medicine, signs identifying
churches and other places of worship and signs necessary for public safety.
   3.   No sign may be erected or maintained in residential districts which
exceeds twelve (12) square feet in sign area on a single face or twenty-four
(24) square feet of sign area on a double-faced sign.
(Ord. 202, 12/11/2001, §7; as amended by Ord. 255, 8/12/2014, §XI)
§ 108. Types of Signs.
   1.   Basic Sign Types.
      A.   Ground Pole Signs. In addition to the general provisions of this
Part, the following regulations shall apply to all ground pole signs.
         (1)   Every ground pole sign and all parts, braces and supports
thereof shall be located entirely behind the property line and shall not
project over public right-of-way or other adjoining lands. Ground pole signs
are permitted between the property line and the building setback lines.
         (2)   No more than one (1) sign shall be mounted to the supporting
structure of any ground pole sign, except for directional signs permitted in
this Part. Multi-panels designed to be viewed as a single sign face (as noted
under "Definitions - Sign Area") shall count as one sign.
         (3)   One (1) ground pole sign may be installed for and toward each
public way on any public way on any property located on a corner lot of having
public entrance to two (2) or more public ways.
      B.   Hanging Signs. In addition to the general provisions of this Part,
the following regulations shall apply to all hanging signs.
         (1)   No portion of any hanging sign shall be less than ten (10) feet
above grade level, except in the downtown area, where clearance over walkways
shall not be less than eight (8) feet.
         (2)   No single face of a hanging sign shall exceed fifteen (15)
square feet of sign area, except in the downtown area, where hanging signs
shall not exceed ten (10) square feet of sign area.
      C.   Projecting Signs. In addition to the general provisions of this
Part, the following regulations shall apply to all projecting signs.
         (1)   No projecting sign shall project more than five (5) feet beyond
the building line in the direction of the street, nor shall any portion of any
projecting sign be closer than eighteen (18) inches to the face of the street
curb or curb line.
         (2)   No portion of any projecting sign shall be less than ten (10)
feet above grade level, except in the downtown area, where projecting signs
shall maintain at least eight (8) feet of clearance over walkways.
         (3)   No single face of a projecting sign shall exceed fifteen (15)
square feet of sign area, except in the downtown area, where projecting signs
may not exceed ten (10) square feet of sign area per face.
         (4)   There shall be no more than one (1) projecting sign for any
premises unless the premises is located on a corner lot or has public entrances
on two or more public ways, in which case one (1) projecting sign may be
erected for and toward each public way.
      D.   Wall Signs. In addition to the general provisions of this Part, the
following regulations shall apply to all wall signs.
         (1)   No wall sign shall extend above the top of the wall upon which
it is placed, nor extend beyond the left and right extremities of the wall to
which it is attached.
         (2)   No wall sign, nor any part thereof, shall project more than
twelve (12) inches from the wall upon which it is mounted.
         (3)   No wall sign shall exceed twelve (12) square feet of sign area
except in the downtown area, where no wall sign shall exceed fifteen (15)
square feet of sign area.
   2.   Special Sign Types.
      A.   Directional Signs. In addition to the general provisions of this
Part, the following regulations shall apply to all directional signs.
         (1)   Directional signs may be erected along arterial roadways, with
the property owner's permission, to direct vehicles or pedestrians to locations
not visible or easily accessed from major roadways.
         (2)   Directional signs shall be ground pole signs with a maximum sign
area of ten (10) square feet if single-faced and twenty (20) square feet if
double-faced.
         (3)   The content of directional signs shall be limited to the name of
the establishment, direction and distance information.
         (4)   No more than two (2) individual signs shall be erected within
the permitted area, and these shall be attached to a single ground support
structure. When more than two (2) such signs are requested at a single
location, all information shall be combined in one (1) sign which shall not
exceed either an area of twenty-five (25) square feet for a single-faced sign
or fifty (50) square feet for a double-faced sign.
      B.   On-Premise Occupation Signs. In addition to the general provisions
of this Part, the following regulations shall apply to all on-premise
occupation signs.
         (1)   A professional occupation sign shall denote only the name,
office hours, symbol and/or profession of an occupant. There shall be not more
than one (1) sign per occupant, and total sign area shall not exceed five (5)
square feet per occupant. The total area for all such signs shall not exceed
twenty-five (25) square feet per building.
      C.   Real Estate Development Signs. In addition to the general provisions
of this Part, the following regulations shall apply to all real estate
development signs.
         (1)   The use of real estate development signs shall be limited to
those developers or owners having for sale a minimum of six (6) lots in one
subdivision.
         (2)   Such signs must be located on the subdivision in which lots are
for sale.
         (3)   Such signs may advertise only the subdivision in which the sign
is located and not the sale of lots elsewhere, or the realtor's, developer's or
landowner's business in general. The content of such signs shall be limited to
the name of the development, the developer's name and the telephone number of
the developer or his sales agent(s).
         (4)   Such signs shall conform to relevant setback line requirements.
If any person shall use more than one sign for the same development or area, no
two (2) signs shall be closer to each other than one thousand (1,000) feet
measured in a straight line.
         (5)   The maximum sign area of any such single-faced sign shall be
twenty-five (25) square feet, and for any double-faced sign fifty (50) square
feet. No part of such sign shall be more than ten (10) feet in any dimension.
         (6)   Such signs shall be removed when seventy-five percent (75%) of
the lots the subdivision have been sold or leased.
         (7)   Artificial illumination of such signs is prohibited.
(Ord. 202, 12/11/2001, §8; as amended by Ord. 255, 8/12/2014, §§ XII, XIII)
§ 109. Enforcement and Penalties.
   1.   Enforcement.
      A.   The provisions of this Part shall be enforced by the Ordinance
Enforcement Officer of the Millheim Borough.
      B.   The Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall examine all applications for
permits for erection of signs, issue licenses for new signs and for continued
use of signs which conform to the requirements of this Part, record and file
all applications for permits with any accompanying plans or documents, make an
annual inspection of all signs in the Borough and make such reports as the
Borough Council may require.
      C.   If the Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall find that any sign has
been constructed or erected or is being maintained in violation of the
provisions of this Part, (s)he shall promptly notify the owner or lessor
thereof in writing. Failure to remove said sign within the time given in the
notice by the Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall constitute a violation of
this Part. The Ordinance Enforcement Officer is authorized to take all
necessary steps as authorized by the Millheim Borough Council to enforce the
provisions of this Part and to abate violations of this Part. In the event the
Ordinance Enforcement Officer removes a sign which is in violation of this
Part, the owner or lessor thereof shall be responsible for the costs and
expenses incurred in such removal.
      D.   Each day a violation exists shall constitute a separate violation of
this Part.
      E.   The cost of removal or abatement of any violation shall be borne by
the owner of lessor of such sign, and shall be a lien upon the property of the
owner or lessor.
      F.   The Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall cause any sign which is in
immediate peril to persons or property to be removed immediately. The cost of
such removal shall be borne by the owner or lessor of such sign and shall be a
lien upon the property of the owner or lessor.
   2.   Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any
provision of this Part shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) plus costs and, in
default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to
exceed thirty (30) days.
(Ord. 202, 12/11/2001, § 9)
§ 110. Variances.
Any person having a proprietary interest in a sign for which a variance is
requested shall file a written request for a variance with the Millheim Borough
Council. Upon receipt of said request, Millheim Borough Council may, in its
discretion, grant a variance from the provisions and regulations of this Part.
The variance may be granted only when the Borough determines from evidence
presented to it that the variance will not merely serve as a convenience to the
person requesting it but is necessary to alleviate some demonstrable hardship
or unusual practical difficulty and that the granting of the variance will not,
in any way, be inconsistent with the intent, purpose and objectives of this
Part.
(Ord. 202, 12/11/2001; as added by Ord. 208, 12/10/2002, § 2)
§ 111. Fees.
Application fees, permit fees and other fees charged by the Borough pursuant to
this Part shall be established from time to time by resolution of the Millheim
Borough Council.
(Ord. 202, 12/11/2001; as added by Ord. 208, 12/10/2002, § 3)
CHAPTER 20
SOLID WASTE
Part 1
Storage, Collection and Billing
   §
101.   Intent and Purpose
   §
102.   Definitions
   §
103.   Licensing of Collectors
   §
104.   Containers for Weekly Collection
   §
105.   Point of Collection
   §
106.   Cost
   §
107.   Schedules
   §
108.   Hours of Operation
   §
109.   Accumulation of Garbage Prohibited
   §
110.   Preparation for Collection
   §
111.   Equipment of Collector
   §
112.   Disposal
   §
113.   Billing Procedure
   §
114.   Complaints
   §
115.   Assignment of Contract
   §
116.   Workman's Compensation and Social Security
   §
117.   Collector as an Independent Contractor
   §
118.   Insurance Coverage
   §
119.   Cancellation of License
   §
120.   Faithful Performance
   §
121.   Evidence of Satisfactory Equipment
   §
122.   Certified List of Customers
   §
123.   Extension of Date for Obtaining License
   §
124.   Penalty
Part 1
Storage, Collection and Billing
§ 101. Intent and Purpose.
All domestic, commercial and industrial refuse accumulated or stored upon any
property within the Borough of Millheim shall be collected and removed by a
responsible person or collector who shall be licensed with the Borough and
shall be disposed in an area authorized by and approved by the Borough Council
in accordance with all state regulations.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 102. Definitions.
As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated,
unless a different meaning appears clearly from the context:
   ASHES - residue from the burning of coal, coke or other combustible
material.
   DISPOSAL - storage, collection, disposal, or handling of garbage.
   DWELLING - place of residence within the Borough of Millheim of one or more
persons where refuse is generated through normal living habits. It shall not
include apartments or buildings devoted to multiple-family occupancy.
   GARBAGE - mean all animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking or consumption of foods.
   OCCUPANT - person generally in possession and control of any dwelling.
   PERSON - any natural person, association, partnership, firm or corporation.
   REFUSE - all solid waste, except human body wastes, including garbage,
ashes, and rubbish.
   RUBBISH - glass, metal, paper, plant growth, wood, or nonputrescible solid
waste.
   SOLID WASTE - any waste, including but not limited to, municipal, residual,
or hazardous wastes, including solidified liquids, semisolids, or contained
gaseous materials.
In this Part, the singular shall include the plural; the plural shall include
the singular; and the masculine shall include the feminine and neuter.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 103. Licensing of Collectors.
   1.   No person shall collect, remove, haul or convey any refuse through or
upon any of the streets or alleys of the Borough or dispose of the same in any
manner or place without obtaining a license.
   2.   The fee for such license shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per
annum, and all licenses shall be issued for the calendar year, or such portion
thereof as shall remain after the issuance thereof. There shall be no reduction
in the fee for a license issued after the beginning of any calendar year.
   3.   Every person who shall apply for a license under this section shall
state the type or types of refuse to be collected, the manner of collection,
and the place and method of disposal.
   4.   No license shall be granted if the place and method of disposal shall
not conform to the requirements of this Part.
   5.   No licensed collector shall make any change in the arrangements for
disposal of refuse collected by him without first receiving the approval of the
Borough Council.
   6.   It shall be unlawful to permit an unlicensed collector to collect or
remove garbage from any household.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 104. Containers for Weekly Collection.
Every family or household at whose premises refuse is collected or removed
shall provide and maintain at all times, a portable metal or plastic
receptacle. The same must be watertight, equipped with a tight fitting cover,
and each receptacle shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 105. Point of Collection.
The contractor shall pick up all refuse on the property, in accordance with
specifications established by the Borough.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 106. Cost.
The cost of weekly garbage collection shall be based on the number and size of
the containers.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 107. Schedules.
The contractor shall prepare a schedule of refuse pickup for each household on
a weekly basis. The contractor shall be responsible to notify residents of the
days collections will be made.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 108. Hours of Operation.
The collector shall be permitted to collect, remove and transport refuse on all
days of the week, except Sunday and the following holidays: New Year's Day,
Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day,
and unless otherwise ordered, the collection of refuse shall not commence
before 6:00 A.M., and shall be completed by 6:00 P.M., on any single day of
collection. All refuse from cans and receptacles of occupants of dwellings
shall be collected, removed and emptied by the collector at least once each
week.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 109. Accumulation of Garbage Prohibited.
No refuse shall be allowed to accumulate on the ground or be deposited on
highways, vacant lots or other property nor be thrown in any stream or other
body of water.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 110. Preparation for Collection.
All garbage, before being placed into receptacles for collection, shall have
drained from it, as far as practical, all free liquid. Garbage shall be wrapped
in paper or otherwise contained. Ashes shall be placed in separate, fire
resistant containers. Rubbish shall be placed in approved containers, or cut
and baled, tied, bundled, stacked or packaged so as to be easily handled by the
collector, and not to exceed thirty-six inches (36") in length and fifty (50)
lbs. in weight.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 111. Equipment of Collector.
The collector shall be required to collect and remove refuse in motor-driven
vehicles having enclosed steel bodies with steel covers and watertight and non-
leakable automatic packer-type bodies, and to so conduct the collection,
removal and transportation of the refuse under such agreement so as to assure
general cleanliness and sanitation throughout the entire process and operation
thereof. The collector's unit shall be equipped with appropriate devices to
handle containers having a maximum capacity of twenty (20) gallons.
The collector shall also be required, at his own cost, to dispose of, at an
approved disposal area, all quantities of garbage collected by him, and to
furnish, at his own cost, all vehicles, machinery and equipment necessary for
the proper performance of such contract.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 112. Disposal.
Each collector applying for a license shall provide either evidence of
ownership of an approved disposal area or evidence of a valid agreement, not
subject to cancellation, covering use of approved disposal area. Such evidence
shall accompany the application for license.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 113. Billing Procedure.
The collector and the Borough, by agreement, shall establish rates to be
charged to each occupant of the premises from which refuse shall be collected.
The collector shall enter into individual or separate contracts with each
householder or occupant of the premises, without liability to or upon the
Borough. The Borough shall reserve the right to change the billing procedure
with the concurrence of the contractor.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 114. Complaints.
A member of Borough Council shall have the right to determine finally the true
validity of any complaints made by residents as to failure of the contractor to
collect refuse in accordance with this agreement, and the official's decision
shall be final and binding upon the contractor.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 115. Assignment of Contract.
The contractor shall not assign his license in whole or in part without the
written consent of the Borough. Such consent does not release the contractor
from any of his or its obligations and liabilities under the license. Any
violation of this Part or specifications shall be sufficient cause for the
immediate cancellation of the license by the Borough Council.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 116. Workmen's Compensation and Social Security.
Workmen's Compensation and Social Security Acts, as amended, are deemed a part
of the license agreement. The contractor shall be obliged to provide Workmen's
Compensation coverage and shall fulfill the terms and save harmless the Borough
and all its officers, agents and employees, successors and assigns, jointly and
severally, of and from all manner of losses, suits, actions, payments, costs,
charges, damages, judgments or claims or demands of any character, name or
description brought on account of any injuries or damages received or sustained
by any person, persons or property by reason of any act, omission, negligence
or misconduct of said contractor, his agents or employees in the execution of
the license conditions.
(Ord. 95 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 117. Collector as an Independent Contractor.
The contractor granted the license shall not in any manner be construed as an
agent, servant or employee of the Borough, but shall, at all times, be
considered and remain an independent contractor.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 118. Insurance Coverage.
The contractor shall carry an insurance policy providing complete third party
comprehensive liability and property damage insurance, covering not only the
contractor but also the Borough, the limits of which shall be not less than
$300,000.00 - $500,000.00 personal liability and $100,000.00 property damage,
and shall furnish the proper certificates of insurance coverage to the Borough.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/ 1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 119. Cancellation of License.
Any violation of these specifications shall be sufficient cause for the
immediate cancellation of the license.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 120. Faithful Performance.
Faithful performance must be of the essence of the license unless prevented by
unavoidable accident, act of God or public immunity, or any restrictions or
embargoes imposed by the Federal Government or any agency thereof; and it is
understood and agreed that all material shall be collected, removed, and
disposed of in a skillful and businesslike manner, satisfactory to the Borough
Council.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/ 1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 121. Evidence of Satisfactory Equipment.
The contractor shall furnish evidence satisfactory to the Borough that he has
available equipment, by ownership or by valid lease agreement, for collecting
and disposing of materials in the performance of his contract and that all
equipment for transporting of materials will comply with the sanitary and
watertight requirements set forth by the Borough.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 122. Certified List of Customers.
The contractor shall deliver to the Borough Secretary, at least fifteen (15)
days prior to the anniversary date of the license, and at least thirty (30)
days prior to the termination date of the license, a certified list of
customers. This list shall become and remain at all times the property of the
Borough.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 123. Extension of Date for Obtaining License.
All contract carriers presently operating, who have entered into an existing
contract with a resident of the Borough providing for the collection of that
resident's refuse, shall be permitted to continue collecting the refuse of that
resident for the duration of the contract period. At the expiration of the
contract, the contract carrier shall be required to effect complete compliance
with the licensing requirements of this Part and shall be bound by licensing
requirements as to the collection of refuse from any new resident and shall be
subject to the licensing requirements of this Part in respect to any contract
entered into between the carrier and a resident of the Borough after the
effective date of this Part.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984)
§ 124. Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation, except the licensed collector, who shall
violate any provision of this Part shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced
to pay a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) plus costs and,
in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to
exceed thirty (30) days. Each day that a violation of this Part continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 95, 4/1/1963; as revised by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; as amended by Ord. 189,
6/1/1999)
CHAPTER 21
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Part 1
Construction and Repair of Sidewalks
   §
101.   Purpose
   §
102.   Definitions
   §
103.   Duty of Property Owners
   §
104.   Construction and Repair of Sidewalks
   §
105.   Sidewalk Required
   
Schedule A
   
Schedule B
Part 2
Snow Removal
   §
201.   Definition and Interpretation
   §
202.   Sidewalks to Be Kept Clear
   §
203.   Penalty
   §
204.   Borough May Remove Obstructions and Collect Costs and Additional 10%
Part 3
Street Cuts, Curb Cuts and Driveway Construction
   §
301.   Installation in Borough Right-of-Way
   §
302.   Permit Required for Driveways, Streets and Roads
   §
303.   Driveway Standards
   §
304.   Sidewalk Not to Be Disturbed
   §
305.   Correction of Improper Work
   §
306.   Fee
   §
307.   Penalties
Part 1
Construction and Repair of Sidewalks
§ 101. Purpose.
This Part is intended to provide for the construction, repair, reconstruction
and removal of obstructions from sidewalks available for use by the public
which are presently existing or which may be constructed in the future. This
Part is enacted for safety purposes in order to protect the public, which use
such sidewalks, and to prevent dangerous conditions on sidewalks intended for
public use whether on public rights-of-way, on easements for the use of the
public or on sidewalks located on private property. Such dangerous conditions,
in the form of improperly maintained or deteriorated sidewalks, or in the form
of obstructions, are declared to be nuisances constituting a danger to the
public.
(Ord. 204, 5/14/2002, § 101)
§ 102. Definitions.
Unless a contrary intention clearly appears, the following words and phrases
shall have the following meanings given in this Part. All words and terms not
defined herein shall be used with a meaning of standard usage.
   CONSTRUCT - the building or laying of a new sidewalk on areas of land where
none previously existed.
   OBSTRUCTION - any obstacle or impediment which renders the sidewalk
impassable without unreasonable inconvenience or hazard.
   REPAIR, RECONSTRUCT - the restoration or repair of a sidewalk, curb, gutter
or drain which has previously been in existence and shall be deemed to include
patching, the relaying or reconstruction of certain parts thereof or any other
measures necessary to make the said sidewalks, curbs, gutters and drains safe
and in good condition and within the provisions of this Part.
   SIDEWALK - a walkway for pedestrians available for use by the general public
whether located on the owners' property, in an easement for public passage or
within the right-of-way of any street, drive, avenue, highway, road, lane or
alley.
(Ord. 204, 5/14/2002, § 201)
§ 103. Duty of Property Owners.
It shall be the duty of owners of property upon which sidewalks presently exist
or are constructed to maintain them in good repair, to repair and to
reconstruct them when necessary and to keep them free from obstructions and
safe for passage by pedestrians.
(Ord. 204, 5/14/2002, § 301)
§ 104. Construction and Repair of Sidewalks.
   1.   Construction and Repair Required. The Borough of Millheim may require
owners of property abutting on any street, including State highways, to
construct, reconstruct and keep in good repair the sidewalk and curb along such
property, at such grades as may be prescribed by Schedule "A," "Standards and
Specifications for Sidewalk Construction, Repair or Reconstruction," of this
Part.
   2.   Supports Under Sidewalks and Curbs. Where sidewalks or curbs are to be
constructed, reconstructed or repaired over coal cellars or other excavations,
such sidewalks shall be supported by iron or steel beams, girders, stone or
concrete arches. Any support of wood or perishable material shall be
prohibited.
   3.   Conformity to Line and Grade. All sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall be
constructed, reconstructed or repaired upon the lines and grades obtained by
the property owner from the Millheim Borough Council or the Borough's
designated representative.
   4.   Notice to Do Work. Notice to construct, reconstruct and/ or repair
sidewalks and curbs shall be given by registered or certified mail to abutting
property owners. Such owners shall have one hundred eighty (180) days to comply
with said notice in conformity with any construction specifications prescribed
by Schedule "A," "Standards and Specifications for Sidewalk Construction,
Repair or Reconstruction," of this Pa__
   5.   Inspection. At any time during the performance of the required work the
Millheim Borough Council or the Borough's designated representative may inspect
the work to determine whether construction materials and methods meet the
specifications as prescribed by Schedule "A," "Standards and Specifications for
Sidewalk Construction, Repair or Reconstruction," of this Part.
   6.   Millheim Borough May Do Work and Collect Costs. Upon the failure of any
property owner to construct, reconstruct, repair or maintain any sidewalk and
curb in compliance with notice to do so, the Borough may do the same or cause
the same to be done and may levy the cost of its work, plus an additional
fifteen percent (15%) against such owner as a property lien, and the Millheim
Borough shall collect the costs thereof, together with all charges, penalties
and expenses from the owner or owners of the lot or lots as now allowed by law.
   7.   Emergency Repairs. Where, in the opinion of the Millheim Borough
Council or the Borough's designated representative, a dangerous condition
exists that can be repaired by an expenditure of two hundred dollars ($200.00),
or less, the Borough shall send such property owner notice by registered or
certified mail stating emergency repairs are required. Upon failure of such
owner to comply with the notice within forty-eight (48) hours after receiving
it, the Borough may make emergency repairs and levy the cost of its work, plus
an additional fifteen percent (15%) against such owner as a municipal lien, and
Millheim Borough shall collect the costs thereof, together with all charges,
penalties and expenses from the owner or owners of the lot or lots as now
allowed by law.
   8.   Construction and Repair Done on Owner's Initiative Without Notice. Any
property owner not required by notice to construct, reconstruct or repair a
sidewalk may construct, reconstruct or repair the sidewalk abutting his
property; provided, such owner shall make application to the Millheim Borough
Council or the Borough's designated representative two (2) working days prior
to commencing work, shall comply with the provisions of this Part and other
regulations as to specifications for construction, reconstruction or repair
work and shall notify the Borough's designated representative within two (2)
days after completion of this work.
(Ord. 204, 5/14/2002, §§ 401-408)
§ 105. Sidewalk Required.
   1.   Sidewalk Required. Upon approval of the Millheim Borough Council or the
Borough's designated representative, a property owner may construct on private
property all or a portion of sidewalk required by this Part. Such sidewalk
shall be subject to all other provisions of this Part in the same manner as
sidewalk constructed in the dedicated right-of-way. The property owner may also
be required to grant an easement to the Borough for such sidewalk.
   2.   When Building. When any new building is to be constructed within the
Borough, the owner of the premises shall be required to construct sidewalks on
all portions of the premises abutting a public street if the same have not
already been constructed.
   3.   On A Vacant Lot.
      A.   When forty percent (40%) or more of the lots abutting a street block
have been built upon, the owner of any vacant lot abutting the block shall be
and is hereby required to construct sidewalks on all portions of the premises
abutting a public street.
      B.   The owner of any vacant lot abutting a street, which connects areas
having sidewalks, shall be required to construct sidewalks on all portions of
the premises abutting a public street.
   4.   Exceptions. Under the following circumstances, the Millheim Borough
Council or the Borough's designated representative may recommend the sidewalk
requirement be waived:
      A.   On a corner lot where one of the streets is not constructed, nor
contemplated to be constructed within the near future, on the sides of the lot
adjoining such unbuilt street.
      B.   Adjoining an open but non-paved dirt street which is not scheduled
for construction in the near future.
      C.   Where physical constraints make the construction of sidewalk
impractical. If the Millheim Borough Council or the Borough's designated
representative so recommends, such recommendation shall be considered by
Borough Council, which may either affirm or reject such recommendation. If
rejected, such sidewalk shall be constructed by the owner, as set forth above.
If affirmed, such sidewalk need not be constructed at such time; however, any
change in the circumstances surrounding the exception at any later time will
initiate reconsideration of sidewalk installation and the Millheim Borough
Council or the Borough's designated representative shall have the right to make
a new recommendation and Council shall have the right to affirm or reject such
recommendation. Appeals of the Borough's designated representative's decision
shall be made directly to the Millheim Borough Council.
   5.   Certain Sidewalks Exempted. Due to previous Council policy, sidewalks
were not required in certain areas. In recognition of this long-time policy,
the following exemptions are made:
      A.   Exemptions from the provisions of subsections (1), (2) and (3) of
this Section are as shown on Schedule "B," list of exempted sidewalks.
   6.   Penalties. Any person who shall violate any provision of this Part,
upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than six
hundred dollars ($600.00) and, in default of payment, to imprisonment for a
term not to exceed thirty (30) days. Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 204, 5/14/2002, §§ 501-506)
SCHEDULE A
STANDARDS & SPECIFICATIONS FOR SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR OR RECONSTRUCTION
When it is determined by the Millheim Borough Council that construction, repair
or reconstruction of a sidewalk is necessary, or a property owner desires to
construct, repair or reconstruct their sidewalk without determination or notice
from the Millheim Borough Council, all work shall be done according to the
following specifications:
   1.   Standard Specifications. All construction materials and methods shall
conform to the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation Specifications (Form
408) with its latest revisions and the latest specifications for the American
Society for Testing Materials (ASTM), unless stated otherwise in these
specifications.
      A.   Portland Cement Concrete Sidewalk. All sidewalks shall be of
Portland cement concrete construction. Any other material may only be used
after specific approval of the Millheim Borough Council on written application
by the property owner(s).
         a.   Width. The standard width for all sidewalks shall be four (4)
feet, except as follows:
            1.   Additional Width. In commercial areas or any other area deemed
appropriate by the Millheim Borough Council, Council may require, by
resolution, an additional width so that the sidewalk shall extend from the curb
to the property line.
            2.   Less Width. In areas where trees or other physical obstacles
do not permit a four (4) foot sidewalk to be constructed, the Millheim Borough
Council may, upon request by the property owner, allow a lesser width, but in
no case shall the width be less than three (3) feet.
         b.   Thickness. All sidewalks shall be of one-course construction not
less than four (4) inches thick with the following exception. Sidewalks across
driveways and PCC (Portland cement concrete) driveway aprons shall be not less
than six (6) inches thick.
         c.   Lines and Grades. Sidewalks shall be constructed, reconstructed
or repaired upon lines and grades established by the Millheim Borough Council
or the Borough's designated representative. Lines and grades may be adjusted on
an individual basis, as authorized by the Millheim Borough Council or the
Borough's designated representative.
         d.   Material. All concrete shall be Class A (3,300 psi), twenty-eight
(28) day compressive strength and have two (2) to four (4) inch slump, five (5)
to seven (7) percent air-entrainment, (6.25) to 8.00 bags of cement per cubic
yard of concrete, and a maximum water-cement ratio of 0.50 (lbs./lbs.).
         e.   Subgrade (Foundation). The subgrade shall be well drained and
thoroughly compacted to a firm, even and uniform bearing surface. Unsuitable
material, including roots and/or stumps, shall be removed and replaced, as
required, to install new concrete.
         f.   Drains. Drains shall be installed, when necessary, to protect the
sidewalk from frost damage.
         g.   Sub-base. On poorly drained soil, where drains are impractical, a
four (4) inch sub-base of gravel or other acceptable porous material shall be
constructed. It shall be thoroughly tamped and drained into a street gutter.
         h.   Forms. Forms extending the full depth of the concrete shall be
used.
         i.   Jointing.
            1.   Contraction joints shall be spaced in uniform lengths or
sections of five (5) feet and may be either formed by hand, formed by full-
depth divider plates or sawed. Joints shall be three-sixteenths (3/16) inch
wide and a minimum of two (2) inches deep. To prevent uncontrolled shrinkage
cracking, the initial sawcut shall be made as soon as the concrete has hardened
sufficiently to permit sawing without damage to the surface. Slight raveling
along the joint edge is permissible. In addition, all sawcutting shall be
completed within twenty-four (24) hours.
            2.   Expansion joints shall be constructed of pre-molded one-half
(1/2) inch expansion material placed the full depth of sidewalk, and at right
angles to the surfaces of the aforementioned. Expansion material shall be
placed between the sidewalk and any rigid structure (e.g., another sidewalk,
curb or curb gutter, inlet, concrete driveway, light post, buildings).
               All hand-formed contraction and expansion joints shall be edged
with an edger having one-fourth (1/4) inch maximum radius.
         j.   Placing and Finishing. Concrete shall be placed, consolidated,
struck off and floated until an even and true surface is obtained. Care shall
be taken to avoid over-finishing (i.e., bringing to the surface an excess of
water and fine sand.)
            A slip resistant texture shall be achieved on all sidewalks by
coarse brooming of the finished surfaces in a transverse direction to
pedestrian traffic. Concrete sidewalks shall be placed and formed separately
from the placement of concrete curbs.
         k.   Curing. All concrete shall be cured by applying a white-pigmented
liquid membrane-forming curing compound, or by using another method in
conformance with the standard specifications.
         l.   Backfilling. After the concrete has cured for at least seventy-
two (72) hours, spaces adjacent to the new sidewalk shall be backfilled with
acceptable material and mechanically compacted, in such a manner as to prevent
settling below sidewalk grade.
         m.   Seeding. All disturbed grassed areas shall be seeded and mulched,
as necessary, to insure new growth over the disturbed areas.
(Ord. 204, 5/14/2002, Schedule A)
SCHEDULE B
EXEMPTED SIDEWALKS
   1.   On the North side of S.R. 0045 (Rt. 45) from the intersection of S.R.
0045 and High Street, East along S.R. 0045 to the Borough and Haines Township
line.
   2.   On the East side of S.R. 0445 (North Street) from 125 North Street (now
or formerly the Harry and Connie Trauger residence), North along S.R. 0445 to
the Borough and Penn Township line.
(Ord. 204, 5/14/2002, Schedule B)
Part 2
Snow Removal
§ 201. Definition and Interpretation.
In this
Part 2, the word "person" shall mean and include any natural person,
partnership, firm or corporation. The singular shall include the plural and the
masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
(Ord. 133, 12/4/1978, § 1).
§ 202. Sidewalks to be Kept Clear.
It shall be the duty of the owners and occupiers of properties as hereinafter
provided, and the owners of unoccupied lots along whose premises sidewalks have
been laid, or may hereafter be laid out under the authority of the Borough
Council or any other person, to cause said paved sidewalks along their
respective properties to be cleared of snow, ice and other obstructions within
twenty-four (24) hours after the same shall have ceased to fall, in the case of
snow, or shall have occurred, in the case of ice or other obstructions.
Provided: The owner shall be responsible for conforming to the provisions of
this section in case of unoccupied property, of property occupied by said
person and of property containing more than one dwelling or business unit; the
occupant shall be responsible therefor in case of property containing a single
dwelling or business unit.
(Ord. 133, 12/4/1978, § 2)
§ 203. Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days. Each day
that a violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 133, 12/4/1978, § 3; as amended by Ord. 151, 11/12/1984; and by Ord. 189,
6/1/1999)
§ 204. Borough May Remove Obstructions and Collect Costs and Additional 10%.
Whenever any owner or occupier of any abutting property shall refuse or neglect
to clear the said sidewalk, as provided in §
202 hereof, the Borough may clear or cause the same to be cleared, and the cost
of clearing the said sidewalks, with ten percent (10%) additional, shall be
collected by the Borough from the owner or occupier of the abutting property.
Such amount shall be charged in addition to any fine or other penalty imposed
under § 203 hereof.
(Ord. 133, 12/4/1978, § 4)
Part 3
Street Cuts, Curb Cuts and Driveway Construction
§ 301. Installation in Borough Right-of-Way.
Before any gas pipe, water pipe, sewer pipe, electric conduits, or other piping
or wiring may be laid upon, under or in, or any other obstructions be erected
upon, under or in any portion of a Borough street, road or alley, a permit
shall be obtained from the Borough or its Code Enforcement Officer. Such
installation, connection and maintenance thereof shall be made under such
conditions, restrictions and regulations as may be prescribed by rules,
regulations and specifications adopted by the Borough of Millheim for such
purposes.
(Ord. 219, 7/13/2004, § 1)
§ 302. Permit Required for Driveways, Streets and Roads.
Before any private driveway may be constructed across a sidewalk, or before any
curb cut may be made, or before a private driveway may be connected to a
Borough street, road or alley, a permit shall be obtained from the Borough or
its Code Enforcement Officer. All driveways shall be laid according to
specifications furnished by the Borough at the time the permit is granted.
(Ord. 219, 7/13/2004, § 2; as amended by Ord. 241, 7/13/2010, § 1)
§ 303. Driveway Standards.
All driveways, streets and roads hereafter constructed to connect with a
Borough street, road or alley shall be constructed to meet the specifications
of the County of Centre then in effect.
(Ord. 219, 7/13/2004, § 3; as amended by Ord. 241, 7/13/2010, §§ 2, 3)
§ 304. Sidewalk Not to Be Disturbed.
Any paved portion of the sidewalk disturbed in the construction of a private
driveway shall be restored to at least the same condition as existed prior to
said disturbance subject to the provisions of the Millheim Borough Sidewalk
Ordinance [
Part 1], and the height and grade of the sidewalk shall remain the same as
prior to the construction of the driveway, unless otherwise approved by the
Borough.
(Ord. 219, 7/13/2004, § 4)
§ 305. Correction of Improper Work.
In the event any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity (herein
referred to as person) shall construct a driveway or a curb cut and shall not
conform to the requirements of this Part, the Borough, or its Code Enforcement
Officer, may order such person to remove the improper work and replace the same
in compliance with this Part. Notice to remove and replace improper work shall
be given by registered or certified mail or personal service, and shall state
that the person shall have thirty (30) days from receipt of the notice to
comply therewith. Upon noncompliance, the Borough may do or cause the requested
repairs to be done and may levy the cost of its work, together with an
additional ten (10) percent, against such person as a municipal lien to be
collected in any manner provided by law.
(Ord. 219, 7/13/2004, § 5)
§ 306. Fee.
The fee for permits required by this Part shall be established by resolutions
adopted from time to time by the Borough.
(Ord. 219, 7/13/2004, § 6)
§ 307. Penalties.
Any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity who shall fail to obtain a
permit required by this Part, or who shall violate any other provision of this
Part, shall, upon conviction thereof before a District Justice, be sentenced to
pay a fine of not more than six hundred dollars ($600.00) and in default of
payment, be sentenced to imprisonment for a term not to exceed thirty (30)
days. Each day that a violation of this Part continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 219, 7/13/2004, § 7)
CHAPTER 22
SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
Part 1
Millheim Borough Official Map Ordinance
   §
101.   Short Title
   §
102.   Authority
   §
103.   Purpose
   §
104.   Establishment of Controls
   §
105.   Incorporation of the Official Map
   §
106.   Effect of Controls
   §
107.   Release of Damage Claims or Compensation
   §
108.   Adoption and Amendment
   §
109.   Violations and Sanctions
   §
110.   Appeals
   §
111.   Interpretation
Part 1
Millheim Borough Official Map Ordinance
§ 101. Short Title.
This Part shall be known and may be cited as the “Millheim Borough Official Map
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 238, 4/14/2009, § 1)
§ 102. Authority.
This Part is enacted and ordained under the grant of powers by the General
Assembly of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code (PA MPC), Act of 1968, as amended.
(Ord. 238, 4/14/2009, § 2)
§ 103. Purpose.
   1.   This Part is enacted for the following purposes:
      A.   To promote, protect, and facilitate the general health, safety, and
welfare of its citizens.
      B.   To facilitate adequate provision of public streets and sidewalks.
      C.   To improve traffic circulation.
      D.   To provide for the recreational and open space needs of the
community.
      E.   To provide pedestrian ways and easements.
      F.   To protect and enhance water resources.
      G.   To provide for flood control basins, floodways and flood plains,
stormwater management areas and drainage easements.
      H.   To facilitate the subdivision of land and the use of land and
watercourses.
(Ord. 238, 4/14/2009, § 3)
§ 104. Establishment of Controls.
   1.   The Official Map, as enacted by this Part, and subsequently amended,
may identify the location of the lines of:
      A.   Existing and proposed public streets, well sites, watercourses and
public lands, including widenings, narrowings, extensions, diminu tions,
openings or closings of same.
      B.   Existing and proposed public land, parks, playgrounds, and open
space reservations.
      C.   Pedestrian ways and easements.
      D.   Railroad and transit rights-of-way and easements.
      E.   Flood control basins, floodways and floodplains, stormwater
management areas and drainage easements.
      F.   Support facilities, easements and other properties held by public
bodies undertaking the elements described in the Municipalities Planning Code.
   2.   At the time of enactment of this Part, all existing surveys designating
the exact location of the lines of existing public street rights-of-way,
watercourses and public lands, including surveys prepared by government
agencies or incorporated as part of final, recorded, subdivision and land
development plans duly approved by the Millheim Borough Council shall, by
reference, be deemed an attachment to the Official Map for the purpose of so
designating the exact location of said existing lines.
   3.   The Borough, by amending ordinances, may make additions or
modifications to the Official Map, or part thereof. For the purpose of
initially preserving land on the Official Map, property records, aerial
photography, other methods sufficient for identification, description and
publication of the Official Map shall be sufficient. For the acquisition of
lands and easements, boundary descriptions by metes and bounds shall be made
and sealed by a licensed surveyor. The Borough may also vacate by ordinance any
existing or proposed public street, watercourse or public lands contained in
the Official Map, or part thereof.
   4.   Unless otherwise specified, all proposed public street rights-of- way
and widening of existing public street rights-of-way shall meet the width
requirements specified in the Millheim Borough Code of Ordinances and/or the
Centre County Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
(Ord. 238, 4/14/2009, § 4)
§ 105. Incorporation of the Official Map.
The Official Map, including all notations, references and other data shown
thereon, is hereby incorpo rated by reference into this Part as if it were
fully described herein.
   1.   Certification of the Official Map. The Official Map shall be identified
by the signatures of the Millheim Borough Council and Mayor, attested by the
Borough Secretary, under the following words: “This map is a part of the
Official Map of Millheim Borough, Centre County, Pennsylvania,” together with
the date of enactment. The Map shall be kept on file with the Borough
Secretary.  Following adoption of this Part and the Official Map, or any
amendment thereof, a copy of the same, verified by the Borough Secretary, shall
be submitted to the Recorder of Deeds of Centre County and shall be recorded
within 60 days of the effective date of this Part or amendment thereof.
   2.   Changes in Official Map. If, in accordance with the provisions of this
Part, changes are made to the location of lines designating existing or
proposed public streets, watercourses or public lands, such changes shall be
entered promptly on said Map. All changes, except those resulting from
subdivision and land development plans shall be certified by the initialing of
the Map by the President of the Borough Council, together with the amending
ordinance number and date of enactment. Following adoption of the ordinance and
Official Map, or any amendment thereof, a copy of the same, verified by the
Borough Secretary, shall be submitted to the Recorder of Deeds of Centre County
and shall be recorded within 60 days of the effective date of the ordinance or
amendment thereof.
   3.   Relationship with Adjacent Municipalities. If the Official Map, or
amendment thereto, shows any streets or public lands intended to lead into any
adjacent municipalities, a copy of said Official Map or amendment shall be
forwarded to such adjacent municipality. The comments of the adjacent
municipality shall be made to the Borough Council within 45 days of such
forwarding, and the proposed action by the Borough Council shall not be taken
until such comments are received; provided, however, if the adjacent
municipality fails to provide comments within 45 days, the Borough Council may
proceed without the comments of the adjacent municipality. Upon adoption of the
Official Map, or any amendment thereof, in which any street or public lands are
intended to lead into an adjacent municipality, a certified copy of the Map and
ordinance adopting it shall be forwarded within 30 days after adoption to the
adjacent municipality.
(Ord. 238, 4/14/2009, § 5)
§ 106. Effect of Controls.
   1.   For the purpose of preserving the integrity of the Official Map of the
Borough, no permit shall be issued for any building within the lines of any
street, watercourse or public land shown or laid out on the Official Map. No
person shall recover any damages for the taking for public use of building or
improvements constructed within the lines of any street, any watercourse or
public land after the same shall have been included in the Official Map, and
any such building or improvement shall be removed at the expense of the owner.
However, when the property of which the reserved location forms a part which
cannot yield a reasonable return to the owner unless a permit shall be granted,
the owner may apply to the Borough Council for the grant of a permit to build.
Before granting any permit authorized in this Section, the Borough Council may
submit the application to the Planning Commission and allow the Planning
Commission 30 days for review and comment and shall give public notice and hold
a public hearing at which all parties in interest shall have an opportunity to
be heard. A refusal by the Borough Council to grant the permit applied for may
be appealed by the applicant to the Zoning Hearing Board in the same manner and
within the same time limitation as is provided in the Municipalities Planning
Code.
   2.   The Borough Council may fix the time for which streets, water courses
and public lands on the Official Map shall be deemed preserved for future
taking or acquisition for public use.
   3.   The reservation for public land shall lapse and become void 1 year
after an owner of such property has submitted a written notice to the Borough
Council announcing his intention to build, subdivide or otherwise develop the
land covered by the reservation or has made formal application for an official
permit to build a structure for private use, unless the Borough Council shall
have acquired such property before the end of the year.
   4.   The adoption of any street, street lines or other public lands pursuant
to this Part, as part of the Official Map, shall not, in and of itself,
constitute or be deemed to constitute the opening or establishment of any
street nor the taking or acceptance of any land, nor shall it obligate the
Borough to improve or maintain any such street or land. The adoption of
proposed watercourses or public lands as part of the Official Map shall not, in
and of itself, constitute or be deemed to constitute a taking or acceptance of
any land by the Borough.
(Ord. 238, 4/14/2009, § 6)
§ 107. Release of Damage Claims or Compensation.
   Borough Council may designate any of its representatives to negotiate with
the owner of land under the following circumstances:
      A.   Where reservations are made.
      B.   Where releases of claims for damages or compensation for such
reservation are required.
      C.   Where agreements indemnifying the Borough Council or the Borough
from claims by others may be required. Any releases or agreements when properly
executed by the Borough Council and the owner and recorded, shall be binding
upon any successor in title.
(Ord. 238, 4/14/2009, § 7)
§ 108. Adoption and Amendment.
   1.   Prior to the adoption of the Official Map or part thereof, or any
amendments to the Official Map, the Borough Council shall refer the proposed
Official Map or part thereof, or amendment thereto, with an accompanying
ordinance describing the proposed map, to the Borough Planning Commission for
review. The Borough Planning Commission shall report its recommendations on
said proposed Official Map and accompanying ordinance, part thereof or
amendment thereto, within 45 days unless an extension of time shall be agreed
to by the Borough Council. If, however, the Borough Planning Commission fails
to act within 45 days, the Borough Council may proceed without its
recommendations.
   2.   The County and adjacent municipalities may offer comments and
recommendations during said 45-day period in accordance with the Municipali
ties Planning Code. Local authorities, park boards, and similar public bodies
may also offer comments and recommendations to the Borough Council or Planning
Commission if required by same during said 45-day review period. Before voting
on the enactment of the proposed ordinance and Official map, or part thereof or
amendment thereto, the Borough Council shall hold a public hearing pursuant to
public notice.
   3.   After adoption of the Official Map, or part thereof, all streets,
watercourses and public lands on final, recorded subdivision and land
development plans which have been duly approved by the Centre County Planning
Commission in consultation with the Borough Council shall be deemed amendments
to the Official Map. Notwithstanding any other terms of this Part, no public
hearing need be held or notice given if the amendment of the Official Map is
the result of the addition of a plan which has been duly approved by the Centre
County Planning Commission in consultation with the Borough Council.
(Ord. 238, 4/14/2009, § 9)
§ 109. Violations and Sanctions.
   1.   Whenever any person, partnership or corporation shall have violated the
terms of this Part, the Borough Secretary shall cause a written notice to be
served upon the owner, applicant, developer, property manager or other person
responsible for the property within 30 days. The Secretary shall give notice to
the owner, applicant, developer, property manager or other person responsible
for the property or the violation that if the violation is not corrected, the
Borough may correct the same and charge the landowner or other persons
responsible and the cost thereof plus penalties, as specified herein, for
failure to comply.
   2.   Such notice shall be delivered by the United States Postal Service,
first class, postage prepaid, or by certified or registered mail; or by
personal service; or, if the property is occupied, by posting notice at a
conspicuous place upon the affected property.
   3.   The failure of any person, partnership or corporation to comply with
this Part within the period stated in the notice by the Secretary constitutes a
violation with possible sanctions which may be as much as $500 dollars per day
of each violation, plus court costs, including reasonable attorney's fees
incurred by the Borough as a result of prosecution of such violation. Each and
every day of continued violation shall constitute a separate violation.
   4.   In the event that the owner, developer, occupant, applicant, property
manager or other person responsible fails to comply with the terms of this Part
within the time specified by the Secretary, the Borough may take any actions
necessary to correct the violation. The costs for correction of the violation
shall be in addition to any penalties for violation for failure to comply.
   5.   In addition to the sanctions, costs and penalties provided for by this
Section, the Borough may institute proceedings in courts of equity to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate such building, structure or land, or to prevent, in
or about such premises, any act, conduct, business or use constituting a
violation.
(Ord. 238, 4/14/2009, § 9)
§ 110. Appeals.
An appeal from a decision or action of the Millheim Borough Council or any
officer or agency of the Borough regarding this ordinance shall be made in
accordance with the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247, as
amended.
(Ord. 238, 4/14/2009, § 10)
§ 111. Interpretation.
   1.   Severability. If any provision, sentence, clause, section, or any part
of this Part is for any reason found to be unconstitutional, illegal, or
invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall not affect
or impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections, or
parts of this Part. It is hereby declared as the intent of the Borough Council,
that this Part would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal, or
invalid provision, sentence, clause, section, or part thereof not have been
included herein.
   2.   Saving Clause. Nothing in this Part shall be construed to affect any
suit or proceeding pending in any court, or any rights acquitted, or liability
incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or existing under any act
or ordinance hereby repealed, nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of
any character be lost, impaired or affected by this Part.
   3.   Conflict with Other Laws. The provisions of this Part shall be deemed
to be minimum requirements to meet the purposes stated herein. Where the
provisions of this Part impose greater restrictions than those of any Federal
or State statute, rule, regulation or other ordinance, the provisions of this
Part shall prevail. Where the provisions of any Federal or State statute, rule,
regulation, or other ordinance impose greater restrictions than those of this
Part, the provisions of such Federal or State statute, rule, regulation or
ordinance shall prevail.
(Ord. 238, 4/14/2009, § 11)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/841fd9811923a8c3eaa098b86cab83035ac5032e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-32.png]
CHAPTER 23
SWIMMING POOLS
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
CHAPTER 24
TAXATION, SPECIAL
Part 1
Real Estate Tax
   §
101.   Levy Set
   §
102.   Effective Date
   §
103.   Waiver of Additional Charges
Part 2
Reserved
Part 3
Earned Income Tax
   §
301.   Definitions
   §
302.   Imposition of Tax
   §
303.   No Exemption from Tax
   §
304.   Individual Tax Returns and Payments
   §
305.   Employer Withholding, Remittance, and Tax Returns
   §
306.   Tax Collector
   §
307.   Interest, Penalties, Costs, and Fines
Part 4
Realty Transfer Tax
   §
401.   Authority for Enactment
   §
402.   Definitions
   §
403.   Imposition of Tax
   §
404.   Payment and Liability
   §
405.   Exempt Parties
   §
406.   Excluded Transactions
   §
407.   Documents Relating to Associations or Corporations and Members,
Partners, Stockholders or Shareholders Thereof
   §
408.   Acquired Company
   §
409.   Credits Against Tax
   §
410.   Extension of Lease
   §
411.   Evidence of Payment
   §
412.   Duties of Realty Transfer Tax Collector
   §
413.   Authority of Realty Transfer Tax Collector
   §
414.   Affidavit Required with Certain Documents
   §
415.   Prohibited Acts
   §
416.   Interest Added to Unpaid Tax
   §
417.   Recovery of Taxes and Interest
   §
418.   Tax Constitutes Lien Against Property
   §
419.   Penalty
   §
420.   Repealer
   §
421.   Effective Date
Part 5
Local Services Tax
   §
501.   Purpose
   §
502.   Definitions
   §
503.   Levy of Tax
   §
504.   Exemption and Refunds
   §
505.   Duty of Employers to Collect
   §
506.   Returns
   §
507.   Dates for Determining Tax Liability and Payment
   §
508.   Self-Employed Individuals
   §
509.   Individuals Engaged in More Than One Occupation or Employed in More Than
One Political Subdivision
   §
510.   Nonresidents Subject to Tax
   §
511.   Administration of Tax
   §
512.   Suits for Collection
   §
513.   Violations and Penalties
   §
514.   Interpretation
   §
515.   Severability
   §
516.   Effective Date of Tax
Part 1
Real Estate Tax
§ 101. Levy Set.
   1.   Pursuant to Section 1302 (a) of the Borough Code, 8 Pa.C.S.A. 1302 (a),
the following tax is hereby levied on all real property located within the
Borough of Millheim, Centre County, Pennsylvania, subject to taxation for the
fiscal year 2017:
      A.   Tax rate for general revenue purposes, the sum of 3.50 mills on each
dollar of assessed valuation, or the sum of .35 cents on each one hundred (100)
dollars of assessed valuation.
      B.   Tax rate for fire protection purposes, the sum of 0.50 mills on each
dollar of assessed valuation, or the sum of .05 cents on each one hundred (100)
dollars of assessed valuation.
   2.   Discounts. Pursuant to the "Local Tax Collection Law", a taxpayer
subject to the payment of a tax levied by this Ordinance shall be entitled to a
discount of two percent (2%) from the amount of such tax upon making payment of
the whole amount of such tax within two (2) months after the date of the tax
notice.
   3.   Penalties. A taxpayer subject to the payment of a tax levied by this
Ordinance, who shall fail to make payment of such tax for four (4) months after
the date of the tax notice, shall be charged a penalty of ten percent (10%)
which penalty shall be added to the tax by the Tax Collector and shall be
collected by the Tax Collector.
(Ord. 184, 12/12/1994, §1; as amended by Ord. 245, 12/13/2011; by Ord. 249, 12/
11/2012; by Ord. 252, 12/10/2013; by Ord. 256, 12/9/2014; by Ord. 257, 12/8/
2015; and by Ord. 260, 12/13/2016)
§ 102. Effective Date.
This Part and the real estate tax hereby levied shall take effect on January 1,
2017, and shall continue in full force and effect until further amended or
repealed.
(Ord. 184, 12/12/1994, §2; as amended by Ord. 245, 12/13/2011; by Ord. 249, 12/
11/2012; by Ord. 252, 12/10/2013; by Ord. 256, 12/9/2014; by Ord. 257, 12/8/
2015; and by Ord. 260, 12/13/2016)
§ 103. Waiver of Additional Charges.
   1.   The tax collector of Millheim Borough shall comply with the provisions
of Act 57 and this Ordinance for tax years beginning on or after January 1,
2023.
   2.   Definitions. The following words and phrases shall have the meanings
given to them within this ordinance unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise:
      ADDITIONAL CHARGE - Any interest, fee, penalty, or charge accruing to and
in excess of the face amount of the real estate tax as provided in the real
estate tax notice.
      QUALIFYING EVENT -
         A.    For the purposes of real property, the date of transfer of
ownership.
         B.    For manufactured or mobile homes, the date of transfer of
ownership or the date a lease agreement commences for the original location or
relocation of a manufactured or mobile home on a parcel of land not owned by
the owner of the manufactured or mobile home. The term does not include the
renewal of a lease for the same location.
      TAX COLLECTOR - The elected tax collector for Millheim Borough, Centre
County, any authorized or designated delinquent tax collector, the Centre
County Tax Claim Bureau, or any alternative collector of taxes as provided for
in the act of July 7, 1947 (P.L. 1368, No.542), known as the "Real Estate Tax
Sale Law," an employee, agent or assignee authorized to collect the tax, a
purchaser of claim for the tax or any other person authorized by law or
contract to secure collection of, or take any action at law or in equity
against the person or property of the taxpayer for the real estate tax or
amounts, liens or claims derived from the real estate tax.
   3.   Waiver. The Tax Collector shall, for tax years beginning on and after
January 1, 2023, grant a request to waive additional charges for real estate
taxes if the taxpayer does all of the following:
      A.   Provides a waiver request of additional charges, on a form provided
by the state Department of Community and Economic Development, to the Tax
Collector in possession of the claim within twelve (12) months of a qualifying
event;
      B.   Attests that a tax notice was not received; and
      C.   Provides the Tax Collector in possession of the claim with one of
the following:
         (1)   A copy of the deed showing the date of real property transfer;
or
         (2)   A copy of the title following the acquisition of a mobile or
manufactured home subject to taxation as real estate showing the date of
issuance or a copy of an executed lease agreement between the owner of a mobile
or manufactured home and the owner of a parcel of land on which the mobile or
manufactured home will be situated showing the date the lease commences; and
      D.   Pays the face value amount of the tax notice for the real estate tax
with the waiver request.
(Ord. 272, 11/10/2022)
Part 2
Reserved
Part 3
Earned Income Tax
§ 301. Definitions.
   All terms defined in the Local Tax Enabling Act shall have the meanings set
forth therein. The following terms shall have the meanings set forth herein:
      COLLECTOR - person, entity, or authorized representative of the tax
officer, appointed as tax officer pursuant to the Local Tax Enabling Act to
collect the Tax.
      DOMICILE - the place where one lives and has his permanent home and to
which he has the intention of returning whenever he is absent. Actual residence
is not necessarily domicile, for domicile is the fixed place of abode which, in
the intention of the taxpayer, is permanent rather than transitory. Domicile is
the voluntarily fixed place of habitation of a person, not for a mere special
or limited purpose, but with the present intention of making a permanent home,
until some event occurs to induce him to adopt some other permanent home. In
the case of businesses, or associations, the domicile is that place considered
as the center of business affairs and the place where its functions are
discharged.
      EFFECTIVE DATE - January 1, 2012.
      ENACTMENT - this Ordinance.
      GOVERNING BODY - The Borough of Millheim.
      LOCAL TAX ENABLING ACT - The Local Tax Enabling Act, as set forth in 53
P.S. §6901 et seq. while such numbering and provisions remain in effect under
Act 32 of 2008, and as set forth in 53 P.S. §6924.101 et seq. when such
numbering and provisions become effective under Act 32, and as amended in the
future.
      NONRESIDENT - A person or business domiciled outside the political
subdivision levying the tax.
      RESIDENT - A person domiciled in the political subdivision levying the
tax.
      TCD - Any tax collection district to which the Taxing Authority or any
part of the Taxing Authority is assigned under the Local Tax Enabling Act.
      TCC - The tax collection committee established to govern and oversee the
collection of earned income tax within the TCD under the Local Tax Enabling
Act.
      TAX - The tax imposed by this Enactment.
      TAX RETURN - A form prescribed by the Collector for reporting the amount
of Tax or other amount owed or required to be withheld, remitted, or reported
under this Enactment or the Local Tax Enabling Act.
      TAX YEAR - The period from January 1 to December 31.
      TAXING AUTHORITY - Millheim Borough.
(Ord. 244, 11/21/2011)
§ 302. Imposition of Tax.
   a.   General Purpose Resident Tax. The Taxing Authority hereby imposes a Tax
for general revenue purposes at the rate of 1/2 of 1% on earned income and net
profits of individual residents of the Taxing Authority.
   b.   General Purpose Municipal Nonresident Tax. The Taxing Authority also
imposes a Tax for general revenue purposes at the rate of l/2 of 1% on earned
income and net profits derived by an individual who is not a resident of the
Taxing Authority from any work, business, profession, or activity, of any kind
engaged in within the boundaries of the Taxing Authority.
   c.   Ongoing Tax. The Tax shall continue at the above rates during the
current Tax Year and each Tax Year thereafter, without annual re-enactment,
until this Enactment is repealed or the rate is changed.
   d.   Combined Tax Rate Applicable to Residents. Currently, the total rate
applicable to residents of the Taxing Authority, including the tax imposed by
the school district and municipality in which the individual resides, is 1.8%.
   e.   Municipal Tax Rate Applicable to Nonresidents. Currently, the total
rate applicable to nonresidents working within the Taxing Authority based on
the municipal nonresident tax rate is 1/2 of 1%.
   f.   Local Tax Enabling Act Applicable. The Tax is imposed under authority
of the Local Tax Enabling Act, and all provisions thereof that relate to a tax
on earned income or net profits are incorporated into this Enactment. Any
future amendments to the Local Tax Enabling Act that are required to be applied
to a tax on earned income or net profits will automatically become part of this
Enactment upon the effective date of such amendment, without the need for
formal amendment of this Enactment, to the maximum extent allowed by 1
Pa.C.S.A. §1937.
   g.   Applicable Laws, Regulations, Policies, and Procedures. The Tax shall
be collected and administered in accordance with: (1) all applicable laws and
regulations; and (2) regulations, policies and procedures adopted by the TCC or
by the Collector. This includes any regulations, policies, and procedures
adopted in the future to the maximum extent allowed by 1 Pa.C.S.A. §1937.
(Ord. 244, 11/21/2011)
§ 303. No Exemption from Tax.
Although credits and deductions against Tax are permitted under certain
circumstances as provided in applicable law and regulations, no individuals are
exempt from Tax based on age, income, or other factors.
(Ord. 244, 11/21/2011)
§ 304. Individual Tax Returns and Payments.
Every individual receiving earned income or earning net profits in any Tax Year
shall file Tax Returns and pay Tax in accordance with the Local Tax Enabling
Act. Individuals who are no longer employed or whose tax is withheld in full
must file an informational tax return notifying the tax office that there is no
payment due for the specific tax year.
(Ord. 244, 11/21/2011)
§ 305. Employer Withholding, Remittance, and Tax Returns.
Every employer shall register, withhold, and remit Tax, and file Tax Returns in
accordance with the Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Ord. 244, 11/21/2011)
§ 306. Tax Collector.
The Tax will be collected from individuals and employers by the Collector.
(Ord. 244, 11/21/2011)
§ 307. Interest Penalties, Costs, and Fines.
Individuals and employers are subject to interest, penalties, costs, and fines
in accordance with the Local Tax Enabling Act, including costs imposed by the
Collector in accordance with the Local Tax Enabling Act.
(Ord. 244, 11/21/2011)
Part 4
Realty Transfer Tax
§ 401. Authority for Enactment.
This
Part 4 is adopted under authority of the Local Tax Enabling Act, P.L. 1257, No.
511, December 31, 1965, 53 P.S. 6901, et seq. (1982), as amended; and also
pursuant to the authority granted by the Act of the General Assembly of 1986,
being Act No. 77, Article XI (d), Section 1101(d).
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, §1)
§ 402. Definitions.
   ASSOCIATION - A partnership, limited partnership, or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise owned or conducted by two oi more persons other than
a private trust or decedent's estate.
   BOROUGH - The Borough of Millheim.
   CORPORATION - A corporation, joint-stock association, business trust, or
banking institution which is organized under the laws of this Commonwealth, the
United States, or any other state, territory or foreign country, or dependency.
   DOCUMENT - Any deed, instrument or writing which conveys, transfers,
demises, vests, confirms or evidences any transfer or demise of title to real
estate, but does not include wills, mortgages, deeds of trust or other
instruments of like character given as security for a debt and deeds of release
thereof to the debtor, land contracts whereby the legal title does not pass to
the grantee until the total consideration specified in the contract has been
paid or any cancellation thereof, unless the consideration is payable over a
period of time exceeding thirty years, or instruments which solely grant, vest
or confirm public utility easements. "Document" shall also include a
declaration or acquisition required to be presented for recording.
   FAMILY FARM CORPORATION - A corporation of which at least seventy-five
percent (75%) of its assets are devoted to the business of agriculture, and at
least seventy-five percent (75%) of each class of stock of the corporation is
continuously owned by members of the same family. The business of agriculture
shall not be deemed to Include:
      A.   Recreational activities such as, but not limited to, hunting,
fishing, camping, skiing, show competition or racing;
      B.   Trie raising, breeding or training of game animals or game birds,
fish, cats, dogs or pets or animals intended for use in sporting or
recreational activities;
      C.   Fur farming
      D.   Stockyard and slaughterhouse operations, or
      E.   Manufacturing or processing operations of any kind.
   MEMBERS OF THE SAME FAMILY - Any individual, such individual's brothers and
sisters, the brothers and sisters of such individual's parents and
grandparents, the ancestors and lineal descendants of any of the foregoing, a
spouse of any of the foregoing; and the estate of any of the foregoing.
Individuals related by the half blood or legal adoption shall be treated as if
they were related by the whole blood.
   PERSON - Every natural person, association or corporation. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a fine or imprisonment, or both, the term
"person" as applied to associations, shall include the responsible members or
general partners thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   REAL ESTATE
      A.    Any lands, tenements or hereditaments within this Commonwealth,
including without limitation, buildings, structures, fixtures, mines, minerals,
oil, gas, quarries, spaces with or without upper or lower boundaries, trees,
and other improvements, immovables or interests which by custom, usage or law
pass with a conveyance of land, but excluding permanently attached machinery
and equipment in an industrial plant.
      E.    A condominium unit.
      C.    A tenant-stockholder's interest in a cooperative housing
corporation, trust or association under a proprietary lease or occupancy
agreement.
   REAL ESTATE COMPANY - A corporation or association which is primarily
engaged in the business of holding, selling or leasing real estate ninety-
percent (90%) or more of the ownership interest in which is held by thirty-five
(35) or fewer persons and which:
      A.   Derives sixty percent (60%) or more of its annual gross receipts
from the ownership or disposition of real estate; or
      B.   Holds real estate, the value of which comprises ninety percent (90%)
or more of the value of its entire tangible asset holdings exclusive of
tangible assets which are freely transferable and actively traded on an
established market.
   TITLE TO REAL ESTATE -
      A.    Any interest in real estate which endures for a period of time the
termination of which is not fixed or ascertained by a specific number of years,
including without limitation an estate in fee simple, life estate, oi perpetual
leasehold; or
      E.    Any interest in real estate enduring for a fixed period of years
but which, wither by reason of the length of the term oi the giant of a light
to extend the teim by renewal or otherwise, consists of a group of rights
approximating those of an estate in fee simple, life estate or perpetual
leasehold, including without limitation a leasehold interest or possessoiy
interest under a lease or occupancy agieement for a term of thirty (30) years
or more or a leasehold inteiest or possessory interest in real estate in which
the lessee has equity.
   REALTY TRANSFER TAX COLLECTOR - The person designated by the Borough to
enforce and administer this Part.
   TRANSACTION - The making, executing delivering, accepting or presenting for
recording of a document.
   VALUE -
      A.   In the case of a bona fide sale of real estate at arm's length for
actual monetary worth, the amount of the actual consideration therefor, paid or
to be paid, including liens or other encumbrances thereon existing before the
transfer and not removed thereby, whether or not the underlying indebtedness is
assumed, and ground rents, or a commensurate part thereof, where such liens or
other encumbrances and the ground rents also encumber or are charged against
other real estate; provided, that where such documents shall set forth a
nominal consideration, the "value" thereof shall be determined from the price
set forth in or actual consideration for the contract of sale.
      B.   In the case of a gift, sale by execution upon a judgment or upon the
foreclosure of a mortgage by a judicial officer, transactions without
consideration or for consideration less than the actual monetary worth of the
real estate, a taxable lease, or occupancy agreement, a leasehold or possessory
interest, any exchange of properties, or the real estate of an acquired
company, the actual monetary worth of the real estate determined by adjusting
the assessed value of the real estate for local real estate tax purposes for
the common level ratio of assessed values to market values of the taxing
district as established by the State Tax Equalization Board, or a commensurate
part of the assessment where the assessment includes other real estate;
      C.   In the case of an easement or other interest in real estate the
value of which is not determinable under clause (1) or (2), the actual monetary
worth of such interest; or
      D.   The actual consideration for or actual monetary worth of any
executory agreement for the construction of buildings, structures or other
permanent improvements to real estate between the grantor and other persons
existing before the transfer and not removed thereby or between the grantor,
the agent or principle of the grantor or a related corporation, association or
partnership and the grantee existing before or effective with the transfer.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, §2)
§ 403. Imposition of Tax.
   1.   After the effective date of this
Part 4 , on every document whereby any lands, tenements or hereditaments, or
any interest thereon, lying and being situate wholly or part within the
boundaries of the Borough shall be granted, bargained, sold or otherwise
conveyed, a tax for general revenue purposes is hereby imposed and assessed on
each such document at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2%) on every one
hundred ($100.00) dollars of the value of the real estate, lands, tenements or
hereditaments, or any interest therein, which is conveyed or transferred by
such document; provided, that where any lands, tenements or hereditaments being
situate partly within and partly without the boundaries of the Borough are
conveyed, such tax so levied shall be collected on the valuation of the portion
of such lands and tenements lying within the limits of the Borough; provided
further that on all transactions where the value by which the tax is determined
involves a figure not divisible by one hundred ($100.00) dollars, no tax shall
be collected on the part of the value or selling price over and above the
highest even one hundred ($100.00) dollars valuation.
   2.   The tax referenced in subsection .1 of this Section and all applicable
interest and penalties shall be administered, collected and enforced under the
Act of December 31, 1965 (P.L. 1257, No. 511, as amended, known as “The Local
Tax Enabling Act”) provided, that if the correct amount of the tax is not paid
by the last date prescribed for timely payment, Millheim Borough, pursuant to §
1102-D of the Tax Reform Code of 1971 (72 P.S. § 8102-D), authorizes and
directs the Department of Revenue of the Common wealth of Pennsylvania to
determine, collect and enforce the tax, interest and penalties. [Ord. 229]
   3.   Any tax imposed as referenced in subsection .1 of this Section that is
not paid by the date the tax is due shall bear interest as prescribed for
interest on delinquent municipal claims under the Act of May 16, 1923 (P.L.
207, No. 153) (53 P.S. § 7101, et seq.) as amended, known as “The Municipal
Claims and Tax Liens Act.” The interest rate shall be the lesser of the
interest rate imposed on delinquent Commonwealth taxes as provided in § 806 of
the Act of April 9, 1929 (P.L. 343, No. 176) (72 P.S. § 806), as amended, known
as “The Fiscal Code,” or the maximum interest rate permitted under the
Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act for tax claims. [Ord. 229]
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 3; as amended by Ord. 229, 12/12/2006, §§ 2, 3)
§ 404. Payment and Liability.
Every person who makes, executes, delivers, accepts or presents for recording
any document, or in whose behalf any document is made, executed, delivered,
accepted or presented for recording, shall be subject to pay for and in respect
to the transaction or any part thereof, or for or in respect of the vellum
parchment or paper upon which such document is written or printed, a tax at the
rate of 0.5 percent (0.5%) of the value of the real estate represented by such
document, which tax shall be payable at the earlier of the time the document is
presented for recording or within thirty (30) days of acceptance of such
document or within thirty (30) days of becoming an acquired company.
   This tax shall apply to the privilege of transferring title to real estate
lying within the Borough or any interest thereon as herein defined.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 4)
§ 405. Exempt Parties.
The United States, the Commonwealth, or any of their instrumentalities,
agencies or political subdivisions shall be exempt from payment of the tax
imposed by this Part. The exemption of such governmental bodies shall not,
however, relieve any other party to the transaction from liability for the tax.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 5)
§ 406. Excluded Transactions.
The tax imposed by § 403 shall not be imposed upon:
   A.   A transfer to the Commonwealth, or to any of its instrumentalities,
agencies or political subdivisions, by gift, dedication or deed in lieu of
condemnation or deed or confirmation in connection with condemnation
proceedings, or a reconveyance by the condemning body of the property condemned
to the owner of record at the time of condemnation which conveyance may include
property line adjustments, provided said reconveyance is made within one year
from the date of condemnation.
   B.   A document which the Commonwealth is prohibited from taxing under the
Constitution or statutes of the United States.
   C.   A conveyance to a municipality, township, school district or county
pursuant to acquisition by the municipality, township, school district or
county of a tax delinquent property at sheriff sale or tax claim bureau sale.
   D.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration which corrects or
confirms a transfer previously recorded, but which does not extend or limit
existing record legal title or interest.
   E.   A transfer of division in kind for no or nominal actual consider ation
of property passed by testate or intestate succession and held by cotenants;
however, if any of the parties take shares greater in value than their
undivided interest, tax is due on the excess.
   F.   A transfer between husband and wife, between persons who were
previously husband and wife who have since been divorced, provided the property
or interest therein subject to such transfer was acquired by the husband and
wife or husband or wife prior to the granting of the final decree in divorce,
between parent and child or the spouse of such child, between brother or sister
or the spouse of a brother or sister and between a grandparent and grandchild
or the spouse of such grandchild, except that a subsequent transfer by the
grantee within one (1) year shall be subject to tax as if the grantor were
making such transfer.
   G.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration of property passing
by testate or intestate succession from a personal representative or a decedent
to the decedent's devisee or heir.
   H.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration to a trustee of an
ordinary trust where the transfer of the sale property would be exempt if the
transfer was made directly from the grantor to all of the possible
beneficiaries, whether or not such beneficiaries are contingent or specifi
cally named. No such exemption shall be granted unless the recorder of deeds is
presented with a copy of the trust instrument that clearly identifies the
grantor and all possible beneficiaries.
   I.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from a trustee to a
beneficiary of an ordinary trust.
   J.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from trustee to
successor trustee.
   K.   A transfer (i) for no or nominal actual consideration between principal
and agent or straw party; or (ii) from or to an agent or straw party where, if
the agent or straw party were his principal, no tax would be imposed under this
Part. Where the document by which title is acquired by a grantee or statement
of value fails to set forth that the property was acquired by the grantee from,
or for the benefit of, his principal, there is a rebuttable presumption that
the property is the property of the grantee in his individual capacity if the
grantee claims an exemption from taxation under this clause.
   L.   A transfer made pursuant to the statutory merger or consolidation of a
corporation or statutory division of a nonprofit corporation, except where the
department reasonably determines that the primary intent for such merger,
consolidation or division is avoidance of the tax imposed by this Part.
   M.   A transfer from a corporation or association of real estate held of
record in the name of the corporation or association where the grantee owns
stock of the corporation or an interest in the association in the same
proportion as his interest in or ownership of the real estate being conveyed
and where the stock of the corporation or the interest in the association has
been held by the grantee for more than two (2) years.
   N.   A transfer from a nonprofit industrial development agency or authority
to a grantee of property conveyed by the grantee to that agency or authority as
security for a debt of the grantee or a transfer to a nonprofit industrial
development agency or authority.
   O.   A transfer from a nonprofit industrial development agency or authority
to a grantee purchasing directly from it but only if: (i) the grantee shall
directly use such real estate for the primary purpose of manufacturing,
fabricating, compounding, processing, publishing, research and development,
transportation, energy conversion, energy production, pollution control,
warehousing or agriculture; and (ii) the agency or authority has the full
ownership interest in the real estate transferred.
   P.   A transfer by a mortgagor to the holder of a bona fide mortgage in
default in lieu of a foreclosure or a transfer pursuant to a judicial sale in
which the successful bidder is the bona fide holder of a mortgage, unless the
holder assigns the bid to another person.
   Q.   Any transfer between religious organizations or other bodies or persons
holding title for a religious organization if such real estate is not being or
has not been used by such transferor for commercial purposes.
   R.   A transfer to a conservancy which possesses a tax exempt status
pursuant to § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (68A Stat. 3, 26
U.S.C. § 501(c)(3)) and which has as its primary purpose preservation of land
for historic, recreational, scenic, agricultural or open space opportunities.
   S.   A transfer of real estate devoted to the business of agriculture to a
family farm corporation by a member of the same family which directly owns at
least seventy-five percent (75%) of each class of the stock thereof.
   T.   A transfer between members of the same family of an ownership interest
in a real estate company or family farm corporation.
   U.   A transaction wherein the tax due is one dollar ($1.00) or less.
   V.   Leases for the production or extraction of coal, oil, natural gas or
minerals and assignments thereon.
   In order to exercise any exclusion provided in this section, the true, full
and complete value of the transfer shall be shown on the statement of value.
For leases of coal, oil, natural gas or minerals, the statement of value may be
limited to an explanation or the reason such document is not subject to tax
under this Part.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 5A)
§ 407. Documents Relating to Associations or Corporations and Members,
Partners, Stockholders or Shareholders Thereof.
Except as otherwise provided, documents which make, confirm or evidence any
transfer or demise of title to real estate between associations or corporations
and the members, partners, shareholders or stockholders thereof are fully
taxable. For the purposes of this
Part 4, corporations and associations are entities separate from their members,
partners, stockholders or shareholders.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 6)
§ 408. Acquired Company.
   1.   A real estate company is an acquired company upon a change in the
ownership interest in the company, however, effected, if the change: (i) does
not affect the continuity of the company; and (ii) of itself or together with
prior changes has the effect of transferring, directly or indirectly, ninety
percent (90%) or more of the total ownership interest in the company within a
period of three (3) years.
   2.   With respect to real estate acquired after February 16, 1986, a family
farm corporation is an acquired company when, because of voluntary or
involuntary disposition, it ceases to be a family farm corporation or when,
because of issuance or transfer of stock or because of acquisition or transfer
of assets that are devoted to the business of agriculture, it fails to meet the
minimum requirements of a family farm corporation under this resolution.
   3.   Within thirty (30) days after becoming an acquired company, the company
shall present a declaration of acquisition with the recorder of each county in
which it holds real estate for the affixation of documentary stamps and
recording. Such declaration shall set forth the value of real estate holdings
of the acquired company in such county.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 7)
§ 409. Credits Against Tax.
   1.   Where there is a transfer of residential property by a licensed real
estate broker, which property was transferred to him within the preceding year
as consideration for the purchase of other residential property, a credit for
the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to him shall be given to
him toward the amount to tax due upon the transfer.
   2.   Where there is a transfer by a builder of residential property which
was transferred to the builder within the preceding year as consideration for
the purchase of new, previously unoccupied residential property, a credit for
the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to the builder shall be
given to the builder toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   3.   Where there is a transfer of real estate which is demised by the
gtantor, a credit of the amount of tax paid at the time of the demise shall be
given the grantor toward the tax due upon the transfer.
   4.   Where there is a conveyance by deed of real estate which was previously
sold under a land contract by the grantor, a credit for the amount of tax paid
at the time of the sale shall be given the grantor toward the tax due upon the
deed.
   5.   If the tax due upon the transfer is greater than the credit given under
this section, the difference shall be paid. If the credit allowed is greater
than the amount of tax due, no refund or carryover credit shall be allowed.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 8)
§ 410. Extension of Lease.
In determining the term of a lease, it shall be presumed that a right or option
to renew or extend a lease will be exercised if the rental charge to the lessee
is fixed or if a method for calculating the rental charge is established.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 9)
§ 411. Evidence of Payment.
The payment of the tax imposed by this Part shall be evidenced by an official
stamp imprinted on every document indicating the amount of the tax paid. The
person using said stamp shall write or cause to be written on the stamp so
imprinted the date upon which such stamp is imprinted on the document.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 10)
§ 412. Duties of Realty Transfer Tax Collector.
The Realty Transfer Tax Collector shall prescribe, prepare and furnish the
rubber stamp required to imprint the payment of the tax imposed and assessed by
this Part.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 11)
§ 413. Authority of Realty Transfer Tax Collector.
The Realty Transfer Tax Collector is hereby charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of this Part and is authorized and empowered to prescribe, adopt,
promulgate and enforce rules and regulations relating to imprinting the stamp
on such document and any other matter or thing pertaining to administration and
enforcement of the provisions of this Part.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 12)
§ 414. Affidavit Required With Certain Documents.
Every document upon which a tax is imposed "by this Part and which does not
reflect the actual value of the land, tenements or hereditaments, or interest
therein granted, bargained, sold or conveyed by said document shall be
accompanied by an affidavit executed by a responsible person connected with the
transaction, showing such connection and setting forth the true, full, complete
and actual value thereof.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 13)
§ 415. Prohibited Acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      A.   Make, execute, issue deliver or accept, or cause to be made,
executed, issued, delivered or accepted, any document without the full amount
of tax thereon being duly paid; or
      B.   Make use of any stamps to denote payment of any tax imposed by this
Part 4 without caneelling such stamp, as required by this Part, or as
prescribed by the Realty Transfer Tax Collector; or
      C.   Fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with, or violate the rules and
regulations prescribed, adopted and promulgated by the Realty Transfer Tax
Collector under the provisions of this Part.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 14)
§ 416. Interest Added to Unpaid Tax.
All taxes imposed by this Part not paid when due shall bear interest thereon at
the rate of one half of one percent {'{'}%% of 1%) per month until paid.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 15)
§ 417. Recovery of Taxes and Interest.
All taxes imposed by this Part together with interest from the due date shall
be recovered as other debts of like character are recovered.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 16)
§ 418. Tax Constitutes Lien Against Property.
The tax imposed by this Part shall become a lien upon the lands, tenements or
hereditaments, or any interest therein, lying, being, and situate, wholly or in
part, within the boundaries of the Borough, which lands, tenements,
hereditaments, or interest therein are described in or conveyed or transferred
by the document which is the subject of such tax imposed and assessed by this
Part, said lien to begin at the time when the tax under this Part is due and
payable and continue until discharged by payment or in accordance with the law.
The Solicitor is authorized to file a municipal or tax claim in the Court of
Common Pleas.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 17)
§ 419. Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than six
hundred dollars ($600.00) plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 18; as amended by Ord. 189, 6/1/1999)
§ 420. Repealer.
Any and all transfer tax ordinances (or parts thereof relating thereto)
heretofore adopted are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 19)
§ 421. Effective Date.
This Part shall be effective on March 9, 1987 and shall continue thereafter on
a calendar year basis without annual re-enactment.
(Ord. 161, 3/9/1987, § 21)
Part 5
Local Services Tax
§ 501. Purpose.
The Millheim Borough Council, pursuant to the Local Tax Enabling Act 53 P.S. §§
6924.101 - 6924.901 desire to provide revenue through a Local Services Tax for
the specific purposes of (1) emergency services, which include emergency
medical services, police services and/or fire services; (2) road construction
and/or maintenance; (3) reduction of property taxes; or (4) property tax relief
through implementation of a homestead and farmstead exclusion in accordance
with 53 Pa.C.S. Ch. 85, Subch. F (relating to homestead property exclusion), to
conform to the Local Tax Enabling Act requirements, and therefore adopt this
Local Services Tax Ordinance.
(Ord. 264, 9/21/2018, §1)
§ 502. Definitions.
The following words and phrases, when used in this Part, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context or language
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   COLLECTOR - The person, public employee or agency designated by the
political subdivision to collect and administer the tax herein imposed.
   DCED - The Department of Community and Economic Development of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   EARNED INCOME - Compensation as this term is defined in Chapter 5 [relating
to earned income taxes] of the Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6924.501, as
amended.
   EMPLOYER - An individual, partnership, association, limited liability
corporation, limited liability partnership, corporation, governmental body,
agency or other entity employing one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission or other compensation basis, including a self-employed person.
   HE, HIS or HIM - Indicates the singular and plural number, as well as male,
female and neuter genders.
   INDIVIDUAL - Any person, male or female, engaged in any occupation, trade,
or profession within the corporate limits of the political subdivision.
   NET PROFITS - The net income from the operation of a business, profession or
other activity, as this term is defined in Chapter 5 [relating to earned income
taxes] of the Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6924.501, as amended.
   OCCUPATION - Any trade, profession, business or undertaking of any type,
kind or character, including services, domestic or other, earned on or
performed within the corporate limits of the political subdivision for which
compensation is charged or received; whether by means of salary, wages,
commission or fees for services rendered.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION - The area within the corporate limits of the Borough
of Millheim.
   TAX - The local services tax at the rate fixed in §503 of this Part.
   TAX YEAR - The period from January 1 until December 31 in any year; a
calendar year.
(Ord. 264, 9/21/2018, §2)
§ 503. Levy of Tax.
   A.   For specific revenue purposes, an annual tax is hereby levied and
assessed, commencing January 1, 2019, upon the privilege of engaging in an
occupation with the primary place of employment within the Borough of Millheim
during the tax year. Each natural person who exercises such privilege for any
length of time during any tax year shall pay the tax for that year in the
amount of fifty-two dollars ($52), assessed on a pro rata basis, in accordance
with the provisions of this Part. This tax may be used solely for the following
purposes as the same may be allocated by the Borough from time to time:
      (1)   Emergency services, which shall include emergency medical services,
police services and/or fire services;
      (2)   Road construction and/or maintenance;
      (3)   Reduction of property taxes; or
      (4)   Property tax relief through implementation of a homestead and
farmstead exclusion in accordance with 53 Pa.C.S. Ch. 85, Subch. F (relating to
homestead property exclusion).
   B.   The political subdivision shall use no less than twenty-five percent
(25%) of the funds derived from the tax for emergency services. This tax is in
addition to all other taxes of any kind or nature heretofore levied by the
political subdivision. The tax shall be no more than fifty-two dollars ($52) on
each person for each calendar year, irrespective of the number of political
subdivisions within which a person may be employed.
(Ord. 264, 9/21/2018, §3)
§ 504. Exemption and Refunds.
   A.   Exemption. Any person whose total earned income and net profits from
all sources within the political subdivision is less than twelve thousand
dollars ($12,000) for any calendar year in which the tax is levied is exempt
from the payment of the tax for that calendar year. In addition, the following
persons are exempt from payment of the tax:
      (1)   Any person who has served in any war or armed conflict in which the
United States was engaged and is honorably discharged or released under
honorable circumstances from active service if, as a result of military
service, the person is blind, paraplegic or a double or quadruple amputee or
has a service-connected disability declared by the United States Veterans'
Administration or its successor to be a total one-hundred-percent (100%)
disability.
      (2)   Any person who serves as a member of a reserve component of the
armed forces and is called to active duty at any time during the taxable year.
For the purposes of this subsection, "reserve component of the armed forces"
shall mean the United States Army Reserve, United States Navy Reserve, United
States Marine Corps Reserve, United States Coast Guard Reserve, United States
Air Force Reserve, the Pennsylvania Army National Guard or the Pennsylvania Air
National Guard.
   B.   Procedure to claim exemption.
      (1)   A person seeking to claim an exemption from the local services tax
may annually file an exemption certificate with the political subdivision and
with the person's employer affirming that the person reasonably expects to
receive earned income and net profits from all sources within the political
subdivision of less than twelve thousand dollars ($12,000) in the calendar year
for which the exemption certificate is filed. In the event the political
subdivision utilizes a tax collection officer, it shall provide a copy of the
exemption certificate to that officer. The exemption certificate shall have
attached to it a copy of all the employee's last pay stubs or W-2 forms from
employment within the political subdivision for the year prior to the fiscal
year for which the employee is requesting to be exempted from the tax. Upon
receipt of the exemption certificate and until otherwise instructed by the
political subdivision or except as required by Subsection B(2), the employer
shall not withhold the tax from the person during the calendar year or the
remainder of the calendar year for which the exemption certificate applies.
Employers shall ensure that the exemption certificate forms are readily
available to employees at all times and shall furnish each new employee with a
form at the time of hiring. The exemption certificate form shall be the uniform
form provided by the political subdivision.
      (2)   With respect to a person who claimed an exemption for a given
calendar year from the tax, upon notification to an employer by the person or
by the political subdivision that the person has received earned income and net
profits from all sources within the political subdivision equal to or in excess
of twelve thousand dollars ($12,000) in that calendar year or that the person
is otherwise ineligible for the tax exemption for that calendar year, or upon
an employer's payment to the person of earned income within the municipality in
an amount equal to or in excess of twelve thousand dollars ($12,000) in that
calendar year, an employer shall withhold the local services tax from that
person under Subsection B(3).
      (3)   If a person who claimed an exemption for a given calendar year from
the tax becomes subject to the tax for the calendar year under Subsection B(2),
the employer shall withhold the tax for the remainder of that calendar year.
The employer shall withhold from the person, for the first payroll period after
receipt of the notification under Subsection B(2), a lump sum equal to the
amount of tax that was not withheld from the person due to the exemption
claimed by the person under this subsection, plus the per-payroll amount due
for that first payroll period. The amount of tax withheld per payroll period
for the remaining payroll periods in that calendar year shall be the same
amount withheld for other employees. In the event the employment of a person
subject to withholding of the tax under this subsection is subsequently severed
in that calendar year, the person shall be liable for any outstanding balance
of tax due, and the political subdivision may pursue collection under this
Part.
      (4)   Except as provided in Subsection B(2), it is the intent of this
subsection that employers shall not be responsible for investigating exemption
certificates, monitoring tax exemption eligibility or exempting any employee
from the local services tax.
   C.   Refunds. The Borough, in consultation with the Collector and DCED,
shall establish procedures for the processing of refund claims for any tax paid
by any person who is eligible for exemption, which procedures shall be in
accord with provisions of the general municipal law relating to refunds of
overpayments and interest on overpayments. Refunds made within seventy-five
(75) days of a refund request or seventy-five (75) days after the last day the
employer is required to remit the tax for the last quarter of the calendar
year, whichever is later, shall not be subject to interest. No refunds shall be
made for amounts overpaid in a calendar year that do not exceed one dollar
($1). The Borough or the Collector shall determine eligibility for exemption
and provide refunds to exempt persons.
(Ord. 264, 9/21/2018, §4)
§ 505. Duty of Employers to Collect.
   A.   Each employer within the political subdivision, as well as those
employers situated outside the political subdivision but who engage in business
within the political subdivision, is hereby charged with the duty of collecting
the tax from each of his or her employees engaged by him or her or performing
for him or her within the political subdivision and making a return and payment
thereof to the Collector. Further, each employer is hereby authorized to deduct
this tax for each employee in his or her employ, whether said employee is paid
by salary, wage or commission and whether or not all such services are
performed within the political subdivision.
   B.   A person subject to the tax shall be assessed by the employer a pro
rata share of the tax for each payroll period in which the person is engaging
in an occupation. The pro rata share of the tax assessed on the person for a
payroll period shall be determined by dividing the rate of the tax levied for
the calendar year by the number of payroll periods established by the employer
for the calendar year. For purposes of determining the pro rata share, an
employer shall round down the amount of tax collected each payroll period to
the nearest 0.01 of a dollar ($0.01). Collection of the tax shall be made on a
payroll-period basis for each payroll period in which the person is engaging in
an occupation, except as provided in Subsection D of this section; for purposes
of this subsection, "combined rate" shall mean the aggregate annual rate of the
tax levied by the school district and the municipality.
   C.   No person shall be subject to the payment of the local services tax by
more than one political subdivision during each payroll period.
   D.   In the case of concurrent employment, an employer shall refrain from
withholding the tax if the employee provides a recent pay statement from a
principal employer that includes the name of the employer, the length of the
payroll period and the amount of the tax withheld and a statement from the
employee that the pay statement is from the employee's principal employer and
the employee will notify other employers of a change in principal place of
employment within two (2) weeks of its occurrence. The employee's statement
shall be provided on the form approved by DCED.
   E.   The tax shall be no more than fifty-two dollars ($52) on each person
for each calendar year, irrespective of the number of political subdivisions
within which a person may be employed. The political subdivision shall provide
a taxpayer a receipt of payment upon request by the taxpayer.
   F.   No employer shall be held liable for failure to withhold the tax or for
the payment of the withheld tax money to the political subdivision if the
failure to withhold taxes arises from incorrect information submitted by the
employee as to the employee's place or places of employment, the employee's
principal office or where the employee is principally employed. Further, an
employer shall not be liable for payment of the local services tax in an amount
exceeding the amount withheld by the employer if the employer complies with the
provisions of §504.B of this Part and this section and remits the amount so
withheld in accordance with this Part.
   G.   Employers shall be required to remit the local services taxes thirty
(30) days after the end of each quarter of a calendar year.
(Ord. 264, 9/21/2018, §5)
§ 506. Returns.
Each employer shall prepare and file a return showing a computation of the tax
on forms to be supplied to the employer by the Collector. If an employer fails
to file the return and pay the tax, whether or not the employer makes
collection thereof from the salary, wages or commissions paid by him or her to
an employee, except as provided hereafter in this Part, the employer shall be
responsible for the payment of the tax in full as though the tax had been
originally levied against the employer.
(Ord. 264, 9/21/2018, §6)
§ 507. Dates for Determining Tax Liability and Payment.
In each tax year, each employer shall use his or her employment records to
determine the number of employees from whom such tax shall be deducted and paid
over to the Collector on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following the end
of each calendar quarter of each such tax year.
(Ord. 264, 9/21/2018, §7)
§ 508. Self-Employed Individuals.
Each self-employed individual who performs services of any type or kind or
engages in any occupation or profession within a primary place of employment
within the political subdivision shall be required to comply with this Part and
pay the pro rata portion of the tax due to the Collector on or before the
thirtieth (30th) day following the end of each quarter.
(Ord. 264, 9/21/2018, §8)
§ 509. Individuals Engaged in More than One Occupation or Employed in More than
One Political Subdivision.
   A.   The situs of the tax shall be the place of employment on the first day
the person becomes subject to the tax during each payroll period. In the event
a person is engaged in more than one occupation, that is, concurrent
employment, or an occupation which requires the person working in more than one
political subdivision during a payroll period, the priority of claim to collect
the local services tax shall be in the following order:
      (1)   First, the political subdivision in which a person maintains his or
her principal office is or is principally employed;
      (2)   Second, the political subdivision in which the person resides and
works if the tax is levied by that political subdivision;
      (3)   Third, the political subdivision in which a person is employed and
which imposes the tax nearest in miles to the person's home.
   B.   In case of dispute, a tax receipt of the taxing authority for that
calendar year declaring that the taxpayer has made prior payment constitutes
prima facie certification of payment to all other political subdivisions.
(Ord. 264, 9/21/2018, §9)
§ 510. Nonresidents Subject to Tax.
All employers and self-employed individuals residing or having their places of
business outside of the political subdivision but who perform services of any
type or kind or engage in any occupation or profession within the political
subdivision do, by virtue thereof, agree to be bound by and subject themselves
to the provisions, penalties and regulations promulgated under this Part with
the same force and effect as though they were residents of the political
subdivision. Further, any individual engaged in an occupation within the
political subdivision and an employee of a nonresidential employer may, for the
purpose of this Part, be considered a self-employed person, and in the event
his or her tax is not paid, the political subdivision shall have the option of
proceeding against either the employer or employee for the collection of this
tax as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 264, 9/21/2018, §10)
§ 511. Administration of Tax.
   A.   The Collector shall be appointed by resolution of the political
subdivision. It shall be the duty of the Collector to accept and receive
payments of this tax and to keep a record thereof showing the amount received
by him or her from each employer or self-employed person, together with the
date the tax was received.
   B.   The Collector is hereby charged with the administration and enforcement
of this Part and is hereby charged and empowered, subject to municipal
approval, to prescribe, adopt and promulgate rules and regulations relating to
any matter pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this Part,
including provisions for the examination of payroll records of any employer
subject to this Part, the examination and correction of any return made in
compliance with this Part and any payment alleged or found to be incorrect or
as to which overpayment is claimed or found to have occurred. Any person
aggrieved by any decision of the Collector shall have the right to appeal
consistent with the Local Taxpayers Bill of Rights under Act 50 of 1998, 53
Pa.C.S.A. §§ 8421 et seq.
   C.   The Collector is hereby authorized to examine the books and payroll
records of any employer in order to verify the accuracy of any return made by
an employer or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax due. Each employer
is hereby directed and required to give the Collector the means, facilities and
opportunity for such examination.
(Ord. 264, 9/21/2018, §11)
§ 512. Suits for Collection.
   A.   In the event that any tax under this Part remains due or unpaid thirty
(30) days after the due dates above set forth, the Collector may sue for the
recovery of any such tax due or unpaid under this Part, together with interest
and penalty.
   B.   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate of
six percent (6%) on the amount of such tax shall be calculated beginning with
the due date of the tax and a penalty of five percent (5%) shall be added to
the flat rate of such tax for nonpayment thereof. Where suit is brought for the
recovery of this tax or other appropriate remedy undertaken, the individual
liable therefor shall in addition, be responsible and liable for the costs of
collection.
(Ord. 264, 9/21/2018, §12)
§ 513. Violations and Penalties.
Whoever makes any false or untrue statement on any return required by this
Part, or whoever refuses inspection of the books, records or accounts in his or
her custody and control setting forth the number of employees subject to this
tax who are in his or her employment, or whoever fails or refuses to file any
return required by this Part shall be guilty of a violation and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than six
hundred dollars ($600) and costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of
such fine and costs, to imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days. The
action to enforce the penalty herein prescribed may be instituted against any
person in charge of the business of any employer who shall have failed or who
refuses to file a return required by this Part.
(Ord. 264, 9/21/2018, §13)
§ 514. Interpretation.
   A.   Nothing contained in this Part shall be construed to empower the
political subdivision to levy and collect the tax hereby imposed on any
occupation not within the taxing power of the political subdivision under the
Constitution of the United States or of the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
   B.   If the tax hereby imposed under the provisions of this Part shall be
held by any court of competent jurisdiction to be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States or of the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania as to any individual, the decision of the court shall not affect
or impair the right to impose or collect said tax or the validity of the tax so
imposed on other persons or individuals as herein provided.
(Ord. 264, 9/21/2018, §14)
§ 515. Severability.
The provisions of this ordinance are severable and in the event that any
provision is held invalid, void, illegal, or unconstitutional by any court, it
is the intent of the Millheim Borough Council that such determination by the
court shall not affect or render void the remaining provisions of this
ordinance. It is the declared intent of the Borough Council that this ordinance
would have been enacted if any provision subsequently declared to be void,
invalid, illegal or unconstitutional had not been included at the time of
enactment.
(Ord. 264, 9/21/2018, §15)
§ 516. Effective Date of Tax.
The tax imposed by this Part shall be effective on January 1, 2019, and all
calendar years thereafter unless repealed or modified by ordinance of the
Borough of Millheim.
(Ord. 264, 9/21/2018, §16)
CHAPTER 25
TREES
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
CHAPTER 26
WATER
Part 1
Reserved
Part 2
Millheim Borough Water System
A.   Introductory Matters.
   §
201.   Authority
   §
202.   Title
   §
203.   Purpose
   §
204.   Definitions
B.   Required Connection to and Use of Water System.
   §
211.   Connection to Water System
   §
212.   Use of Water System
   §
213.   Connection Notice
   §
214.   Failure to Make Required Connection
C.   Application for Service.
   §
221.   General Rule
   §
222.   Change In Ownership
   §
223.   Acceptance of Application
   §
224.   Application Forms
   §
225.   Water Used for Construction Purposes
   §
226.   Temporary Service
   §
227.   Certification of Lead Free Materials
   §
228.   Independent Connection
D.   Construction and Maintenance of Facilities.
   §
231.   Customer Service Line
   §
232.   Separate Trench
   §
233.   Customer's Responsibilities
   §
234.   Right to Reject
   §
235.   Water Conservation Standards for Certain Plumbing Fixtures
   §
236.   Meters
   §
237.   Construction Materials and Methods
   §
238.   Procedure During Excavation
   §
239.   Backflow Prevention Device
   §
240.   Pressure Regulators
   §
241.   Cross-Connections
   §
242.   Inspection
E.   Fees, Rates and Charges.
   §
251.   Connection Fee Required
   §
252.   Customer Facilities Fee Required
   §
253.   When Certain Fees Not required
   §
254.   Rates and Charges
   §
255.   Turn Off and Turn On Fees
   §
256.   Meter Testing Fees
   §
257.   Schedule of Fees and Rates
F.   Billing and Collections.
   §
261.   Frequency
   §
262.   Billing Due Date
   §
263.   Late Payment Charge
   §
264.   Change In Billing Address
   §
265.   Separate Checks
   §
266.   Returned Check Charges
   §
267.   Disputed Bills
   §
268.   Deposits
   §
269.   Liens for Fees and Charges
   §
270.   Civil Actions
G.   Discontinuance, Termination and Restoration of Service.
   §
271.   Discontinuance by Customer
   §
272.   Termination by Borough
   §
273.   Restoration of Service
H.   Extension of Mains.
   §
281.   General Provisions
   §
282.   Bona Fide Customer Initiated Main Extensions
   §
283.   Developer Initiated Main Extensions
   §
284.   Agreements
I.   Public Hydrant Service.
   §
291.   Applicability
   §
292.   Conditions
J.   Service Continuity.
   §
299.1.   Regularity of Service
   §
299.2.   Liability of Damages
K.   Waivers and Additional Rules and Regulations.
   §
299.11.   Waivers
   §
299.12.   Additional Rules and Regulations
L.   Violations.
   §
299.21.   Separate Offenses
   §
299.22.   Penalties for Violation
M.   Miscellaneous Provisions.
   §
299.31.   Number and Gender
Part 1
Reserved
Part 2
Millheim Borough Water System
A.   Introductory Matters.
§ 201. Authority.
This Part is adopted in conformance with and pursuant to authority granted by
§§ 1006(3), 1202(2), 1202(24), 2401 and 2461 of the Borough Code, 53 P.S. §§
46006(3), 46202(2), 46202(24), 47401, 47461, as amended, and the provisions of
the Plumbing System and Lead Ban Notification Act, 35 P.S. § 723. 1 et seq., as
amended.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 1.01)
§ 202.   Title.
This Part shall be known and may be cited as the "Millheim Borough Water System
Ordinance."
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 1.02)
§ 203.   Purpose.
This Part is necessary for the protection and preservation of the health,
safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the Borough.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 1.03)
§ 204. Definitions.
Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following words and phrases
shall have the meanings assigned below whenever they are used throughout this
tariff.
   APPLICANT - a person who applies to become a customer of the Borough in
accordance with Part 2C. A person shall not be eligible to be a customer unless
the person is an owner of the property to be served.
   BONA FIDE, PROSPECTIVE CUSTOMER - Any owner who is or will be the occupant
of an existing property owned by him, which property has a curb line abutting
that part of a street or highway in which there is or is to be located a
distribution main of the Borough and which property will receive water upon
application of the owner for water service to begin immediately upon
installation of the main and customer service line. This definition does not
include applicants for temporary service.
   BOROUGH - the Borough of Millheim, Centre County, Pennsylvania.
   BOROUGH SERVICE LINE - the connection from the distribution facilities or
pipeline extensions of the Borough which connects any main with the inlet
connection of the customer service line at the hypothetical or actual curb line
or the actual property line, including the control valve and valve box. The
control valve and box determine the terminal point for the Borough's
responsibility for the street service connection.
   CROSS-CONNECTION - a cross-connection is any pipe, valve or other physical
connection or other arrangement or device connecting the pipelines or
facilities of the Borough to and with pipes and fixtures by which any
contamination might be admitted or drawn into the distribution system of the
Borough from lines other than the Borough's.
   CUSTOMER - a person who is an owner or occupant and who (i) contracts with
the Borough for water service; or (ii) take or receives water service without a
contract.
   CUSTOMER SERVICE LINE - the service line extending from the end of the
Borough service line or connection to the point of consumption, or the
customer's premises.
   DEVELOPER - any owner, promoter, broker, builder or contractor or similar
individual or entity engaged in the development or improvement of real estate
or in the construction of residences, as opposed to a person who will occupy
the subject property or premises at the time permanent water service is
established.
   EDU - equivalent dwelling unit, as defined and further described in the
attached schedule in this Part relating to rates and charges imposed by the
Borough in connection with this water system.
   EXTENSION DEPOSIT AGREEMENT - an agreement between the Borough and either a
bona fide customer or a developer which includes (i) the specifications for the
main extension to be installed; (ii) amounts to be paid; and (iii) any other
reasonable terms and conditions.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY - a lot of land within the Borough possessed for
continuous or periodic occupancy or use by a human being or animal requiring
water for such occupancy or use.
   LEAD FREE - when used with respect to solders and flux, refers to solders
containing no more than two-tenths (0.2) percent lead and, when used with
respect to pipes and pipe fittings, refers to pipes and pipe fittings
containing not more than eight (8) percent lead.
   METER - any device used by the Borough for the purpose of measuring water
consumption.
   NONREFUNDABLE CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT - an agreement between the Borough and
a developer which is essentially identical to an extension deposit agreement,
except that the Borough will not be required to pay refunds pursuant to a
nonrefundable contribution agreement.
   OWNER - a person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or partial,
of a property.
   PERSON - a natural individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation
or other group or entity which is the subject of legal rights and duties.
Whenever used in any clause prescribing or imposing a penalty, person, when
applied to a firm, partnership or association, shall mean the partners or
members thereof and, when applied to a corporation, the officers thereof.
   PLUMBING SYSTEM - all piping, fixtures and appurtenances used to transport
water to, within and from a building, including all residential facilities and
sources, transmission, treatment and distribution facilities.
   PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE - water service provided exclusively for the
purpose of fire protection that is available to particular customers only and
not to all customers or the general public, and that is provided through
automated sprinkler systems, fire hydrants or similar mechanisms.
   PROPERTY - a residence, commercial establishment or other facility or lot or
other parcel of land to which water is provided or for which the Borough has
installed a Borough service line.
   PUBLIC FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE - water service provided exclusively to a
political subdivision for the benefit of the public, for the purpose of fire
protection.
   RESIDENTIAL SERVICE - utility service supplied to a dwelling, including
service provided to a commercial establishment if concurrent service is
provided to a residential dwelling attached thereto. Neither utility service
provided to a hotel or motel, nor service provided to a property leased for a
period of twelve (12) months or less will be considered for residential
service.
   SERVICE CONNECTION - the Borough water line from the water main to the curb
stop or property line with any related fittings, valves and curb stop.
   WATER MAIN - a pipe or main of the water system used to distribute water.
   WATER SYSTEM - the integrated facilities of the borough for obtaining,
treating, storing and distributing water.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, §1.04; as amended by Ord. 251, 6/11/2013, §II, 1)
B.   Required Connection to and Use of Water System.
§ 211. Connection to Water System.
Every owner of an improved property within the Borough boundaries shall connect
the improved property to the water system in the manner required by the Borough
within forty-five (45) days after notice from the Borough.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 2.01)
§ 212. Use of Water System.
After connection to the water system, all water used on the improved property
shall be from the water system, subject to such limitations, restrictions and
exceptions as are established by this Part or by resolution from time to time.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 2.02)
§ 213. Connection Notice.
The notice of required connection shall be in writing, shall specify the forty-
five (45) days for connection and shall be accompanied by a copy of this Part
and any effective amendments, a copy of any rules and regulations and a copy of
the Schedule of Fees and Rates. 1 The notice may be given at any time the water
system can supply water to the improved property. The notice shall be served on
the owner by personal service, certified mail or any other method provided by
law.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 2.03)
1 Editor's Note: The Schedule for Fees and Rates is on file at the Borough
office.
§ 214. Failure to Make Required Connection.
If the owner of an improved property fails to connect it to the water system in
accordance with this Part after forty-five (45) days notice from the Borough,
the Borough may make the connection and charge the costs and expenses of
connection to the owner, in such case, the Borough shall, upon completion of
the connection, send an itemized bill of the costs and expenses to the owner of
the improved property, which bill shall be due and payable immediately.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 2.04)
C.   Application for Service.
§ 221. General Rule.
All applications for service must be in the form provided by the Borough and
signed by the owner or owners of the property to which water service can or
will be provided.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, §3.01; as amended by Ord. 251, 6/11/2013, §II, 2)
§ 222. Change In Ownership.
A new application must be made to the Borough upon any change in ownership of
the property. The Borough shall have the right to discontinue water service
upon three (3) days notice if a new application for water service has not been
made by the new owner.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, §3.02; as amended by Ord. 251, 6/11/2013, §II, 3)
§ 223. Acceptance of Application.
An application for service shall be considered accepted by the Borough only
upon oral or written approval by the Borough. The Borough may provide service
to the applicant pending review and acceptance of the application.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 3.03)
§ 224. Application Forms.
Application forms can be obtained at the Borough's office, presently located at
225 East Main Street, Millheim, Pennsylvania 16854.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 3.04)
§ 225. Water Used for Construction Purposes.
Where water is required for construction purposes, the application shall so
indicate. Only metered facilities may be used for construction purposes.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, §3.05; as amended by Ord. 251, 6/11/2013, §II, 4)
§ 226. Temporary Service.
In the case of temporary service for short term use, the Borough may require
the customer to pay all costs of making service connection and removing the
material after the service has been discontinued, or to pay a fixed amount in
advance to cover such expenses. However, if the material is removed, the
customer shall be credited with the reasonable salvage which the Borough will
receive on discontinuance of service.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 3.06)
§ 227. Certification of Lead Free Materials.
Before connection of a plumbing system to the water system certification must
be made to the Borough on a form acceptable to it, that the materials used in
the construction of the plumbing system are lead free. The certification shall
be made by a person knowledgeable about the plumbing system. The Borough shall
refuse connection to the water system if certification is not made.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 3.07)
§ 228. Independent Connection.
Each improved property shall be connected with the water system through a
separate and independent building connection, except when, under special
circumstances for good cause shown and subject to the rules, regulations and
conditions of the Borough, special permission, in writing, has been given by
the Borough.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 3.08)
D.   Construction and Maintenance of Facilities.
§ 231. Customer Service Line.
The Borough reserves the right to determine the size, kind and depth of
customer service lines. The customer service line shall be furnished,
installed, maintained and/or replaced, when necessary, by and at the sole
expense of the customer.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 4.01)
§ 232. Separate Trench.
The customer service line shall not be laid in the same trench with drain or
sewer pipe, the facilities of any other public utility or of any municipality
or municipal authority that provides a public utility service, or within three
(3) feet of any open excavation or walk, unless a written exception is granted
by the Borough.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 4.02)
§ 233. Customer's Responsibilities.
All service lines, connections and fixtures furnished by the customer shall be
maintained by the customer in good working order. All valves, valve boxes,
meters and appliances furnished by the Borough and on the property owned or
leased by the customer shall be protected properly by the customer. All leaks
in the customer service line or any pipe or fixture in or upon the property
supplies must be repaired immediately by the customer. Customers must at all
times maintain a clear, safe and sanitary path of travel and access to the
water meter, water shutoff and meter pit.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, §4.03; as amended by Ord. 251, 6/11/2013, §II, 5)
§ 234. Right to Reject.
The Borough may refuse to connect any piping system or furnish water through
service already connected if such system/service is not properly installed or
maintained. The Borough may also refuse to connect if lead based materials, as
defined in the Safe Drinking Water Act, have been used in any plumbing beyond
the Borough's curb control valve. It shall be the customer's responsibility to
provide the Borough with any such certification which may be required to verify
the absence or removal of such materials.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 4.04)
§ 235. Water Conservation Standards for Certain Plumbing Fixtures.
   1.   This rule recommends maximum water use for certain plumbing fixtures
installed in all new construction or renovation. Such standards have been
implemented to achieve maximum efficiency of water use which the borough has
determined is technologically feasible and economically justified.
 
Plumbing Fixture Maximum Water Use
Showerheads      3.0 gallons/minute
Lavatory Faucet  3.0 gallons/minute
Kitchen Faucet   3.0 gallons/minute
Water Closets    1.6 gallons/flush
Urinals          1.5 gallons/minute
 
   2.   Re-Evaluation of Water Use Standards. Upon the order or recommendation
of the Borough or other State instrumentality with the requisite authority, the
Borough may, at any appropriate time, amend any of the water standards listed
above. Amendments will apply only to new construction and renovation.
   3.   Exemptions. The Borough may exempt particular customers or classes of
customer when it is determined that the water use standards for plumbing
fixtures listed above are unreasonable, inappropriate or cannot be accommodated
by existing technology.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 4.05)
§ 236. Meters.
   1.   Generally. All service provided by the Borough shall be metered, except
for public fire protection.
   2.   Location of Meters. The meter will be set after the customer has had
the plumbing arranged to receive the meter at a convenient point approved by
the Borough so as to measure all water being supplied. Protection for the meter
shall be provided by the customer. In cases where it is not practical to place
the meter within the building, or if the customer so desires and the Borough
approves, or in cases where the service line is longer than one hundred fifty
(150) feet, an outside setting will be installed at a position selected by the
Borough, at the customer's expense. The Borough's standard for an outside meter
setting shall be used. Relocation of meters for the customer's convenience
shall be at the customer's expense.
   3.   Damage to Meters. Meters shall be maintained by the Borough so far as
ordinary wear and tear are concerned, but damage to meters caused by freezing,
hot water or other negligent or willful acts of the customer, including the
actual cost of removing, replacing, repairing or testing damaged meters.
   4.   Notification to Borough of Nonworking or Damaged Meter. The customer
shall notify the Borough of a nonworking or damaged meter as soon as the
customer has actual or constructive notice of either such condition.
   5.   Fees for Meter Tests. The schedule of fees for testing meters is as
shown in the Schedule for Fees and Rates.2 If the meter shows an error of four
(4) percent or more overage, the testing fees will be reimbursed to the
customer.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, §4.06; as amended by Ord. 251, 6/11/2013, §II, 6)
2  Editor's Note: The Schedule for Fees and Rates is on file at the Borough
office.
§ 237. Construction Materials and Methods.
The materials and methods used in constructing the building connection shall be
subject to approval or rejection by the Borough. See the Borough's detailed
specifications.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 4.07)
§ 238. Procedure During Excavation.
Every excavation for a building connection shall be guarded adequately with
barricades and lights to protect persons and property from harm. Streets,
sidewalks and other public property disturbed while making a building
connection shall be restored at the cost and expense of the owner of the
improved property in a manner satisfactory to the Borough.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 4.08)
§ 239. Backflow Prevention Device.
On service lines for commercial or industrial service, the installation of a
backflow device of the type approved by the Borough may be required by the
Borough if, in the Borough's opinion, such a device is needed to protect the
integrity of the system. The backflow prevention device shall be installed,
owned and maintained by the customer, at his expense. The location of the
backflow prevention device shall be approved by the Borough. The Borough
recommends the installation of approved double check valves for service pipes
providing service to residential units.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 4.09)
§ 240. Pressure Regulators.
The customer may be required to install and maintain a pressure regulator or
valve on his premises, if necessary, at the customer's sole expense. The
pressure regulator shall be installed on the inlet side of the meter when the
static pressure in one hundred (100) psi at the customer's premises.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 4.10)
§ 241 Cross-Connections.
No cross-connection shall be installed or continued A cross section maybe
considered to be eliminated if the method of backflow prevention is approved by
the Borough, in writing.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 4.11)
§ 242. Inspection.
The Borough shall have the right to inspect an improved property to determine
compliance with this part and the rules and regulations governing service from
the water system.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 4.12)
E.   Fees, Rates and Charges.
§ 251. Connection Fee Required.
Before connection to the water system, the owner of the improved property shall
pay the Borough a connection fee, which fee shall be either an amount that does
not exceed the actual cost of the service connection for the improved property
or an amount that is the average cost for previously installed connections of
similar type and size.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 5.01)
§ 252. Customer Facilities Fee Required.
Before connection to the water system, the owner of the improved property shall
pay the Borough a customer facilities fee, which fee shall not exceed the
actual cost of the building connection and the meter supplied and installed by
the Borough. The Borough shall not charge a customer facilities fee for any
facilities the owner of the improved property supplies and installs.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 5.02)
§ 253. When Certain Fees Not required.
In lieu of the payment of the connection fee, and/or a customer facilities fee,
the Borough may require the owner of an improved property to construct and
dedicate to the Borough the service connection, to construct the building
connection or special purpose facilities necessary for the improved property,
as the case may be.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 5.03)
§ 254. Rates and Charges.
Every owner of a property connected to the water system shall pay charges for
water service on a monthly basis. Each charge shall be due and payable the last
working day of the month for the previous month's usage and shall be increased
by a penalty as listed in The Schedule for Fees and Rates3.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, §5.04; as amended by Ord. 251, 6/11/2013, §II, 10)
3 Editor's Note: The Schedule for Fees and Rates is on file at the Borough
office.
§ 255. Turn Off and Turn On Fees.
The Borough shall have the right, after at least five (5) days notice and
opportunity for a hearing, to discontinue water service to an improved property
for which fees or charges are delinquent. Whenever the Borough exercises such
right, it shall charge and collect a turn off fee and a turn on fee, in
addition to the delinquent fees and charges due, before restoring water service
to the improved property.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 5.05)
§ 256. Meter Testing Fees.
The Schedule for Fees and Rates 3 for testing water meters will be based on the
direct costs for meter removal and testing. If the meter shows an error of four
(4) percent or more overage, the testing fees will be reimbursed to the
customer.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 5.06)
3 Editor's Note: The Schedule for Fees and Rates is on file at the Borough
office.
§ 257. Schedule of Fees and Rates.
From time to time, by resolution adopted at a public meeting, the Borough shall
set the fees and rates imposed under this Part and shall adopt and keep
available to the public a Schedule of Fees and Rates. 4
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 5.07)
4  Editor's Note: The Schedule for Fees and Rates is on file at the Borough
office.
F.   Billing and Collections.
§ 261. Frequency.
The Borough will bill each customer within fifteen (15) days of the last day of
each billing period.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 6.01)
§ 262. Billing Due Date.
The due date for payment of a bill for all customers shall be the last working
day of the month for the previous month's usage. For remittance of a bill for
all customers by mail, the payment shall be deemed to have been made on the
date of the postmark, or the Borough may grant a five (5) day grace period for
receipt after the due date.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, §6.02; as amended by Ord. 251, 6/11/2013, §II, 11)
§ 263. Late Payment Charge.
All amounts not paid when due shall accrue a penalty as defined in the Schedule
for Fees and Rates. 5  
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 6.03)
5  Editor's Note: The Schedule for Fees and Rates is on file at the Borough
office.
§ 264. Change In Billing Address.
When the customer changes his, her or its billing address and fails to notify
the Borough, the customer shall remain liable to remit payment by the payment
date.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 6.04)
§ 265. Separate Checks.
Payment made by check to the Borough shall not include any payments to other
affiliated utilities or corporations. Failure to provide a separate check will
result in the return of the check to the customer as if no payment had been
made.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 6.05)
§ 266. Returned Check Charges.
The customer will be responsible for the payment of a charge of fifteen dollars
($15.00) per incident where a check which has been presented to the Borough for
payment of any bill is returned by the bank for any reason including, but not
limited to, nonsufficient funds, account closed, payment stopped, two (2)
signatures required, postdated, stale date, account garnished or unauthorized
signature. The charge is in addition to any and all charges assessed by the
bank.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 6.06)
§ 267. Disputed Bills.
In the event of a dispute between the customer and the Borough respecting any
bill, the Borough promptly will make such investigation as may be required by
the particular case and report the result to the customer. When the Borough has
made such a report to the customer sustaining the bill as rendered, the
customer shall have fifteen (15) days from the date of such report in which to
pay the bill.
   If the Borough determines the bill originally rendered is incorrect, the
Borough will issue a corrected bill with a new due date for payment. Any
amounts received by the Borough in excess of the amount disclosed to be due by
the Borough's investigation of the dispute shall be returned to the customer.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, §6.07; as amended by Ord. 251, 6/11/2013, §II, 12)
§ 268. Deposits.
   1.   The Borough may require an existing rate payer to post a deposit to re-
establish credit under the following circumstances:
      A.   Delinquent Accounts.
         (1)   Whenever a customer is delinquent for three (3) or more bills
within the preceding twelve (12) months.
      B.   As a condition to the reconnection of service following termination.
      C.   Whenever a customer fails to comply with a material term or
condition of settlement or payment agreement, whether or not service has been
terminated.
   2.   The Borough may require any applicant for temporary service to post a
deposit.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, §6.08; as amended by Ord. 251, 6/11/2013, §II, 13, 14)
§ 269. Liens for Fees and Charges.
Fees and charges imposed under this Part with respect to an improved property
shall be liens on the improved property until paid. Such liens shall be
promptly perfected by appropriate filings in the Office of the Prothonotary of
Centre County, Pennsylvania, and shall be enforced in the manner provided by
law for collection of municipal claims.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 6.09)
§ 270. Civil Actions.
The Borough may collect delinquent water fees and charges by civil actions.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 6.10)
G. Discontinuance, Termination and Restoration of Service.
§ 271. Discontinuance by Customer.
A customer who wishes to have service disconnected shall give at least five (5)
days notice to the Borough, specifying the date on which service is to be
discontinued. In the absence of proper notice, the customer shall be
responsible for all service rendered until the time that the borough shall have
notice of the customer's intent to discontinue service. The customer shall not
turn water on or off at any curb stop, or disconnect or remove the meter or
permit its disconnection or removal without prior written consent of the
Borough.
   A customer discontinuing service retains the status as a former customer for
the purpose of paying restoration fees for a period of nine (9) months.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 7.01)
§ 272. Termination by Borough.
   Service to the customer may be terminated for good cause including, but not
limited to, the following:
      A.   For making an application for service that contains material
misrepresentations.
      B.   For willful or negligent waste of water through improper or
imperfect pipes or fixtures, or for willful or negligent failure to repair
leaks in pipes or fixtures.
      C.   For tampering with any service line, curb stop, meter or meter
setting, or installing or maintaining cross-connections.
      D.   For theft of service, which shall include taking service without
having made a proper application for service.
      E.   For failure to pay, when due, any charges accruing under this Part.
      F.   For refusal of reasonable access to the property for purposes of
installing, inspecting, reading, maintaining or removing meters.
      G.   For receipt by the Borough of an order or notice from the Department
of Environmental Resources, health authorities, plumbing inspectors or another
similar agency to discontinue service to premises on the grounds of violation
of any Federal, State or local law or local ordinance, or upon notice to the
Borough from any such agency that it has ordered an existing violation on the
premises to be discontinued and that such order has not been complied with.
      H.   For violation of any of the provisions of this Part not specified
above.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 7.02)
§ 273. Restoration of Service.
Whenever service is discontinued or terminated pursuant to the above Sections,
service shall be restored only upon the payment by the customer of a turn off/
turn on fee as specified in the Schedule for Fees and Rates 6 and the curing of
the problem that gave rise to the termination under §
272.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 7.03)
6 Editor's Note: The Schedule for Fees and Rates is on file at the Borough
office.
H.   Extension of Mains.
§ 281. General Provisions.
At the time any request is made to the Borough for a main extension, the
Borough may request a site plan for the lot(s) to which service is to be
provided. If such a request is made by the Borough, the site plan must be
provided within the time specified by the Borough, which shall not be less than
fourteen (14) days.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 8.01)
§ 282. Bona Fide Customer Initiated Main Extensions.
   1.   The Borough will extend existing distribution mains a distance of
thirty-five (35) feet for each bona fide, prospective customer making
application in accordance with these rules and regulations for water service
therefrom for a period of one (1) year or more. Such extensions will be made
without cost to such customer(s).
   2.   When an extension greater than thirty-five (35) feet in length for each
bona fide, prospective customer is required, such extension will be made under
the terms of a water system extension agreement as set forth in §
284, below. The Borough shall have the exclusive right to determine the type
and size of mains to be installed and any other facilities required to render
adequate service; provided, however, that where the Borough decides to install
a pipe larger than eight (8) inches in diameter, and eight (8) inch pipe would
render adequate service throughout the extension, at the Borough's discretion,
estimated or actual cost figures contained in the water system extension
agreement will include the material cost for pipe eight (8) inches in diameter.
All estimated or actual cost figures will include a reasonable allowance for
overheads.
   3.   In determining the length and size of, and necessity for, the terminal
point of such extensions will, in all cases, be at the point in the curb line
which is equidistant from the side property lines of the lot for which water
service is requested. A Borough service line will be provided only for customer
service lines which are laid at right angles to the curbline or which are
otherwise approved by the Borough. Should it be necessary, in the borough's
sole opinion, to extend beyond the last lot in any street to connect to an
existing main to provide more adequate and reasonable service, this additional
extension shall be considered part of the total and orderly system development
so long as the last lot in the street is not more than one hundred fifty (150)
feet from that existing main and may be included in the cost of the extension.
   4.   The Borough hereby agrees to refund to the bona fide, prospective
customer, on or before February 28 of the subsequent year, the average cost of
thirty-five (35) feet of main for each additional bona fide, prospective
customer for whom a street service connection shall be directly attached to
such main extension (as distinguished from extension or branches thereof)
during the preceding calendar year. The refund period shall be five (5) years
from the actual date of the payment of the extension; provided, however, that
the total amount refunded shall not exceed the original deposit, without
interest, and that all or any part of the deposit not refunded within the five
(5) year period shall become the property of the Borough.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 8.02)
§ 283. Developer Initiated Main Extensions.
   1.   A developer, as defined in §
204, above, will be required to pay for all main extensions or offsite
facilities undertaken by the Borough on his behalf, pursuant to either a
nonrefundable contribution agreement or a refundable deposit agreement, the
forms of which are set forth in §
284, respectively. The Borough shall have the unqualified right to require that
the requested extension be a nonrefundable contribution agreement if, in the
Borough's sole judgment, use of a refundable deposit agreement is neither
economically justified, nor otherwise in the best interest of the Borough or
its taxpayers.
   2.   A developer who is party to a refundable water system agreement shall
be eligible for a refund for each bona fide customer who connects to the main
extension funded under this agreement, as distinguished from extension or
branches thereof. In no event shall the total amount refunded exceed the
original deposit, without interest. The developer my be eligible for refunds
for a period of no more than five (5) years. The refund shall be made on or
before February 28 of the subsequent calendar year. The Borough, with the
mutual consent of the entity making the advance, may enter into an agreement
specifying a different time or system for computing refunds, so long as the
refund amount is based on factors such as average Borough investment, per
customer, contributions made in the future by other developers who benefit by
the facility or other relevant factors.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 8.03)
§ 284. Agreements.
See the attached schedules for sample agreements for water system extension
agreement, nonrefundable contribution and extension deposit agreement. 7  
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 8.04)
7  Editor's Note: The referenced schedules are on file at the Borough office.
I.   Public Hydrant Service.
§ 291. Applicability.
Public fire protection will be available when hydrants are installed and when
the political subdivision in which the service will be provided applies to
Borough for that service. Rates for public fire service will be determined at
the time Borough decides to make such service available.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 9.01)
§ 292. Conditions.
   1.   Water from fire hydrants shall not be used for purposes other than
firefighting without the Borough's permission in writing. Water taken with such
permission shall be limited to the filling of tank trucks for use by the
public. The water so used shall be subject to charges at existing meter rates.
   2.   The Borough reserves the right to meter any fire line when evidence
indicates that water is being taken from the line for purposes other than
firefighting or as otherwise permitted by agreement, and such metered service
shall then be billed in accordance with the regular schedule of meter rates in
addition to the above rates, with proper allowance for water consumed in
firefighting and other authorized use.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, §9.02; as amended by Ord. 251, 6/11/2013, §II, 15)
J.   Service Continuity.
§ 299.1. Regularity of Service.
The Borough may, at any time, shut off the water in the mains in case of
accident or for the purpose of making connections, alterations, repairs,
changes for other reasons and may restrict the use of water to reserve a
sufficient supply for public fire service or other emergencies whenever the
public welfare may require it. The Borough will, so far as circumstances
permit, notify customers to be affected by any interruptions in water service.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 10.01)
§ 299.2. Liability of Damages.
   1.   The Borough's liability for any loss or damage from any excess or
deficiency in the pressure, volume or supply of water due to any cause other
than willful misconduct by the Borough, its agents or employees, shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to the customer charge for the period in
question. In no event shall the Borough be liable to third parties. The Borough
will undertake to use reasonable care and diligence in order to prevent and
avoid interruptions and fluctuations in service, but it cannot and does not
guarantee that such will not occur.
   2.   The Borough shall in no event be liable for any loss or damage caused
by reason of any break, leak or other defect in a customer's own service pipe,
line, fixtures or other installations.
   3.   The Borough shall maintain responsibility in maintaining mains or other
pipes which were installed by the Borough and are/were built to the standards
set forth in the Schedule for Construction Standards. 8
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 10.02)
8  Editor's Note: The Schedule for Construction Standards is on file at the
Borough office.
K.   Waivers and Additional Rules and Regulations.
§ 299.11. Waivers.
The Borough may, in its sole discretion, waive any of the rules or regulations
of the Borough; provided, that no such waiver will be valid unless in writing
and signed by the Borough; and, provided, that no waiver will be allowed where
the waiver would constitute a violation of any applicable statute, law or
regulation.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 11.01)
§ 299.12. Additional Rules and Regulations.
From time to time, by resolution adopted at a public meeting, the Borough may
promulgate additional rules and regulations as it deems necessary and proper,
which additional rules and regulations, to the extent appropriate, shall be
construed as a part of this Part.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 11.02)
L.   Violations.
§ 299.21. Separate Offenses.
Each violation of a separate provision of this Part, and each day of violation
shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 12.01)
§ 299.22. Penalties for Violation.
A person who violates this Part shall, upon conviction thereof in summary
proceedings, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and costs, or to
undergo imprisonment in the Centre County Jail for a period not in excess of
thirty (30) days for each separate offense. Such fine or imprisonment shall be
in addition to any other penalty imposed by any other Section of this Part.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 12.02)
M.   Miscellaneous Provisions.
§ 299.31. Number and Gender.
The use of the singular in this Part shall include the plural and the use of
the masculine shall include the feminine and neuter.
(Ord. 180, 6/20/1994, § 13.02)
CHAPTER 27
ZONING
Part 1
General Provisions
   §
101.   Title
   §
102.   Authority
   §
103.   Purpose
   §
104.   Community Development Objectives
   §
105.   Establishment of Controls
   §
106.   Disclaimer of Municipal Liability
Part 2
Definitions
   §
201.   Definitions
Part 3
District Regulations
   §
301.   Established Districts
   §
302.   Purpose
   §
303.   Conservation/Agricultural District
   §
304.   Village Residential (Low Density) District
   §
305.   Village Residential District
   §
306.   Village Residential (High Density) District
   §
307.   Village (Mixed Use) District
   §
308.   Central Business District
   §
309.   Industrial District
   §
310.   Key Design Criteria
   §
311.   Use and Building Type Regulations
   §
312.   Detail Design Standards
   §
313.   Other Requirements
   §
314.   Relationship to Other Ordinance Provisions
   §
315.   Zoning Hearing Board
   §
316.   Nonconforming Uses, Lots, and Structures
   §
317.   Appeals
   §
318.   Amendments
   §
319.   Interpretation
   §
320.   Fees
Part 1
General Provisions
§ 101. Title.
This Chapter shall be known as may be cited as the “Millheim Borough Zoning
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 1)
§ 102. Authority.
This Chapter is enacted and ordained under the grant of powers by the General
Assembly of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code (PA MPC), Act 247 of 1968, as amended.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 2)
§ 103. Purpose.
   This Chapter is enacted for the following purposes:
      A.   To promote, protect, and facilitate the general health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens.
      B.   Coordinate community development, proper density, civil defense,
disaster evacuation, provision of adequate light and air, police protection,
transportation, water, sewerage, schools, and public grounds and facilities.
      C.   Prevent overcrowding of land, blight, transportation congestion,
loss of health, life, and property from fire, flood, and other natural
disasters and dangers.
      D.   Provide for a variety of residential housing types, business, and
industry uses, preserve prime agriculture and farmland.
      E.   Facilitate appropriate development activities, affordability in
housing, protect the tax base, and encourage proper management of public
expenditures.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 3)
§ 104. Community Development Objectives.
The community development objectives of this Chapter are those identified and
set forth in the Planning Goals of the Penns Valley Region Comprehensive Plan
2006.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 4)
§ 105. Establishment of Controls.
The interpretation and application of the regulations of this Chapter shall be
held to the adopted minimum and/or maximum requirements in order to implement
the purposes and policies identified in this Chapter.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 5)
§ 106. Disclaimer of Municipal Liability.
This Chapter is not intended to create nor assume liability on the part of
Millheim Borough or any officer or employee thereof for any fire, flood or
other damage that may result from reliance on this Chapter or from any lawfully
made administrative decisions. These regulations shall not guarantee a specific
level of protection for any construction. In all cases, the applicant shall
rely on accepted methods and practices for the design and construction of
buildings approved pursuant to this Chapter and other applicable regulations,
as amended.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 6)
Part 2
Definitions
§ 201. Definitions.
   ABANDONED - the visible or otherwise apparent discontinuance of a
nonconforming use of a building or premises, or the removal of equipment and/or
furnishings of a nonconforming use without its replacement by similar equipment
or furnishings, or the replacement of the nonconforming use or structure.
   ACCESS DRIVE - a durable, all-weather access, other than a street, that
provides vehicular access from a street or public road to a lot; e.g., a
driveway or private street or right-of-way.
   ACCESSORY RESIDENTIAL USE - for the purposes of this Chapter, an accessory
residential use shall be defined as a residential dwelling unit(s) which is
accessory to the principal commercial use of a lot, i.e., an apartment(s)
located above or adjoining a retail establishment.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE - see STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY.
   ACCESSORY USE: See USE, ACCESSORY.
   ADULT ARCADE - see Millheim Borough Codified Ordinances
Chapter 13, Part 2.
   ADULT BOOK STORE - See Millheim Borough Codified Ordinances
Chapter 13, Part 2.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING - any farm building or structure used for storing
agricultural equipment or farm produce, housing livestock or poultry, or
processing dairy products. Such buildings shall not be used for residential
purposes.
   AGRICULTURE - the use of land for agricultural purposes, including crop
farming, dairying, pasturage, apiculture, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture, aquaculture, forestry, animal and poultry husbandry, and the
accessory buildings or structures for packing, treating, or storing that which
is produced; provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory use
shall be secondary to that of the agricultural activities. (See also FARM-
RELATED BUSINESS.)
   ALTERATION - as applied to a building or structure, an alteration shall be
defined as a change or rearrangement in the structural parts or in the exit
facilities, or an enlargement, whether by extending on a side or increasing in
height, or the moving from one location or position to another. For the
purposes of this Chapter, alteration shall not be defined to include
maintenance or repair activities.
   AMENDMENT - the process set forth by the PA Municipalities Planning Code,
Act 247, as amended for changing or altering the provisions of this Chapter or
the boundary of any zoning district shown on the zoning map. Also, the actual
change or alteration proposed for the zoning ordinance text or map.
   AMUSEMENT ARCADE - a retail establishment whose principal business is
offering to patrons mechanical, electrical or video amusement devices or games
such as pinball machines, ping-pong, darts, rides, shooting galleries or
similar devices and games.
   ANIMAL EQUIVALENT UNIT - one thousand pounds live weight of livestock or
poultry animals, regardless of the actual number of individual animals
comprising the unit. Refer to a listing of standard animal weights from the PA
Nutrient Management Act for additional information.
   ANIMAL HUSBANDRY - for the purposes of this Chapter, animal husbandry shall
be defined as the raising or keeping of livestock and/or poultry for capital
gain or profit or with the intent of selling any livestock or poultry products
as a commercial enterprise, including custom butchering. (The boarding or
raising of livestock or poultry as farm animals or household pets pursuant to
the regulations of this Chapter shall not be considered animal husbandry.)
   APARTMENT - see, DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY.
   APPLICANT - any lessee or his authorized agent who submits plans, data and/
or applications to the Zoning Officer or other designated Borough official for
the purpose of obtaining approval thereof.
   AREA - the surface included within a set of lines.
   AREA, BUILDABLE - that portion of a lot bounded by the required front, side
and rear yard setbacks,
   AREA, BUILDING - the total area of a lot covered by buildings, excluding
uncovered patios, terraces and steps.
   AREA, LOT - the area contained within the property lines of individual
parcels of land shown on a plan, excluding any area within a street right-of-
way, but including the area of any easement.
   AREA, SITE - the total area of a proposed development, regardless of
interior lot lines or proposed lots, streets, or easements.
   ARTISTS, ARTISANS, AND CRAFTSMAN STUDIO - a place where a musician,
photographer, dancer, or artist does his work, gives lessons, or sells related
products.
   ASSISTED LIVING HOME - See NURSING HOME.
   AUTO SALVAGE OPERATION - see JUNKYARD and JUNKED VEHICLE.
   AUTOMOTIVE AND/OR MANUFACTURED HOME SALES FACILITY - any building or land
area used for the display and sale of new or used automobiles, other motor
vehicles, and/or manufactured homes including warranty repair or service
associated work.
   AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR GARAGE - a building or structure used primarily for making
major repairs to motor vehicles (automobiles, motorcycles, trucks, farm
equipment or machinery, and/or snowmobiles), including overhauling, body work,
painting, refinishing and upholstering, as well as incidental servicing and
maintenance.
   AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATION - a building or place of business where gasoline
or any motor vehicle fuel or oil or other lubricating substance, batteries,
tires, and other automotive accessories are supplied and dispensed to the motor
vehicle trade, at retail, and where minor repair service may be offered.
   BASEMENT - A) That portion of a building partly underground but having less
than half of its clear height below the average lot grade. A basement shall be
counted as a story for the purposes of height measurement if the vertical
distance between the ceiling and the average level of the adjoining ground is
more than five (5) feet or if it is used for business or dwelling purposes. B)
For floodplain management purposes, a basement shall be that area of a building
or structure having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT - an establishment, dwelling, or part
thereof, in which individual rooms are offered for temporary lodging purposes
by the owner or operator for limited periods of time. Breakfast or other meals
may also be offered for overnight guests as a part of the lodging fee.
   BOARD OR ZONING HEARING BOARD - the Zoning Hearing Board of Millheim
Borough, Centre County, PA.
   BOARDING HOUSE - an owner-occupied single-family dwelling or part thereof,
where lodging is provided for a fee. Such lodging may be provided for no more
than six (6) persons unrelated to the owner and shall be for periods of time in
excess of one week, whether or not arrangements have been made for meals.
   BUFFER YARD - yard space, either landscaped or planted, provided between
high intensity activities and other uses.
   BUILDING - a structure having walls and a roof that is used for the shelter,
housing or enclosure of persons, animals, or property. The word “building”
shall include any part thereof. Included shall be all mobile or manufactured
homes and trailers used for human habitation.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY - a detached, subordinate building located on the same
lot as the principal building, serving a purpose customarily incidental to the
use of the principal building.
   BUILDING, ATTACHED - a building which has one (1) or more walls in common
with adjacent buildings.
   BUILDING, DETACHED - a building which has no common walls and is surrounded
by open space on the same lot.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL - a building in which the principal use of the site is
conducted.
   BUILDING COVERAGE - that percentage of the lot area covered by the total
ground floor area of all principal and accessory buildings or structures,
including covered porches, patios and decks, but excluding unenclosed parking
spaces or loading areas.
   BUILDING HEIGHT - the vertical distance measured from the average elevation
of the ground surrounding the building to a point midway between the highest
and lowest point of the roof, excluding chimneys, spires, towers, tanks and
similar projections which may be attached to the building.
   BUILDING LINE - the required setback (front, side, or rear) of a building
from a property line.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE - a line parallel to the street right-of-way line
located at a distance which is equal to the front yard for the district in
which the lot is located; i.e., the front yard setback.
   BUILDING/ZONING PERMIT - A) The permit required by this Chapter for the
construction, alteration, or change of use of any building or structure. B) A
permit stating that the purpose for which a building or land is to be used is
in conformity with the uses permitted and all other requirements of this
Chapter for the district in which it is to be located. (See also TEMPORARY
BUILDING/ZONING PERMIT)
   CAMP, CABIN, OR VACATION HOME (Seasonal Dwelling) - a permanent building
intended for occupancy only occasionally during the year, including facilities
intended as camps, cottages, lodges, hunting cabins, vacation homes and similar
seasonal dwellings. For purposes of this Chapter, a recreational vehicle shall
not be permitted as a permanent camp, cabin, or vacation home, but may be used
on a temporary or seasonal basis.
   CAMPGROUND - a tract or tracts of ground, or portion thereof, used for the
purpose of providing space for two (2) or more recreational vehicles or tents
for camping purposes, with or without a fee charged for the leasing, renting,
or occupancy of such space. Such facility may also include a recreational
vehicle park.
   CARTWAY - the area of a street or alley within which vehicles are permitted,
including travel lanes and on-street parking spaces, but excluding shoulders,
curbs, sidewalks, or drainage swales.
   CELLAR - a portion of a building partly underground, having half or more
than half of its clear height below grade. (See also BASEMENT.)
   CEMETERY - property used for interring the dead.
   CERTIFICATE OF NONCONFORMANCE - a certificate issued by the Zoning Officer
which acknowledges the existence of a nonconforming use, structure or lot as of
the effective date of this Chapter, thereby authorizing its right to continue
until it is eliminated or abandoned.
   CHANGE OF USE - an alteration of a building or a change of use existing
within a building or on a lot to a new use which imposes other provisions of
this Chapter,
   CHILD DAY CARE FACILITIES - See DAY CARE CENTER.
   CHURCH OR PLACE OF WORSHIP - a building or structure, or group of buildings
or structures which by design and construction are primarily intended for
conducting organized religious or worship services, and uses customarily
accessory and incidental thereto. For the purposes of this Chapter, uses such
as schools, child nursery or day care facilities, social halls or similar
places of assembly associated which the church or other place of worship shall
require separate consideration and approval by Township officials.
   CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE - an area of unobstructed vision at street or driveway
intersections defined by lines of sight between points at a given distance from
the intersection of the street and/or driveway centerlines.
   CLINIC, MEDICAL OR DENTAL - see MEDICAL OR DENTAL CLINIC.
   CLUB OR SERVICE ORGANIZATION - an organization catering exclusively to
members and their guests in premises or buildings for social, recreational, or
administrative purposes which are not conducted for profit. Clubs shall
include, but need not be limited to, service organizations, fraternal
organizations, as well as social, athletic or similar groups.
   COMMERCIAL LODGING FACILITY - see LODGING FACILITY, COMMERCIAL.
   COMMISSION - the Planning Commission of Millheim Borough, Centre County, PA.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE - see OPEN SPACE, COMMON.
   COMMON WALL - a wall on an interior lot line or a fireproof wall adapted for
joint service between two (2) buildings; i.e., a party wall.
   COMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA - any structure or device used for the purpose of
collecting and transmitting electromagnetic waves, including, but not limited
to, directional antennas such as panels, microwave dishes, satellite dishes,
and omni-directional antenna, such as whip antennas.
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY - equipment, buildings, and structures involved in
the transmitting and receiving electromagnetic waves.
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY BUILDING - the building in which electromagnetic
receiving and relay equipment for a communications tower and antenna are
housed.
   COMMUNICATIONS TOWER - any ground-mounted structure that is designed and
constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas for
telephone, radio, and similar communication purposes, including self-support
ing lattice towers, guyed towers, or monopole towers. The term includes radio
and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers,
cellular telephone towers, alternative tower structures and the like. The term
includes the structure and any support thereto. Not included are towers and
supportive structures on residential dwellings for private noncommercial
amateur purposes, including, but not limited to, ham radios and citizen band
radios.
   COMMUNITY CENTERS - a structure designed or intended to provide space for
neighborhood or community gatherings or assemblies, including grange halls or
similar facilities.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - the complete plan for future development of the Penns
Valley Region in Centre County, PA, as adopted by resolution of the Millheim
Borough Council, as amended.
   CONDITIONAL USE - a principal use allowed in certain districts which may
only be authorized by the Borough Council as set forth in this Chapter, after
review and recommendation by the Borough Planning Commission.
   CONDOMINIUM - a building or group of buildings in which units are owned
individually, and the structure, common areas, and facilities are owned by all
the owners on a proportional, undivided basis.
   CONSTRUCTION - see NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   CONTRACTOR'S SHOP AND STORAGE YARD - a building or buildings and space used
for the storage of construction equipment and/or building materials. Such uses
may also include equipment repair facilities and office space.
   CONVENIENCE MARKET - a retail establishment selling a limited range of food
products and some household or other consumer goods. Such facilities generally
offer fewer items and maintain a smaller inventory of merchandise than a
supermarket or grocery store. In some cases, gasoline and related automotive
supplies are also offered on a self-service basis.
   CONVENIENCE PLAZA, MULTI-SERVICE - a retail establishment contained in one
or more buildings offering a variety of products and services to the traveling
public, including consumer goods or merchandise, gasoline and related
automotive supplies, food and beverages, as well as ATM or similar convenience
services.
   CONVERSION APARTMENT - a dwelling or other building existing at the
effective date of this Chapter which is converted for residential occupancy by
more than one (1) family.
   COUNTY - Centre County, PA.
   CULTIVATION - see LAND CULTIVATION.
   CULTURAL FACILITIES - art galleries, auditoriums, libraries, museums,
community centers, botanical gardens, adult education centers, or other similar
facilities, open to the public or connected with a permitted educational,
institutional, philanthropic, service or religious use.
   DAY CARE CENTER - a private facility enrolling more than 12 young children
where tuition, fees, or other forms of compensation for the care of the
children may be charged and which is licensed, inspected and approved to
operate as a child day care center by the PA Department of Public Welfare. For
the purposes of this Chapter, such facilities may also provide care for adult,
elderly, or handicapped persons.
   DENSITY - the number of families, individuals, dwelling units, or housing
structures permitted to be constructed or situated on a specific unit of land.
   DENTAL CLINIC - see MEDICAL OR DENTAL CLINIC.
   DEVELOPER - any landowner, agent of such landowner, or tenant with the
permission of the landowner, who makes or causes to be made a subdivision or
land development.
   DEVELOPMENT - any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion, or alteration of buildings or other structures; the
placement of mobile homes or manufactured housing; streets, and other paving;
utilities; filling, grading, and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling
operations; storage of equipment or materials; and the subdivision of land.
   DISTRIBUTION CENTER - for the purposes of this Chapter, a distribution
center shall be defined as a building or group of buildings containing 50,000
square feet of gross floor area and/or more than four (4) loading berths where
merchandise is stored for ultimate distribution to specific wholesale or retail
operators or to the general public. (See also TRANSPORTATION TERMINAL and
WAREHOUSING FACILITY.)
   DISTRICT - a zoning district as laid out on the Zoning Map, along with the
regulations pertaining thereto.
   DRIVEWAY - a minor vehicular access between a street and a parking area or
garage within a lot or property.
   DUPLEXES - see DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.
   DWELLING - a building, structure, or shelter designed for or occupied
exclusively as the residence or sleeping place of one or more persons.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY - a dwelling structure containing three (3) or more
dwelling units, with or without independent outside access, excluding single
family attached dwelling structures as defined above, i.e. an apartment
building.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED (TOWNHOUSES) - a dwelling structure
containing one (1) dwelling unit from ground to roof, having independent
outside access and a portion of one or two walls in common with an adjoining
dwelling(s); i.e., a townhouse. For the purposes of this Chapter, a single-
family attached dwelling structure shall contain a minimum of three (3)
dwelling units,
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED - a dwelling structure containing one (1)
dwelling unit from ground to roof, having independent outside access and open
space on all sides, including a mobile home as defined below. (See also MOBILE
HOME.)
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY - a dwelling structure containing two (2) independent
dwelling units which are entirely separated by vertical walls or horizontal
floors, unpierced except for access to the outside or a common basement or
cellar; i.e., a duplex.
   For the purposes of this Chapter, a MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING DEVELOPMENT shall
be defined as a development consisting of more than one (1) multi-family
dwelling structure or more than one (1) single-family attached dwelling
structure, or a combination thereof.
   DWELLING UNIT - one or more rooms in a dwelling structure designed for use
by one or more individuals living as a single housekeeping unit, with cooking,
living, sanitary and sleeping facilities. Recreational vehicles, lodging
facilities, personal care or nursing homes shall not be considered as dwelling
units for the purposes of this Chapter.
   EATING AND DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS - a retail establishment where food and/
or drink is prepared, served, and consumed primarily within the principal
building.
   ENCLOSED USE - a use which is located entirely within a building or
structure.
   ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY, PUBLIC - an indoor facility operated as a business
for profit, open to the public, for the purpose of providing entertainment,
including, but not limited to, bowling alleys, roller skating rinks, amusement
arcades, motion picture theaters, health clubs, and similar types of
establishments, but excluding adult entertainment facilities as defined herein.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES - utility services which are necessary for the
preservation of public health and safety, including the placement,
construction, installation, use, or maintenance of underground or overhead
electrical, telephone, television, natural gas, water or sewage disposal
systems. Such services may include the use of poles, wires, lines, mains,
drains, sewers, pipes, conduit, cables, or similar equipment, including the
structures in which they are housed.
   FAMILY - one (1) or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption, or
guardianship occupying a single dwelling unit and living as a single household
unit using common living, cooking, sanitary and sleeping facilities. (See also
GROUP FAMILY HOUSEHOLD.)
   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME - a family residence where care is provided for no more
than six (6) children unrelated to the resident household and which is
registered by the PA Department of Public Welfare to provide such care. For the
purposes of this Chapter, a family day care home may also provide for care of
up to six (6) adult or elderly persons.
   FARMER'S MARKET - a publicly or privately operated establishment held in an
open area or structure where primarily agricultural products such as raw
vegetables, fruits, syrups, herbs, flowers, plants, meats, nuts, and/ or
handcrafted items are sold. Non-agricultural products and prepared foods may be
sold but shall not occupy more than twenty-five (25) percent of the total sales
area. Canopies may be allowed in order to provide protection from the elements
for the vendors and their products. A temporary permit from Millheim Borough
will be required.
   FARM-RELATED BUSINESS - for the purposes of this Chapter, a farm- related
business shall be defined as a commercial enterprise conducted on a farm parcel
which is related to or supportive of and accessory to an on-going agricultural
operation located on the same tract.
   FENCE - any combination of materials creating an enclosure or barrier to
prevent intrusion from outside or straying from within. For the purposes of
this Chapter, a fence shall not be considered a structure and shall therefore
not require the issuance of a building/zoning permit prior to its placement or
erection.
   FINANCIAL OFFICE - for the purposes of this Chapter, a financial office
shall include, but need not be limited to, a bank, credit union, loan company,
or other lending institution, including drive-in windows, ATM machines, and
similar night deposit facilities.
   FLEA MARKET - an occasional or periodic market held in an open area or
structure where groups of individual sellers offer goods, primarily second hand
and/or antique items, for sale to the public. Flea markets are not considered
yard sales and a temporary permit from Millheim Borough will be required
   FLOOD - a temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD, ONE HUNDRED YEAR - a flood that on the average is likely to occur
once every 100 years (i.e., that has a one (1) percent chance of occurring each
year, although the flood may occur in any year.)
   FLOODPLAIN - A) A relatively flat or low land area adjoining a river, stream
or other watercourse which is subject to partial or complete inundation. B) An
area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters
from any source. *See Millheim Borough Codified Ordinances Chapter 8.
   FLOODPROOFING - any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures or their contents.
   FLOOR AREA - the area of a structure covered by floors.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS - for the purpose of determining compliance with the
minimum gross floor area requirements for dwelling units, gross floor area
shall be defined as the sum of the gross horizontal areas of all of the floors
of a building measured from the exterior face of exterior walls, or from the
centerline of a wall separating two buildings, excluding interior parking
spaces for motor vehicles, basement or cellar floor areas where this area is
not used for business or dwelling purposes, and the area of enclosed or
unenclosed porches, decks, patios and terraces.
   For the purpose of applying the requirements for off-street parking and
loading, floor area in the case of office, merchandising, or service type uses,
shall mean the gross floor area used or intended to be used by tenants, or for
service to the public or customers, patrons, clients, or patients, including
areas occupied by fixtures or equipment used for display or sale of
merchandise.
   FLOOR AREA, HABITABLE - any floor area within a dwelling unit which is
useable for living purposes, including area for working, sleeping, eating,
cooking and recreation, or a combination thereof. Stairways, hallways and floor
area used only for storage purposes, such as closet, attic or unimproved
basement space shall not be considered habitable floor area, nor shall any
space where the floor-to-ceiling height is less than five (5) feet.
   FOOD PROCESSING OPERATION - a commercial establishment in which food is
processed or otherwise prepared for human consumption, but is not consumed on
the premises.
   FORESTRY - the management of forests and timberlands when practiced in
accordance with accepted silvicultural principles, through developing,
cultivating, harvesting, transporting and selling trees for commercial
purposes, which does not involve any land development.
   FUNERAL HOME - a building used for the preparation of the deceased for
burial and the display of the deceased and ceremonies connected therewith
before burial or cremation.
   GARAGE - a building or structure used for the parking and storage of
vehicles.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE - an accessory building or an accessory portion of a
principal building designed or used for the parking or storage of motor
vehicles, which is not a commercial enterprise available to the general public,
provided however that no more than one space therein may be leased to a non-
resident of the premises.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC - a building or group of buildings used primarily for the
parking or storage of motor vehicles available to the general public for
compensation. (See also AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR GARAGE.)
   GENERAL STORE - see CONVENIENCE MARKET.
   GOVERNMENT FACILITIES - a facility housing governmental agencies or
operations, including, but not limited to, U.S. Postal Service, PADOT, PA DEP,
or other Federal, State, County or municipal operations. (See also PUBLIC
SERVICE FACILITIES.)
   GRADE - the degree of rise or descent of a sloping surface.
   GRADE, FINISHED - the final elevation of the ground surface after
development.
   GRADE, STREET - the elevation of the centerline of an existing or proposed
street; the percentage of slope.
   GREENHOUSE - a building whose roof and sides are made largely of glass or
other transparent or translucent material, and in which the temperature and
humidity can be regulated for the cultivation of delicate or out-of-season
plants for subsequent sale or for personal enjoyment. (See also NURSERY.)
   GROCERY STORE - a retail establishment primarily selling food or groceries
as well as other household goods or merchandise; i.e., a supermarket.
   GROUP DAY CARE HOME - a residence where day care is provided for between
seven (7) and twelve (12) children unrelated to the resident household, which
is licensed and inspected by the PA Department of Welfare to provide such care.
For the purposes of this Chapter, such use may be either a principal or
accessory use and may also provide care for adult or elderly persons.
   GROUP FAMILY HOUSEHOLD - a group of individuals not related by blood,
marriage, adoption or guardianship living together in one dwelling unit as a
single housekeeping unit under a common housekeeping plan based on an
intentionally structured relationship providing organization and stability.
   GROUP HOME - a residence occupied by eight (8) or fewer persons unrelated by
blood, marriage, adoption or guardianship which live together as a single
housekeeping unit; i.e., a group family household. Such homes include, but are
not limited to, homes for orphans, foster children, the elderly, mentally or
physically handicapped persons, battered children and women, and specialized
treatment facilities providing less than primary health care. (See also
INSTITUTIONAL RESIDENCE.)
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS - any substance or mixture of substances having
properties capable of producing adverse effects on the health or safety of a
human being.
   HOME OCCUPATION - an accessory use or service-oriented occupation operated
for gain or profit conducted entirely within the dwelling or building accessory
thereto, which is carried on by the inhabitants thereof and is clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes
and does not change the character thereof.
   HORTICULTURE - the growing of fruits, vegetables, flowers, ornamental
plants, shrubs, or trees for profit.
   HOUSE PETS - dogs, cats, or other animals which are domesticated for
personal use and are generally housed within a dwelling unit.
   IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREA - those floodplain areas specifically identified
on the Borough's National Flood Insurance Program Flood Mapping (as amended)
and as being inundated by the 100-year flood.
   INDUSTRIAL OPERATION, LIGHT - for the purposes of this Chapter, light
industrial operations shall be defined as those manufacturing, assembly,
processing, and shipping activities which generate no audible noise off-site
nor create odor discernible beyond the boundaries of the industrial site.
   INSTITUTIONAL RESIDENCE - establishments primarily engaged in the provision
of residential, social and personal care for children, the elderly, and other
special categories of persons with some limits on their ability for self-care,
but where medical care is not a major element. These uses include, but are not
limited to, group foster homes; residential alcohol and drug rehabilitation
centers with incidental health care; children's boarding homes; halfway homes
for persons with social or personal problems (except halfway homes for
delinquents, offenders and other adjudicated individuals, and training schools
for delinquent and other adjudicated individuals); homes for destitute
individuals; homes for the deaf or blind; homes for emotionally disturbed or
mentally or physically handicapped persons, with health care incidental; and
group homes for nine (9) or more residents, excluding staff.
Residents of these facilities would be treated by staff in an institutional
setting rather than living independently. Institutional housing where there is
commercial rental or condominium ownership is also included in this category,
with the exception of personal care homes as defined herein. Such facilities
may also require licensing by the PA Department of Public Health or other State
agencies.
   INSTITUTIONAL USE - a private, non-profit or quasi-public use or facility
such as a church, library, a public or private school, nursing home, personal
care home, or a municipally owned building, structure or land used for public
purposes.
   JUNK - any discarded article or material not ordinarily disposed of as
rubbish, garbage, or refuse and including, but not limited to, scrap metal,
scrapped or junked vehicles, machinery, equipment, paper, rags, glass
containers and other salvageable materials. For purposes of this Chapter, the
term “junk” shall not include hazardous wastes or materials, industrial
residual wastes, or municipal wastes as defined in the PA Solid Waste
Management Act.
   JUNKYARD - *see Millheim Borough Codified Ordinances
Chapter 15, Part 7, §
702, “Motor Vehicle Nuisances Prohibited.”
   JUNKED VEHICLE - *see Millheim Borough Codified Ordinances
Chapter 15, Part 7, §
702, “Motor Vehicle Nuisances Prohibited.”
   KENNEL - for the purposes of this Chapter, a kennel shall be defined as an
establishment where five (5) or more dogs and/or cats in excess of six (6)
months old are housed, groomed, bred, boarded, trained or sold. (House pets
maintained in a private home are excluded.) In addition, all requirements of
the PA Dog Law, administered by the PA Department of Agriculture, shall be met
before establishing a kennel in the Borough.
   LAND CONSERVATION ACTIVITIES - land uses including game lands, wildlife or
nature preserves, or similar activities.
   LAND CULTIVATION - the tilling or cultivation of soil for crop or tree
farming.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT - any of the following activities: the improvement of one
lot, or two or more contiguous lots, tracts or parcels of land for any purpose
involving: a group of two or more residential or nonresidential buildings,
whether proposed initially or cumulatively, or a single nonresidential building
on a lot or lots regardless of the number of occupants or tenure; or the
division or allocation of land or space, whether initially or cumulatively,
between or among two or more existing or prospective occupants by means of, or
for the purpose of, streets, common areas, leaseholds, condominiums, building
groups, or other features; or a subdivision of land.
   LANDOWNER - the legal or beneficial owner(s) of land, including the holder
of an option or contract to purchase (whether or not such option is subject to
any condition), a lessee, if he is authorized under the lease to exercise the
right of the landowner or other person having a proprietary interest in the
land.
   LANDSCAPING - grass and other plantings such as trees, shrubs and/or bushes.
   LIBRARY - see CULTURAL FACILITIES.
   LIGHT INDUSTRIAL OPERATION - see INDUSTRIAL OPERATION, LIGHT.
   LIVESTOCK - for the purposes of this Chapter, livestock shall be defined to
include cows, horses, sheep, llamas, and other similar types of farm animals.
   LIVE-WORK UNITS - a retail/business and residential use in one unit. The
retail/business use shall be located in the front of the unit at street level
and the residential use shall be located in back or rear of the unit.
   LOADING BERTH - an off-street space accessible from a street or alley in a
building or on a lot, for the temporary use of vehicles while loading or
unloading merchandise or materials.
   LODGING FACILITY, COMMERCIAL - a building or structure arranged or used for
sheltering, sleeping, and/or feeding of overnight guests for limited periods of
time, including hotels, motels, inns and other similar types of commercial
lodging establishments. Dining facilities associated with such uses may also be
open or available to the public if authorized by the proper Borough officials.
(See also BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT.)
   LOT - a designated parcel, tract or area of land established by a plat or
otherwise as permitted by law and to be used, developed or built upon as a
unit.
   LOT AREA - see AREA.
   LOT DEPTH - the distance measured from the front lot line to the rear lot
line.
   LOT WIDTH - the distance measured between the side lot lines at the required
building setback line; in a case where there is only one side lot line, between
such lot line and the opposite lot line.
   LOT, CORNER - a lot with two adjacent sides abutting on streets. A lot
abutting on a curved street shall be considered a corner lot if the tangents to
the curve at the points of intersection of the side lot lines with the street
line intersect at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE - a lot which extends from one street along its front
lot line to another street along its rear lot line, with frontage on both
streets.
   LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE - a double frontage lot which is not accessible from
one of the streets upon which it fronts, usually due to topographic constraints
or safety considerations.
   LOT LINES - the property lines bounding the lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT - the line separating the lot from a street right-of-way; or
where a lot has no road frontage, the lot line opposite the rear lot line.
   LOT LINE, REAR - the lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot
line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE - any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD - a lot which individually or as a part of a subdivision has
been recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Centre County, PA.
   LUMBER YARD - a business establishment primarily engaged in the sale of
lumber and related products to contractors or the general public.
   MACHINE SHOP - a workshop, manufacturing facility, or other industrial
operation where machines are built, repaired or assembled. For the purposes of
this Chapter, such facilities shall include tool and die making, engine
rebuilding, and similar types of activities.
   MANUFACTURING - the act of producing, preparing or assembling finished
products or goods from raw materials or component parts through the repetitious
use of an established or set process.
   MARKET VALUE - the fair market price of a structure or property as
determined by an appraiser or insurance adjuster; the price at which both buyer
and seller are willing to do business.
   MEDICAL OR DENTAL CLINIC - for the purposes of this Chapter, a medical or
dental clinic shall be defined as an establishment housing three (3) or more
physicians, dentists, psychologists, social workers, or similar practitioners,
where patients are received for examination or treatment, but where no patients
are lodged overnight.
   MICROBREWERY - A brewery operation that produces less than 15,000 barrels
(465,000 US gallons) of beer on its licensed premises each calendar year. This
licensed premises may provide for on-site consumption and retail sales of beer,
food service, events, and wholesale beer distribution.
   MICRODISTILLERY - A distillery operation that produces less than 2,000
barrels (110,000 US gallons) of spirits on its licensed premises each calendar
year. This licensed premises may provide for on-site consumption and retail
sales of spirits, food service, events, and wholesale distribution of spirits.
   MICROWINERY - A winery operation that produces less than 2,000 barrels
(110,000 US gallons) of wine on its licensed premises each calendar year. This
licensed premises may provide for on-site consumption and retail sales of wine,
food service, events, and wholesale distribution of wine.
   MOBILE HOME - a transportable, single-family dwelling intended for permanent
occupancy, contained in one unit, or in two units designed to be joined into
one integral unit capable of again being separated for repeated towing, which
arrives at a site complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, and is constructed so that it may
be used without a permanent foundation. For floodplain management purposes, the
term shall also include park trailers, travel trailers, recreational vehicles
and other similar types of manufactured homes which are placed on a site for a
period of time exceeding 180 consecutive days.
   MOBILE HOME LOT - a parcel of land in a mobile home park, improved with the
necessary utility connections and other appurtenances necessary for the
erection thereon of a single mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PAD OR STAND - that part of an individual mobile home lot, which
has been reserved for the placement of a mobile home and appurtenant structures
and connections.
   MOBILE HOME PARK - a parcel or contiguous parcels of land which has been so
designated and improved that it contains two (2) or more mobile home lots for
the placement thereon of mobile homes. For floodplain management purposes, the
term shall also include facilities for the placement of two (2) or more park
trailers, travel trailers, recreational vehicles, and other similar types of
manufactured housing for a period of time exceeding 180 consecutive days.
   MULTI-FAMILY HOMES - see DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY
   MULTI-SERVICE CONVENIENCE PLAZA - see CONVENIENCE PLAZA, MULTI-SERVICE.
   MUNICIPALITY - Millheim Borough, Centre County, PA.
   MUSEUM - see CULTURAL FACILITIES.
   NEIGHBORHOOD RETAIL BUSINESS - retail stores, shops, or establishments
engaged in selling goods and merchandise to the general public for personal
household use and rendering services incidental to the sale of such goods.
[Ord. 242]
   NEW CONSTRUCTION - the construction, reconstruction, renovation, repair,
extension, expansion, alteration, location or relocation of a building
(including mobile and manufactured homes), structure, and/or improvements (such
as streets, utilities, etc.). For floodplain management purposes, the term
shall pertain to structures for which the start of construction commenced on or
after March 5, 1984, and includes any subsequent improvements thereto.
   NONCONFORMING LOT - a lot which does not conform to the minimum width,
depth, or other dimensional requirements specified for the district in which it
is located, including those lots which existed prior to the enactment of this
Chapter.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE - a structure or part of a structure not designed or
built to comply with the use or extent of use provisions of this Chapter,
including those structures, which lawfully existed prior to the enactment of
this Chapter or amendment. Such nonconforming structures include, but shall not
be limited to, nonconforming signs.
   NONCONFORMING USE - a use of a building or land which does not comply with
the applicable use regulations (
Part 3) of this Chapter or amendment, including those uses which lawfully
existed prior to the enactment of this Chapter or amendment.
   NURSERY - land and/or greenhouses used to raise flowers, shrubs, trees, and
plants for sale. (See also GREENHOUSE.)
   NURSING HOME - a state-licensed institutional establishment which provides
full-time convalescent or chronic nursing and/or medical care. Such facilities
shall not provide surgical, obstetrical or other services generally provided by
a hospital.
   OFFICE - see PROFESSIONAL OFFICE.
   OFFICE COMPLEX - for the purposes of this Chapter, an office complex shall
be defined as a group of three (3) or more offices, which have been planned,
developed and managed as a unit, whether contained in one building or in
several buildings on the same tract.
   ON-LOT SEWAGE SYSTEM - see SEWAGE SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL ON-LOT.
   OPEN SPACE - space not occupied by a structure, open to the sky, and on the
same lot with the building or structure.
   OPEN SPACE, COMMON - land within or related to a development, not
individually owned or dedicated for public use, which is designed and intended
for the common use and enjoyment of the residents of the development and which
may include complementary structures and improvements as are necessary and
appropriate, but shall not include streets, off-street parking areas, and areas
set aside for public facilities or utilities.
   OPEN SPACE, PUBLIC - any land area set aside, dedicated, designated or
reserved for public enjoyment.
   ORCHARD - land used for growing fruit and/or nut trees where the fruit or
nuts produced are sold on a wholesale or retail basis.
   OUTDOOR PUBLIC RECREATION USES - an outdoor recreation facility, including a
ball field, a golf course, golf driving range, a miniature golf course,
swimming or tennis club, and similar facilities. (See also PARKS OR
PLAYGROUND.)
   PARKING AREA - an open area, other than a street or other public way, used
for the parking of automobiles which is available to the public whether for a
fee, free, or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
   PARKING SPACE - an off-street area on a lot available for the parking of one
(1) motor vehicle and having direct, useable access to a street or road. For
the purposes of this Chapter, parking space shall include uncovered lot space
located off of any right-of-way and enclosed garage space.
   PARKS OR PLAYGROUND - a public, semi-public or private park or park-type
facility which provides for outdoor recreational enjoyment and activity, either
for free or on a fee basis. Such facilities may include tennis or basketball
courts, athletic fields, swimming, hiking and picnic areas, playgrounds and tot
lots, and may include buildings and accessory structures.
   PERMITTED USE - a principal use allowed in a zoning district, subject to the
applicable district regulations, and approved by the Zoning Officer.
   PERSONAL CARE HOME - a state-licensed institutional facility providing
supervised care services, including meals and less than full-time skilled or
intermediate nursing care, for individuals, usually the elderly.
   PERSONAL SERVICE BUSINESS - for the purposes of this Chapter, a personal
service business shall be defined as a small-scale retail business providing
direct service or care to a patron or client, including, but not limited to, a
barber or beauty shop, a tailor or dressmaker's shop, a music or art studio,
upholstery or shoe repair facility, or similar establishment of a related
nature.
   PERSONAL STORAGE WAREHOUSE - a warehousing facility where separate storage
spaces of varying size are available for lease or rental, usually on a self-
service basis. For the purposes of this Chapter, there shall be no residential
occupancy of nor commercial sales conducted from such storage areas.
   PLANNING COMMISSION - the Planning Commission of Millheim Borough, Centre
County, PA.
   POULTRY - domesticated birds kept for eggs or meat.
   PRINCIPAL USE - see USE, PRINCIPAL.
   PRIVATE LAND CONSERVATION - (see also LAND CONSERVATION ACTIVITIES and
PUBLIC LAND CONSERVATION.)
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE - an office occupied by up to two (2) members of a
recognized profession, including, but not limited to, a real estate or
insurance agency, medical or dental office, attorney's office, financial
institution, or similar operation. A professional office may be considered a
home occupation when conducted from a residence, by a member of the resident
family and when the office is clearly secondary to the residential use of the
dwelling. (See also OFFICE COMPLEX and MEDICAL OR DENTAL CLINIC.)
   PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SCHOOLS - see SCHOOL.
   PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY - see ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY, PUBLIC.
   PUBLIC HEARING - a formal meeting held pursuant to public notice by the
Borough Council, Borough Planning Commission, or Borough Zoning Hearing Board,
intended to inform and obtain public comment, prior to taking action in
accordance with this Chapter.
   PUBLIC LAND CONSERVATION - (see also LAND CONSERVATION ACTIVITIES and
PRIVATE LAND CONSERVATION.)
   PUBLIC MEETING - a forum held pursuant to notice under the Act of July 3,
1986 (P.L. 388, No. 84) known as the “Sunshine Act.”
   PUBLIC NOTICE - notice published once each week for two (2) successive weeks
in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality. Such notice shall
state the time and place of the hearing and the particular nature of the matter
to be considered at the hearing. The first publication shall not be more than
30 days and the second publication shall not be less than 7 days from the date
of the hearing.
   PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITIES - a facility housing public service organizations,
including State or local police departments, fire, and ambulance companies.
(See also GOVERNMENT FACILITIES.)
   PUBLIC UTILITY IMPROVEMENTS - facilities, buildings and/or structures
constructed and maintained by public utility companies, municipal or
governmental agencies, or public service corporations, which are necessary for
the provision of utility services to the general public. Such facilities shall
include, but need not be limited to, electrical substations, water or sewage
treatment plants, reservoirs, pump stations, or other similar facilities. For
the purposes of this Chapter, public utility improvements shall not include
commercial communications facilities. (See also COMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA,
COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS, AND/OR COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY BUILDING.)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE - a portable or mobile vehicle used for temporary
living or sleeping accommodation, without a permanent foundation. Recreational
vehicles shall include travel trailers, house trailers, truck campers, motor
homes and other similar types of vehicles used for recreational, camping or
travel purposes. Such vehicles are permitted to be used in campground areas in
the municipality or on private independent parcels.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK - any site upon which two (2) or more recreational
vehicles are, or intended to be located. (See also CAMPGROUND.)
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS - for the purposes of this Chapter, recyclable
materials shall be defined as those designated waste products which are
collected at approved recycling drop-off centers in the Borough for
transformation into new and/or different products at another location,
   RECYCLING DROP-OFF CENTER - for the purposes of this Chapter, a recycling
drop-off center shall be defined as a facility intended for the collection of
recyclable materials, not including municipal, residual, or hazardous waste
transfer stations.
   RESTAURANT - see EATING AND DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   RETAIL SHOPPING COMPLEX - for the purposes of this Chapter, a shopping
center shall be defined as a group of three (3) or more commercial
establishments, which have been planned, developed and managed as a unit,
whether contained in one (1) building or in several buildings on the same
tract. This definition shall also include retail shopping complexes and
shopping malls.
   RETIREMENT CENTER - a facility, establishment, or development designed to
meet the needs of, and exclusively for, senior citizens. (See also NURSING
HOME, and PERSONAL CARE HOME.)
   RIDING ACADEMY - an establishment where horses are kept for riding, jumping,
or showing for compensation or incidental to the operation of a club,
association, or similar group.
   ROOF - the outside cover of a building or structure other than its walls,
including all of the materials and construction necessary to maintain the cover
upon its walls or other support.
   SAWMILL - a building or business establishment equipped with machinery for
cutting lumber into boards.
   SCHOOL - an establishment or facility, or part thereof, which is designed,
constructed, or used for public or private education. For the purposes of this
Chapter, such facilities shall not include halfway homes or training facilities
for delinquents, offenders, and other adjudicated individuals, nor other
detention or retention facilities providing residential or “live-in” services.
   SCREEN PLANTING - the provision of a barrier to visibility, glare and noise
between adjacent properties made of plant materials, such as trees or shrubs,
which will be of such species that will produce the desired visual screen. Such
plantings shall be broken only at points of vehicular or pedestrian access or
utility easements.
   SCREENING - the provision of a visual shield or barrier, which may include
vegetative plantings; fencing; or the placement or utilization of natural or
man-made berms or landforms between adjacent properties, structures or uses.
   SEWAGE FACILITY - a system of sewage collection, conveyance, treatment and
disposal which will prevent the discharge of untreated or inadequately treated
sewage or other waste into waters of the Commonwealth or otherwise provide for
the safe and sanitary treatment and disposal of sewage or other wastes.
   SEWAGE SYSTEM, COMMUNITY - a sewage facility, whether publicly or privately
owned, for the collection of sewage from two (2) or more equivalent dwelling
units and the treatment or disposal, or both, of the sewage on one (1) or more
of the lots or at another site.
   SEWAGE SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL - a sewage facility, whether publicly or privately
owned, located on a single lot and serving one (1) equivalent dwelling unit and
collecting, treating, and disposing of sewage in whole or in part into the soil
or into waters of the Commonwealth or by means of conveyance of retaining tank
wastes to another site for final disposal.
   SEWAGE SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL ON-LOT - an individual sewage system which uses a
system of piping, tanks or other facilities for the collection, treatment, and
disposal of sewage into a subsurface absorption area or a retaining tank
located on the same site as the use it serves.
   SEWAGE SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL SEWERAGE - an individual sewage system which uses
a method of sewage collection, conveyance, treatment and disposal other than
renovation in a subsurface absorption area, or retention in a retaining tank.
   SIGHT DISTANCE - A) the length of street, measured along the centerline,
which is continuously visible from any point four (4) feet above the
centerline, B) that area of unobstructed vision at street intersections formed
by lines of sight between points which are a specified distance from the
intersection of the street centerlines, C) the amount of distance required to
be provided at a street or driveway intersection which is considered adequate
for a driver to be able to see in order to proceed in a safe manner.
   SIGN - any device, structure or object used for visual communication or for
the purpose of bringing the subject thereof to the attention of others, but not
including any flag, badge, or insignia of any government.
   SIGN AREA - the entire face of a single side of a sign, including all
advertising surface and any framing, trim, molding, or border area, but
excluding any supporting framework or bracing.
   SIGN HEIGHT - the vertical distance measured from the highest point of the
sign to the average finished grade of the proposed sign site.
   SINGLE-FAMILY HOMES - see DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED.
   SLOPE - 1) the face of an embankment or cut section, 2) the degree of
deviation of a surface from the horizontal, usually expressed in percent or
degrees, i.e., a ratio determined by dividing the vertical distance between two
(2) points (change in elevation) by the horizontal distance measured between
the same two (2) points.
   SOLID WASTE - any waste, including but not limited to, municipal, residual
or hazardous wastes, including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous
materials. (See also HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.)
   STABLE - a building in which one or more horses are boarded, whether or not
for compensation, hire or sale, not including the boarding of horses for
personal use.
   STORAGE - a place or space for storing goods, articles of personal property,
materials, etc.
   STORAGE FACILITIES - see WAREHOUSING FACILITY.
   STORAGE TRAILER - for the purposes of this Chapter, a storage trailer shall
be defined as that part of a tractor-trailer truck which is pulled by the
tractor, but which has been detached from the tractor and placed on a lot for
use as a temporary accessory storage facility
   STORAGE, UNENCLOSED - for the purposes of this Chapter, unenclosed storage
shall be defined as the outdoor or unenclosed accessory storage of materials,
equipment or other items of personal property on a lot occupied by the owner of
the item(s) being stored. The unenclosed storage of products or equipment used
in the performance of agricultural activities may also be permitted on a lot or
land not occupied by the owner of the item(s).
   STREET - any thoroughfare, whether public or private, located in whole or in
part within Millheim Borough, excluding alleys. The word “road” may be used
interchangeably with the word “street.”
   STREET LINE - the dividing line between the street right-of-way and the lot,
also known as the right-of-way line.
   STRUCTURE - any man-made object having an ascertainable stationary location
on or in land or water, whether or not affixed to the land, including
buildings, sheds, telecommunications towers, signs, but excluding fences,
poles, playground equipment, mailboxes, lawn ornaments and other similar
objects. For floodplain management purposes, the term shall also include a gas
or liquid storage tank that is principally above ground, as well as a mobile or
manufactured home.
   STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY - a structure detached from a principal structure
located on the same lot and customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal building, structure or use.
   STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL - the main or primary structure on a given lot.
   STUDIO - see ARTISTS, ARTISANS, AND CRAFTSMAN STUDIO.
   SUBDIVISION - the division or re-division of a lot, tract or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts or parcels or other divisions of
land including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate
or future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or
devisees, transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided,
however, that the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into
parcels of more than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of
access or any residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   SUPERMARKET - see GROCERY STORE.
   SWIMMING POOL - a body of water in an artificial container, whether located
in or above the ground, having a depth at any point of more than two (2) feet
or a surface area of more than 250 square feet, used or intended to be used for
swimming by children and/or adults.
   TEMPORARY BUILDING/ZONING PERMIT - a building/zoning permit authorized by
the Zoning Officer for a non-permanent building, structure or use where such
structure or use is deemed to be beneficial to the public health or general
welfare or necessary to promote the proper development of the Borough, or for
temporary uses or structures.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE - a non-permanent structure or building which is located
on a lot in the Borough for a specified duration.
   TEMPORARY USE - a short-term use or special activity which occurs in the
Borough and exceeds more than a single day in duration, including, but not
limited to, carnivals, circuses, farmers markets, flea markets, open-air
cultural, religious, or sporting events. Although such a use may be held
periodically, in order to retain its temporary status, it may not be an on-
going operation or use.
   TOWNHOUSES - see DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED (TOWNHOUSES).
   TRANSPORTATION TERMINAL - any building or premises upon which a business,
service or industry involving the maintenance, servicing, storage or repair of
commercial vehicles is located or conducted, including the dispensing of motor
fuel or other petroleum products, the sale of accessories or equipment for
motor vehicles, or the temporary storage of freight or cargo. Such uses may
also include overnight accommodations and restaurant facilities intended
primarily to serve the needs of drivers or the motoring public if approved by
the proper Borough officials. Such uses may also include facilities for the
servicing of bus or train passengers. (See also DISTRIBUTION CENTER.)
   TREE FARM - land used for the purpose of growing trees for sale.
   UNENCLOSED STORAGE - see STORAGE, UNENCLOSED.
   USE - the specific purpose or activity for which land or a building is
designed, arranged, intended or for which it is or may be occupied or
maintained.
   USE, ACCESSORY - a use subordinate to the principal use of a budding,
structure or land located on the same lot and serving a purpose customarily
incidental to the principal use. If no principal use exists on a lot with a
lawful accessory use, then such accessory use shall be considered a principal
use.
   USE, PRINCIPAL - the primary purpose for which a lot is occupied or
utilized.
   VACATION HOME - see CAMP, CABIN, OR VACATION HOME (Seasonal Dwelling).
   VARIANCE - a modification of the provisions of this Chapter which the Zoning
Hearing Board is permitted to grant when strict enforcement would cause undue
hardship owing to circumstances unique to the individual property on which the
variance is sought.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL - an establishment where animals are given medical or
surgical treatment and may be boarded for short-term care incidental to their
treatment.
   WALL - a vertical architectural structure that serves to define and divide
space, especially the sides of a building that connects the foundation to the
roof.
   WAREHOUSING FACILITY - a building used primarily for the storage of goods
and materials, including facilities handling freight for a specific commercial
or industrial operation, and those facilities available to the general public.
(See also PERSONAL STORAGE WAREHOUSE.)
   WATER FACILITY - any water works, water supply works, water distribution
system or part thereof designed, intended or constructed to provide or
distribute potable water.
   WATER SYSTEM - a water facility providing potable water to individual lots
or the public for human consumption.
   WATER SYSTEM, NON-PUBLIC - all water systems which are not public water
systems.
   WATER SYSTEM, OFF-LOT - an approved system in which potable water is
supplied to a dwelling or other building from a central water source which is
not located on the lot with the dwelling or building.
   WATER SYSTEM, ON-LOT - a well or other approved system designed to provide
potable water to a dwelling or other building located on the same lot as the
source.
   WATER SYSTEM, PUBLIC - a water system as defined by the PA Department of
Environmental Protection, which has at least 15 service connections or
regularly serves an average of at least 25 individuals daily at least 60 days
out of the year.
   WETLANDS - areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal conditions do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for
life in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs and similar
areas. The term includes, but is not limited to, the United States Forest
Service Wetlands Inventory of PA, the PA Coastal Zone Management Plan, the
United States Fish and Wildlife National Wetland Inventory, and a wetland area
designated by a river basin commission,
   YARD - an open space which lies on the same lot with a building or
structure, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward.
   YARD, FRONT - an open space extending the full width of the lot between the
principal building or structure and the street right-of-way line or front lot
line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward.
   YARD, REAR - an open space extending the full width of the lot between the
principal building or structure and the rear lot line, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward.
   YARD, REQUIRED - the minimum area or open space required by this Chapter to
be provided between any front, side or rear lot line and a principal or
accessory building(s) or structure(s) on the lot.
   YARD, SIDE - an open space extending from the front yard to the rear yard
between the principal building or structure and the side lot line, unoccupied
and unobstructed from the ground upward.
   YARD SALE - *See Millheim Borough Codified Ordinances
Chapter 13, Part 4.
   ZONING HEARING BOARD - the Zoning Hearing Board of Millheim Borough, Centre
County, PA; appointed by the Borough Council.
   ZONING MAP - the official Zoning Map of Millheim Borough, Centre County, PA,
together with all notations, references and amendments, which may hereafter be
enacted.
   ZONING OFFICER - the administrative officer duly appointed by the Borough
Council and charged with the duty of enforcing the provisions of this Chapter,
the Millheim Borough Zoning Ordinance.
   ZONING PERMIT - see BUILDING/ZONING PERMIT.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, §7; as amended by Ord. 242, 11/9/2010, §§1, 2; and by
Ord. 259, 7/12/2016, §2)
Part 3
District Regulations
§ 301. Established Districts.
   1.   For the purposes of this Chapter, Millheim Borough provides the
following districts.
      A.   Conservation/Agricultural.
      B.   Village Residential (Low Density).
      C.   Village Residential.
      D.   Village Residential (High Density).
      E.   Village (Mixed Use).
      F.   Central Business.
      G.   Industrial.
   2.   These seven (7) districts follow the future land use plan as
recommended in the Penns Valley Region Comprehensive Plan 2006. Each district
is intended to allow for a variety of uses that maintains and enhances the
existing characteristics found in the Borough of Millheim.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 8)
§ 302. Purpose.
The main purpose and intent of these districts is:
   1.   To provide for traditional neighborhoods with a diversity of uses,
block sizes, dwelling unit types and green spaces in a compact arrangement that
promotes walkability.
   2.   To encourage new development, which emulates the character found in the
Borough of Millheim in places such as the downtown and surrounding residential
neighborhoods.
   3.   To promote a streetscape quality to neighborhoods that furthers the
identity of the Borough of Millheim as an historic village in the Penns Valley
area of Centre County.
   4.   To encourage a combination of business and residential uses which
enables jobs and employment opportunities close to home.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 8)
§ 303. Conservation/Agricultural District.
   1.   Intent.
      A.   To preserve the most suitable land and soils for continued
agricultural activities.
      B.   To preserve areas of natural resources such as forests and stream
corridors.
      C.   To maintain the existing village pattern.
      D.   To create neighborhoods that follow the traditional village design
with direct visual access to the agricultural areas.
   2.   District Regulations. Only the following uses shall be permitted in the
Conservation/Agricultural District. All uses must conform to the density,
height, lot width, and building setback line requirements stipulated herein, as
well as other appropriate requirements of this Chapter. All uses not
specifically stated are prohibited.
   3.   Permitted Uses.
      A.   Farm Uses.
         (1)   Tilling of the land, raising of crops, fruits and vegetables.
Raising and keeping of livestock and poultry (excluding concentrated animal
feeding operations). Also, see Millhelm Borough Codified Ordinances,
Chapter 2, Part 1, §
102, “Certain Animals Prohibited.” “It shall be unlawful for any person to keep
any pigs, hogs or swine at any place within the Borough of Millheim.” (Ord.
151, 11/12/1984)
         (2)   Horticultural uses related to the raising, propagating, and
selling of trees, shrubs, flowers, and other plant materials produced and
raised on the premises.
         (3)   Usual farm structures, including barns, silos, and greenhouses.
Commercial establishments for the processing, storage, and sale of farm
products produced and raised on the premises.
      B.   Supplemental Uses.
         (1)   Bed and breakfast establishments.
         (2)   Cemeteries.
         (3)   Churches.
         (4)   Essential services.
         (5)   Government and public service facilities.
         (6)   Outdoor public recreation uses.
         (7)   Parks or playground.
         (8)   Public and private land conservation.
         (9)   Public and private schools.
         (10)   Single-family homes.
         (11)   Stables/riding academies.
         (12)   Veterinary hospital.
   4.   Density.
      A.   Minimum lot size–1 acre (on-site sewer water); 2 acres for
agricultural uses.
   (See § 304.8, “Design Criteria for Conservation/ Agricultural District.”)
   5.   Height, Lot Width, Building Setback Line.
      A.   Height–45 feet buildings/120 feet silos; 35 feet residential.
      B.   Lot width–150 feet with on-site sewer and water; 75 feet with public
sewer and water.
      C.   Setbacks.
         (1)   Front–20 feet.
         (2)   Side–10 feet.
         (c)   Rear–20 feet.
[Ord. 242]
   6.   Sidewalk/Traffic Details.
      A.   Sidewalk–none.
      B.   Street right-of-way–50 feet.
      C.   Traffic lane–2 @ 9feet with a maximum of 10 feet.
      D.   Parking lane–none.
      E.   Off-street parking–2 spaces per dwelling unit.
      F.   Alley right-of-way–18 feet.
      G.   Maximum impervious coverage of lot.
         (1)   Agricultural use–20 percent.
         (2)   Residential use–50 percent.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 8; as amended by Ord. 242, 11/9/2010, § 3)
§ 304. Village Residential (Low Density) District.
   1.   Intent. To provide for low density housing opportunities in close
proximity to the historic downtown of Millheim that follows the traditional
village pattern.
   2.   District Regulations. Only the following uses shall be permitted in the
Village Residential (Low Density) District. All uses must conform to the
density, height, lot width, and building setback line requirements stipulated
herein, as well as other appropriate requirements of this Chapter. All uses not
specifically stated are prohibited.
   3.   Permitted Uses.
      A.   Bed and breakfast establishments.
      B.   Cemeteries.
      C.   Child day care facilities.
      D.   Churches.
      E.   Essential services.
      F.   Government and public service facilities.
      G.   Home occupations.
      H.   Outdoor public recreation uses.
      I.   Parks or playground.
      J.   Public and private land conservation.
      K.   Public and private schools.
      L.   Single-family homes.
   4.   Density.
      A.   Minimum lot size–6,500 square feet.
      B.   Maximum lot size–2 acres.
   5.   Height, Lot Width, Building Setback Line.
      A.   Height–35 feet maximum.
      B.   Lot width–100 feet maximum.
      C.   Setbacks.
         (1)   Front–10 to 20 feet.
         (2)   Side–10 feet minimum.
         (3)   Rear–20 feet minimum.
   6.   Sidewalk/Traffic Details.
      A.   Sidewalk–1 @ 4 feet minimum.
      B.   Street right-of-way–50 feet.
      C.   Traffic lane–2 @ 9 feet with a maximum of 12 feet.
      D.   Parking lane–none.
      E.   Off-street parking–2 spaces per dwelling unit.
      F.   Alley right-of-way–18 feet minimum.
      G.   Maximum impervious coverage of lot–50 percent maximum.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 8)
§ 305. Village Residential District.
   1,   Intent. To promote the continuation of the existing traditional village
neighborhood pattern in Millheim that is predominantly residential.
   2.   District Regulations. Only the uses listed below shall be permitted in
the Village Residential District. All uses must conform to the density, height,
lot width, and building setback line requirements stipulated herein, as well as
other appropriate requirements of this Chapter. All uses not specifically
stated are prohibited.
   3.   Permitted Uses.
      A.   Barbers and beauticians.
      B.   Bed and breakfast establishments.
      C.   Child day care homes.
      D.   Churches.
      E.   Conversion apartments.
      F.   Duplexes.
      G.   Essential services.
      H.   Government facilities.
      I.   Home occupations.
      J.   Parks or playground.
      K.   Public and private schools.
      L.   Single-family homes.
   4.   Density.
      A.   Minimum lot size–4,000 square feet.
      B.   Maximum lot size–15,000 square feet.
   5.   Height, Lot Width, Building Setback Line.
      A.   Height–35 feet maximum.
      B.   Lot width–60 feet maximum.
      C.   Setbacks.
         (1)   Front–0 to 10 feet.
         (2)   Side–0 to 8 feet.
         (3)   Rear–0 (garage), 20 feet minimum (building).
   Also, see Millheim Borough Code Book
Chapter 4, Part 3, §
305, Design Guidelines for regulations on such things as building height,
proportion of building front facades, etc., for properties located within the
Millheim Borough Historic District.
   6.   Sidewalk/Traffic Details.
      A.   Sidewalk–2 @ 4 feet minimum.
      B.   Street right-of-way–50 feet.
      C.   Traffic lane–2 @ 9 feet with a maximum of 12 feet.
      C.   Parking lane–1 @ 8 feet.
      D.   Off-street parking–2 spaces per dwelling unit.
      E.   Alley right-of-way–18 feet minimum.
      F.   Maximum impervious coverage of lot–50 percent maximum.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 8)
§ 306. Village Residential (High Density) District.
*Also see buffer yard criteria.
   1.   Intent. To provide for a variety of affordable housing opportunities
that reflect the traditional village neighborhood pattern in locations that are
walkable to downtown Millheim.
   2.   District Regulations. Only the following uses shall be permitted in the
Village Residential (High Density) District. All uses must conform to the
density, height, lot width, and building setback line requirements stipulated
herein, as well as other requirements of this Chapter. All uses not
specifically stated are prohibited.
   3.   Permitted Uses.
      A.   Bed and breakfast establishments.
      B.   Boarding houses.
      C.   Cemeteries.
      D.   Child day care facilities.
      E.   Churches.
      F.   Duplexes.
      G.   Multi-family homes.
      H.   Nursing and assisted living homes.
      I.   Parks or playground.
      J.   Public and private schools.
      K.   Single-family homes.
      L.   Townhouses.
   4.   Density.
      A.   Minimum lot size–4,000 square feet. (Single Family).
      B.   Maximum lot size–7,500 square feet. (Single Family).
   5.   Height, Lot Width, Building Setback Line.
      A.   Height–35 feet SFD, THD; 45 feet MFD. (Would allow high story
apartment building with height restrictions of 35 feet or 3 stories.)
      (1)   SFD–single-family dwellings.
         (2)   MFD–multi-family dwellings.
         (3)   THD–townhouse dwellings.
   (For definitions see dwellings, single-family; dwellings, multi-family, and
dwellings, single-family attached townhouses).
      B.   Lot width–50 feet SFD; 100 feet THD, MFD.
         (1)   Setbacks.
            (a)   Front–5 to 15 feet.
            (b)   Side–0 to 10 feet.
            (c)   Rear–25 feet minimum.
   6.   Sidewalk/Traffic Details.
      A.   Sidewalk–2 @ 4 feet minimum.
      B.   Street right-of-way–50 feet.
      C.   Traffic lane–2 @ 9 feet with a maximum of 12 feet.
      D.   Parking lane–none.
      E.   Off-street parking–2 spaces per dwelling unit.
      F.   Alley right-of-way–18 feet minimum.
      G.   Maximum impervious coverage of lot–50 percent maximum.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 8)
§ 307. Village (Mixed Use) District.
   1.   Intent. To promote the continuation of the traditional village
neighborhood pattern that recognizes the residential, commercial, and public
activities adjacent to downtown Millhelm.
   2.   District Regulations. Only the following uses shall be permitted in
Village (Mixed Use) District. All uses must conform to the density, height, lot
width, and building setback line requirements stipulated herein, as well as
other appropriate requirements of this Chapter. All uses not specifically
stated are prohibited.
   3.   Permitted Uses.
      A.   Artists, artisans, and craftsman studios.
      B.   Automotive repair garage.
      C.   Automotive service station.
      D.   Barbers and beauticians.
      E.   Bed and breakfast establishments.
      F.   Business services.
      G.   Cemeteries.
      H.   Child day care facilities.
      I.   Churches.
      J.   Clubs or service organizations.
      K.   Conversion apartments.
      L.   Cultural facilities.
      M.   Duplexes.
      N.   Eating and drinking establishments.
      O.   Essential services.
      P.   Farmers market (temporary permit required).
      Q.   Flea market (temporary permit required).
      R.   Government facilities.
      S.   Home occupations.
      T.   Live/work units.
      U.   Medical and dental offices.
      V.   Neighborhood retail business.
      W.   Parks or playground.
      X.   Professional offices.
      Y.   Public and private schools.
      Z.   Repair and rental services.
      AA.   Single-family homes.
   4.   Density.
      A.   Minimum lot size–4,000 square feet.
      B.   Maximum lot size–15,000 square feet.
   5.   Height, Lot Width, Building Setback Line.
      A.   Height–35 feet maximum.
      B.   Lot width–50 feet maximum.
      C.   Setbacks.
         (1)   Front–0 to 10 feet.
         (2)   Side–0 to 10 feet.
         (3)   Rear–0 (garage), 20 feet minimum (building).
         (4)   Nonresidential Setbacks (with no minimum lot width).
            (a)   Front–25 feet.
            (b)   Side–25 feet.
            (c)   Rear–50 feet.
[Ord. 242]
   Also, see Millheim Borough Code Book
Chapter 4, Part 3, §
305, Design Guidelines, for regulations on such things as building height,
proportion of building front facades, etc. for properties located within the
Millheim Borough Historic District.
   6.   Sidewalk/Traffic Details.
      A.   Sidewalk–2 @ 4 feet minimum.
      B.   Street right-of-way–50 feet.
      C.   Traffic lane–2 @ 10 feet with a maximum of 12 feet.
      D.   Parking lane–1 @ 8 feet.
      E.   Off-street parking–2 spaces per 1,000 square feet shared or off-
site.
      F.   Alley right-of-way–18 feet minimum.
      G.   Maximum impervious coverage of lot–50 percent maximum.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 8; as amended by Ord. 242, 11/9/2010, § 4)
§ 308. Central Business District.
   1.   Intent.
      A.   To provide for the retail, business, residential, cultural, and
civic needs of Millheim and the eastern Penns Valley Area.
      B.   To promote and maintain Millheim's historical character and adaptive
reuse of buildings.
      C.   To promote uses that encourage pedestrian activities and serve the
needs of adjacent neighborhoods.
   2.   District Regulations. Only the following uses shall be permitted in the
Central Business District. All uses must conform to the density, height, lot
width, and building setback line requirements stipulated herein, as well as
other appropriate requirements of this Chapter. All uses not specifically
stated are prohibited.
   3.   Permitted Uses.
      A.   Amusement arcade.
      B.   Artists, artisans and craftsman studios.
      C.   Bakeries.
      D.   Banks.
      E.   Barbers and beauticians.
      F.   Bed and breakfast establishments.
      G.   Business services.
      H.   Churches.
      I.   Clubs or service organizations.
      J.   Community centers.
      K.   Duplexes.
      L.   Eating and drinking establishments.
      M.   Essential services.
      N.   Farmers market (temporary permit required).
      O.   Flea market (temporary permit required).
      P.   Florists.
      Q.   Government facilities.
      R.   Hotels.
      S.   Jewelry stores.
      T.   Laundromats and dry cleaners.
      U.   Libraries.
      V.   Live/work units.
      W.   Medical and dental offices.
      X.   Movie theatres.
      Y.   Multi-family homes.
      Z.   Museums.
      AA.   Neighborhood retail business.
      BB.   Parks or playground.
      CC.   Professional offices.
      DD.   Public and private schools.
      EE.   Repair services (such as small appliance, shoe, etc., but excluding
automotive).
      FF.   Microbrewery, microdistillery and/or microwinery.
      GG.   Single-family homes.
      HH.   Tailors and seamstresses.
      II.   Veterinary hospital.
      JJ.   Adult businesses and gasoline sales shall not be permitted.
   4.   Density. None recommended. Historic District criteria, setbacks and
impervious coverage will determine size of permitted uses.
   5.   Height, Lot Width, Building Setback Line.
      A.   Height–maximum height not to exceed the height of the tallest
adjacent building or structure by ten (10) percent.
      B.   Setbacks.
         (1)   Front–0 to 5 feet.
         (2)   Side–0 to 3 feet.
         (3)   Rear–0, 25 feet (if off-site parking is provided).
   See Millheim Borough Code Book
Chapter 4, Part 3, §
305 Design Guidelines, for regulations on such things as building height,
proportion of building front facades, etc. for properties located within the
Millheim Borough Historic District.
   6.   Sidewalk/Traffic Details.
      A.   Sidewalk–2 @ 4 feet or curb to property.
      B.   Street right-of-way–50 feet.
      C.   Traffic lane–2 @ 10 feet with a maximum of 12 feet.
      D.   Parking lane–2 @ 8 feet on street.
      E.   Off-street parking–2 spaces per 1,000 square feet shared or off-
site.
      F.   Alley right-of-way–18 feet minimum.
      G.   Maximum impervious coverage of lot–85 percent maximum.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, §8; as amended by Ord. 259, 7/12/2016, §3)
§ 309. Industrial District.
*Also see buffer yard criteria.
   1.   Intent. To provide for small-scale manufacturing, research, and other
related industries in a location that minimizes impacts to the residents of
Millheim Borough and Penn Township.
   2.   District Regulations. Only the following uses shall be permitted in the
Industrial District. All uses must conform to the density, height, lot width,
and building setback line requirements stipulated herein, as well as other
appropriate requirements of this Chapter. All uses not specifically stated are
prohibited.
   3.   Permitted Uses.
      A.   Any production, manufacturing, assembly, processing, cleaning,
repair, storage and/or distribution of goods, materials, foodstuffs, and other
products (retail sales of manufactured products is permitted as an accessory
use).
      B.   All uses in the Conservation/Agricultural District Communication
facilities.
      C.   Essential services.
      D.   Government and public service facilities.
      E.   Moving, storage, and parcel delivery facilities.
      F.   Repair and rental services (except gasoline sales).
      G.   Wholesale distribution, warehousing facility, contractor's storage
yard, and office complex.
   4.   Density. None recommended. Setbacks and impervious coverage will
determine size of permitted uses.
   5.   Height, Lot Width, Building Setback Line.
      A.   Height–45 feet maximum.
      B.   Setbacks.
         (1)   Front–10 to 25 feet.
         (2)   Side–25 feet. (50 feet if adjoining residential).
         (3)   Rear–50 feet minimum.
   6.   Sidewalk/Traffic Details.
      A.   Sidewalk–2 @ 4 feet or curb to property.
      B.   Street right-of-way–50 feet.
      C.   Traffic lane–2 @ 12 feet minimum.
      D.   Parking lane–none.
      E.   Off-street parking–3 spaces per 1,000 square feet.
      F.   Alley right-of-way–none.
      G.   Maximum impervious coverage of lot–70 percent maximum.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 8; as amended by Ord. 242, 11/9/2010, §§ 3, 4)
§ 310. Key Design Criteria.
   1.   Unlike conventional suburban development patterns (with separated land
uses, deep setbacks, no on-street parking or sidewalks, and cul-de-sacs), the
development of neighborhoods in the Borough of Millheim shall be consistent
with its historic development which promotes a more compact and integrated
layout pattern and shall have connectivity to and/or provide the following key
design elements:
      A.   Millheim Downtown/Civic Area. The anchor for Millheim, this focal
point contains Fountain Park, retail shops, offices, and a post office that
provide a place for commerce, gatherings, and special events.
      B.   Mix of Uses. Combines residential, civic, recreational, commercial
and open space uses in a diversified but seamless arrangement; also combines
first floor retail with first rear dwellings and/or second floor dwellings and/
or offices.
      C.   Building Types. Focuses on buildings designed by type, not solely by
function, to allow for adaptations and changes in use (i.e., from dwelling, to
shop, to work place, to civic).
      D.   Park and Open Space Land. Creates the green, square, or park to help
anchor the neighborhood; a system of green spaces balanced with the built
environment and distributed within the neighborhood; includes a green edge of
open space to help shape the neighborhoods where appropriate.
      E.   Network System of Interconnecting Streets. Organizes a block and
pattern of lots in keeping with the historic pattern of Millheim; integrates
with existing lanes, alleys, neighborhood streets; links to sidewalks,
pedestrian trails, and other transportation systems.
      F.   On-street/Parallel or Angled Parking. Provides a separator between
vehicular and pedestrian traffic; utilizes the cartway as an aisle; (with
overflow parking to the rear or side of buildings); promotes effective traffic
calming by slowing down the speed of vehicles, especially along narrower
streets.
      G.   Alleys. Allows for preservation of frontage streetscape; moves
vehicular access to detached garages in the rear; provides access for
deliveries, utilities and staging construction.
      H.   Shallow Setbacks. Helps to re-create and follow the existing
streetscape widths throughout the historic area of Millheim. Two and three-
story buildings, typically 55 to 85 feet across from one another on both sides
of the street; promotes a human scale for the pedestrian with buildings placed
at a build-to line create a street wall.
      I.   Front Porch/Portico/Colonnade. Serves as transition element from the
private realm of the building to public realm of the sidewalk and street;
provides shade; promotes an ornamental feature on the building; creates a space
to sit, read, relax; provides outdoor area to greet and socialize with
neighbors.
      J.   Sidewalks/Crosswalks/Pedestrian Paths/Walkways. Serves to link
neighborhoods, street blocks, lots, and buildings/dwellings: accommodates a
healthy pedestrian circulation network; provides close to home opportunities
for shopping, exercise; and an appreciation of the neighborhood and its place
as a connection to Millheim's downtown.
      K.   Shade Trees. Provide a green canopy along the sidewalks on both
sides of the street where appropriate - and as shade trees, provides an old
shade character.
      L.   Other Vertical Infrastructure. Includes fences, hedges, walls,
street lamps, benches, gazebo, pavilion, pergola, and monuments or like
features.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 9)
§ 311. Use and Building Type Regulations.
   1.   Millheim's districts shall focus first on building types and second on
uses within buildings. Except for the downtown (central business district),
civic buildings, and industrial buildings, other buildings in a neighborhood
shall have a size, height, scale and proportion that is compatible with
Millheim's residential buildings. Therefore, the corner store, the office, or
other business uses located outside the downtown should blend with the
residential architecture of the neighborhood.
   2.   Regardless whether fee-simple lots or some form of common ownership is
to be used, when Millheim's Neighborhood developments are first created, the
proposed lots shall be laid out and designated as either residential,
nonresidential (which may include live-work units) or green space. Residential
lots shall be further categorized as either family attached or multifamily. All
lots shall be laid out so that the dimensional, coverage and all other
requirements specified in this subsection shall be satisfied.
However, the actual lot lines do not need to be legally established. Any future
development on an individual lot, regardless whether or not it has been legally
established, shall conform to this initial use designation for that particular
lot.
   3.   The following uses shall be permitted by right in the specified zoning
district, provided that all detailed design standards of this Section are met:
      A.   Adaptive reuse of existing buildings.
      B.   Conversions of existing buildings.
      C.   Civic buildings such as municipal/community center buildings,
meeting hall, post office, library, or places of worship.
      D.   Small commercial buildings, limited to uses such as a corner store,
coffee shop, newsstand, delicatessen or flower shop less than 1,500 square feet
of gross floor area, provided that they are designed to be compatible with and
limited to the convenience of the surrounding neighborhood.
      E.   Live-work units.
      F.   A range of dwelling unit types as set forth and described in this
Chapter.
      G.   Offices, limited to uses permitted in the specified zoning
districts, provided that they are designed to be compatible with the
neighborhood, as set forth in this Chapter.
      H.   Home occupation, in accordance with this Chapter.
   4.   The following uses shall be permitted as accessory uses:
      A.   Accessory uses that are clearly incidental to the uses permitted by
right, such as parking, residential accessory structures or nonresidential
structures, and further provided that all accessory structures meet all setback
requirements of principal buildings and structures.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 10)
§ 312. Detail Design Standards.
   1.   Green Space Requirements.
      A.   A green space of at least 25 feet in width shall be designated and
maintained along any property line which directly abuts lots with existing
single-family detached dwellings. Such green space shall be free of any
structures, except for boundary fences, walls, curbing, pathways or sidewalks
connecting adjacent neighborhoods, and existing buildings or structures. Such
green space shall be landscaped in accordance with a landscape plan determined
by Borough Council.
      B.   Within the Business and Neighborhood District, a variety of green
spaces shall be designed to complement residential and nonresidential
development. A minimum of twenty (20) percent of the total site area shall be
designated, landscaped and maintained as green space, exclusive of any
stormwater management facilities or areas.
      C.   Green space shall take on the form of a park, parklet, playfield,
playground, buffer, or approved landscaped area, in accordance with a landscape
plan that complies with the Borough's Landscape Design Standards (See Buffer
Yards and Screening Requirements) as determined by Borough Council.
      D.   Green spaces shall be at least 2,000 square feet in area in order to
count toward the twenty (20) percent minimum requirement.
      E.   Green space shall be owned and maintained in a form that is
acceptable to Borough Council. [Ord. 242]
      F.   Green space shall be landscaped in accordance with this Section.
   2.   Streets, Alleys and Accessways.
      A.   Streets, alleys, and access ways shall form an interconnected
vehicular circulation network to the maximum extent possible as determined by
Borough Council.
      B.   All streets shall be sufficient in width to provide for on-street
parking on at least one side. An on-street parking space shall measure at least
eight (8) feet wide by twenty-two (22) feet long when parallel to the curb
line.
      C.   Streets with on-street parking on one side shall be a minimum of
twenty-six (26) feet in width (with two nine (9) foot travel lanes and one -
eight (8) foot parking bay).
      D.   Streets with on-street parking on both sides shall be a minimum of
thirty-four (34) feet in width (with two nine (9) foot travel lanes and two -
eight (8) foot parking bays).
      E.   Alleys shall be provided to enable buildings to be placed closer to
the street and thereby enhance the curb appeal of the traditional neighborhood.
Alleys shall be provided to move vehicular access to the rear of buildings to
the maximum extent possible and thereby to move garage doors and curb cuts away
from the frontage streetscape.
      F.   Alley right-of-ways that are two-way and proposed for dedication to
the Borough shall be at least eighteen (18) feet in width. Alleys that are two-
way and not proposed for dedication to the borough may be reduced to fourteen
(14) feet in width.
      G.   Alley cartways that are one-way and not proposed for dedication
shall be at least twelve (12) feet in width.
      H.   All one-way accessways and driveways shall be at least nine (9) feet
in width.
   3.   Curb Cuts, Driveways, and Garages.
      A.   Garages, driveways and/or parking lots shall not be the dominant
aspect of the building design and/or the streetscape as viewed from the street.
      B.   To the maximum extent possible as determined by Borough Council,
garages shall be accessed from an alley. In those places where alleys are not
possible to service development as determined by Borough Council, curb cuts may
be permitted, provided that the garage door is recessed at least eighteen (18)
feet from the front facade, and further provided that no more than ten (10)
percent of the total number of dwelling units are accessed by such curb cuts.
      C.   Where garages are accessed from an alley and a parking apron is
provided perpendicular to an alley, such garage shall be eighteen (18) feet
from the edge of the alley.
      D.   Where garages are accessed from an alley and a parking apron is
provided parallel to an alley, such garage shall be eight (8) feet from the
edge of the alley.
      E.   Garages for residential dwelling units shall meet one of the
following design options, listed in the order of preference for the traditional
neighborhood:
         (1)   The garage is rear-entry, such that garage doors are on the
opposite side of the house from the front facade, preferably accessed from an
alley.
         (2)   The garage is located behind the rear facade of the house. Such
garage may be detached from or attached to the dwelling, and the garage doors
may face any direction.
         (3)   The garage is front-entry and recessed at least eighteen (18)
feet from the front facade (excluding any porches or decks) of the building.
When residential garages face a street, the garage shall comprise no more than
twenty-five (25) percent of the total area of the front facade elevation of a
dwelling unit, measured from ground level to the lower edge of the roof.
         (4)   The garage is side-entry, such that garage doors are
perpendicular or radial to the street which the front facade faces.
   4.   Sidewalks and Pathways.
      A.   Sidewalks of at least four (4) feet in width shall be constructed
and maintained along all streets.
      B.   Pathways of at least four (4) feet in width shall be constructed and
maintained to link to existing off-site pathways and to enhance the use of
green areas as required by Borough Council.
   5.   Street Trees and Other Landscaping.
      A.   All street trees, landscaping and plantings shall comply with the
landscaping design standards. (See Buffer Yards and Screening Requirements.)
      B.   Other landscaping in the form of perimeter buffers, screens,
foundation plantings, fencing walls, pergolas, gazebos, monuments or other
civic art shall be essential to the Business and Neighborhood District and
shall be subject to plan approval by Borough Council.
      C.   Nonresidential parking areas shall be buffered from residential
areas by landscaping and/or compatible small-scale residential buildings and/or
structures.
   6.   Buffer Yards and Screening Requirements. As required in this Chapter,
buffer yards shall be required in the Village Residential - High Density and
Industrial Zoning Districts in accordance with the following:
      A.   Potential impacts from multi-family developments and industrial uses
such as noise, dust, heat, glare, lighting, and on-site traffic shall be
effectively screened with a visual barrier. In addition:
         (1)   Buffer yards as required shall be a minimum of 25 feet in width
and provided on each lot, lease area, or development area.
         (2)   Consideration may be given to the use of existing vegetation or
hedgerows for the required buffer yard as determined by Borough Council and the
Planning Commission.
         (3)   Buffer yards shall not be used for storage, loading, parking, or
structures.
         (4)   All plantings shall be compatible with the environmental
conditions they will be exposed to.
         (5)   Buffer yards shall be maintained regularly. Any plant material
that does not survive must be replaced.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/841fd9811923a8c3eaa098b86cab83035ac5032e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-34.png]
      B.   The required buffer yard between the proposed High Density
Residential District and adjacent districts shall be screened in accordance
with the following:
         (1)   Three (3) evergreen trees six (6) to eight (8) feet in height at
the time of planting; two (2) deciduous canopy trees with a minimum caliper
width of at least two (2) inches at the time of planting: and five (5) small
flowering deciduous trees or shrubs four (4) to five (5) feet in height at the
time of planting for every 50 linear feet of buffer yard length.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/841fd9811923a8c3eaa098b86cab83035ac5032e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-36.png]
      C.   The required buffer yard between the proposed industrial district
and adjacent districts shall be screened in accordance with the following:
         (1)   Four (4) evergreen trees six (6) to eight (8) feet in height at
the time of planting; three (3) deciduous canopy trees with a minimum caliper
width of at least two (2) inches at planting; five (5) small flowering
deciduous trees or shrubs four (4) to five (5) feet in height at the time of
planting for every 50 linear feet of buffer yard length.
         (2)   The evergreen trees shall be strategically located to obscure
sight of the proposed buildings from adjacent residential homes, buildings, and
roadways.
         (3)   Landscaped earth mounding and/or decorative fencing may be used
in addition to the required plantings as determined by Borough Council and the
Planning Commission.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/841fd9811923a8c3eaa098b86cab83035ac5032e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-38.png]
      D.   No tree, fence, wall, earth mound, or similar item shall be
installed in the sight triangle of any street corner, street intersection, or
access intersecting a public rlght-of-way that would cause an obstructlon to
visibility.
      E.   Invasive species are detailed below and shall not be permitted as a
component of a buffer yard or landscape plan, except for those species that are
existing on the site and are proposed for incorporation into the site
landscaping.
         (1)   Invasive plants displace naturally occurring vegetation and, in
the process, upset nature's balance and diversity. Invasive plants share the
following characteristics:
            (a)   Rapid growth and prolific reproductive capabilities.
            (b)   Successful seed dispersal, germination, and colonization
processes.
            (c)   Rampant spreading that takes over native species.
            (d)   Very costly to control.
         (2)   In general, aggressive, non-native plants have no controls to
limit their spread. Those listed below are not to be planted in Millheim
Borough.
            (a)   Trees (botanic name: common name).
               1)   Acer platanoides; Norway Maple.
               2)   Acer pseudoplatanus; Sycamore Maple.
               3)   Ailanthus altissima; Tree-of-Heaven.
               4)   Elaeagnus angustifolia; Russian Olive.
               5)   Populus alba; White Poplar.
               6)   Ulmus pumila; Siberian Elm.
               7)   Viburnum lantana; Wayfaring Tree.
            (b)   Shrubs and Vines (botanic name: common name).
               1)   Berberis thunbergii; Japanese Barberry.
               2)   Elaeagnus umbellate; Autumn Olive.
               3)   Euonymus alatus; Winged Euonymus.
               4)   Ligustrum vulgare; European Privet.
               5)   Lonicera japonica; Japanese Honeysuckle.
               6)   Lonicera maackii; Amur Honeysuckle.
               7)   Lonicera morrowii; Morrow's Honeysuckle.
               8)   Lonicera tatarica; Tartarian Honeysuckle.
               9)   Lonicera x-bella; Hybrid Honeysuckle.
               10)   Lythrum salicaria; Purple Loosestrife (herbaceous).
               11)   Morus alba; White Mulberry.
               12)   Morus rubra; Red Mulberry.
               13)   Phylostachys aubea; Bamboo.
               14)   Rhamnus cathartica; Common Buckthorn.
               15)   Rhamnus frangula; Glossy Buckthorn.
               16)   Rosa multiflore; Multiflora Rose.
               17)   Viburnum opulus; European Highbush Cranberry.
      F.   Plants that are native to central Pennsylvania and appropriately
selected for the site conditions provide a beautiful, hardy, low maintenance
landscape while benefitting the environment. Once established, native plants
save time and money by eliminating or significantly reducing the need for
fertilizers, pesticides, water, and maintenance equipment.
         (1)   The plants listed below are well suited for the Penns Valley
Area as identified in USDA Hardiness Zone 6 (or colder zone) and/or are shown
in plant book maps as native to central PA:
            (a)   Trees (botanic name; common name).
               1)   Acer spp.; Maple species.
               2)   Amelanchier spp.; Serviceberry species.
               3)   Alnus rugosa; Hazel Alder.
               4)   Carpinus caroliniana; American Hornbeam.
               5)   Carya spp,; Hickory species.
               6)   Celtis occidentalis; Common Hackberry.
               7)   Cercis Canadensis; Eastern Redbud.
               8)   Cornus alternifolie; Pagoda Dogwood.
               9)   Corpus florida; Flowering Dogwood.
               10)   Fagus grandifolia; American Beech.
               11)   Fraxinus spp. White; Black & Green Ash.
               12)   Juniperus virginiana; Eastern Red Cedar.
               13)   Liriodendron tulipifera: Tuliptree.
               14)   Nyssa sylvatica; Black Tupelo.
               15)   Ostrya virginiana; American Hornbeam.
               16)   Pinus strobus; Eastern White Pine.
               17)   Pinus resinosa; Red Pine.
               18)   Platanus occidentalis; American Planetree.
               19)   Populus spp.; Aspen species.
               20)   Prunus spp.; Pin and Black Cherry; Chokeberry.
               21)   Quercus spp.; Black, White, Northern Red, Scarlet, Pin &
Chestnut Oak.
               22)   Rhus spp.; Sumac species.
               23)   Salix discolor nigra; Pussy and Black Willow.
               24)   Sassafras albidum; Common Sassafras.
               25)   Tilia Americana; American Basswood (Linden).
               26)   Tsuga Canadensis; Canada Hemlock.
            (b)   Shrubs (botanic name: common name).
               1)   Alnus serrulata; Common alder.
               2)   Aronia spp.; Red, Black and Purplefruit Chokeberry.
               3)   Comptonia peregrine; Sweetfern.
               4)   Cornus spp.; Dogwood species.
               5)   Corylus spp.; Filbert species.
               6)   Hydrangea arborescens; Smooth Hydrangea.
               7)   Hypericum prolificum: Shrubby St. Johnswort.
               8)   Ilex verticillata; Common Winterberry Holly.
               9)   Kalmia latifolia; Mountain Laurel.
               10)   Lindera benzoin; Common Spicebush.
               11)   Rhododendron arborescens; Sweet Azalea.
               12)   Rhododendron nudiflorum; Pinxterbloom Azalea.
               13)   Rhododendron roseum; Roseshell Azalea.
               14)   Rubus spp.; Blackberry, Raspberry, and Thimbleberry.
               15)   Sambucus spp.; Elder species.
               16)   Vaccinium spp.; Lowbush and Highbush Blueberry; Deerberry.
               17)   Viburnum spp.; Mapleleaf; Hobblebush, and Cranberrybush
Viburnum.
         (2)   Or other plant materials native to Central Pennsylvania as
listed in reference books, such as:
            (a)   Native Plant References (or newer editions):
               1)   Hightshoe, Gary L. 1988. Native Trees, Shrubs, and Vines
for Urban and Rural America. New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold.
               2)   Little, Elbert L. 1993. The Audubon Society Field Giude to
North American Trees. New York: Alfred A. Knopf.
               3)   Otteson, Carole. 1995. The Native Plant Primer. New York:
Harmony Books.
               4)   Petrides, George A. 1998. Peterson Field Guide to Eastern
Trees. New York: Houghton Mifflin.
               5)   Taylor, Patricia. 1996. Easy Care Native Plants: a Guide to
Selecting and Using Beautiful American Flowers, Shrubs, and Trees in Gardens
and Landscapes. New York: Henry Holt and Company.
               6)   Sternberg, Guy and Jim Wilson. 1995. Landscaping with
Native Trees. Shelburne, VT: Chapters Publishing, Ltd.
   7.   Building and Neighborhood Design.
      A.   The buildings in the Business and Neighborhood Districts shall
relate to the context of existing places and buildings within the Borough. The
size, mix, proportion, and form of buildings shall emulate the heritage and
character of the Millheim downtown and residential neighborhoods.
      B.   With respect to nonresidential buildings, blank walls shall not be
permitted along any exterior wall facing a street, parking area, or walking
area. Exterior walls in these locations shall have architectural treatments
that are the same as the front facade, including consistent style, materials,
fenestration and details. [Ord. 242]
      C.   With respect to nonresidential buildings, blank walls shall not be
permitted along with any exterior wall facing a street, parking area or walking
area. Exterior walls in these locations shall have architectural treatments
that are the same as the front facade, including consistent style, materials,
fenestration, and details.
   8.   Design Criteria for the Conservation/Agricultural District. The
following design criteria is to be used in conjunction with the Millheim
Borough Zoning Ordinance, Conservation/Agricultural District regulations. This
criteria follows the intent of that ordinance, which is to preserve the most
suitable land for agricultural activities, preserve natural resources and
features, and create neighborhoods that are an extension of, and follow as much
as possible, the existing village development pattern in the Borough of
Millheim.
      A.   Site Analysis.
         (1)   Primary conservation features, such as steep slopes (25 percent
or greater), 100-year floodplain areas, and wetlands, shall be identified and
avoided.
         (2)   Secondary conservation features such as slopes of 15 to 25
percent, prime agricultural soils (class I and II soils), mature woodlands,
tree and hedgerows, and historic sites and structures shall be identified and
avoided if possible.
   The primary and secondary conservation features shall be identified as the
conservation area. The conservation area shall be retained by the initial
parent tract owner or an approved homeowners association. The allowable uses
within the conservation area are as follows:
            (a)   Agriculture (see permitted in zoning district regulations).
            (b)   An estate lot for one single-family dwelling with allowance
for an accessory dwelling if suitable for an on-lot septic system or public
sewer is available.
            (c)   Park, recreation, and natural/ wildlife resource areas.
            (d)   Stormwater management areas.
         (3)   Once the primary and secondary conservation features are
identified, the remaining area of the site can be considered as the potential
development area (50% maximum of the total site area).
         (4)   Public sewer and water shall be provided to proposed
developments within the identified potential development area. Lots shall not
be less than 10,000 square feet nor exceed one (1) acre in total lot size.
      B.   Site Design.
         (1)   Woodlands, orchards, hedgerows, and large healthy trees should
be preserved to create buffer areas to minimize conflicts between agriculture
and residences.
         (2)   Development on fields should be located near existing
neighborhoods, woodlands, or hedgerows and where feasible, on the least prime
agricultural soils.
         (3)   Lots shall access interior and/or local roads that are extended
from the existing neighborhoods within the Borough. The current rectilinear
street pattern shall be continued in new development areas. Streets shall be
designed in accordance with Millheim's regulations and shall have a maximum
length of 600 feet between intersecting streets. Cul-de-sacs shall be minimized
and where unavoidable shall provide a pedestrian connection to the next street
system and/or to the identified conservation area.
         (4)   Pedestrian access and circulation in the form of sidewalks,
paved paths, and trails from existing neighborhoods to the potential
development area shall be provided.
         (5)   Historic, archeological/cultural, and natural sites identified
by the Borough's Historic District along with County and State resources, shall
be incorporated into the site design.
         (6)   A minimum riparian buffer area of 50 feet from identified
streams and intermittent streams measured perpendicular from the stream bank
edge shall be provided.
   9.   Parking and Parking Lots.
      A.   Parking shall be located on street to the maximum extent possible to
provide the streetscape appearance that is traditional in the Borough and to
serve as insulator between moving vehicles and pedestrians walking along the
adjoining sidewalks.
      B.   Parking lots shall be located to the rear or sides of buildings with
the exception of the Village-Mixed Use and Industrial Districts where parking
shall be permitted in the front of buildings. [Ord. 242]
      C.   Parking lots and/or garages shall not be the dominant aspect of the
building design and/or the streetscape as viewed from the street.
      D.   Live-work units shall have the parking ratio as required for a
dwelling, as provided for in this Section.
      E.   Parking ratios for all other uses shall also be in accordance with
this Section except that the parking ratio for multifamily dwellings shall
comply with a Subsection of this Section. However, if the standards of this
Section impose an excessive standard, as determined by Borough Council, the
applicant shall demonstrate through the use of the empirical data from other
built projects that a lesser standard can adequately serve the proposed use(s).
In any event, the Borough shall hold in escrow the monetary value of the
parking spaces not built for a period of two years after commencement of the
use, and the development plan shall show the layout of the required parking
areas to be held in reserve and include calculations on the potential
impervious surface area addition. If after two years, the use is adequately
serviced by the parking provided, escrow funds may be released. If the provided
parking is not adequate, then the escrow funds shall be used to construct the
needed parking.
      F.   All nonresidential parking areas shall be visually screened from
existing and proposed streets by hedges, buffer plantings, decorative fencing,
or similar elements.
   10.   Off-Street Loading Areas, Outdoor Storage and Trash Disposal Areas.
      A.   All loading areas and loading docks shall be located to the sides
and rear of buildings. Loading docks shall not be visible from public streets.
All loading areas and loading docks shall be set back at least 25 feet from the
residential areas or the minimum buffer yard width as determined by Borough
Council.
      B.   Outdoor storage or display of materials shall not be permitted.
      C.   Trash disposal areas shall be located within buildings or within an
opaque screened area that completely hides the trash and is located to the side
or rear of the building. All outdoor trash disposal areas shall be set back at
least 25 feet from residential property lines.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 11; as amended by Ord. 242, 11/9/2010, §§ 5–7)
§ 313. Other Requirements.
    1.   All buildings within the development shall be served by a public water
supply and public centralized sewage disposal system.
   2.   All public utility lines and similar facilities servicing the proposed
development and its area shall be installed underground, and electric
transformers shall be installed underground or within the walls of a completely
enclosed building.
   3.   If the development is to be carried out in phases, each phase shall be
so planned that the intent of this Chapter shall be fully complied with at the
completion of any phase. Any phased development shall be fully described and
defined on the subdivision or land development plan.
   4.   All streets and alleys, whether public or private, shall have a right-
of-way. The right-of-way width for alleys may be the same width as the paved
area.
   5.   Lighting fixtures for retail and industrial uses shall contain full
cutoff luminaries and not exceed a pole or wall mounting height of twenty (20)
feet. [Ord. 242]
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 12; as amended by Ord. 242, 11/9/2010, § 8)
§ 314. Relationship to Other Ordinance Provisions.
The regulations in this Section shall take precedence over other provisions of
the Borough ordinances to the extent that this Section specifies additional or
varied requirements. Otherwise, all applicable sections of the Borough
ordinances and the Centre County Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance
shall apply.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 13)
§ 315. Zoning Hearing Board.
   1.   Membership of Board.
      A.   The Millheim Borough Council shall appoint by resolution three (3)
residents who are, in the opinion of the Council, qualified for the duties of
the position to the Zoning Hearing Board. The terms of office for the Board
shall be three (3) years and shall be so fixed that the term of office of one
member shall expire each year.
      B.   The Board shall promptly notify the Borough Council of any vacancies
which occur. Appointments to fill vacancies shall be only for the unexpired
portion of the term. Members of the Board shall hold no other elected or
appointed office in the Borough, nor shall any member be an employee of the
Borough. The Borough may appoint by resolution at least one (1) but no more
than three (3) residents of the Borough to serve as alternative members to the
Board.
   2.   Removal of Members. Any Board member may be removed for malfeasance,
misfeasance, or nonfeasance in office or for other just cause by a majority
vote of the Borough Council, taken after 15 days advance notice of the intent
to take such a vote. A hearing shall be held in connection with the vote if the
member shall request it in writing.
   3.   Organization of the Board.
      A.   The Board shall elect from its own membership its officers, who
shall serve annual terms as such and may succeed themselves. For the conduct of
any hearing and the taking of any action, a quorum shall not be less than a
majority of all the members of the Board.
      B.   The Chairman of the Board may designate alternate members of the
Board to replace an absent or disqualified member, and if, by reason of absence
or disqualification of a member, a quorum not reached, the Chairman shall
designate an alternate member of the Board to reach a quorum. The alternate
member shall continue to serve on the Board in all proceedings involving the
matter or case for which the alternate was initially appointed until the Board
has made a final decision on the matter or case.
      C.   The Board may make, alter and rescind rules and forms for its
procedure, consistent with ordinances of the Borough and laws of the
Commonwealth. The Board shall keep full public records of its business, which
records shall be the property of the Borough, and shall submit a report of its
activities to the Borough as requested.
   4.   Powers and Duties. The Zoning Hearing Board shall have all powers and
duties as provided by Borough Council and pursuant the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Code (PA MPC), Act 247, Article IX, as amended. These powers and
duties pursuant to subsections of Article IX of the PA MPC shall include, but
not be limited to, expenditure of services, hearings, mediation options,
jurisdiction of the Board, and Board functions.
   5.   Appointment and Powers of Zoning Officer. For the administration of a
zoning ordinance, a Zoning Officer, who shall not hold any elective office in
the Borough, shall be appointed. The Zoning Officer shall meet qualifications
established by the Borough and shall be able to demonstrate to the satisfaction
of the Borough a working knowledge of municipal zoning. The Zoning Officer
shall administer the zoning ordinance in accordance with its literal terms, and
shall not have the power to permit any construction or cause any use or change
of which does not conform to the zoning ordinance. Zoning Officers may be
authorized to institute civil enforcement proceedings as a means of enforcement
when acting within the scope of their employment.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 14)
§ 316. Nonconforming Uses, Lots, and Structures.
   1.   Intent. It is the intent of this Section to recognize the right of
nonconformities to continue, but to encourage that such uses, lots, and
structures be brought into conformity when applicable and in accordance with
this Chapter and the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247, as
amended.
   2.   Nonconforming Use Regulations. Where a lawful use or structure exists
which, on the effective date of this Chapter or subsequent amendments, becomes
nonconforming, such use or structure may be continued as long as it remains
otherwise lawful, including subsequent sales of the property, subject to the
following provisions:
      A.   The nonconforming use or structure shall not be changed to a
different nonconforming use.
      B.   No nonconforming use or structure shall be altered or extended
except if it complies with the following criteria and standards:
         (1)   To provide for natural expansion which, is not detrimental to
public health, safety, and general welfare, provided that such expansion does
not exceed fifty (50) percent of the existing ground floor area of the
structure or other space occupied by the use.
         (2)   Provided that it does not constitute the addition of a new
nonconforming use or structure.
         (3)   Provided that it does not decrease yards when it already fails
to meet minimum yard setback areas.
         (4)   Provided that the alteration or extension meets the district
regulations for the use or structure as if same were being altered or extended
in the district where such use is permitted. In cases where the use is
permitted in two (2) or more districts, the most restrictive district
regulations shall apply.
      C.   In the event that any nonconforming structure is destroyed or
partially destroyed by any means to an extent of seventy-five (75) percent or
more of the market valuation of all structures and other improvements on the
lot, as determined by the Centre County Tax Assessment Office, effective at the
date of the destruction, such nonconforming structure and use thereof shall
terminate and the lot shall thereafter be used only for conforming uses and
structures.
      D.   When a nonconforming use or structure is discontinued or abandoned
for a period of one (1) year or more continuously or replaced by a conforming
use or structure, the premises shall not thereafter be used except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located, except
if the use is a farm use as defined in this Chapter.
   3.   Registration of Nonconforming Uses and Structures. In order to
administer this section, the Zoning Officer shall identify and maintain a
record of nonconforming uses and structures.
   4.   New Construction. To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this Section
shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction, or designated
use of any structure on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to
the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Section and upon which
actual building construction has begun. “Actual construction” is hereby defined
to include the placing of construction materials in permanent position and
fastened in a permanent manner. Where excavation or demolition or removal of an
existing structure has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such
excavation, demolition, or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 15)
§ 317. Appeals.
An appeal from a decision or action of the Millheim Borough Council or any
officer or agency of the Borough regarding this Chapter shall be made in
accordance with the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247, as
amended.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 16)
§ 318. Amendments.
The regulations and district boundaries set forth in this Chapter may be
amended through the action of Millheim Borough Council in accordance with the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247, as amended.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 17)
§ 319. Interpretation.
   1.   Severability. If any provision, sentence, clause, section, or any part
of this Chapter is for any reason found to be unconstitutional, illegal, or
invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall not affect
or impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections, or
parts of this Chapter. It is hereby declared as the intent of the Borough
Council, that this Chapter would have been adopted had such unconstitutional,
illegal, or invalid provision, sentence, clause, section, or part thereof not
have been included herein.
   2.   Saving Clause. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to affect any
suit or proceeding pending in any court, or any rights acquitted, or liability
incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or existing under any act
or ordinance hereby repealed, nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of
any character be lost, impaired or affected by this Chapter.
   3.   Conflict with other Laws. The provisions of this Chapter shall be
deemed to be minimum requirements to meet the purposes stated herein. Where the
provisions of this Chapter impose greater restrictions than those of any
Federal or State statute, rule, regulation or other ordinance, the provisions
of this Chapter shall prevail. Where the provisions of any Federal or State
statute, rule, regulation, or other ordinance impose greater restrictions than
those of this Chapter, the provisions of such Federal or State statute, rule,
regulation or ordinance shall prevail.
(Ord. 231, 10/16/2007, § 18)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/841fd9811923a8c3eaa098b86cab83035ac5032e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-40.png]
 
§ 320. Fees.
Millheim Borough Council shall establish, from time to time, fee schedules for
zoning related matters and proceedings by Resolution.
(Ord. 259, 7/12/2016, §4)
APPENDIX
The following ordinances and resolutions are no longer of general interest,
primarily because their provisions were carried out directly after their
enactment. Since they are mainly of historical interest, it has not been
considered necessary to include their entire text. Instead, they are arranged
in groups, according to subject matter, and within each group
listed by title in chronological order. The content of the ordinances and
resolutions is indexed, in all necessary detail, in the general index at the
end of this volume. The annual budget and tax ordinances have been listed only
in the "Key to the Disposition of Ordinances." Any person who desires to read
the full text of any of the ordinances or resolutions may do so by consulting
the original Ordinance Books on file in the Borough Offices.
The enactments included in this Appendix are grouped under the following
headings:
   
A    Annexation of Territory
   
B    Bond Issues and Loans
   
C   Franchises and Services
   
D   Governmental and Intergovernmental Affairs
   
E   Plan Approval
   
F   Public Property
   
G   Sewers
   
H   Streets/Sidewalks
   
I   Street Lighting
   
J   Water
A. Annexation of Territory
 
     Annexing to the Borough of Millheim, Centre County,
     Pennsylvania, a section of Penn Township, Centre
     County, Pennsylvania (being a Second Class Township)
A-1. adjacent to and east of said Borough and directing   (Ord. 61, 10/3/1949)
     the proper officials of the Borough to comply with
     the acts of assembly in connection with said
     annexation.
 
B. Bond Issues and Loans
      Provided for an election to gain support for nine
B-1.  thousand dollars ($9,000.00) to erect an electric  (Ord. 21, 9/8/1910)
      plant.
      Provided for an election to gain support for a
B-2.  twelve thousand dollar ($12,000.00) debt to        (Ord. 29, 9/19/1921)
      construct and erect a municipal building.
      Provided for the borrowing the twelve thousand
B-3.  dollars ($12,000.00) provided for by election in   (Ord. 31, 2/20/1922)
      B-1.
B-4.  Provided for a special tax of six (6) mills to     (Ord. 32, 2/20/1922)
      repay the above loan.
      Provided for an election to gain support for
B-5.  borrowing money for construction of a municipal    (Ord. 89, 9/8/1960)
      swimming pool. (Defeated)
B-6.  Provided for a fifty thousand dollar ($50,000)     (Ord. 135, 1/29/1979)
      debt to pay for water line replacement.
B-7.  Authorizing the issuance of a general obligation   (Ord. 178B, 5/23/1994)
      note, series of 1994, in the amount of $1,037,875.
B-8.  Authorizing the issuance of a general obligation   (Ord. 179, 5/31/1994)
      note in the amount of $1,760,000.
B-9.  Authorizing the issuance of general obligation     (Ord. 182, 11/21/1995)
      bonds in the aggregate amount of $1,574,500.
B-10. Authorizing the issuance of two general obligation (Ord. 185, 5/8/1995)
      bonds in the aggregate amount of $1,037,900.
B-11. Authorizing the issuance of general obligation     (Ord. 227, 10/10/2006)
      bond in the aggregate amount of $300,000.
      Authorizing and securing a general obligation
B-12. note, Series A of 2007, in the principal amount of (Ord. 232, 10/16/2007)
      $2,140,500.
      Authorizing and securing a guaranteed water
B-13. revenue note, in the maximum principal amount of   (Ord. 246, 3/23/2012)
      $240,016.
      Authorizing and securing a general obligation
B-14. note, in the maximum principal amount of           (Ord. 247, 3/23/2012)
      $1,500,000.
      Authorizing and securing two general obligation
B-15. notes, in the maximum aggregate principal amount   (Ord. 248, 9/11/2012)
      of $2,170,000.
                                                        
 
C. Franchises
 
     Granting use of right-of-ways to The Central
C-1. Pennsylvania Telephone and Supply Company for the    (Ord. 5, 1/10/1887)
     building, erecting and operating telephone lines on
     Borough streets.
     Authorizing The Central Pennsylvania Telephone and
C-2. Supply Company to erect and maintain poles for       (Ord. 10, 2/14/1898)
     telephone lines in the Borough of Millheim, Centre
     County, Pennsylvania.
     Authorizing the Central Commercial Telephone Company
C-3. to erect and maintain poles for telephone lines in   (Ord. 12, 12/26/1898)
     the Borough of Millheim, Centre County,
     Pennsylvania.
C-4. Granting a fifty (50) year franchise for water to    (Ord. 16, 12/21/1903)
     J.G. Spangler of Mapleton Depot, Pennsylvania.
C-5. Exempting the Millheim Water Plant from municipal    (Ord. 17, 6/20/1904)
     taxes.
     Agreeing to supply funds for condemnation of needed
C-6. property for gaining rights along Philips Creek and  (Res. of 7/18/1904)
     Turpentine Creek for the Water Company.
     Granting the State Center Electric Company, its
     successors and assigns, the right to construct,
     operate and maintain poles, wires, cables and
     fixtures, with the necessary conduits and supports,
C-7. upon, over, along and under the streets, highways,   (Ord. 25, 11/20/1916)
     footwalks, lanes, and alleys of the Borough of
     Millheim, for the purpose of furnishing light, heat
     and power, by electricity, for domestic, commercial
     and industrial purposes.
 
D. Governmental and Intergovernmental Affairs
 
     Authorizing the M.E. Congregation to build their
D-1. church tower over the line sidewalk and over the    (Ord. 4, 8/3/1895)
     house of Dennis Lose.
     Authorizing J.P. Gephart to build an overhead porch
D-2. to the curb line in front of his building on East   (Ord. 24, 9/29/1916)
     Main Street.
     Providing for the assessment and collection of two-
     thirds (2/3) of the cost of improving the streets
     and/or alleys in the Borough of Millheim, upon the
     owners of real estate abutting on said improvement
     by an equal assessment on the foot front basis, the
D-3. Borough bearing the remaining one-third (1/3) share (Ord. 118, 2/5/1973)
     of the cost thereof; providing for making equitable
     adjustments for corner lots or lots of irregular
     shape; providing for giving of notice of such
     assessment to each party assessed; providing for
     the collection of assessments and providing for
     filing liens for all unpaid assessments.
     Authorizing the Borough to join with other local
D-4. government units as a settlor of the Pennsylvania   (Ord. 201, 10/8/2001)
     local government investment trust for the purpose
     of purchasing shares of the trust.
D-5. Authorizing the creation of the Penns Valley        (Ord. 211, 11/11/2003)
     Regional Planning Commission.
     Establishing fees for tax certification, returned
D-6. payments, issuance of mobile home removal permits,  (Ord. 254, 6/10/2014)
     and issuance of duplicate bills.
                                                        
 
E. Plan Approval
(Reserved to accommodate future ordinances)
F. Public Property
 
     Authorizing the Town Council of Millheim Borough to
     purchase from the School District of the Borough of
F-1. Millheim the lot of ground situate on Penn Street in  (Ord. 18, 7/18/1904)
     said Borough whereon is erected a school building and
     town hall for five hundred sixty-five dollars
     ($565.00).
     Permitting the use of a room or rooms for town hall
     purposes in the Municipal Building to be erected by
     said Borough, by virtue of an ordinance passed the
F-2. 19th day of September, 1921 and the consent of the
     Electors of said Borough at the Municipal election
     held November 8th, 1921 by the Ladies Civic
     Improvement Club of Millheim.
     Providing for the payment by the club of the excess
     cost above twelve thousand dollars ($12,000.00) in
     the construction of said building and furnishing of   (Ord. 33, 3/20/1922)
     said hall for the use of said Club and for
     indemnifying the Borough against loss by reason of
     such excess cost.
 
G. Sewers
 
     Accepting submission and implementation of the
G-1. official Centre County plan for sewer facilities, (Res. of 10/15/1970)
     with revisions for the Borough.
  
H. Streets/Sidewalks
 
Name Activity Ord./Res.
Name                         Activity                Ord./Res.
Apple Street                 ordained                109, 9/8/1970
                             vacate portion          34, 6/23/1923
Bear Alley (formerly Street) ordained                105, 9/24/1969
                             extended                109, 9/8/1970
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Breon Alley                  ordained                35, 9/29/1924
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
                             adopted                 9, 6/4/1890
Center Street                extended                109, 9/8/1970
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Cherry Alley                 adopted                 9, 6/4/1890
                             ordained                105, 9/24/1969
Cherry Street                vacate portion          129, 12/5/1977
                             ordained                165, 10/12/1987
North Cherry Street          ordained                277, 2/13/2024
South Cherry Street          ordained                277, 2/13/2024
Chestnut Street              ordained                109, 9/8/1970
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Church Street                ordained                277, 2/13/2024
Clover Alley                 adopted                 9, 6/4/1890
Confer Alley              ordained                35, 9/29/1924
                             vacate portion          269, ?
Coon Street                  ordained                109, 9/8/1970
Cub Alley                    ordained                277, 2/13/2024
Deer Alley (formerly Street) ordained                109, 9/8/1970
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Elk Street                   ordained                105, 9/24/1969
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Fawn Alley (formerly Street) ordained                109, 9/8/1970
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
                             extended                13, 5/28/1900
Fox Alley                    ordained                105,9/24/1969
(formerly Street)                                   109, 9/8/1970
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Frazier Street               ordained                150, 6/13/1983
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Gramley Avenue               ordained                105, 9/24/1969
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
High Street                  ordained                105, 9/24/1969
North High Street            ordained                277, 2/13/2024
South High Street            ordained                277, 2/13/2024
Hill Alley                   adopted                 30, 1/16/1922
Hill Street                  ordained                53, 5/24/1948
                             ordained                105, 9/24/1969
Hillcrest Avenue             extended                109, 9/8/1970
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Locust Street                ordained                86, 7/14/1964
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Long Lane                    ordained                277, 2/13/2024
                             adopted                 9, 6/4/1890
                             approve state plans     55, 6/11/1948
Main Street                  approve state plans     57, 4/15/1949
                             grade, pave, curb,      58, 6/27/1949
                             etc. curbs, gutters     92, 00/00/1961
Maple Alley                  ordained                63, 4/17/1950
(formerly Street)            ordained                164,7/13/1987
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Mensch Street                ordained                105, 9/24/1969
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Mill Street                  ordained                277, 2/13/2024
North Alley                  adopted                 9, 6/4/1890
North Street                 adopted                 9, 6/4/1890
                             ordained                105, 9/24/1969
Oak Street                   extended                109, 9/8/1970
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Park Entrance Road           ordained                114, 9/11/1972
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Park Road                    ordained                105, 9/24/1969
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Penn Street                  boundary established    2, 4/4/1885
                             adopted to Borough line 9, 6/4/1890
Pine Street                  ordained                105, 9/24/1969
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
                             adopted                 9, 6/4/1890
Plum Alley (formerly Street) extended                85, 6/18/1958
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Poplar Street                ordained                67, 7/5/1951
                                                     69, 9/00/1951
East Poplar Street           ordained                277, 2/13/2024
West Poplar Street           ordained                277, 2/13/2024
Race Alley                   ordained                277, 2/13/2024
                                                     9, 6/4/1890
                             adopted                 28, 5/17/1920
                             extended                69, 9/00/1951
Race Street (formerly Alley) ordained                127, 9/00/1977
                             reaffirmed              63, 4/17/1950
                                                     67, 7/5/1951
                                                     277, 2/13/2024
Raccoon Alley                ordained                277, 2/13/2024
                             adopted                 9, 6/4/1890
Second Street                ordained                164, 7/13/1987
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
                             adopted                 9, 6/4/1890
South Alley                  extended                30, 1/16/1922
                                                     90, 00/00/1961
                             adopted                 9, 6/4/1890
South Street                 extended                85, 6/18/1958
                                                    105, 9/24/1969
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
                             ordained                105, 9/24/1969
Spruce Street                extended                109, 9/8/1970
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
                             ordained                67, 7/5/1951
State Street                                        69, 9/00/1951
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Stove Avenue/Street          ordained                109, 9/8/1970
                             extended                127, 9/00/1977
Stover Alley                 vacate portion          129, 12/5/1977
East Stover Avenue           ordained                277, 2/13/2024
West Stover Avenue           ordained                277, 2/13/2024
Sugar Alley                  adopted                 9, 6/4/1890
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Sycamore Street              adopted                 127, 9/00/1977
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Tan Alley                    ordained                14, 5/27/1901
                             adopted                 9, 6/4/1890
Third Street                 extended                86, 7/14/1964
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Unnamed Alley                laid out                22, 9/4/1916
Unnamed Street               vacated                 26, 4/15/1918
Walnut Street                ordained                86, 7/14/1964
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Walter Alley                 ordained - renamed      35, 9/29,1924
                             ordained                105, 9/24/1969
Walter Street                extended                109, 9/8/1970
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
Water Street                 adopted                 9, 6/4/1890
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
West Street                  ordained                105, 9/24/1969
(formerly Alley)                                    109, 9/8/1970
                             reaffirmed              277, 2/13/2024
 
I. Street Lighting
I-1. Street lighting agreement with West Penn Power    (Ord. 41)
     Company.
I-2. Street lighting agreement with West Penn Power    (Ord. 42)
     Company.
I-3. Street lighting agreement with West Penn Power    (Ord. 44)
     Company.
I-4. Street lighting agreement with West Penn Power    (Ord. 46)
     Company.
I-5. Street lighting agreement for five (5) years with (Ord. 59, 7/5/1949)
     West Penn Power Company.
I-6. Street lighting agreement with West Penn Power    (Ord. 88)
     Company.
I-7. Street lighting agreement with West Penn Power    (Ord. 137, 67/1980)
     Company.
I-8. Street lighting agreement with West Penn Power    (Ord. 143, 178/1982)
     Company.
I-9. Street lighting agreement with West Penn Power    (Ord. 162, 3/9/1987)
     Company.
 
J. Water
 
     Providing for the constructing and laying of a water
J-1. transmission line on the south side of East Main     (Ord. 73, 6/15/1953)
     Street in Millheim Borough; and providing for the
     method of payment and financing thereof.
   
KEY TO THE DISPOSITION OF ALL ORDINANCES
Ordinance or Resolution Disposition Number
Ordinance or Disposition Number
Resolution
1            Repealed by Ordinance 7
2            Appendix    H
3            Repealed by 151
4            Appendix    D-1
5            Appendix    C-1
6            Repealed by 151
7            Repealer     
8            Repealed by 117
9            Appendix    H
10           Appendix    C-2
11           Repealed by 151
12           Appendix    C-3
13           Appendix    H
14           Appendix    H
15           Repealed by 151
16           Appendix    C-4
17           Appendix    C-5
18           Appendix    F-1
Res 7/18/    Appendix    C-6
1906
19           Repealed by  
20           Repealed by 151
21           Appendix    B-1
22           Appendix    H
23           Superceded  151
             by
24           Appendix    D-2
25           Appendix    C-7
26           Appendix    H
27           Repealed by 151
28           Appendix    H
29           Appendix    B-2
30           Appendix    H
31           Appendix    B-3
32           Appendix    B-4
33           Appendix    F-2
34           Appendix    H
35           Appendix    H
36           Superceded  151
             by
37           Superceded  151
             by
38                      Missing
39                      Missing
40                      Missing
41           Appendix    I-1
42           Appendix    1-2
43                      Missing
44           Appendix    1-3
45           Repealed by 171
46           Appendix    1-4
47                      Tax Ord.
48                      Repealer
49                      Tax Ord.
50                      Missing
51                      Missing
52                      Tax Ord.
53           Repealed by 64
54           Repealed by 64
55           Appendix    H
55X          Appendix    H
56           Superceded  151
             by
57           Appendix    H
58           Appendix    H
59           Appendix    I-5
60                      Missing
61A                     Missing
61           Appendix    A-1
62           Superceded  151
             by
63           Appendix    H
64                      Repealer
65                      Repealer
66                      Tax Ord.
67           Appendix    H
68           Repealed by 125
69           Appendix    H
70                      Tax Ord.
71           Superceded  151
             by
72                      Tax Ord.
73           Appendix    J-1
74           Repealed by 171
75           Superceded  131
             by
76                      Tax Ord.
77           Repealed by 125
78                       
79                      Tax Ord.
80                      Tax Ord.
81           Repealed by 171
82                      Tax Ord.
83                      Tax Ord.
84           Repealed by 151
85           Appendix    H
86           Appendix    H
87           Tax Ord.     
88           Appendix    I-6
89           Appendix    B-5
90           Appendix    H
91                      Tax Ord.
92           Appendix    H
93                      Missing
94                      Missing
95           Chapter 20  §§101 to 124
96                      Missing
97           Occ. Tax    1965
98           Chapter 1 §§301 to 304
99           Repealed by 171
100          Tax Ord.    1967
101          Tax Rate    1968
102          Repealed by 171
103          Repealed by 167
104          Tax Rate    1969
105          Appendix    H
106          Chapter 4   §§201 to 206
107          Tax Rate    1970
108          Occ. Tax    1970
109          Appendix    H
110          Repealed by 171
111          Tax Rate    1971
112          Tax Rate    1971
Res. 10/15/  Appendix    G-1
1970
113          Chapter 24  §§301 to 309
114          Appendix    H
115          Tax Rate    1973
116          Superceded  151
             by
117          Chapter 1   §§201 to 203
118          Appendix    D-3
119          Tax Rate    1974
120          Superceded  151
             by
121          Tax Rate    1975
122A         Repealed by 171
122          Repealed by 171
123          Chapter 18  §§101 to 108
124          Tax Rate    1976
125          Chapter 4   §§101 to 114
126          Tax Rate    1977
127          Appendix    H
128          Repealed by 171
129          Appendix    H
130          Tax Rate    1978
131          Chapter 10  §§101 to 119
132          Repealed by 171
133          Chapter 21  §§201 to 204
134          Tax Rate    1979
135          Appendix    B-6
136          Tax Rate    1980
137          Appendix    1-7
138          Tax Rate    1981
139          Chapter 1   §§201, 202
140          Tax Rate    1982
141          Repealed by 144
142          Repealed by 171
143          Appendix    I-8
144          Superceded  151
             by
145          Chapter 1   §101 to 103
146          Chapter 24  §303
147          Repealed by 270
148          Chapter 1   §202
149          Repealed by 171
150          Appendix    H
151                     Adopting Ordinance
8, §§101-80Repealed by 170
21, §§101- Superseded  204
108          by
24, §§201- Repealed by 270
205
152          Tax Rate    1985
153          Chapter 1   §§111 to 114
154          Tax Rate    1986
155          Chapter 4   §105(2)
156          Repealed by 161
157          Chapter 15  §202
158          Superseded  187
             by
159          Tax Rate    1987
160          Chapter 24  §308 (1)
161          Chapter 24  §§401-421
162          Appendix    I-9
163          Chapter 7   §§101-104
164          Appendix    H
165          Appendix    H
166          Tax Rate    1988
167          Chapter 22  §§101-901
168          Tax Rate    1989
169          Repealed by 171
170          Chapter 8   §§101-802
171          Repealed by 251
172          Chapter 24  §§101-103
173          Tax Rate    1991
174          Tax Rate    1992
175          Tax Rate    1993
176          Tax Rate    1994
177          Chapter 15  §207
178A         Superseded  187
             by
178B         Appendix    B-7
179          Appendix    B-8
180          Chapter 26  §§201-299.31
181          Superseded  187
             by
182          Appendix    B-9
183          Chapter 24  §303
184          Chapter 24  §§101, 102
185          Appendix    B-10
186          Tax Rate    1998
187          Chapter 18  §§201-299.32
188          Tax Rate    1999
189          Chapter 2   §§106, 202
            Chapter 4   §113
            Chapter 6   §§102, 204, 305, 408, 502
            Chapter 8   211
            Chapter 10  § 119
            Chapter 13  § 109
            Chapter 18  § 108
            Chapter 20  § 124
            Chapter 21  § 203
            Chapter 24  §§ 308, 419
190          Chapter 1   §§ 501-511
191          Tax Rate    2000
192          Tax Rate    2001
193          Chapter 15  § 305
194          Chapter 15  §§ 602, 604
195          Chapter 4   §§ 101, 104
196          Chapter 5   §§ 101-105
197          Chapter 15  § 205
198          Chapter 16  §§ 101-106
199          Chapter 16  §§ 201-208
200          Chapter 4   § 103
             Chapter 8   § 210
201          Appendix    D-4
202          Chapter 19  §§ 101-109
203          Chapter 15  §§ 701-707
204          Chapter 21  §§ 101-105, Schedule A, Schedule B
205          Chapter 13  §§ 201-206
206          Chapter 15  § 205
207          Chapter 7   §§ 101-107
208          Chapter 19  §§ 110, 111
209          Tax Rate    2003
210          Chapter 15  §§ 701, 702, 705
211          Appendix    D-5
212          Tax Rate    2004
213          Chapter 4   §§ 301-309
214          Chapter 15  § 604
215          Chapter 13  §§ 301-308
216          Chapter 6   §§ 601-609
217          Chapter 11  §§ 101-107
218          Chapter 5   §§ 201-206
219          Chapter 21  §§ 301-307
220          Chapter 10  §§ 201-205
221          Tax Rate    2005
222          Chapter 4   § 113
223          Chapter 15  §§ 201, 304
224          Tax Rate    2006
225          Chapter 13  §§ 401-406
226          Repealed by 234
227          Appendix    B-11
228          Tax Rate    2007
229          Chapter 24  § 403
230          Chapter 13  § 404
231          Chapter 27   
232          Appendix    B-12
233          Tax Rate    2008
234          Repealed     
             226
235          Chapter 15  §§ 801–806
236          Tax Rate    2009
237          Chapter 8   §§ 101–802
238          Chapter 22  §§ 101–111
239          Chapter 2   § 103
            Chapter 15  § 306
            Chapter 18  § 236
240          Repealed by 270
            Tax Rate    2010
241          Chapter 21  §§ 302, 303
242          Chapter 27  §§ 101–311
243          Tax Rate    2011
244          Chapter 24  §§301 - 307
245          Chapter 24  §§101, 102
246          Appendix    B
247          Appendix    B
248          Appendix    B
249          Chapter 24  §§101, 102
250          Chapter 4   §103
251          Chapter 26  §§204, 221, 222, 225, 233, 236, 243 - 245, 254, 262, 267, 268, 292
252          Chapter 24  §§101, 102
253          Chapter 15  §§901 - 909
254          Appendix    D
255          Chapter 19  §§103 - 108
256          Chapter 24  §§101, 102
257          Chapter 24  §§101, 102
258          Chapter 18  §296
259          Chapter 27  §§201, 308, 320
260          Chapter 24  §§101, 102
261          Chapter 15  §§104 - 107, 201 - 210, 302, 304, 305, 313, 403 - 405, 501, 505, 508, 601,
                         606, 702, 706, 806
            Chapter 24  §203
            Repealed by 270)
262          Tax Rate    2018
263          Chapter 10  §106
264          Chapter 24  §§501 - 516
265          Tax Rate    2019
266          Tax Rate    2020
267          Chapter 15  §904
268          Chapter 10  §106
269          Appendix    H
270          Chapter 24  §§ 24-201 - 24-205 Repealed
271          Chapter 15  §307
273          Chapter 15  §305
274          Chapter 1   §§310 - 314
275          Chapter 6   §§701 - 711
276          Chapter 15  §305
277          Appendix    H
                        
 
 
 
