TOWNSHIP OF PLAINS, PENNSYLVANIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 3-2023, passed 5/11/2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
TOWNSHIP OF PLAINS
LUZERNE COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA
ORDINANCE NO. 3-2018
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWNSHIP OF PLAINS,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
empower and authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate,
codify and compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not
heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate such ordinance in book form;
and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has
authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances
of the Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication
of such ordinance in book forms; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE TOWNSHIP OF PLAINS:
Section 1.   The general ordinance of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted and
shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Township of Plains,
Pennsylvania.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
-- SEE ATTACHED --
TOWNSHIP OF PLAINS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter 1         Administration and Government
Chapter 2         Animals
Chapter 3         [Reserved]
Chapter 4         [Reserved]
Chapter 5         Code Enforcement
Chapter 6         Conduct
Chapter 7         Emergency Management
Chapter 8         [Reserved]
Chapter 9         [Reserved]
Chapter 10         Health and Safety
Chapter 11         Housing
Chapter 12         [Reserved]
Chapter 13         Licenses, Permits and General Business Regulations
Chapter 14         [Reserved]
Chapter 15         Motor Vehicles and Traffic
Chapter 16         Parks and Recreation
Chapter 17         [Reserved]
Chapter 18         Sewers and Sewage Disposal
Chapter 19         [Reserved]
Chapter 20         Solid Waste
Chapter 21         Streets and Sidewalks
Chapter 22         Subdivision and Land Development
Chapter 23         Stormwater Management
Chapter 24         Taxation; Special
Chapter 25         [Reserved]
Chapter 26         [Reserved]
Chapter 27         Zoning
Appendix
      A         Adjustments to Township Boundaries
      B         Debt and Bond Issues
      C         Franchises and Services
      D         Governmental and Intergovernmental Affairs
      E         Plan Approval
      F         Public Property
      G         Sewers
      H         Streets and Sidewalks
      I         Water
      J         Zoning; Prior Ordinances
Fee Schedule
Table to Disposition of All Ordinances
Table to Disposition of Significant Resolutions
Index
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Secretary of the Township of
Plains is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Law Library of the Luzerne County Courthouse.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is necessary for the immediate preservation of the
peace, health, safety and general welfare of the people of this municipality,
and shall take effect at the earliest date provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Township of Plains on this 10th day of May, 2018.
ATTEST:                      TOWNSHIP OF PLAINS
Patricia Sluhocki /s/                By   Gerald Yozwiak /s/
Secretary                     Gerald Yozwiak, Chairman
                        Township of Plains Board of Commissioners
(SEAL)
Chapter 1
Administration and Government
Part 1
Preliminary Provisions
§
1-101.   Short Title
§
1-102.   Citation of Code of Ordinances
§
1-103.   Arrangement of Code
§
1-104.   Headings
§
1-105.   Tenses, Gender and Number
§
1-106.   Construction
§
1-107.   Normal Numbering
§
1-108.   Special Numbering Problems
§
1-109.   Amending Code
§
1-110.   Altering Code
§
1-111.   Penalties
Part 2
Board of Commissioners
A.   Regular Meetings
§
1-201.   Monthly Meetings
Part 3
Boards and Commissioners
A.   Parks and Recreation Board
§
1-301.   Name; Membership; Terms of Office; Filling of Vacancies; Compensation
§
1-302.   Powers and Duties
§
1-303.   Definitions
§
1-304.   Additional Powers and Duties
§
1-305.   Board Checking Account
§
1-306.   Authorization to Accept Gifts, Donations and Devises
B.   Office of Emergency Management
§
1-311.   Short Title
§
1-312.   Intent and Purpose
§
1-313.   Definitions
§
1-314.   Organization and Appointments
§
1-315.   Emergency Powers and Duties
§
1-316.   Basic Disaster Plan
§
1-317.   No Municipal or Private Liability
§
1-318.   Violation of Regulations
§
1-319.   Penalty
§
1-320.   Conflicting Ordinance, Orders, Rules and Regulations Suspended
C.   Police Committee
§
1-321.   Police Committee
D.   Housing Board
§
1-331.   Membership
§
1-332.   Term
§
1-333.   Support of Services
§
1-334.   Funding
§
1-335.   Purpose
§
1-336.   Powers
Part 4
Appointed Officials
A.   Township Manager
§
1-401.   Office Created
§
1-402.   Election Procedure
§
1-403.   Qualifications
§
1-404.   Bond Required
§
1-405.   Compensation
§
1-406.   Chief Administrative Plains Officer
§
1-407.   Duties
§
1-408.   Limitation on Board’s Powers
§
1-409.   Disability or Absence
§
1-410.   Required Knowledge, Skills and Abilities
§
1-411.   Education, Qualifications and Experience
Part 5
Municipal Authorities
A.   Sewer Authority of the Township of Plains
§
1-501.   Intention and Desire to Organize
§
1-502.   Articles of Incorporation
§
1-503.   Term Extension of the Sewer Authority
B.   Wyoming Valley Sanitary Authority
§
1-510.   Wyoming Valley Sanitary Authority
Part 6
Library
§
1-601.   Establishment
§
1-602.   Reserved
§
1-603.   Reserved
§
1-604.   Appropriations
Part 7
Tax Collector
A.   Authorization to Charge Fees
§
1-701.   Authorization
Part 1
Preliminary Provisions
§ 1-101.   Short Title.
   The short title of this Code of Ordinances prepared and published for the
Township of Plains shall be the “Township of Plains Code of Ordinances”.
(A.O.)
§ 1-102.   Citation of Code of Ordinances.
   The Township of Plains Code of Ordinances may be cited by Section number.
The approved short form is “Code”. Thus, “Code, § 27-101” refers to § 101 of
Chapter 27 of this Code of Ordinances.
(A.O.)
§ 1-103.   Arrangement of Code.
   1.   This Code is divided into Chapters which are subdivided as follows:
   A.   Subchapters, identified by capital letters, beginning with a Chapter
title and number.
   B.   Parts, identified by Arabic numerals, beginning with a Part title and
number.
   C.   Subparts, identified by Arabic numerals, beginning with a title.
   2.   The Sections of the Code are subdivided as follows:
   A.   Subsections, identified by Arabic numerals.
   B.   Paragraphs, identified by capital letters.
   C.   Subparagraphs, identified by Arabic numerals enclosed within
parentheses.
   D.   Clauses, identified by lower case letters enclosed within parentheses.
   E.   Subclauses, identified by Arabic numerals followed by a parenthesis.
   F.   Items, identified by lower case letters followed by a parenthesis.
   G.   Subitems, identified small Roman numerals.
(A.O.)
§ 1-104.   Headings.
   Chapter, Subchapter, Part, Subpart, Section, Subsection, Paragraph,
Subparagraph, Clause, and Subclause headings contained in the Code may not be
deemed to govern, limit, modify or affect the scope, meaning or intent of the
Code. The headings of Sections, Subsections or other divisions of this Code are
intended as mere captions to indicate the contents of the Section, Subsection
or other division and shall not be deemed to be taken as titles of such
Section, Subsection or other division, nor as any part of said Section,
Subsection or other division unless expressly so provided.
(A.O.)
§ 1-105.   Tenses, Gender and Number.
   Except as may be otherwise stated in any provision of this Code, the present
tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future the present; the
masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter, the feminine includes the
masculine and neuter, and the neuter includes the masculine and feminine; and
the singular includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
(A.O.)
§ 1-106.   Construction.
   1.   General. Except as may be otherwise specifically provided by any
provision of this Code, the Statutory Construction Act of 1972, 1 Pa.C.S.A. §§
1501 et seq., shall be applied in construing this Code.
   2.   Effect of repeal or expiration of Code Section.
   A.   The repeal of a Code Section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue
of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any
offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding
commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
   B.   When any ordinance repealing a former Code Section, ordinance, clause
or provision shall itself be repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to
revive such former Code Section, ordinance, clause or provision, unless it
shall be expressly so provided.
   3.   Saving clause. The provisions of this Code, so far as they are the same
as those ordinances and regulations in force immediately prior to the adoption
of this Code, are intended as a continuation of such ordinances, resolutions
and regulations and not as a new enactment. The provisions of this Code shall
not affect any suit or prosecution pending or to be instituted to enforce any
of the prior ordinances or regulations. Except as specifically stated in this
Code or in the ordinance adopting this consolidation, codification and revision
of the ordinances and regulations, it is the intention of the Board of
Commissioners that no ordinance or regulation of the Township be amended,
revised or repealed by implication.
   4.   Resolutions. The provisions of this Code of Ordinances may contain
resolutions, that is, actions of the Board of Commissioners (in written form
and designated “resolution”) which did not require prior public notice in
accordance with the provisions of the First Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§
55101 et seq., at the time of their passage by the Board of Commissioners. Such
“resolutions” are included herein for ease of reference and the Board of
Commissioners does not intend by their inclusion herein to require prior public
notice before amending, revising or repealing such resolution or resolutions as
may have been included herein in the future. It is the intention of the Board
of Commissioners that such actions of the Board of Commissioners that may be
included in this Code and specifically cited and designated as a resolution
shall not become an ordinance (requiring prior public notice before amendment,
revision or repeal) by the simple fact of inclusion in this Code.
(A.O.)
§ 1-107.   Normal Numbering.
   1.   Chapters. Chapters are numbered sequentially in Arabic throughout this
Code.
   2.   Parts. Parts are numbered sequentially in Arabic throughout this Code.
   3.   Other divisions. Whenever other divisions are necessary, Chapters shall
be divided into Subchapters, Parts into Subparts and designated with the
Chapter or Part number followed by a capital letter. For instance, Chapter 1
may be divided into Subchapters 1A and 1B.
   4.   Sections. Sections are numbered sequentially throughout a Chapter and a
Part such that the first number or numbers is the Chapter number, followed by a
hyphen, followed by the Part number, followed by the Section number within the
Part. For example, “§ 1-101” designates Chapter 1, Part 1, Section 1.
Similarly, “§ 27-305” designates Chapter 27, Part 3, Section 5.
   5.   Internal divisions of Sections. Whenever internal divisions are
necessary, Sections shall be divided into Subsections, Subsections into
Paragraphs, Paragraphs into Subparagraphs, Subparagraphs into Clauses, and
Clauses into Subclauses, and Subclauses into Items, designated as follows:
   1.   Subsection.
   A.   Paragraph.
   (1)   Subparagraph.
   (a)   Clause.
   1)   Subclause.
   a)   Item.
   i.   Subitem.
(A.O.)
§ 1-108.   Special Numbering Problems.
   1.   Addition of new units between existing units. If it becomes necessary
to introduce a new Chapter, Part or Section between existing Chapters, Parts or
Sections, the new Chapter, Part or Section shall be designated by the addition
of a capital letter suffix to the preceding Chapter, Part or Section number.
Thus, a Chapter introduced between Chapters 5 and 6 would be Chapter 5A and
Sections in that Chapter would be numbered, for instance, “§ 5A-101”. If it
becomes necessary to introduce a Part between existing Parts 5 and 6 the new
Part would be Part 5A and Sections in that Part would be numbered, for
instance, “§ 5-5A01”. A new Section introduced between existing Sections 5 and
6 would be “§ 5-105A”. When a number of new Parts or Sections have been
introduced the Chapter or Part shall be renumbered.
   2.   Subsection between Subsections. If it becomes necessary to introduce a
Subsection between Subsections, for instance, Subsections .5 and .6, the new
Subsection would be numbered Subsection .5-A.
   3.   Unit smaller than a Subsection. If it becomes necessary to introduce a
unit smaller than a Subsection between existing units, the entire Subsection
shall be revised and renumbered.
   4.   Vacated numbers. Whenever a number is vacated by a revocation or
repeal, the remaining elements in the overall unit shall retain their old
numbers until the overall unit is completely revised. Prior to revision, the
vacated number may be marked: “[Reserved]”.
(A.O.)
§ 1-109.   Amending Code.
   1.   All ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this Code which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code shall be numbered in accordance
with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the
case of repealed Chapters, Parts, Sections, Paragraphs, Clauses or other part
or provision hereof, by subsequent ordinance, such repealed portions may be
excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such
time as this Code and subsequent ordinances omitted are readopted as a new Code
by the Board of Commissioners.
   2.   Amendment to any provision of this Code shall be made by specific
reference to the Chapter, Part, Section and/or Subsection number of this Code
in the following language:
   A.   Amendment or revision. “Chapter        , Part        , Section        ,
Subsection        , is hereby amended (revised) to read as follows . . . .” The
amended or revised provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
   B.   Addition. “Chapter        , Part        , Section        , Subsection
       , is hereby amended by the addition of the following . . . .” The new
provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
   C.   Repeal. “Chapter        , Part       , Section        , Subsection
       , is hereby repealed in its entirety.”
   3.   It is the intention of the Board of Commissioners that the numbering
scheme of this Code be adhered to in enacting future ordinances. In the event
that any ordinance or other enactment be adopted which does not conform to the
numbering system of this Code, it is the intention of the Board of
Commissioners that such enactment be renumbered in the process of
supplementing, revising or updating this Code to conform to the numbering
scheme of this Code. The Board of Commissioners hereby acknowledges and
confirms that the numbering scheme herein is for ease of reference and that the
renumbering of any enactment when added to this Code shall not in any manner
affect the validity of said enactment.
(A.O.)
§ 1-110.   Altering Code.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by addition or
deletion any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or
portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner
whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the
Board of Commissioners.
(A.O.)
§ 1-111.   Penalties.
   1.   Penalty where no penalty provided. Whenever in this Code or in any
ordinance of the Township any act is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful,
or whenever in this Code or other ordinance the doing of any act is declared to
be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefor:
   A.   Violations of health, safety and welfare provisions. For violations of
ordinances adopting building, housing, property maintenance, health, fire or
public safety codes; and for ordinances regulating water services, water
pollution, air pollution and noise, the following penalty shall be provided:
   “Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this
Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.”
   B.   Other violations. All other penalties, except for penalties in
Chapter 15, “Motor Vehicles and Traffic” (based on the Vehicle Code, 75
Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq.), penalties and ordinances adopted under the authority
of the Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., earned income
tax ordinances adopted under the Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et
seq. and ordinances adopted under the authority of the Sewage Facilities Act,
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., should provide, generally:
   “Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this
Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.”
   2.   Revocation of any license or permit. The imposition of a penalty under
the provisions of this Code shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or
license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or
permitted under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the United
States of America. In addition, the Township may institute injunctive, mandamus
or any other appropriate action or proceeding at law or in equity for the
enforcement of this Code. Any court of competent jurisdiction shall have the
right to issue restraining orders, temporary or permanent injunctions, mandamus
or other appropriate forms of remedy or relief.
(A.O.)
Part 2
Board of Commissioners
A.   Regular Meetings
§ 1-201.   Monthly Meetings.
   Pursuant to the First Class Township Code, Act of June 24, 1931, (P.L. 1206,
No. 331), reenacted and amended, May 27, 1949 (P.L. 1955, No. 569), as amended,
§ 702, 53 P.S. § 55702, the Plains Township Board of Commissioners does hereby
fix and designate the second Thursday of each month at 7:30 p.m., at the
Foxhill Firehouse, No. 2, Second Street, Plains, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania,
as the time and place for its monthly meeting that is required by law. Public
work sessions will be held on the Monday preceding each regular meeting at 7:30
p.m. at the aforementioned location. Special meetings may be called from time
to time and formal notice of the same will be given in accordance with the
Sunshine Act, 65 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 701 et seq. by the municipality.
(Ord. 1990-1, 1/25/1990)
Part 3
Boards and Commissioners
A.   Parks and Recreation Board
§ 1-301.   Name; Membership; Terms of Office; Filling of Vacancies;
Compensation.
   1.   The Board shall be known as the “Plains Township Parks and Recreation
Board”.
   2.   The Board shall consist of seven members. [Ord. 3/9/1978]
   3.   Two members shall be appointed for a term of one year, two members
shall be appointed for a term of two years, another for a term of three years,
another for a term of four years and one for a term of five years. Members
shall be appointed August 31, 1970, and the terms shall run from October 1,
1970. A new member shall be appointed annually from year to year.
   4.   The Board members shall serve without pay.
   5.   Any vacancies on such Board occurring otherwise than by expiration of
term shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as original
appointments. All appointments to the Board shall be made by resolution of the
Plains Township Commissioners. The members of said Board shall elect their own
Chairperson and Secretary and shall select all other necessary officers to
serve for a period of one year.
(Ord. 8/31/1970; as amended by Ord. 3/9/1978)
§ 1-302.   Powers and Duties.
   1.   The Board shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations for the
conduct of all business within its jurisdiction.
   2.   The Board shall possess all power and be subject to all the
responsibilities of the respective authorities as set forth by the Pennsylvania
Legislature.
(Ord. 8/31/1970)
§ 1-303.   Definitions.
   As used in this Subpart, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   Board–the Plains Township Parks and Recreation Board.
(Ord. 8/31/1970; as added by Ord. 11/13/1975C, 11/13/1975)
§ 1-304.   Additional Powers and Duties.
   1.   The Board shall have the power to equip, operate and maintain parks and
recreation areas and facilities.
   2.   The Board shall possess all the powers and be subject to all the
responsibilities of the Commissioners under Article XXX of the First Class
Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 58001 et seq.
   3.   The Board shall exercise its powers and duties in establishing
standards, qualifications and salary schedules. However, said powers and duties
as enunciated aforesaid must be approved by the Plains Township Board of
Commissioners.
   4.   The Board may develop a cooperative plan of recreation service with a
township, borough, county, city or school district, and the Board shall have
the power to adjust the personnel, standards, qualifications and salary
schedules as established. However, the same as enunciated aforesaid must be
approved by the Township Board of Commissioners to meet the terms of a joint
operation that may be agreed upon.
(Ord. 8/31/1970; as added by Ord. 11/13/1975C, 11/13/1975)
§ 1-305.   Board Checking Account.
   1.   The Board shall establish a separate checking account, said account to
be specifically and unequivocally limited to the payment of matters that affect
parks and recreation facilities within the Township of Plains.
   2.   The checking account as established shall not be used for the payment
of salary-scheduled employees or any other classification of parks and
recreation employees. The same shall be paid only by the Plains Township Board
of Commissioners.
   3.   The checking account is to be established at the First Eastern Bank,
NA., and the Board is further authorized by resolution to establish said
account with said bank.
   4.   The account must contain the signatures of the President or Chairperson
of the Board, Secretary and Treasurer of the Board and the President-
Chairperson of the Plains Township Board of Commissioners.
   5.   The individual officers who are authorized to issue checks from said
account must be bonded by a corporate bonding company in the amount of $5,000,
jointly and not severally.
(Ord. 8/31/1970; as added by Ord. 11/13/1975C, 11/13/1975)
§ 1-306.   Authorization to Accept Gifts, Donations and Devises.
   The Board is authorized to accept gifts, donations and devises as may occur
for the purpose of enlarging and maintaining parks, recreation areas and
facilities within the Township of Plains.
(Ord. 8/31/1970; as added by Ord. 11/13/1975C, 11/13/1975)
B.   Office of Emergency Management
§ 1-311.   Short Title.
   This Part shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the “Emergency
Management Ordinance” of the Township of Plains, Luzerne County.
(Ord. 6/12/1986A, § 1)
§ 1-312.   Intent and Purpose.
   1.   It is the intent and purpose of this Part to establish an office that
will ensure the complete and efficient utilization of all of the Plains
Township facilities to combat disaster resulting from enemy actions or other
disasters as defined herein.
   2.   The Plains Township Office of Emergency Management will be the
coordinating agency for all activity in connection with emergency management;
it will be the instrument through which the Township Board of Commissioners may
exercise the authority and discharge the responsibilities vested in them by the
“Federal Civil Defense Act of 1950”, P.L. 1920 and P.L. 93-288, as amended, and
the Pennsylvania Emergency Management Act 1978-323, 35 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 7311 et
seq., and supporting statutes as amended and this Part.
   3.   This Part will not relieve the Township departments of the moral
responsibilities or authority given to them in the state laws or by local
ordinance, nor will it adversely affect the work of any volunteer agency
organized for relief in disaster emergencies.
(Ord. 6/12/1986A, § 2)
§ 1-313.   Definitions.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation of this Part.
   Coordinator–the Coordinator of Plains Township, Office of Emergency
Management, appointed as prescribed in this Part.
   Disaster–includes but is not limited to actual or threatened enemy attack.
Any industrial, nuclear or transportation accident, fire, flood, storm,
endangering or threatening to endanger the health, life or property of the
citizens of the Township.
   Emergency management–the judicious planning, assignment and coordination of
all available resources in an integrated program of prevention, mitigation,
preparedness, response and recovery for emergencies of any kind, whether from
attack, human-made or natural sources.
   Emergency management volunteer–any person duly registered, identified and
appointed by the Coordinator of the Office of Emergency Management, and
assigned to participate in the emergency management activity.
   Emergency services–the preparation for and the carrying out of functions, to
prevent, minimize and provide emergency repair of injury and damage resulting
from disasters, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to
the preparation for and carrying out of these functions. The functions include,
without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health
services, rescue, engineering, disaster warning services, communications,
radiological, shelter, chemical and evacuation of persons from stricken areas,
emergency welfare services, emergency transportation.
   Regulations–shall include plans, programs and other emergency procedures
deemed essential to emergency management.
   Volunteer–contributing a service, equipment and facilities to the emergency
management organization without remuneration.
(Ord. 6/12/1986A, § 3)
§ 1-314.   Organization and Appointments.
   1.   The Coordinator is hereby authorized and directed to create an
organization for emergency management utilizing to the fullest extent the
existing agencies within the Township of Plains. He or she shall be responsible
for organizations, administration and operations. The Plains Township Board of
Commissioners have overall responsibility for the emergency management
organization.
   2.   The organization shall consist of the following:
   A.   An Office of Emergency Management within the executive department of
the Township government and under the direction of the Township Board of
Commissioners.   There shall be an executive head of the Office of Emergency
Management, who shall be known as the Coordinator of Plains Township, Office of
Emergency Management, and such assistants and other employees as are deemed
necessary for the proper functioning of the organization.
   B.   The employees, equipment and facilities of the Township departments
will participate in the emergency management activity. Duties assigned to a
Township department shall be the same or similar to the normal duties of the
department.
   C.   Volunteer persons and agencies offering service to, and accepted by,
the Township.
   3.   The Coordinator of the Office of Emergency Management shall be a person
well versed and trained in planning operations involving the activities of many
different agencies which will operate to protect the public health, safety and
welfare in the event of danger from enemy action or disaster as defined in this
Part.
   4.   The Emergency Management Coordinator shall recommend to the Township
Board of Commissioners for appointment, Deputy Coordinators to assume the
emergency duties of the Coordinator in the event of his or her absence or
inability to act. The intent being that there will always and at all times be
an Emergency Management Coordinator in charge in the Township.
   5.   A.   There shall be an Emergency Management Council consisting of the
following:
   (1)   Plains Township Board of Commissioners.
   (2)   Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (3)   Emergency Management Deputy Coordinator.
   (4)   Police Chief.
   (5)   Deputy Police Chief.
   (6)   Fire Chief.
   (7)   Deputy Fire Chief.
   (8)   Ambulance Association President.
   (9)   Ambulance Association Vice-President.
   (10)   Plains Township Solicitor as deemed necessary.
   B.   They will meet to conduct routine business including particularly the
consideration of matters of basic policy. They shall meet from time to time as
called by the Emergency Management Coordinator or the Plain Township Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 6/12/1986A, § 4)
§ 1-315.   Emergency Powers and Duties.
   The Emergency Management Coordinator:
   1.   The Emergency Management Coordinator shall be responsible for
exercising the emergency power and authority as defined by the Plains Township
Board of Commissioners. The judgment of the Plains Township Board of
Commissioners and the Emergency Management Coordinator shall be the sole
criteria necessary to invoke emergency powers as provided in federal, state and
local laws. Nothing in this Part shall be construed as abridging or curtailing
the powers of the Plains Township Board of Commissioners or its agencies.
   2.   During any period when disaster threatens or when the Township has been
struck by a disaster, within the definition of this Part, the Plains Township
Board of Commissioners and the Emergency Management Coordinator may promulgate
such regulations as they deem necessary to protect life and property and
preserve critical resources. Such regulations may include, but not limited to,
the following:
   A.   Regulations prohibiting or restricting the movement of vehicles in
order to facilitate the work of the Emergency Management forces, or to
facilitate the mass movement of persons from critical areas within or without
the Township of Plains.
   B.   Regulations pertaining to the movement of persons from areas deemed to
be hazardous or vulnerable to disaster.
   C.   Such other regulations necessary to preserve public peace, health and
safety.
   3.   The Emergency Management Coordinator shall order emergency management
forces to the aid of other communities when required in accordance with state
and county statutes, and he or she may request aid from the county when
conditions are beyond the control of the Plains Township emergency management
forces.
   4.   The Emergency Management Coordinator may obtain vital supplies,
equipment and other properties found lacking and needed for the protection of
health, life and property of the people of the Township as per the Pennsylvania
Emergency Management Act, 32 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 7501 et seq.
   5.   The Emergency Management Coordinator will be responsible for the
planning, coordination and operation of the Emergency Management Basic Disaster
Plan. He or she shall maintain liaison with county, state and federal
authorities and the authorities of other nearby political subdivisions as to
ensure the most effective operation of the plan.
(Ord. 6/12/1986A, § 5)
§ 1-316.   Basic Disaster Plan.
   1.   A comprehensive basic disaster plan shall be adopted and maintained by
resolution of the Plains Township Board of Commissioners. In the preparation of
this plan, as it pertains to Plains Township, it is the intent that the
services, equipment, facilities and personnel of all existing paid and
volunteer departments shall be utilized to the fullest extent. When approved,
it shall be the duty of all Township departments to perform the functions
assigned by the Plan and to maintain their portion of the Plan in a current
state of readiness at all times. The basic disaster plan shall be considered
supplementary to this Part and have the effect of law whenever a disaster, as
defined in this Part has been proclaimed.
   2.   Each department head assigned responsibility in the plan shall be
responsible for carrying out all duties and functions assigned to them. Duties
will include the organization and training of assigned employees and
volunteers. The department head will designate and keep on file with the
Coordinator a current list of at least one person as a successor to his or her
position. He or she should as nearly as possible designate a person best
capable of carrying out all assigned duties and functions. Each department head
will formulate the operational plan for his or her service which, when
approved, shall be an annex to and a part of the basic plan.
   3.   Amendments to the basic plan will be submitted to the Coordinator who
in turn will submit them to the Plains Township Board of Commissioners for
approval. In the event an amendment is pending at the time that a disaster is
proclaimed under the provisions of this Subpart, the amendment will be
considered approved immediately and will remain effective unless specifically
revoked by the Plains Township Board of Commissioners.
   4.   When a required competency or skill for a disaster function is not
available with the Plains Township government, the Coordinator is authorized to
seek assistance from persons outside of government. Such services from persons
may be accepted by the Township of Plains on a volunteer basis. Such citizens
will be enrolled as emergency management volunteers.
(Ord. 6/12/1986A, § 6)
§ 1-317.   No Municipal or Private Liability.
   1.   This Part is an exercise by the Township of Plains of its governmental
functions for the protection of the public peace, health and safety, and
neither Plains Township nor agents and representatives of said Township of
Plains, or any individual, receiver, firm, partnership, corporation,
association or trustee, or any of the agents thereof, in good faith carrying
out, complying with or attempting to comply with any order, rule or regulation
promulgated pursuant to the provisions of this Part, shall be liable for any
damage sustained to persons or property as the result of said activity.
   2.   Any person or organization owning or controlling real estate or other
premises who voluntarily and without compensation, grants the Township of
Plains the right to inspect, designate and use the whole or any part or parts
of such real estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an
actual, impending or practice disaster shall not be civilly liable for the
death of, or injury to, any persons on or about such real estate or premises
under such license, privilege or other permission, or for loss of, or damage
to, the property of such persons.
(Ord. 6/12/1986A, § 7)
§ 1-318.   Violation of Regulations.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
Part or of the regulations or plans issued pursuant to the authority contained
herein, or to willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency
management organization as herein defined in the enforcement of the provisions
of this Part or any regulation or plan issued thereunder.
(Ord. 6/12/1986A, § 8)
§ 1-319.   Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this
Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 6/12/1986A, § 9; as amended by A.O.)
§ 1-320.   Conflicting Ordinance, Orders, Rules and Regulations Suspended.
   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this Part shall be in effect, they shall supersede all existing
ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as the latter may be
inconsistent therewith.
(Ord. 6/12/1986A, § 11)
C.   Police Committee
§ 1-321.   Police Committee.
   The Plains Township Board of Commissioners does hereby designate the Police
Committee, which shall consist of five members duly appointed by the Plains
Township Board of Commissioners, and which shall be vested with authority for
the administration, supervision and operation of the Plains Township Police
Department.
That, the Chief of Police and all members of the Plains Township Police
Department, whether they be full- or part-time police officers, shall obey the
orders of the Police Committee and its duly appointed Chairperson.
(Res. 1994-40, 8/11/1994)
D.   Housing Board
§ 1-331.   Membership.
   The Housing Board shall consist of five voting members and two additional
non-voting members. The voting members shall be chosen as a result of their
background of community service and more importantly, the professional
discipline and diversity that each will add to the Board. The type of
background for a voting member shall be from the real estate profession,
government funding background, social service agency background, attorney,
state agency social worker. These backgrounds are a way of example for
membership and membership shall not be excluded or limited to these background
areas. The non-voting members shall be the person holding the position of
Superintendent of Schools for Wilkes-Barre Area, and the person holding the
position of Township Manager in Plains Township.
(Ord. 1993-11, 12/30/1993)
§ 1-332.   Term.
   Voting Board members shall serve for four-year overlapping terms with the
charter Board having an initial term of four years for three members and six
years for the remaining two members. Specific term assignments will be done
through a lottery at the organizational meeting.
(Ord. 1993-11, 12/30/1993)
§ 1-333.   Support of Services.
   The Board will have the support of the Plains Township administrative
offices in secretarial and office needs.
(Ord. 1993-11, 12/30/1993)
§ 1-334.   Funding.
   Funding for specific needs for 1994 will come out of the General Fund with
normal budget process admissions starting in 1995 at the discretion of the
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 1993-11, 12/30/1993)
§ 1-335.   Purpose.
   The purpose of the Board will be to identify and recommend site availability
suitable for good, affordable housing within the Township. Initially, the Board
shall consider vacated or abandoned school district buildings as potential
housing sites and work in consort with the school district in determining which
of the four properties that are currently located in Plains Township will be
available to the Board for the purposes specified above. The Board shall
determine the feasibility of the use of the aforementioned school buildings for
suitable housing or conversion thereto, based upon available architectural and
engineering studies done by the school district. The Board shall further have
the responsibility of deciding and recommending to the Plains Township Board of
Commissioners whether or not to acquire the abandoned or vacated school
buildings when they become available. Also, the Board shall have the ability to
investigate and explore other available sites located within Plains Township
for the purposes of developing suitable housing. The Board will further be
responsible to develop a data bank of county, state and federal funding
sources. Also, the Board shall have the ability to explore private sources or
arrangements for consideration as a source of funding to develop housing in
Plains Township.
(Ord. 1993-11, 12/30/1993)
§ 1-336.   Powers.
   The power of this Board shall be to make recommendations concerning matters
involving the duties defined under this Part to the Board of Commissioners of
Plains Township for whatever action the Plains Township Board of Commissioners
deems appropriate under the circumstances.
(Ord. 1993-11, 12/30/1993)
Part 4
Appointed Officials
A.   Township Manager
§ 1-401.   Office Created.
   The office of Township Manager is hereby created by the Board of
Commissioners of Plains Township, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, subject to the
right of the Board of Commissioners to abolish said offices at any time by
ordinance.
(Ord. 1993-7, 9/9/1993, § 201)
§ 1-402.   Election Procedure.
   As soon as practicable after the enactment of this Part, the Board of
Commissioners shall elect by a majority of vote of all of its members, one
person to fill the office of the Township Manager, who shall serve until
December 31, 1996, after successful completion of a three-month probationary
period, or until his or her successor is elected and qualified for office. The
said office shall be filled every three years thereafter. In the event of a
vacancy, the Board of Commissioners shall elect a replacement by a majority
vote of all of its members, for the unexpired term. The Township Manager shall
be subject to removal for cause at any time by a majority vote of all the
Commissioners.
(Ord. 1993-7, 9/9/1993, § 202)
§ 1-403.   Qualifications.
   The Township Manager shall be chosen solely on the basis of his or her
executive, administrative and professional abilities, with special emphasis to
his or her actual experience in, or knowledge of, accepted practices in respect
to the duties of the office as herein provided. The Township Manager need not
be a resident of the Township or of the State of Pennsylvania at the time of
his or her appointment, but, within one year he or she shall become, and during
his or her tenure as Manager shall remain, a resident of Plains Township.
(Ord. 1993-7, 9/9/1993, § 203)
§ 1-404.   Bond Required.
   Before entering upon his or her duties, the Township Manager shall file a
bond with the Township, with corporate surety, in the sum of $5,000,
conditioned for the faithful performance of his or her duties. The premium
shall be paid by Plains Township. The bond of the Township Manager may be
included in and covered for any comprehensive bond, now or hereafter in force
and effect for the Township employees, in the amount of at least $5,000.
(Ord. 1993-7, 9/9/1993, § 204)
§ 1-405.   Compensation.
   The Township Manager shall receive compensation in the amount of $32,000 per
annum, plus fringe benefits, including, but not limited to, health care
insurance, vacation days, sick leave, pension benefits and other benefits to be
established by the Board of Commissioners by resolution. In addition, the
Township Manager shall receive an annual salary increase equal to the cost of
living adjustment (COLA), based upon the Consumer Price Index.
(Ord. 1993-7, 9/9/1993, § 205)
§ 1-406.   Chief Administrative Plains Officer.
   The Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of Plains Township and
he or she shall be responsible to the Board of Commissioners as a whole for the
proper and efficient administration of the affairs of the Township. His or her
powers and duties shall relate to the general management of all Township
business not expressly imposed or conferred upon Township officers by statute,
ordinance or resolution. The Board of Commissioners is hereby authorized to
delegate to the Township Manager, subject to recall by written notification at
any time, any of its non-legislative and non-judicial powers and duties.
(Ord. 1993-7, 9/9/1993, § 206)
§ 1-407.   Duties.
   Subject to recall by ordinance, the powers and duties of the Township
Manager shall include the following:
   A.   He or she shall supervise and be responsible for the activities of all
Township departments, unless otherwise provided by the Board of Commissioners.
   B.   He or she shall prepare and submit to the Board of Commissioners before
the close of the fiscal year, or on such alternate date as the Board of
Commissioners shall determine, a budget for the next fiscal year and an
explanatory budget message. In preparing the budget he or she, or an officer
designated by him or her, shall obtain from the head of such department,
agency, board or officer, estimates of revenues and expenditures and other
supporting data as he or she requires. The Manager shall review such estimates
and may revise them before submitting the budget to the Commissioners.
   C.   He or she shall be responsible for the administration of the budget
after its adoption by the Board of Commissioners.
   D.   He or she shall, under the direction of the Board of Commissioners,
execute and enforce the laws of the Commonwealth, and the ordinances and
resolutions of the Township.
   E.   Unless otherwise directed, he or she shall attend all meetings of the
Board of Commissioners and its committees. Furthermore, he or she shall have
the right to take part in discussions, but shall not vote on any matters.
   F.   He or she shall prepare the agenda for each meeting of the Board of
Commissioners and supply facts pertinent thereto.
   G.   He or she shall keep the Board of Commissioners informed as the conduct
of Township affairs; submit periodic reports on the condition of the Township
finances, and such other reports as the Board of Commissioners shall request;
and make such recommendations to the Board of Commissioners as he or she deems
necessary.
   H.   He or she shall submit to the Board of Commissioners, no later than
March 1 of the preceding year, a complete report on the financial and
administrative activities of the Township for the preceding year.
   I.   He or she shall see that the provisions of all franchises, leases,
permits and privileges granted by the Township of Plains are observed.
   J.   He or she may employ, by and with the approval of the Board of
Commissioners, experts and consultants to perform work and to advise in
connection with any of the functions of the Township.
   K.   He or she shall attend to the letting of contracts in due form of law;
and supervise the performance and faithful execution of the same except in so
far as such duties are expressly imposed upon some other Township official by
statute or ordinance.
   L.   He or she, or an officer designated by him or her, shall collect and
receive, account for and deposit into the Township Treasury, all fees,
assessments or charges that are levied or established by the Township for
specific general or specific purposes. A funds and fees collected shall be
deposited into the Township Treasury not later than the first business day
following the day in which they are received.
   M.   He or she shall perform the duties of the Secretary of the Township in
his or her absence in causing appropriate records to be made, preserved and
certified, as required by law or other action of the Board of Commissioners.
   N.   He or she shall issue such administrative and personnel rules and
regulations not in conflict with existing statutes or ordinances to properly
carry out the duties contained in this Part. Such rules and regulations shall
be subject to the approval by the Board of Commissioners, by majority vote of
all its members at any regular public meeting.
   O.   He or she shall be the sole purchasing agent for the Township and he or
she shall purchase, in accordance with the provisions of the First Class
Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 55101 et seq., all supplies and equipment for the
various agencies, boards, departments and other offices of the Township, as is
authorized by the Board in approving the annual operating budget. He or she
shall keep an account of all purchases and shall, from time to time or when
directed by the Board, make a full written report thereof. He or she shall also
issue rules and regulations, subject to the approval of the Board, governing
the requisitioning and purchasing of all Township supplies and equipments.
   P.   He or she shall have the duty, through the proper department, to
preserve order in the Township.
   Q.   He or she shall have the duty, through the proper departments or
subordinates, to enforce the ordinances and regulations of the Township.
   R.   He or she shall have the duty to sign such papers, contracts,
obligations and documents that are properly presented to him or her as required
by law of this Part.
   S.   With the consent of the Board of Commissioners, he or she shall have
the authority to represent the Township in deliberations with other
governmental bodies or councils, subject to final ratification by the Board of
Commissioners of any action taken.
   T.   He or she shall have the authority, with the consent of the Board of
Commissioners, to negotiate intergovernmental cooperation agreements pursuant
to the Constitution of the Commonwealth.
   U.   He or she shall administer the personnel system of the Township which
includes recommending, hiring, suspending or terminating employees as the need
arises in accordance with civil service or other rules and regulations as
hereinafter may be established.
   V.   Review, analyze and recommend improvements in the administrative
organization and procedures throughout the Township.
   W.   Develop and implant a viable public relations program.
   X.   Receive inquiries from the public, professional groups, and the press
and furnish information or direct the inquiry to the proper source.
   Y.   Make application for grants and/or loans as determined by the Board of
Commissioners.
   Z.   Perform such other duties and related work as may be directed by the
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 1993-7, 9/9/1993, § 207)
§ 1-408.   Limitation on Board’s Powers.
   Neither the Board nor any of its committees or members shall interfere with
the administering of the ordinances or resolutions passed granting authority to
the manager, except for the purpose of inquiry in which case the Board may call
personnel to attend the Board’s executive meeting.
(Ord. 1993-7, 9/9/1993, § 208)
§ 1-409.   Disability or Absence.
   If the Manager becomes ill or is absent from the Township for a period of
more than two weeks, the Board shall designate the member or members of the
staff to perform the duties of the Manager. Should the absence be two weeks or
less, the Manager shall designate the staff members to perform his or her
duties in his or her absence. In the event the Manager is unable to designate
the staff member or members, then it shall become the duty of the Board.
(Ord. 1993-7, 9/9/1993, § 209)
§ 1-410.   Required Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.
   1.   Extensive knowledge of present day concepts in the field of public
business administration.
   2.   Thorough knowledge of fiscal and monetary policies and procedures as
they apply to municipal finance administration.
   3.   Thorough knowledge of supervisory methods and techniques.
   4.   Thorough knowledge of personnel principles.
   5.   Ability to plan, organize and direct the programs and activities of the
Township administration and to supervise a staff of professional and
nonprofessional personnel.
   6.   Ability to express ideas clearly and concisely both orally and in
writing.
   7.   Ability to establish and maintain a solid working relationship with
Township officials, employees and the general public.
   8.   Knowledge of laws, ordinances and regulations pertaining to local
government.
(Ord. 1993-7, 9/9/1993, § 210)
§ 1-411.   Education, Qualifications and Experience.
   1.   Required. Bachelor’s degree (preferably in public or business
administration) from a four-year accredited college or university with at least
five years of experience as a municipal manager or administrator or equivalent
combination of the above.
   2.   Preferred. Master’s degree in public or business administration with at
least two years of experience in municipal/administration or equivalent
combination of the above.
(Ord. 1993-7, 9/9/1993, § 211)
Part 5
Municipal Authorities
A.   Sewer Authority of the Township of Plains
§ 1-501.   Intention and Desire to Organize.
   The Township of Plains hereby signifies its intention and desire to organize
an Authority under the Municipality Authorities Act 53 Pa.C.S. §§ 5601 et seq.
and its amendments thereto.
(Ord. 5/14/1965, § 1)
§ 1-502.   Articles of Incorporation.
   The President and Secretary of said Board of Commissioners are hereby
authorized and directed to execute on behalf of the Township of Plains Articles
of Incorporation for said Authority in substantially the following form:
   Articles of Incorporation
To the Secretary of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania:
   In compliance with the requirements of the Act of May 2, 1945, P.L. 382, as
amended, the Board of Commissioners of the Township of Plains, a municipal
corporation of the County of Luzerne and Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, desiring
to organize an Authority thereunder, does hereby certify:
   1.   The name of the Authority is “Sewer Authority of the Township of
Plains”.
   2.   Said Authority is formed under the Act of May 2, 1945, P.L. 382, as
amended.
   3.   No other Authority organized under said Act, or by any previous Act of
Assembly authorizing and regulating municipal authorities, is in existence in
or for the Township of Plains, with the exception of the following:
   (a)   East Side Landfill Authority. A joint authority incorporated by the
City of Wilkes-Barre; the Townships of Plains and Hanover; and the Borough of
Ashley.
   (b)   Wyoming Valley Sanitary Authority. A joint authority incorporated by
the Cities of Wilkes-Barre, Pittston and Nanticoke; the Townships of Jenkins,
Plains and Hanover; and the Boroughs of West Pittston, Exeter, Wyoming, Forty
Fort, Swoyerville, Kingston, Edwardsville and Plymouth.
   4.   The names and addresses of the members of the Board of Commissioners of
the Township of Plains are as follows:
   (a)   George Astolfi, 18 Hilldale Avenue.
   (b)   John Spak, 348 South River Street.
   (c)   Nellus Turner, 94 East Carey Street.
   (d)   Mario Rocconi, 7 Rose Avenue.
   (e)   Bernard Hodakowski, 10 West Stanton Street.
   (f)   Joseph Sobol, 45 Hudson Road.
   (g)   Camillo Centini, 44 Union Street.
   (h)   Clem Falchek, 27 Scott Street.
   (i)   Peter Patalak, 39 Cleveland Street.
   5.   The names, addresses and terms of office of the first members of the
Board of said Authority are as follows:
 
Name                 Address            Term Expiring
Daniel E. Rozanski   37 Cottage Avenue  December 31, 1966
Joseph S. Falcheck   12 Mill Street     December 31, 1967
Simon S. Russin      136 Maffett Street December 31, 1968
James J. Sheehan     13 E. Carey Street December 31, 1969
Frank J. Jagodzinski 36 Union Street    December 31, 1970
 
   6.   The project to be undertaken by said Authority shall be the financing,
construction, improving, maintaining and operating sewers, sewer systems or
parts thereof.
(Ord. 5/14/1965, § 2)
Editor’s note:
   The Municipal Authorities Act of 1945 is referenced in these Articles.
However, that Act was repealed in 2001 and replaced with the Municipality
Authorities Act, P.L. 287, No. 22, 53 Pa.C.S. §§ 5601 et seq.
§ 1-503.   Term Extension of the Sewer Authority.
   1.   That the Sewer Authority of the Township of Plains has submitted to the
Township of Plains Resolution No. 11-11-02-A, which is incorporated herein by
reference.
   2.   That the language of the amendment of the Articles of Incorporation of
the Sewer Authority of the Township of Plains shall read in its entirety as
follows: “That the term of existence of the Sewer Authority of the Township of
Plains shall be the first day of June 2025.”
   3.   That the Township of Plains adopts the amendment to the Articles of
Incorporation of the Sewer Authority of the Township of Plains so as to
increase its term of existence to the first day of June 2025.
(Res. 2004-1, 1/8/2004)
B.   Wyoming Valley Sanitary Authority
§ 1-510.   Wyoming Valley Sanitary Authority.
   1.   The “Intergovernmental Cooperation Agreement for the Creation and
Implementation of the Wyoming Valley Regional Stormwater Management Program”
(the “Agreement”), attached to the ordinance codified herein and the provisions
of which are incorporated herein as if fully set forth at length, is hereby
approved by the governing body of the Township of Plains and the proper
municipal officials are hereby authorized to execute such Agreement to give it
full force and legal effect.
   2.   Any amendment, modification, or termination of the Agreement shall not
require passage of another ordinance, but shall be authorized and confirmed by
the adoption of a resolution by the governing body of the Township of Plains
and all parties to the Intergovernmental Cooperation Agreement.
   3.   The Governing Body of this Municipality adopts and approves the
Articles of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation of the Authority which
read as set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 2017-3, codified herein.
   4.   Proper officers of the Authority are hereby are authorized to execute,
verify, and file appropriate Articles of Amendment with the Secretary of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and to take all other action and to do all other
things which may be necessary in order to accomplish such amendment of the
Articles of Incorporation of the Authority in the manner herein enacted and
ordained.
(Ord. 2017-2, 7/13/2017; as amended by Ord. 2017-3, 7/13/2017)
Part 6
Library
§ 1-601.   Establishment.
   Township of Plains hereby establishes a free, public, nonsectarian library
for the use of the residents of the Township of Plains, pursuant to the Public
Library Code, Act. No. 2012-210, 24 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 9301 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 6/10/1966A, § 1)
§ 1-602.   Reserved.
§ 1-603.   Reserved.
§ 1-604.   Appropriations.
   The Township of Plains shall make appropriations out of current revenue, and
out of moneys raised by the levy of special taxes to establish and maintain
said library.
(Ord. 6/10/1966A, § 4)
Part 7
Tax Collector
A.   Authorization to Charge Fees
§ 1-701.   Authorization.
   To provide for the Tax Collector of Plains Township who shall impose and
collect a fee in an amount as established, from time to time, by resolution of
the Board of Commissioners for duplicate, nonoriginal tax bills, data disk or
copies of other information requested and sent on each parcel of property for
which tax information is requested. In addition, Tax Collectors shall charge
and impose on any taxpayer or agent actual bank charges imposes upon the Tax
Collector for a returned check.
(Ord. 2002-5, 12/12/2002; as amended by Ord. 2005-7, 5/12/2005; and by A.O.)
Chapter 2
Animals
Part 1
Wild or Sick Animals
§
2-101.   Definitions
§
2-102.   Diseased Animals, Injured or Sick Animals
§
2-103.   Livestock Prohibited
§
2-104.   Handling of Stray and Wild Animals
§
2-105.   Penalties
Part 2
Carrier Pigeons
§
2-201.   Definitions
§
2-202.   Requirements for Issuance of Permit
§
2-203.   Permit Issuance; Duration; Fee; Limitations on Number
§
2-204.   Permit Suspension and Revocation
§
2-205.   Penalty
Part 3
Prohibited Animals
§
2-301.   Definitions
§
2-302.   Permit Required
§
2-303.   Permit Application; Fee; Duration
§
2-304.   Standards
§
2-305.   Revocation of Permit
§
2-306.   Inspection of Premises
§
2-307.   Penalty
Part 4
Dogs
A.   Controlling Dogs
§
2-401.   Dog Leash Requirements
§
2-402.   Clean up and Disposal of Dog Waste
§
2-403.   Penalty
B.   Dog Nuisances
§
2-411.   Noisy Dogs in Residential Districts
§
2-412.   Dogs at Large
§
2-413.   Penalties
C.   Excessive Number of Cats and/or Dogs as a Nuisance
§
2-421.   Maximum Number of Animals; Dogs and/or Cats
§
2-422.   Business Exemption
§
2-423.   Disability Exemption
§
2-424.   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate animals, see 53 P.S. § 56530
Part 1
Wild or Sick Animals
§ 2-101.   Definitions.
   Animal–living creature, domestic or non-domestic.
   Cat–a domestic or feral feline of either sex.
   Dog–a domestic canine of either sex.
   Enclosure–pen, paddock, stall, stable or pasture with properly hung and
marked fence.
   Harboring of animal–an animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or
sheltered seven days or more, unless the animal is being boarded for a fee.
   Wild animal–any animal which can normally be found in the wild state,
particularly those feral, exotic, dangerous or non-domestic animals which
generally do not live in or about the habitation of humans, including, but not
limited to, deer, raccoons, skunks and squirrels.
(Ord. 2011-1, 3/10/2011, § 1)
§ 2-102.   Diseased Animals, Injured or Sick Animals.
   1.   Every person owning or having any animal under his or her charge which
he or she knows or suspects to be sick or injured shall isolate the animal from
other animals and shall obtain or provide appropriate treatment for such animal
within two business days or may have the animal humanely euthanised.
   2.   Any animal which comes into possession of the animal shelter which is
terminally injured or sick may be humanely euthanised by the animal shelter
personnel without waiting for the expiration of the period in which such animal
may be reclaimed by its owner, or before the end of the period in which the
animal may be placed for adoption; provided, however, that before such sick or
injured animal is euthanised, the animal shelter personnel shall contact the
owner, if know, of such animal to determine the disposition of such animal. If
the owner indicated that the animal will be reclaimed but fails to reclaim the
animal within two business days of such notification, or if the owner of such
animal is not known, the sick or injured animal shall be euthanised by the
animal shelter personnel. The animal shelter supervisor shall keep a record of
such animal, to include breed and sex of the animal, when the animal came into
possession of the animal shelter, the type of injury or sickness of such
animals, the date the animal was destroyed and any other information relevant
to the health, condition and description of such animal.
(Ord. 2011-1, 3/10/2011, § 3)
§ 2-103.   Livestock Prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any resident of the Township of Plains to harbor
any animals which are common to farms including, but not limited to, chickens,
goats and the like within the Township limits of the Township of Plains. This
prohibition only does not include or apply to domestic dogs, cats or birds.
(Ord. 2011-1, 3/10/2011, § 4)
§ 2-104.   Handling of Stray and Wild Animals.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the owner
or keeper, knowingly and intentionally to harbor, keep in possession by
confinement or otherwise any animal that does not belong to him or her. Any
person is possession of a stray animal shall contact the Code Enforcement
Officer, and SPCA within 72 hours to arrange for impoundment or provide
notification of the stray animal’s dsecription and location and it shall be
unlawful for any person, other than the owner or keeper of an animal, to remove
the collar, license tag or rabies tag from around the neck of the animal.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to lure or attract with food or
other means or device any wild animals within the Township of Plains including,
but not limited to, pigeons, birds, deer, raccoons, skunks and squirrels except
as follows:
   A.   It shall be lawful for any person to maintain a bird feeder on their
property, so long as any bird feeder shall be placed no closer than 25 feet
from a neighboring property line. In the event the parcel is less than 50 feet
wide then the bird feeders must be placed no less than a distance of one-half
the footage of the parcel.
   B.   No person shall be allowed more than one bird feeder on his or her
property unless the total square footage of the parcel of land exceeds 5,000
square feet. In that instance, the property may have no more than two bird
feeders with each bird feeder being no closer that 25 feet from each other and
shall be placed no closer than 25 feet from a neighboring property line.
(Ord. 2011-1, 3/10/2011, § 5)
§ 2-105.   Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this
Part continues shall constitute a separate offense. Upon receiving a citation
or notice of violation for violation of this Section, the owner or possessor of
any such animal shall remove it from the Township within 30 days. Failure to
remove such animal after such citation or notice of violation shall have been
served shall subject the owner or possessor to a fine up to $250 for each
subsequent day of violation after such 30-day period, and the Code Enforcement
Officer shall be authorized to obtain an administrative search warrant, to
seize any such animal(s) and remove it or them from the Township or place it
with an appropriate shelter. The owner or possessor shall be liable to the
Township for reimbursement of any expenses incurred by the Township in
enforcing this Section by causing such animal(s) to be removed from the
Township.
(Ord. 2011-1, 3/10/2011, § 6; as amended by A.O.)
Part 2
Carrier Pigeons
§ 2-201.   Definitions.
   Board–the Board of Commissioners of the Township of Plains.
   Carrier pigeon–shall include both homing and racing pigeons.
   Loft–shall include any structure in which carrier pigeons are housed.
(Ord. 4/30/1968B, § 1)
§ 2-202.   Requirements for Issuance of Permit.
   The Board shall issue a carrier pigeon permit to the owner of any carrier
pigeon or pigeons who complies with the following requirements:
   A.   The name of the owner is stamped upon the wing or tail of all such
carrier pigeons, or said pigeons are banded upon the leg with the name,
initials or registration number of the owner. Any such registration number
shall be recorded with the Secretary of the Board.
   B.   The loft is found on inspection to be in compliance with any
regulations prescribed by the Board, and is maintained in a clean, orderly
condition and kept in good repair.
   C.   The construction of the loft complies with the building code
regulations and all zoning requirements of the Township of Plains as evidenced
by a building permit.
(Ord. 4/30/1968B, § 2)
§ 2-203.   Permit Issuance; Duration; Fee; Limitations on Number.
   1.   When the Board has determined that the applicant has complied with the
foregoing requirements, the Secretary of said Board shall issue a carrier
pigeon permit for an annual fee in an amount as established, from time to time,
by resolution of the Board of Commissioners. [A.O.]
   2.   The carrier pigeon permit shall expire on December 31 of the calendar
year in which it was issued and shall be reissued for a fee in an amount as
established, from time to time, by resolution of the Board of Commissioners
upon request by the applicant; provided, however, that the applicant’s present
permit is not under suspension nor been revoked. [A.O.]
   3.   Every person to whom a permit has been issued shall be authorized to
possess and fly for necessary exercise and training under proper restraint and
control, not more than 25 pairs of carrier pigeons.
(Ord. 4/30/1968B, § 3; as amended by A.O.)
§ 2-204.   Permit Suspension and Revocation.
   If at any time after the permit has been issued, the Board finds that any
person possessing a permit fails to comply with the terms of this Part, said
permit may be suspended until such violation is corrected, under the following
conditions:
   A.   Written notice of violation is given by the Board to the person holding
the permit.
   B.   The person holding the permit is given 15 days in which to comply with
this Part. If the person holding the permit fails to comply with this Part
within the time specified, the permit may be revoked.
(Ord. 4/30/1968B, § 4)
§ 2-205.   Penalty.
   Any person possessing carrier pigeons without obtaining a permit shall, upon
conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $1,000
plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 4/30/1968B, § 5; as amended by A.O.)
Part 3
Prohibited Animals
§ 2-301.   Definitions.
   Animals–all individual species of the bovine, equine and swine families.
   Fly-proof–a state of being constructed so as to effectively prevent entry of
flies.
   Permit–the permit issued by the Secretary of the Board of Commissioners of
the Township of Plains upon approval of said Board.
   Person–any person, firm or corporation owning, stabling, keeping,
maintaining or possessing any animals as above defined.
   Rat-proof–a state of being constructed so as to effectively prevent entry of
rats.
   Sanitary–any condition of good order and cleanliness, which precludes the
probability of disease transmission.
(Ord. 4/30/1968A, § 1)
§ 2-302.   Permit Required.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, stable, keep, maintain or
possess any animals, as defined in this Part, within the corporate limits of
the Township of Plains, except that such animals may be kept under the
conditions as hereinafter set forth provided a permit is obtained.
(Ord. 4/30/1968A, § 2)
§ 2-303.   Permit Application; Fee; Duration.
   1.   A permit may be obtained from the Secretary after an application for
such permit has been filed with and approved by the Board of Commissioners. The
Board shall approve such application only after determining that the applicant
for such permit complies with the requirements for the keeping of such animals
as hereinafter set forth.
   2.   The fee for the permit shall be in an amount as established, from time
to time, by resolution of the Board of Commissioners per year or any fraction
thereof, and all permits shall expire the thirty-first day of December each
year. [A.O.]
(Ord. 4/30/1968A, § 3; as amended by A.O.)
§ 2-304.   Standards.
   Every person seeking a permit shall comply with the following standards:
   A.   The animals shall be confined in an enclosure sufficient to prevent
their running at large, and such enclosure shall be maintained in a clean,
sanitary condition at all times and an efficacious insecticide shall be used as
often as is deemed necessary for this purpose.
   B.   Said persons shall cause the manure and litter to be collected daily in
a container or receptacle of such a type that when closed, it is rat-proof and
fly-proof, and after each such collection shall cause such container or
receptacle to be kept closed. At least twice a week, each such person shall
cause all manure and litter so collected to be disposed of in a way as not to
permit the presence of fly larva.
(Ord. 4/30/1968A, § 4)
§ 2-305.   Revocation of Permit.
   The failure of any person to comply with the provisions of this Chapter
shall be cause for the revocation of the permit by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 4/30/1968A, § 5)
§ 2-306.   Inspection of Premises.
   The premises shall be subject to inspection by the Board of Commissioners or
any of its representatives at any reasonable hour of the day.
(Ord. 4/30/1968A, § 6)
§ 2-307.   Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this
Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 4/30/1968A, § 6; as amended by A.O.)
Part 4
Dogs
A.   Controlling Dogs
§ 2-401.   Dog Leash Requirements.
   No person shall permit any dog to run at large anywhere out of doors in the
Township. This regulations shall apply to all public place and to all private
property. No person shall permit any dog to be out of doors in any place except
unless the dog is on a leash held by a person who is able to control the dog.
Leaving an unattended dog fastened to a leash, chain or dog trolley shall not
be deemed to complying with the requirements of this Section. However, a dog
may be left unattended or unleashed out of doors on private property with
adequate fencing to prevent the dog from leaving the yard. Failure to comply
with this Section, may subject the dog owner to the penalties set forth in §
2-403 whether or not witnessed by the enforcing officer.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5/14/2009, § 1)
§ 2-402.   Clean up and Disposal of Dog Waste.
   Any dog owner who travels in any public place within the Township or any
private property not his or her own, shall be required to clean up all solid
dog waste promptly after it occurs and dispose of it properly. Failure to do so
may subject that party to the penalties set forth in §
2-403 whether or not witnessed by the enforcing officer.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5/14/2009, § 2)
§ 2-403.   Penalty.
   Any person in violation of this Part shall be issued a warning ticket by
either the Township Police, Fire Inspectors or Zoning Officer if this violation
is the first known offense under this Part. If in the event this is a second or
subsequent offense, then violation of this offense will include a fine of not
less than $25 and nor more than $1,000 for each offense plus costs and, in
default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5/14/2009, § 3; as amended by A.O.)
B.   Dog Nuisances
§ 2-411.   Noisy Dogs in Residential Districts.
   Any person who resides in an area of the Township of Plains designated as a
“residential district” by the Planning Commission of the Township of Plains and
who owns or keeps or otherwise maintains a dog shall prevent any noise
whatsoever created by the dog from interfering with or otherwise disturbing in
any manner whatsoever the peace and quiet of any person residing within 200
feet of the boundaries of the lot of land upon which the owner or keeper of the
dog resides.
(Ord. 3/13/1986, § 101)
§ 2-412.   Dogs at Large.
   Any person who resides within an area of the Township of Plains designated
as a “residential district” by the Planning Commission of the Township of
Plains and who owns or keeps or otherwise maintains a dog shall prevent the dog
from running at large and shall prevent the dog from causing any damage of
whatsoever nature to public or private property within the residential
district.
(Ord. 3/13/1986, § 102)
§ 2-413.   Penalties.
   1.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this
Part continues shall constitute a separate offense. [A.O.]
   2.   The Plains Township Police Department shall enforce this Part.
(Ord. 3/13/1986, § 103; as amended by A.O.)
C.   Excessive Number of Cats and/or Dogs as a Nuisance
§ 2-421.   Maximum Number of Animals; Dogs and/or Cats.
   1.   No owner or caretaker of any residential building of residential
structure in any zoning classification within the Township shall knowingly
allow more than three animals of the dog or cat kind or combination of both,
over the age of four months to be kept, harbored or maintained within any
residential building or residential structure or any residential lot or parcel
within the Township without a permit.
   2.   The number of dogs and/or cats permitted in Subsection 1. above may be
increased to no more than six by obtaining a permit issued by the Code
Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer. Such permit shall specify any
restrictions, limitations, conditions or prohibitions which the issuing officer
deems reasonably necessary to protect any person or a neighboring use from
unsanitary conditions, unreasonable noise or odors or annoyance or to protect
the public health, safety or general welfare of the community. Such a permit
may be modified from time to time or revoked by the issuing officer for failure
to conform to such restrictions, limitations, conditions or prohibitions. Such
modification or revocation shall be effective from and after ten days following
the mailing of written notice thereof by certified mail, whether accepted by
that person or not, who is keeping or maintaining such dogs and/or cats.
   3.   The fee for such permit shall be in an amount as established, from time
to time, by resolution of the Board of Commissioners, which shall be paid at
the time of the making of the application therefor. [A.O.]
(Ord. 2009-9, 9/10/2009, § 1; as amended by A.O.)
§ 2-422.   Business Exemption.
   This Section shall not apply to any premises maintained by a licensed
veterinarian, licensed pet shop operator or state licensed pet grooming
business.
(Ord. 2009-9, 9/10/2009, § 2)
§ 2-423.   Disability Exemption.
   Persons with defective eyesight, hearing or other disabilities who must
relay upon a dog specifically trained for these purposes shall not be
considered in determining the number of dogs or cats kept by the individual in
any residential building or residential structure for determining compliance
with this Section.
(Ord. 2009-9, 9/10/2009, § 3)
§ 2-424.   Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said
fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that
a violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2009-9, 9/10/2009, § 4; as amended by A.O.)
Chapter 3
[Reserved]
Chapter 4
[Reserved]
Chapter 5
Code Enforcement
Part 1
Uniform Construction Code
A.   Implementation
§
5-101.   Implementation of Uniform Construction Code
B.   International Building Codes
§
5-111.   International Building and Maintenance Codes
C.   UCC Board of Appeals
Part 2
Office of Code Enforcement
A.   Establishment of Office of Code Enforcement
§
5-201.   Creation of Office of Code Enforcement
§
5-202.   Appointment of Code Enforcement Officer
§
5-203.   Relief from Personal Liability
§
5-204.   Official Record
B.   Duties and Powers of Code Enforcement Officer
§
5-211.   Enforcement by Code Enforcement Officer
§
5-212.   Duties of Code Enforcement Officer
§
5-213.   Right of Entry
C.   Permits, Certificates and Fees
§
5-221.   Permit Required
§
5-222.   Action on Application
§
5-223.   Required Fees
§
5-224.   Certificates
D.   Violations and Penalties
§
5-231.   Procedure in Case of Violations
§
5-232.   Penalties
§
5-233.   Dangerous and Unsafe Conditions and Structures and Dwellings Unfit for
Human Habitation
E.   Variances and Appeals
§
5-241.   Code Hearing Board
§
5-242.   Powers of the Code Hearing Board
§
5-243.   Requests for Appeals or Variances
§
5-244.   Appeals and Variance Procedure
§
5-245.   Appeals from the Decision of the Code Hearing Board
§
5-246.   Reports by the Code Hearing Board
F.   General Provisions
§
5-251.   Saving Clause
§
5-252.   Short Title
Part 3
Tradesmen Licensing
§
5-301.   Definitions
§
5-302.   License Required
§
5-303.   Evidence of Proficiency and Insurance
§
5-304.   General Building Contractor License
§
5-305.   Fees
§
5-306.   Re-testing
§
5-307.   Re-issuance
§
5-308.   Appeals Procedure
§
5-309.   Violations and Penalties
Part 4
Posting of Occupancy Permits
§
5-401.   Posting of Occupancy
§
5-402.   Requirements for Signs
§
5-403.   Inspections
§
5-404.   Penalties
§
5-405.   Additional Remedies
Part 5
International Property Maintenance Code
§
5-501.   Adoption
§
5-502.   Amendments
§
5-503.   Savings Clause
§
5-504.   Effective Date
Part 1
Uniform Construction Code
A.   Implementation
§ 5-101.   Implementation of Uniform Construction Code.
   1.   Plains Township hereby elects to administer and enforce the provisions
of the Pennsylvania Construction Code Act, Act 45 of 1999, 35 P.S. §§ 7210.101
et seq., as amended from time to time, and its regulations.
   2.   The Uniform Construction Code, contained in 34 Pa.Code, Chapters
401–405, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated
herein by reference as the Municipal Building Code of the Plains Township.
   3.   Administration and enforcement of the Code within Plains Township shall
be
undertaken in any of the following ways as determined by the Board of
Commissioners of Plains Township from time to time by resolution:
   A.   By the designation of an employee of Plains Township to serve as the
Township Code Official to act on behalf of the Township.
   B.   By the retention of one or more Construction Code Officials or third
party agencies to act on behalf of the Township.
   C.   By agreement with one or more other municipalities for the joint
administration and enforcement if this Act through an Intermunicipal Agreement.
   D.   By entering into a contract with another municipality for the
administration and enforcement of this Act on behalf of Plains Township.
   E.   By entering into an agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of Labor
and Industry for plan review, inspections and enforcement of structures other
than one-family or two-family dwelling units and utility and miscellaneous use
structures.
   4.   A Board of Appeals shall be established by resolution of the Board of
Commissioners of Plains Township in conformity with the requirements of the
relevant provisions of the Code, as amended from time to time, and for the
purposes set forth therein. If at any time enforcement and administration is
undertaken jointly with one or more other municipalities, said Board of Appeals
shall be established by joint action of the participating municipalities.
   5.   A.   All building code ordinances or portions of ordinances which were
adopted by Plains Township on or before July 1, 1999, and which equal or exceed
the requirements of the Code shall continue in full force and effect until such
time as such provisions fail to equal or exceed the minimum requirements of the
Code, as amended from time to time.
   B.   All building code ordinances or portions of ordinances which are in
effect as of the effective date of this ordinance and whose requirements are
less than the minimum requirements of the Code are hereby amended to conform
with the comparable provisions of the Code.
   C.   All relevant ordinances, regulations and policies of Plains Township
not governed by the Code shall remain in full force and effect.
   6.   Fees assessable by Plains Township for the administration and
enforcement undertaken pursuant to this Part 1A and the Code shall be
established by the Board of Commissioners by resolution from time to time.
(Ord. 2004-4, 6/10/2004)
B.   International Building Codes
§ 5-111.   International Building and Maintenance Codes.
   1.   A certain document, one copy of which are on file in the Office of the
Building Code Official of the Township of Plains, being marked and designated
as:
      A.   2015 International Building Code (excludes Chapters 1 and 30 and
Appendix L).
      B.   2015 International Residential Code (for one- and two-family
dwellings).
      C.   2015 International Fire Code (as referenced in Chapter 35 of the
International Building Code).
      D.   2015 International Plumbing Code.
      E.   2015 International Mechanical Code.
      F.   2015 International Fuel Gas Code.
      G.   2015 International Energy Conservation Code.
      H.   2015 International Existing Building Code.
      I.   2009 International Property Maintenance Code.
      J.   2014 NEC.
   2.   Including all revisions and Appendices (except as noted above) as
published by the International Code Council and the National Electrical Code,
be and is hereby adopted as codes of the Township of Plains, in the State of
Pennsylvania for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all
property, buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied
utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to
ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and,
the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use,
and the demolition of such structures in the Township of Plains; providing, for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor.
   3.   Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of said codes on file in the office of the Township of Plains are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this Part,
with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in
this Part.
(Ord. 2010-2, 3/11/2010, §1; as amended by Ord. 2018-10, 12/13/2018)
C.   UCC Board of Appeals
[Reserved]
Part 2
Office of Code Enforcement
A.   Establishment of Office of Code Enforcement
§ 5-201.   Creation of Office of Code Enforcement.
   There is hereby created by the Township Commissioners an office of the
Township to be known as the “Office of Code Enforcement”. Said Office shall
have the responsibility for administering and enforcing the provisions of this
Part and of those other codes and/or ordinances of the Township (hereinafter
referred to as the “applicable codes and ordinances”) which designate said
Office of Code Enforcement as their Official Administration and Enforcement
Agency.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 1.1)
§ 5-202.   Appointment of Code Enforcement Officer.
   There shall be appointed by the Township Commissioners, a Code Enforcement
Officer who shall be in charge of the Office of Code Enforcement of the
Township. The Code Enforcement Officer shall supervise such other employees or
assistants as shall be necessary for the administration and execution of the
responsibilities of said Office, as appointed and approved by the Township
Commissioners. Said Code Enforcement Officer and other personnel may consist of
employees directly hired and compensated by the Township and of/or employees
designated by the Luzerne County Planning Department and/or the Redevelopment
Authority of the County of Luzerne in accordance with the agreements provided
for under §
5-201 above. Any such Code Enforcement Officer and other personnel designated
by said Department and/or Authority, pursuant to such agreements shall be
deemed to have all of the duties and powers provided in this Part and in the
applicable codes and ordinances of the Township and shall represent the
Township to the same extent as if appointed directly by the Township. The
Township Commissioners may also designate a Code Liaison Officer who shall
coordinate all local activities and responsibilities of the Township related to
code enforcement with the Luzerne County Planning Department and/or with the
Redevelopment Authority of the County of Luzerne.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 1.2)
§ 5-203.   Relief from Personal Liability.
   The Code Enforcement Officer or other official or employee shall not, while
acting for the Township, render himself or herself liable personally because of
any act or omission as required or permitted in the discharge of his or her
official duties. Any suit instituted against such Code Enforcement Officer,
official or employee, because of any act performed by him or her in the lawful
discharge of his or her duties, shall be defended by the Solicitor of the
Township and in no case will said officer, official or employee be liable for
costs in any action, suit or proceeding.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 1.3)
§ 5-204.   Official Record.
   An official record shall be kept of all business and activities of the
Office of Code Enforcement and all such records shall be open to the public for
inspection at all appropriate times, except that no individual, owner,
operator, occupant or other person shall be subject to unwarranted invasion of
privacy and except that all evidence or information obtained in the course of
any inspection shall be considered privileged information and shall be kept
confidential. Such evidence or information shall not be disclosed except as may
be necessary in the judgment of the Code Enforcement Officer for the proper and
effective administration and enforcement of the provisions of this Part and
shall not otherwise be made public without the consent of the owner, occupant,
operator or other person in charge of the unit, structure or premises
inspected.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 1.4)
B.   Duties and Powers of Code Enforcement Officer
§ 5-211.   Enforcement by Code Enforcement Officer.
   The Code Enforcement Officer shall enforce and administer all of the
provisions of this Part and of those other applicable codes and ordinances
which establish the Office of Code Enforcement as their official administration
and enforcement agency.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 2.1)
§ 5-212.   Duties of Code Enforcement Officer.
   The duties of the Code Enforcement Officer shall include the receipt of
applications, the issuance of permits, notices, certificates and orders, the
making of inspections to determine conformance with applicable codes and
ordinances, the undertaking of systematic inspection programs, the undertaking
of research and investigations, the recommendation of appropriate
administrative rules for review and adoption by the Code Hearing Board, the
keeping of records, the issuance of written annual reports and such other
activities as may be required.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 2.2)
§ 5-213.   Right of Entry.
   1.   In the discharge of his or her duties the Code Enforcement Officer or
his or her authorized representative, upon showing proper identification where
requested, is hereby authorized to enter and inspect, at any reasonable hour,
any structure or premises in the Township to enforce the provisions of this
Part and of those other applicable codes and ordinances. The assistance and
cooperation of all other municipality officials, including Police and Fire
Department, shall be available to the Code Enforcement Officer to assist in the
performance of his or her duties and in securing right-of-entry.
   2.   The Code Enforcement Officer and the owner, operator or occupant or
other person in charge of any structure or premises subject to the provisions
of this Part may agree to an inspection by appointment at a mutually convenient
time.
   3.   The owner, operator or occupant or other person in charge of any
structure or premises shall give the Code Enforcement Officer entry and free
access thereto and to every part of the structure or to the premises
surrounding the structure.
   4.   If any owner, operator or occupant or other person in charge fails or
refuses to permit entry and free access to the structure or premises under his
or her control, or to any part thereof, with respect to any authorized
inspection, the Code Enforcement Officer may, upon showing that probable cause
exists for the inspection may file a complaint and may petition for and obtain
an order directing compliance with the inspection requirements of this Part
from a court of competent jurisdiction. Any person who refuses to comply with
such an order issued pursuant to this Section shall be subject to such
penalties as may be authorized by law for violation of a court order.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 2.3)
C.   Permits, Certificates and Fees
§ 5-221.   Permit Required.
   An application for a permit shall be required in accordance with the
provisions of those other applicable codes and ordinances which the Office of
Code Enforcement has the responsibility to administer. Said application shall
be submitted in such form as may be prescribed by the Code Enforcement Officer
and shall be accompanied by any required fee.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 3.1)
§ 5-222.   Action on Application.
   The Code Enforcement Officer shall examine said application to determine
compliance with those other applicable codes and ordinances of the Township and
shall, within 15 days after filing, either approve or reject said application.
If said application is rejected, the Code Enforcement Officer shall inform the
applicant in writing, stating the reasons for such rejection.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 3.2)
§ 5-223.   Required Fees.
   Applicants for permits required by any of the applicable codes and
ordinances shall pay, at the time of application, to the Code Enforcement
Officer, for use by the Township, fees in accordance with the schedule as
established and amended from time to time by resolution of the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 3.3; as amended by Ord. 5/15/1974A, 5/15/1974; by Ord. 5/
15/1974B, 5/15/1974; by Ord. 2/7/1980; by Ord. 1991-5, 12/12/1991; by Ord.
1993-3, 2/11/1993; and by A.O.)
§ 5-224.   Certificates.
   The following certificates shall be required in accordance with the
provisions of those other applicable codes or ordinances which the Office of
Code Enforcement has the responsibility to administer. Said certificates may be
issued separately or combined in the form of a single certificate.
   A.   Certificate of use and occupancy. In accordance with § 111 of the
International Building Code, a certificate of use and occupancy shall be
required, and no new building or portion of an existing building which is
enlarged or altered, shall be used or occupied in whole or in part, until such
a certificate of use and occupancy shall have been issued by the Code
Enforcement Officer. [A.O.]
   B.   Certificate of approval. A certificate of approval shall be required
for any electrical or plumbing work completed under the provisions of the
applicable codes and ordinances. All applicants shall apply to the Office of
Code Enforcement for such a certificate of approval within 30 days of the
completion of the building, structure, work or premises.
   C.   Other certificates. Any other permits, certificates or licenses, as
required by the applicable codes and ordinances shall be obtained by the
applicant in accordance with the provisions of said applicable codes and
ordinances. Application for such permits, certificates or licenses shall be
made to the Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 3.4; as amended by A.O.)
D.   Violations and Penalties
§ 5-231.   Procedure in Case of Violations.
   Whenever the Code Enforcement Officer determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this
Part or of the other applicable codes and ordinances, or of any rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, he or she shall proceed as follows:
   A.   Serve notice in writing of the alleged violation which shall be signed
by the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her authorized representative. Said
notice shall be served personally to the responsible owner, occupant, operator
or other person in charge; or served by registered mail with a return receipt
requested or where such responsible person in charge cannot be found, service
may be made by posting a notice in or about the structure or premises or by
publishing such notice in a newspaper of general circulation for a period of
three consecutive days; or served by any other method authorized under the laws
of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   B.   Said notice shall include a statement of the reasons why the notice is
being issued, the Sections of the Code and/or ordinances which have been
violated, and the remedial actions required.
   C.   Said notice shall allow a reasonable time, not to exceed 60 days, for
the initiation and correction of the violation alleged or of the remedial
actions required, except where emergency conditions exist which require
immediate corrective action.
   D.   Said notice shall contain a statement indicating that the notice will
become an order if no request and approval for an extension of time is made to
the Code Enforcement Officer or if no petition for an appeal or hearing is
requested before the Code Hearing Board within 15 days from the receipt of said
notice.
   E.   The Code Enforcement Officer may grant a request for a reasonable
extension of time where he or she has evidence to believe that the responsible
person is attempting to remove the alleged violation. However, no such
extension of time may exceed a period of 90 days unless authorized by the Code
Hearing Board upon appeal of the responsible owner, operator, occupant or other
person in charge.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 4.1)
§ 5-232.   Penalties.
   1.   Any person who fails to correct a violation or take a remedial action
as ordered by the Code Enforcement Officer or who violates a provision or fails
to comply with any requirements of this Part or of any of the other applicable
codes or ordinances shall be subject, for each violation, to a fine of not less
than $10 nor more than $1,000 and costs of prosecution; and in default of
payment of such fine and costs to imprisonment not exceeding 30 days and each
days failure to comply with any such provision or requirement or any such order
shall constitute a separate offense. [A.O.]
   2.   The imposition of the penalties, herein prescribed shall not preclude
the Solicitor representing the Township from initiating, and he or she is
hereby ordered to initiate, appropriate actions or proceedings at law, or in
equity, to effect the purposes of this Part.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 4.2; as amended by Ord. 5/29/1975, § 18-14; and by A.O.)
§ 5-233.   Dangerous and Unsafe Conditions and Structures and Dwellings Unfit
for Human Habitation.
   Structures which contain dwellings which are unfit for human habitation, or
structures which are dangerous or unsafe and structures which contain dangerous
conditions or materials, as defined by the applicable codes and ordinances of
the Township are hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   A.   General procedure. The Code Enforcement Officer shall order the
responsible owner, operator, occupant or person in charge of the structure or
premises which are dangerous, unsafe or unfit for human habitation to vacate,
repair and/or demolish said structure and to remove the public nuisance as
provided for in this Part and in the applicable codes and ordinances of the
Township in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   B.   Failure to comply. Whenever an order to vacate, repair and/or demolish
a structure which is a public nuisance because it is unsafe, dangerous or unfit
for human habitation has not been complied with, the Code Enforcement Officer
may, in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, proceed
to cause the structure to be vacated, repaired and/or demolished or take such
other action as is necessary to abate the nuisance. Abatement under this
Section shall not commence until at least ten days after the service of the
order, except that the Code Enforcement Officer may determine that more
immediate action is required because of the special emergency or dangerous
conditions which exist.
   C.   Recovery of expenses. The expenses incurred pursuant to Subsection B.
of this Section and of the other applicable codes and ordinances shall be paid
by the responsible owner, operator or occupant or by the persons who caused or
maintained such a public nuisance. The Code Enforcement Officer shall file on
his or her records an affidavit stating with fairness and accuracy the items
and date of the expenses incurred. The Township Commissioners may institute a
suit to recover such expenses to be charged against the property as a lien.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 4.3)
E.   Variances and Appeals
§ 5-241.   Code Hearing Board.
   There is hereby established a Code Hearing Board, appointed by the Township
Commissioners consisting of not less than three members nor more than five
members who shall serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed for
necessary and reasonable expenses. Their terms of office shall be for three
years, except for those first appointed, so fixed that the term of office of at
least one member shall expire each year. Appointments to fill vacancies shall
be only for the unexpired portion of the term.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 5.1)
§ 5-242.   Powers of the Code Hearing Board.
   The Code Hearing Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   Interpretation. On appeal from a determination of the Code Enforcement
Officer or on request of any Township Official, the Code Hearing Board shall
decide any questions involving the interpretation of any provision of this Part
or of those other applicable codes and ordinances.
   B.   Variances. The Code Hearing Board may grant a variance from the strict
application of this Part or of those other applicable codes. Such variances may
be granted only in those cases which would result in practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship and where the public health and safety shall not be
jeopardized.
   C.   Decide appeals. The Code Hearing Board shall hear all appeals made to
it and, depending on its findings, shall decide whether such appeals shall be
granted.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 5.2)
§ 5-243.   Requests for Appeals or Variances.
   Any person requesting a variance or aggrieved by a decision of the Code
Enforcement Officer or by any other employee or official charged with the
administration and enforcement of this Part and of those other applicable codes
or ordinances, may take an appeal to the Code Hearing Board. All appeals shall
be made in writing stating the grounds upon which the appeal is based and shall
be transmitted to the Office of Code Enforcement. An appeal must be taken
within 15 days of the action or of the receipt of written notice of any
decision or ruling which is being appealed.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 5.3)
§ 5-244.   Appeals and Variance Procedure.
   1.   Public hearing. The Code Hearing Board shall meet and conduct a hearing
within 30 days of the receipt of an appeal or a request for a variance. All
hearings shall be public and all persons whose interest may be affected shall
be given an opportunity to be heard. A record shall be kept of all evidence and
testimony presented at the hearing.
   2.   Decision of the Board. All decisions of the Board shall be in writing
and a copy of each decision shall be sent to the applicant and to the Code
Enforcement Officer. The Code Hearing Board shall also retain in its files a
copy of each decision, which files shall be available for inspection by the
public. Each decision shall set forth fully the reasons for the decision of the
Code Hearing Board and the findings of fact on which the decision was based.
The Code Hearing Board shall make an order on its decision and the Code
Enforcement Officer shall take immediate action to carry out said order.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 5.4)
§ 5-245.   Appeals from the Decision of the Code Hearing Board.
   Any person or persons aggrieved by any final order or decision of the Code
Hearing Board may appeal such order or decision within 30 days, to the Court of
Common Pleas in accordance with, as far as practicable, the Rules of Civil
Procedure of the Supreme Court regarding appeals from administrative agencies.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 5.5)
§ 5-246.   Reports by the Code Hearing Board.
   The Code Hearing Board shall report to the Township Commissioners
periodically, at intervals of not later than 12 months. The report shall
summarize all applications and appeals made to it since the last report and
shall contain a summary of the Board’s decision on each case. A copy of the
report shall be filed with the Code Enforcement Officer. The Code Hearing Board
may also submit to the Township Commissioners advisory reports recommending
changes and modifications in this Part or in those other applicable codes or
ordinances.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 5.6)
F.   General Provisions
§ 5-251.   Saving Clause.
   Nothing in this Part shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding now
pending in any court, or any actions recurred, or liability incurred, or any
clause or clauses of action accrued or existing, under any act or ordinance
repealed hereby. No right or remedy of any character shall be lost, impaired or
affected by this Part.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 6.1)
§ 5-252.   Short Title.
   This Part shall be known and may be cited as the “Code Enforcement Ordinance
of the Township”.
(Ord. 12/5/1973A, § 6.4)
Part 3
Tradesmen Licensing
§ 5-301.   Definitions.
   As used in this Part, the builders terms shall have the meanings indicated:
   Electrician–a tradesmen who regularly engages in electrical work in either
or both residential or commercial structures.
   General building contractor–a tradesmen who engage in construction and
remodeling of residential or commercial structures not including the provision
of electrical, plumbing or HVAC services.
   Heating ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) tradesmen–a tradesmen who
regularly engages in and works in the trade of providing climate control to
residential or commercial structures.
   Licensing officer–the Zoning Officer and/or Code Enforcement Officer.
   Plumber–
   Apprentice plumber–a apprentice plumber is a person who is learning the
plumbing trade and is employed and supervised by a license master plumber.
   Journeyman plumber–a journeyman plumber is a person who regularly engages in
and works at the plumbing trade and is employed and supervised by a licensed
master plumber.
   Master plumber–a master plumber is a person who regularly engages in and
works at the plumbing trade, who employees and directs journeyman plumbers and
apprentice plumbers, and who is entitled to secure permits for the installation
or repair of plumbing.
(Ord. 2009-5A, 6/11/2009, § 1)
§ 5-302.   License Required.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to engage in the business or
occupations of plumber, electrician, HVAC or general building contractor shall
apply to the Licensing Officer for a license and registration as herein
required.
(Ord. 2009-5A, 6/11/2009, § 2)
§ 5-303.   Evidence of Proficiency and Insurance.
   1.   All contractors, tradesmen, plumbers and electricians shall be licensed
within the Township of Plains, but first shall be required to successfully take
tests as administered by or on behalf of Plains Township; or supply evidence of
licensing within Pennsylvania by a state or national testing organization
evidencing knowledge of necessary and appropriate codes and proficiency in the
aforementioned trades. The Licensing Officer or such person or agency appointed
by the Township of Plains shall determine the adequacy and sufficiency of the
credential and the testing jurisdiction, agency or organization. Deemed testing
provided by applicant from outside the Township must have been completed within
the last three years.
   2.   Furthermore, said applicant shall supply the Licensing Bureau with a
copy of his or her public liability and property damage insurance policy or
policies indicating coverage in the minimum amount of $300,000 and $500,000 for
public liability and $50,000 for property damage. In addition, applicant shall
provide proof of adequate workers compensation insurance to be determined by
the Licensing Officer.
(Ord. 2009-5A, 6/11/2009, § 3)
§ 5-304.   General Building Contractor License.
   Individuals seeking a license as a general building contractor in the
Township of Plains shall present himself or herself before the Licensing
Officer or such person or agency appointed by the Township of Plains at a time
and place fixed by the Township, wherein his or her qualifications and
knowledge shall be inquired into. If the Licensing Officer or such outside
party shall find, upon due examination, that the applicant presenting himself
or herself has reasonable knowledge of construction codes and proper building
techniques and skills and is possessed of skill and knowledge in matters
pertaining to the construction of residential and/or commercial structures,
then the Licensing Officer upon proof of the payment of the fee herein
provided, and upon filing with the Licensing Officer a copy of his or her
public liability and property damage insurance policy or policies indicating
coverage in the minimum amount of $300,000 and $500,000 for public liability
and $50,000 for property damage; and such proper workers compensation insurance
shall issue to said person a general building contractors license.
(Ord. 2009-5A, 6/11/2009, § 4)
§ 5-305.   Fees.
   1.   An applicant who cannot meet the requirements of §§
5-303 or 5-304 shall be required to complete an application and submit payment
of a fee in an amount as established, from time to time, by resolution of the
Board of Commissioners in order to register for the next testing date. The
applicant may continue to perform work in their field until the next testing
date. [A.O.]
   2.   All licenses shall expire December 31 of the year issued.
(Ord. 2009-5A, 6/11/2009, § 5; as amended by A.O.)
§ 5-306.   Re-testing.
   Any applicant who is unsuccessful in passing the examination prescribed by
the Licensing Officer will be permitted to take a re-examination not less than
30 days after the date of the unsuccessful examination. If, after failing such
test, the applicant shall not be able to continue work in their field until
such time as they are re-examined and successfully complete the exam.
(Ord. 2009-5A, 6/11/2009, § 6)
§ 5-307.   Re-issuance.
   Any licensee desiring to continue to practice the profession or trade for
the year following the expiration of the current license shall, between the
first and thirty-first day of December of each and every year, surrender the
current license for the then current year to the Licensing Officer, which shall
forthwith, upon proof of his or her proficiency and payment of the proper fee
hereinafter provided, file of a copy of current required insurance policy or
policies regarding public liability and property damage, and shall provide
proof of adequate workers compensation insurance, issue to the applicant a
license for the ensuing year.
(Ord. 2009-5A, 6/11/2009, § 7)
§ 5-308.   Appeals Procedure.
   1.   An appeal from any decision of the Licensing Officer may be taken to
the Appeals Board. Such board shall be the same Board as established as an
Appeals Board relating to the Uniform Construction Code. Such appeal shall be
made in writing within ten days after such decision has been made, shall be
verified by affidavit and filed with the Township Secretary. A hearing shall be
scheduled by the Appeals Board within 30 days after the appeal has been filed.
The appellant or his or her representative shall have the right to appear and
be heard, if such right is requested in the written appeal. The decision on
such appeal should be made by the Appeals Board within ten days after the
hearing. The decision of the Appeals Board on such appeals shall be in writing,
copies of which shall be served on the Licensing Officer and the appellant.
   2.   A fee in an amount as established, from time to time, by resolution of
the Board of Commissioners shall be payable in advance to the Township
Treasurer for each appeal taken to the Appeals Board from a decision of the
Licensing Officer to cover the cost of notices and hearing of the appeal. This
fee shall be refundable to the appellant in such instances when the Appeals
Board reverses the decision of the Licensing Officer. [A.O.]
(Ord. 2009-5A, 6/11/2009, § 8; as amended by A.O.)
§ 5-309.   Violations and Penalties.
   Any person who shall perform any work as a tradesman subject to licensing of
this provision, or who shall fail to comply with the lawful regulations, order
and direction of the Licensing Officer, shall be liable, on conviction thereof,
to a fine or penalty not exceeding $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment
of said fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, or
both; and, whenever such person shall have been notified by the Licensing
Officer, or by service of summons in prosecution, or in any other way, that he
or she is committing such violations of this Part, each day in which he or she
shall continue such violations after such notification shall constitute a
separate offense punishable by a like fine or penalty. Such fines or penalties
shall be collected as like fines or penalties are now by law collected.
(Ord. 2009-5A, 6/11/2009, § 9; as amended by A.O.)
Part 4
Posting of Occupancy Permits
§ 5-401.   Posting of Occupancy.
   No place of assembly or public gathering place including, but not limited
to, places which serve food and or drink shall be required to post signs
indicating the number of persons who may legally occupy the space and/or
establishment.
(Ord. 2008-3, 6/12/2008, § 1)
§ 5-402.   Requirements for Signs.
   Said signs shall be at least eight inches wide and 12 inches high. Signs
shall be framed under a transparent protective cover and permanently maintained
in a location that is conspicuously visible to a person entering the space or
establishment. Signs shall be lighted by certified illumination at all times
during occupancy to maintain at least five footcandles on the surface of the
sign.
(Ord. 2008-3, 6/12/2008, § 2)
§ 5-403.   Inspections.
   All establishments, businesses or spaces not already complying with this
Part shall be given 45 days to fully and completely comply with this posting
requirement. The building inspection and/or fire operations are authorized to
inspect for the proper posting of signs.
(Ord. 2008-3, 6/12/2008, § 3)
§ 5-404.   Penalties.
   Any establishment found in violation of this order after the 45 days
compliance period shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs
and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment
not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2008-3, 6/12/2008, § 5; as amended by A.O.)
§ 5-405.   Additional Remedies.
   In addition to any fines for violation of this Part, the building inspectors
and or fire safety inspectors may order the establishment closed until such
time as the owner complies with this Part. Failure to comply with this order
shall allow either inspectors with the assistance of the Township Solicitor the
right to seek further occupying any part of the building until such time as
this Part is complied with.
(Ord. 2008-3, 6/12/2008, § 6)
Part 5
International Property Maintenance Code
§ 5-501.   Adoption.
   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of the
Secretary of Board of Commissioners of the Township of Plains, being marked and
designated as the International Property Maintenance Code, 2009 edition, as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
Property Maintenance Code of the Township of Plains, in the State of
Pennsylvania for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all
property, buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied
utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to
ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use, and
the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use,
and the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing
for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore; and each and all
of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
Property Maintenance Code on file in the office of the Township of Plains are
hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in
this Part, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in §
5-502 of this Part.
(Ord. 2006-6, –/–/2006, § 1)
§ 5-502.   Amendments.
   The following sections are hereby revised:
   A.   Section 101.1. Insert: the Township of Plains.
   B.   Section 103.5. Insert: Per unit fee schedule as established, from time
to time, by resolution of the Board of Commissioners. [A.O.]
   C.   Section 302.4. Insert: Eight inches (High weed) April 30–October 15.
   D.   Section 304.14. Insert: May 15–Sept 15 (Screens required).
   E.   Section 602.3. Insert: September 15–May 15 (An approved operational
heat source).
   F.   Section 602.4. Insert: Sept 15–May 15 (Occupiable workspace heating
required).
(Ord. 2006-6, –/–/2006, § 2; as amended by A.O.)
§ 5-503.   Savings Clause.
   Nothing in this Part or in the Property Maintenance Code hereby adopted
shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any court, or
any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action
acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed; nor shall any
just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by
this Part.
(Ord. 2006-6, –/–/2006, § 5)
§ 5-504.   Effective Date.
   All subsequent versions of the International Property Maintenance Code shall
be effective on December 15 of the calendar year in which said Code is
published (every three years).
(Ord. 2006-6, –/–/2006, § 7)
Chapter 6
Conduct
Part 1
Nighttime Curfew for Minors
§
6-101.   Purpose
§
6-102.   Curfew Established
§
6-103.   Penalty
Part 2
Discharge of Firearms
§
6-201.   Purpose
§
6-202.   Use Restricted
§
6-203.   Exceptions
§
6-204.   Violations and Penalties
Part 3
Littering
§
6-301.   Littering Prohibited
§
6-302.   Penalties
§
6-303.   Dangerous Litter Prohibited
Part 4
Open Containers
§
6-401.   Definition
§
6-402.   Consumption
§
6-403.   Open Container
§
6-404.   License Not to Permit Removal of Open Container
§
6-405.   Open Container in Motor Vehicles
§
6-406.   Sign Required
§
6-407.   Penalty
Part 5
Obscene Materials
§
6-501.   Sale or Distribution of Obscene Materials
§
6-502.   Exhibitions
§
6-503.   Shows or Presentations
§
6-504.   Participation in Exhibition or Sale
§
6-505.   Owner of Premises
§
6-506.   Advertising
§
6-507.   Criteria to Establish Obscenity
§
6-508.   Definitions
§
6-509.   Validity
Part 6
Graffiti
§
6-601.   Purpose and Intent
§
6-602.   Definition
§
6-603.   Prohibition
§
6-604.   Penalty
§
6-605.   Recovery of Costs
Part 7
Smoking Prohibited
§
6-701.   Smoking Prohibited
§
6-702.   Township Employees Disciplined
§
6-703.   Penalty
Part 8
Disorderly Conduct
§6-801.   Acting in disorderly manner
§6-802.   Public drunkenness/disturbing the peace
§6-803.   Use of drug paraphernalia
Part 1
Nighttime Curfew for Minors
§ 6-101.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Part is to promote the safety and good order of the
community by helping to eradicate rowdiness, excessive noise, vandalism,
harassment, graffiti, drug dealing and other behavior caused by juveniles that
adds to disorder in the community; and to encourage school attendance and
parental responsibility.
(Ord. 1997-3, 6/22/1997, § 1)
§ 6-102.   Curfew Established.
   1.   Evening curfew.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any child under the age of 18 years to remain
in or upon any public street, alley, highway, park or other public place in the
Township, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. and unlawful under the
same conditions for children under the age of eight, between the hours of 8:00
p.m. Eastern Standard Time and 6:00 a.m.; and between the hours of 9:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m. when Daylight Saving Time is in effect unless:
   (1)   Such child shall be accompanied by a parent, guardian or other person,
in parental relation, having the legal custody, control or charge of such
child.
   (2)   Such child shall be lawfully employed, in the course of which
employment it is necessary to use such public street, alley, highway or other
public place for such employment.
   (3)   Such child is on lawful and necessary business for their parent,
guardian or other person in parental relation having the legal custody, control
or charge of such child.
   (4)   Such child is returning from a school, religious, recreational or job
activity.
   (5)   Such child is exercising First Amendment rights protected by the
Constitution.
   (6)   Such child is on an emergency errand authorized by their parent,
guardian or other person in parental relation having the legal custody, control
or charge of such child.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or person in parental
relation having control of any child under the age of 18 years to permit such
child to be or remain in or upon any public street, alley, highway, park or
other public place, in the Township between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. and unlawful under the same conditions for children under the age of
eight, between the hours of 8:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time and 6:00 a.m.; and
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. when Daylight Saving Time is in
effect unless:
   (1)   Such child shall be lawfully employed, in the course of which
employment it is necessary to use such public street, alley, highway or other
public place for such employment.
   (2)   Such child is on lawful and necessary business for their parent,
guardian or other person in parental relation having the legal custody, control
or charge of such child.
   (3)   Such child is returning from a school, religious, recreational or job
activity.
   (4)   Such child is exercising First Amendment rights protected by the
Constitution.
   (5)   Such child is on an emergency errand authorized by their parent,
guardian or other person in parental relation having the legal custody, control
or charge of such child.
   2.   Daytime curfew.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any child of compulsory school age enrolled in
any elementary or secondary school to be or remain in or upon any public
street, alley, highway, park or other public place, in the Township between the
hours of 9:00 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. on any day for which school is in session,
unless such child is on a scheduled vacation or holiday observed by the school,
or that the child has permission to be absent from school or to be in a public
place from an authorized school official. In the case of a child educated
through a home school program pursuant to the Pennsylvania Public School Code,
§ 1327.1, “Home Education”, 24 P.S. § 13-1327.1, a parent shall be deemed an
authorized official.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or person in parental
relation, having control or charge of any child of compulsory school age to
permit such child to be or remain in or upon any public street, alley, highway,
park or public place in the Township between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 2:30
p.m. on any day for which school is in session, unless such child is on a
scheduled vacation or holiday observed by the school, or that the child has
permission to be absent from the school or to be in a public place from an
authorized school official. In the case of a child educated through a home
school program pursuant to Pennsylvania Public School Code, § 1327.1, “Home
Education”, 24 P.S. § 13-1327.1, a parent shall be deemed an authorized
official.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to act as an accomplice in
violating any provisions of this Part if with the intent of promoting or
facilitating the commission of the offense they:
   (1)   Solicit the child to commit it.
   (2)   Aid, agree or attempt to aid such other person in planning or
committing it.
(Ord. 1997-3, 6/22/1997, § 2)
§ 6-103.   Penalty.
   1.   Evening curfew violation.
   A.   Offense of child.
   (1)   Any child in violation of this Part shall be taken into custody by the
Police Department and delivered to his or her parents, guardian or other person
in parental relation having the legal custody, control or charge of such child,
and shall be cited for a summary violation and a fine of not less than $25 nor
more than $1,000 plus court costs shall be imposed for the first offense. In
default of payment of said fine and costs it shall be referred by the
magisterial district judge to the Juvenile Court pursuant to the Juvenile Act,
42 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6301 et seq. In lieu of a fine a minimum of two and one-half
hours of community service may be assigned.
   (2)   Any child who shall fail to comply with the provisions of this Part
relating to the evening curfew for a second offense shall be sentenced on
summary conviction to pay a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,000. In
default of payment of said fine and costs, it shall be referred by the
magisterial district judge to the Juvenile Court pursuant to the Juvenile Act,
42 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6301 et seq. In lieu of a fine a minimum of ten hours of
community service may be assigned.
   (3)   Any child who shall fail to comply with the provisions of this Part
relating to the evening curfew on the third offense shall be sentenced upon
summary conviction to pay a fine of not less than $300 nor more than $1,000. In
default of payment of said fine and costs it shall be referred by the
magisterial district judge pursuant to the Juvenile Act, 42 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6301
et seq. In lieu of a fine a minimum of 30 hours of community service may be
assigned.
[A.O.]
   B.   Age determination. In taking children into custody, the Police
Department shall use its discretionary judgment in determining age, and in
doubtful cases may require proof thereof, and until such proof is established,
the determination based on such officer’s judgment shall prevail.
   C.   Multiple offenses. Any child, whether a resident or non-resident of the
Township, who shall violate this Part four or more times shall be reported to
the proper juvenile correctional authorities of the County of Luzerne for the
appropriate action pursuant to the Juvenile Act, 42 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6301 et seq.
   D.   Offense of the parent. Every parent, guardian or person in parental
relation, having control or charge of any child who shall fail to comply with
the provisions of this Part relating to evening curfew, shall upon summary
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $50 and not
more than $1,000, for each offense, together with costs, and in default of
payment of such fine and costs, shall be sentenced to imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days. In lieu of a fine a minimum of five hours of community service
may be assigned. [A.O.]
   2.   Daytime curfew violation.
   A.   Offense of child.
   (1)   Any child in violation of this daytime curfew shall be taken into
custody by the Police Department and his or her parents, guardian or other
person in parental relation having the legal custody, control or charge of such
child notified and the child transported to the school he or she is enrolled in
and shall be cited for a summary violation and a fine of not less than $25 nor
more than $1,000 plus court costs shall be imposed for the first offense. In
default of payment of said fine and costs it shall be referred by the
magisterial district judge to the Juvenile Court pursuant to the Juvenile Act,
42 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6301 et seq. In lieu of a fine, a minimum of two and one-half
hours of community service may be assigned.
   (2)   Any child who shall fail to comply with the provisions of this Part
relating to the daytime curfew for a second offense shall be sentenced upon
summary conviction to pay a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,000. In
default of payment of said fine and costs it shall be referred by the
magisterial district judge to Juvenile Court pursuant to the Juvenile Act, 42
Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6301 et seq. In lieu of a fine, a minimum of ten hours of
community service may be assigned.
   (3)   Any child who shall fail to comply with the provisions of this Part
relating to the daytime curfew on the third offense shall be sentenced upon
summary conviction to pay a fine of not less than $300 nor more than $1,000. In
default of payment of said fine and costs, it shall be referred by the
magisterial district judge to the Juvenile Court pursuant to the Juvenile Act,
42 Pa C.S.A. §§ 6301 et seq. In lieu of a fine, a minimum of 30 hours of
community service may be assigned.
[A.O.]
   B.   Offense of the parent. Every parent, guardian or person in parental
relation having control or charge of any child of compulsory school age, who
shall fail to comply with the provisions of this Part relating to daytime
curfew, shall upon summary conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of
not less than $100 and not more than $1,000 for each offense, plus court costs,
and in default of payment of such fine and costs, shall be imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days. In lieu of a fine a minimum of ten hours of community service
may be assigned. [A.O.]
   C.   Accomplices. Any person found to be an accomplice shall upon summary
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine, not less than $100 and not more
than $1,000 for each offense, plus costs of prosecution, and in default of
payment of such fine and costs, shall be imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. In
cases of default of payment where the accomplice is determined to be a juvenile
legally disenrolled from school, the accomplice shall be referred, by the
magisterial district judge, to the Juvenile Court pursuant to the Juvenile Act,
42 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 6301 et seq. In lieu of a fine, a minimum of ten hours of
community service may be assigned. [A.O.]
(Ord. 1997-3, 6/22/1997, § 4; as amended by A.O.)
Part 2
Discharge of Firearms
§ 6-201.   Purpose.
   Whereas, recently the discharge of firearms and other weapons in or about
the immediate area of the residents of Plains Township, including young
children, as well as in the vicinity of residential homes and occupied office
buildings, has become a safety problem and concern. Therefore, in order to deal
with the discharge of firearms and other weapons in and near persons or
property about the populated area of the Township, and in order to provide for
the safety of children, adults, personal property and real property, the Board
of Commissioners hereby adopts this Part for the safety of its residents, and
real property located in the Township of Plains.
(Ord. 1996-7, 12/12/1996, § 1)
§ 6-202.   Use Restricted.
   No person shall, fire or discharge any pistol, rifle, shotgun, bow and arrow
or any firearm or weapon from which a shot, projectile or other object is fired
or discharged within the Township of Plains, except as herein provided.
(Ord. 1996-7, 12/12/1996, § 2)
§ 6-203.   Exceptions.
   1.   A duly appointed law enforcement officer while in the performance of
his or her official duties, in target practice or any other function of his or
her employment.
   2.   When necessary in defense of person or property as provided in
Chapter 5, “General Principles of Justification”, of the Crimes Code, 18
Pa.C.S.A. §§ 501 et seq.
   3.   Any person licensed to hunt in this Commonwealth and lawfully engaged
in hunting as defined and regulated by the Pennsylvania Game and Wildlife Code,
34 Pa. C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq., as amended.
   4.   Any person over the age of 18 years using a firearm to control wildlife
in the protection of cultivated crops, fruit trees, vegetables, life stock,
poultry or other property; provided, however, that such use of the firearm
shall comply with the requirements of the Pennsylvania Game and Wildlife Code,
34 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq.
(Ord. 1996-7, 12/12/1996, § 3)
§ 6-204.   Violations and Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this
Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1996-7, 12/12/1996, § 4; as amended by A.O.)
Part 3
Littering
§ 6-301.   Littering Prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation or any agent
thereof to place, throw, store, accumulate or maintain, or cause to be placed,
thrown, stored, accumulated or maintained any used cans, papers, paper boxes,
used lumber, rubbish, debris, animal matter, garbage, empty bottles or other
containers upon property located within the Township or on or near any alley,
highway or stream located in said Township ordinance dealing with the
collection of garbage, refuse, trash or solid waste.
(Ord. 6/1/1988, § 1)
§ 6-302.   Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this
Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 6/1/1988, §§ 2, 4; as amended by A.O.)
§ 6-303.   Dangerous Litter Prohibited.
   No person or persons, firm or corporation shall place, cast, throw or permit
to remain upon any of the sidewalks or tree lawns, streets or highways in the
Township, or upon any recreational area owned by the Township or Township
Authority, any piece of glass or of sharp or pointed metal or plastic or any
skin of a banana or any other fruit or any other article or substance or matter
which might be a source of danger and possible accident or injury to any person
walking upon such sidewalks, tree lawn or area, streets or highways.
(Ord. 6/1/1988, § 3)
Part 4
Open Containers
§ 6-401.   Definition.
   As used in this Part, the following term has the following meaning.
   Alcoholic liquor–any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing
more than one-half of one percent of alcohol by volume, which is fit for
beverage purposes or intended for beverage purposes.
(Ord. 2009-1, 1/8/2009, § 1)
§ 6-402.   Consumption.
   No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor while in or upon public
streets, alleys, sidewalks, parking lots or any other public way.
(Ord. 2009-1, 1/8/2009, § 2)
§ 6-403.   Open Container.
   No person shall be in possession of any glass, can or open container
containing alcoholic liquor on any thoroughfare, street, sidewalk, alley,
parking lots or any other public way.
(Ord. 2009-1, 1/8/2009, § 3)
§ 6-404.   License Not to Permit Removal of Open Container.
   No person, firm or corporation licensed to sell alcoholic liquor, or his or
her employees or agents of such person firm or corporation shall permit any
person to remove from such premises, any alcoholic liquor in any open
container.
(Ord. 2009-1, 1/8/2009, § 4)
§ 6-405.   Open Container in Motor Vehicles.
   No person shall have in his or her possession an open container containing
alcoholic liquor within or on a motor vehicle, including motorcycles, while
parked or standing on a public street or public parking lot in the Township, or
while such vehicle is in motion.
(Ord. 2009-1, 1/8/2009, § 5)
§ 6-406.   Sign Required.
   All premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic liquid shall post a notice
at each exit stating that “No Beer, Liquor or Wine May Be Carried in an Open
Container out of this Building.”
(Ord. 2009-1, 1/8/2009, § 6)
§ 6-407.   Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $25 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said
fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that
a violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2009-1, 1/8/2009, § 7; as amended by A.O.)
Part 5
Obscene Materials
§ 6-501.   Sale or Distribution of Obscene Materials.
   Any person who, with knowledge of the character and content, either sells,
gives away, lends, distributes, exhibits, shows or transmutes, or offers either
to sell, give away, lend, distribute, exhibit, show or transmute, or has in his
or her possession with intent either to sell, give away, lend, distribute,
exhibit, show or transmute to another, or who otherwise knowingly offers for
gift, sale or distribution any obscene book, photograph, literature or
mechanical device, or any obscene picture film, show or other presentation,
which may or may not require mechanical or other means to be transmuted into
auditory, visual or sensory representation of such character, shall be guilty
of a summary offense; and upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a
fine not exceeding $1,000 or undergo imprisonment for a period not exceeding 30
days, or both.
(Ord. 8/28/1975, § 1; as amended by A.O.)
§ 6-502.   Exhibitions.
   No person shall knowingly exhibit or sell upon any private property or at or
near any public street or highway or in any other place within the view of
adults or minors passing on any public street or highway, any obscene books,
photographs, literature, mechanical devices or any obscene motion picture film,
show or other presentation which may or may not require mechanical or other
means to be transmuted into auditory, visual or sensory representations of such
character; and any person doing so shall be guilty of a summary offense; and
upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding $1,000,
or undergo imprisonment for a period not exceeding 30 days, or both.
(Ord. 8/28/1975, § 2; as amended by A.O.)
§ 6-503.   Shows or Presentations.
   No person may, with knowledge of the character or content, exhibit or sell
books, photographs, literature or mechanical devices, or show or project a
motion picture film, show or other presentation, which in whole or in part
depicts nudity, sexual conduct or sadomasochistic abuse, so that it may be
viewed by minors or any other persons from public property or private property
not under the control of the person selling, exhibiting, showing or projecting
such books, photographs, literature, mechanical devices or motion picture film,
show or other presentation.
(Ord. 8/28/1975, § 3)
§ 6-504.   Participation in Exhibition or Sale.
   Whoever knowingly participates in, supports, or in any way aids in the
exhibition or sale of any book, photograph, literature, mechanical device,
whether the same shall be the owner, manager, employee, agent, servant or
worker, shall be guilty of a summary offense; and upon conviction thereof,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding $1,000 or undergo imprisonment
for a period not exceeding 30 days, or both. Further, whoever knowingly
participates in, supports, or in any way aids in the exhibition, showing or
projection of an obscene motion picture film or other type motion picture film
in violation of this Act, whether the same shall be a ticket seller, usher,
manager, projectionist or other such employee, agent, servant or worker, shall
be guilty of a summary offense; and upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced
to pay a fine not exceeding $1,000 or undergo imprisonment for a period not
exceeding 30 days, or both.
(Ord. 8/28/1975, § 4; as amended by A.O.)
§ 6-505.   Owner of Premises.
   Whoever being the owner of any premises or having control thereof, knowingly
permits the sale of any book, photograph, literature or mechanical device
within or on said premises in violation of this Act, shall be guilty of a
summary offense; and upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine
not exceeding $1,000 and to undergo imprisonment for a period not exceeding 30
days, or both. Further, whoever being the owner of any premises or having
control thereof, knowingly permits within or on said premises the exhibition,
projection or showing of any motion picture film, show or presentation in
violation of this Act, shall be guilty of a summary offense; and upon
conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding $1,000 and
to undergo imprisonment for a period not exceeding 30 days, or both.
(Ord. 8/28/1975, § 5; as amended by A.O.)
§ 6-506.   Advertising.
   Whoever knowingly advertises or accepts for advertisement, any book,
photograph, literature, mechanical device or motion picture film, show or other
presentation, the exhibition, selling, showing or projection of which would be
in violation of this Part, shall be guilty of a summary offense; and upon
conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding $1,000 or
undergo imprisonment for a period not exceeding 30 days, or both.
(Ord. 8/28/1975, § 6; as amended by A.O.)
§ 6-507.   Criteria to Establish Obscenity.
   For the purposes of this Part all three of the following elements are
required to establish obscenity:
   A.   The average person applying contemporary community standards must find
that the work taken as a whole appeals to the prurient interest.
   B.   That the book, photograph, literature, mechanical device or film must
depict or describe patently offensive representations or descriptions of sexual
conduct such as ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated,
real or animated, and/or patently offensive representations or descriptions of
masturbation, excretory functions and/or lewd exhibition of the genitals;
descriptions or representations of acts of fellatio, cunnilingus, whether the
same involves persons real or animated, animals or combinations of individuals
real, animated and/or animals.
   C.   That the work taken as a whole lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
(Ord. 8/28/1975, § 7)
§ 6-508.   Definitions.
   As used in §
6-503 of this Part:
   Nudity–includes the showing and description of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the
showing and description of a female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any portion thereof below the top of the nipple or the depiction
and description of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   Sadomasochistic abuse–flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in
undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume or the condition of being fettered,
bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of the one so clothed.
   Sexual conduct–in addition to the examples hereinbefore set forth, acts of
masturbation, homosexuality, sexual intercourse or physical contact with a
person’s clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or, if such
person be a female, breasts.
(Ord. 8/28/1975, § 8)
§ 6-509.   Validity.
   Should any Section, clause or provision of this Part be declared by the
court to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of the Part as a
whole, other than the part thereto so declared to be invalid.
(Ord. 8/28/1975, § 9)
Part 6
Graffiti
§ 6-601.   Purpose and Intent.
   All graffiti or other inscribed material on public and private property is
hereby found and determined to be obnoxious, offensive, annoying, displeasing,
distasteful and disturbing. Such graffiti and other inscribed material on
public and private property constitutes blight and is hereby determined to be a
public nuisance. The Board of Commissioners of the Township of Plains hereby
authorizes the prohibition of graffiti or other inscribed material with the
Township of Plains, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania as set forth herein.
(Ord. 1996-4, –/–/1996, §I)
§ 6-602.   Definition.
   As used in this Part:
   Graffiti or other inscribed material–includes any unauthorized inscription,
word, figure or design that is marked, etched, scratched, drawn, painted or
otherwise applied on any structural component of any building, structure or
other facility regardless of the nature of the material of that structural
component.
   Unauthorized–the marking etching, scratching, drawing of any inscription,
word, character, figure or design directly upon the surface of any public
building, structure or facility without the express prior written approval of
the public authority or, the marking, etching, scratching, drawing or painting
of an inscription, word, character, figure or design directly upon the surface
of a private building or structure without the express prior approval of the
owner or person in possession of such private building or structure.
(Ord. 1996-4, –/–/1996, §II)
§ 6-603.   Prohibition.
   It is hereby prohibited and shall be unlawful for any person to paint,
chalk, ink or otherwise apply graffiti or other inscribed material on public or
privately owned real property within this Township. Said action shall be
determined to be a nuisance and violation.
(Ord. 1996-4, –/–/1996, §III)
§ 6-604.   Penalty.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Part shall upon summary
conviction thereof in a summary proceeding before a magisterial district judge
of Luzerne County, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed $1,000 and all
court costs and related costs to the effective restoration of the defaced
property and in addition to the fine and costs levied violators are subject to
a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Further, the Township of Plains
requests that a minimum of 25 hours but not more than 100 hours of community
service be directed by the judicial officer presiding over the case.
(Ord. 1996-4, –/–/1996, §IV; as amended by A.O.)
§ 6-605.   Recovery of Costs.
   If the person against whom any civil action is commenced is a minor as of
the date of commencement of the civil action, the parent or guardian having
custody and control of such shall be made a party to the action as being
jointly and severally liable consistent with the provisions of the laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 1996-4, –/–/1996, §V)
Part 7
Smoking Prohibited
§ 6-701.   Smoking Prohibited.
   No person shall at any time smoke or chew any tobacco, tobacco related
product, filler or any other plant or weed in any of the following places owned
or operated by the Township:
   A.   Inside any Township vehicle.
(Ord. 2007-1, 5/10/2007, § 2)
§ 6-702.   Township Employees Disciplined.
   Any Township employee violating this Part shall be subject to appropriate
discipline, including reprimand, suspension, termination or other disciplining
action.
(Ord. 2007-1, 5/10/2007, § 3)
§ 6-703.   Penalty.
   Any person found in violation of this Part shall be fined no less than $50
dollars and nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said
fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that
a violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense. Said
Part may be enforced by citation issued by Plains Township Police Department,
Fire Inspector or Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 2007-1, 5/10/2007, § 4; as amended by A.O.)
Part 8
Disorderly Conduct
§6-801.   Acting in Disorderly Manner.
   l.   A person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct if that person, with
intent to cause public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm or recklessly creates
a risk thereof, if he or she:
      A.   Engages in fighting, threatening of harm, or acts in a violent or
tumultuous type of behavior;
      B.   Makes unreasonable noise;
      C.   Creates a hazardous or physically condition by any act which serves
no legitimate purpose by the actor.
   2.   Grading. Any offense committed under this section shall be deemed a
misdemeanor of the third degree if the actors intent is found to cause
substantial harm or serious inconvenience or if he or she persists in
disorderly conduct after reasonable warning or requests to desist, otherwise
such disorderly conduct is deemed to be a summary offense.
   3.   Definition of Public. "Public" used in this section shall be deemed to
mean affecting or likely affecting persons in a place to which the public or a
substantial group have access. This includes, but is not limited to, roadways,
public facilities, schools, apartment buildings, places of business, government
facilities, any neighborhood or any premises open to the public.
   4.   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this section shall, upon
conviction of a summary offense, be fined in an amount not more than Five
Hundred ($500.00) Dollars and/or imprisonment for not more than ninety (90)
days and upon conviction of a misdemeanor of the third degree, to be fined in
an amount not more than Two Thousand, Five Hundred ($2,500.00) Dollars and/or
imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days.
(Ord. 2020-2, 3/12/2020)
§6-802.   Public Drunkenness/Disturbing the Peace.
   1.   A person shall be guilty of a summary offense if the actors appears in
a public place manifestly under the influence of alcohol or a controlled
substance as defined under the Pennsylvania Controlled Substance, Drug Device
and Cosmetic Act, except those taken pursuant to a lawful order of a medical
practitioner as defined under the Pennsylvania Controlled Substance, Drug
Device and Cosmetic Act. Said actions of the actor cited should be to such a
degree that he or she may endanger himself or herself or other persons or
property or annoy person in his or her vicinity.
   2.   Definition of Public. "Public" used in this section shall be deemed to
mean affecting or likely affecting persons in a place to which the public or a
substantial group have access. This includes, but is not limited to, roadways,
public facilities, schools, apartment buildings, places of business, government
facilities, any neighborhood or any premises open to the public.
   3.   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this section shall, upon
conviction, be fined in an amount not more than Five Hundred ($500.00) Dollars
for the first violation. Any second and/or subsequent violation may be fined
for not more than One Thousand ($1,000.00) Dollars.
(Ord. 2020-1, 3/12/2020)
§6-803.   Use of Drug Paraphernalia.
   1.   A person shall be guilty of the use or possession of with intent to use
drug paraphernalia, if he or she:
      A.   Uses, for the purpose of planting; propagating; cultivating;
growing; harvesting, manufacturing; compounding; converting; producing;
processing; preparing; testing or analyzing, a controlled substance;
      B.   Uses, for the purpose of packing; storing; containing; concealing;
injecting; ingesting; inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body, a
controlled substance;
   2.   Definition of Drug Paraphernalia. "Drug Paraphernalia" shall be defined
as any equipment or product material or accessory of any kind which is
primarily intended, designed or modified for use in manufacturing; compounding;
converting; concealing; producing; processing; preparing; injecting; ingesting;
inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body, a controlled substance.
   3.   Definition of a Controlled Substance. "Controlled Substance" shall be
defined as consistent with the Controlled Substance, Drug, Device and Cosmetic
Act that includes a drug, substance or immediate precursor included in
Schedules I through V of this Act.
   4.   Grading. Any offense committed under this section shall be deemed a
summary offense.
   5.   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this Ordinance shall,
upon conviction of this offense, be fined in an amount of not more than Three
Thousand ($3,000.00) Dollars and/or imprisonment for not more than ninety (90)
days.
(Ord. 2020-3, 6/11/2020)
Chapter 7
Emergency Management
Part 1
Open Burning
§
7-101.   Definitions
§
7-102.   Relation to Other Laws
§
7-103.   Open Burning in Restricted Area
§
7-104.   Permission
§
7-105.   Notification
§
7-106.   Penalty
Part 2
Reimbursement for Abatement of Hazardous Material
§
7-201.   Authorization
Part 3
Fire Insurance Proceeds Escrow
§
7-301.   Use of Fire Insurance Proceeds
§
7-302.   Limits of Liability
§
7-303.   Insurance Company Rights Reserved
§
7-304.   Construction
§
7-305.   Notification of Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic
Development
§
7-306.   Penalty
Part 4
Fire Control Measures and Regulations
§
7-401.   Adoption of Fire Control Measures and Regulations
§
7-402.   Authority at Fires and Other Emergencies
§
7-403.   Interference with Fire Department Operations
§
7-404.   Compliance with Orders
§
7-405.   Vehicles Crossing Fire Hose
§
7-406.   Definition of Authorized Emergency Vehicle
§
7-407.   Operation of Vehicles on Approach of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
§
7-408.   Vehicles Following Fire Apparatus
§
7-409.   Unlawful Boarding or Tampering with Fire Department Emergency
Equipment
§
7-410.   Damage, Injury-Fire Department-Equipment, Personnel
§
7-411.   Emergency Vehicle Operation
§
7-412.   Blocking Fire Hydrants and Fire Department Connections
§
7-413.   Hydrant Use Approval
§
7-414.   Public Water Supply
§
7-415.   Yard Systems
§
7-416.   Maintenance of Fire Suppression Equipment
§
7-417.   Sale of Defective Fire Extinguishers
§
7-418.   Street Obstructions
Part 1
Open Burning
§ 7-101.   Definitions.
   As used in this Part:
   Agricultural waste–any matter generated by crop, horticultural or livestock
production practices, and includes such items as woody debris and plant matter
from stream flooding, bags, cartons, structural materials and landscape wastes
that are generated in agricultural activities, but does not include land
clearing waste, buildings, garbage, dead animals, motor vehicles and parts
thereof, nor economic poisons and containers, thereof, unless the manufacturer
has identified open burning as safe disposal procedure.
   DEP–Department of Environmental Protection Director or agencies delegated
authorities by the Director of the Department of Environmental Protection or
the Chief of any Department of Environmental Protection District Office.
   Economic poisons–include, but are not restricted to, pesticides such as
insecticides, fungicides, rodenticides, miticides, nematocides and fumigants,
seed disinfectants and defoliants.
   Garbage/refuse–all putrescible and non-putrescible waste (except body waste)
and including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, street cleaning, dead
animals, abandoned automobiles and solid market and individual waste.
   Land clearing waste–plant matter which is removed from land, including plant
matter removed from stream banks during projects involving more than one
property owner, for the purpose of rendering the land useful for residential,
commercial or industrial development.
   Landscape waste–any plant matter, except garbage, including tree trimmings,
branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass, shrubbery, yard trimmings and
crop residues.
   Open burning–the burning of any materials wherein smoke, ash or embers are
emitted into the air without passing through a screened stack or chimney. Open
burning does not include the legal smoking of tobacco products.
   Plant life–vegetation including, but not limited to, trees, tree branches,
leaves, yard trimmings, shrubbery, grass and weeds.
   Residential waste–any matter, including landscape wastes, generated on a one
or multi-family residence as a result of residential activities, but not
including garbage.
   Restricted area–the area within the boundary of Plains Township a municipal
corporation established in accordance with the provisions of state and local
law and its local Zoning and Planning Ordinance [
Chapter 27], zone extending 1,000 feet beyond the boundaries of such municipal
corporation.
(Ord. 2009-6, 7/9/2009, § 1; Ord. 2015-1, 5/14/2015, § 1)
§ 7-102.   Relation to Other Laws.
   1.   Notwithstanding any provision in this Part, no open burning shall be
conducted in an area where an air alert, warning or emergency under local,
state or federal is in effect.
   2.   No provisions to this Part permitting open burning, and no permission
to open burn granted by DEP, shall exempt any person from compliance with any
section of federal law, or any regulation of any state department, or any local
ordinance or regulation dealing with open burning.
   3.   No person shall start kindle, cause, allow or maintain any form of open
burning on private or public property, except as specifically authorized by
this Part or except as permitted in writing by the Plains Township Fire
Department.
(Ord. 2009-6, 7/9/2009, § 1; Ord. 2015-1, 5/14/2015, § 1)
§ 7-103.   Open Burning in Restricted Area.
   1.   No person or property shall start, kindle, cause or maintain any form
of open burning on private or public property except as specifically authorized
by this Part or except as permitted in writing by the Township of Plains Fire
Department.
   2.   Provided that the burning complies with applicable state and federal
statutes, regulations, or other law and that the size of the fire does not
exceed one foot high, by two feet wide, by two feet long, the following types
of open burning shall be allowed:
   A.   Burning of charcoal, clean untreated wood and other cooking fuels
customarily used in an outdoor grill or traditional food cooking device.
   B.   Burning of clean untreated wood in a commercially manufactured outdoor
fireplace or other reasonable safe outdoor fireplace with the following
restrictions:
   (1)   Fire is wholly contained within the fireplace.
   (2)   Fireplace is covered by a screen to control the emissions of ash and
embers.
   (3)   Fire does not create a nuisance.
   (4)   Fire is not within 15 feet of combustible materials or adjacent
property lines.
   (5)   Fire must be attended at all times.
   (6)   Fire is not located on a lot containing more than two dwelling units
or at a fraternity, sorority or similar housing.
   C.   Hours: it shall be unlawful for any person to start, kindle, cause or
maintain any form of open burning between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m.
except as specifically authorized in writing by the Plains Township Fire
Department.
   D.   Even if burning would otherwise be allowed under this Part, no open
burning shall occur if in the discretion of the Plains Township Fire
Department, said open burning constitutes a nuisance by representing a danger
to the public, health, safety or welfare.
   3.   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes with prior
notification to the Plains Township Fire Department in accordance with §
7-105 of this Part.
   A.   Prevention or control of disease or pests, with written or verbal
verification to the Plains Township Fire Department from the local health
department, Department of Agriculture or United States Department of
Agriculture, that open burning is the only appropriate disposal method.
   B.   Ceremonial fires provided the following conditions are met:
   (1)   The ceremonial fires shall be less than five feet by five feet in
dimension and shall burn no longer than three hours.
   (2)   The ceremonial fires shall not be used for waste disposal purposes.
   (3)   The fuel shall be chosen so as to minimize the generation and emission
of air contaminants.
   C.   Disposal of agricultural waste generated on the premises if the
following conditions are observed:
   (1)   The fire is set only when atmospheric conditions will readily
dissipate contaminants.
   (2)   The fire does not create a visibility hazard on the road or railroad
tracks or air fields.
   (3)   The fire is located at a point on the premises no less than 1,000 feet
from any inhabited building not located on said premises.
   (4)   The wastes are stacked and dried to provide the best practicable
condition for efficient burning.
   (5)   No materials are burned which contain rubber, grease, asphalt or
liquid petroleum products.
   D.   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes upon receipt
of written permission from the Plains Township Fire Department, in accordance
with §
7-105 of this Part, provided that any conditions specified in the permission
are followed:
   (1)   Disposal of ignitable or explosive material where the Plains Township
Fire Department determines that there is no practical alternate method of
disposal.
   (2)   Instruction in methods of firefighting or for research in the control
of fires.
   (3)   In emergency or other extraordinary circumstances for any purpose
determined to be necessary by the Plains Township Fire Department.
   (4)   Recognized horticultural, silvicultural, range or wildlife management
practices.
   (5)   Fires and/or pyrotechnic effects, for purposes other than waste
disposal, set as part of commercial film-making or video production activities
for motion pictures and television.
(Ord. 2009-6, 7/9/2009, § 1; Ord. 2015-1, 5/14/2015, § 1)
§ 7-104.   Permission.
   1.   An application for permission to open burn shall be submitted in
writing at least ten days before the fire is to be set. It shall be in such
form and contain such information as required by the Plains Township Fire
Department.
   2.   Such applications shall contain, as a minimum, information regarding:
   A.   The purpose of the proposed burning.
   B.   The nature and quantities of material to be burned.
   C.   The dates or dates when such burning will take place.
   D.   The location of the burning site, including a map showing distances to
residences populated areas, roadways, air fields and other pertinent landmarks.
   E.   The methods or actions which will be taken to reduce the emissions of
air contaminants if required by the Plains Township Fire Department.
   3.   Permission to open burn shall not be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Plains Township Fire Department that
open burning is necessary to the public interest; will be conducted in a time,
place and manner as to minimize the emission of air contaminants; and will have
no serious detrimental effect upon adjacent properties or the occupants
thereof. The Plains Township Department may impose such conditions as may be
necessary to accomplish the purpose of this Part.
   4.   Except as provided in this Section, permission to open burn must be
obtained for each specific project. In emergencies where public health or
environmental quality will be seriously threatened by delay while written
permission is sought, the fire may be set with oral permission of the Plains
Township Fire Department.
   5.   Violations of any of the conditions set forth by the Plains Township
Fire Department in granting permission to open burn shall be grounds for
revocation of such permission and refusal to grant future permission, as well
as for the imposition, of other sanctions provided by law.
(Ord. 2009-6, 7/9/2009, § 1; Ord. 2015-1, 5/14/2015, § 1)
§ 7-105.   Notification.
   1.   Notification shall be submitted in writing at least ten days before the
fire is to be set. It shall be in such form and contain such information as
shall be required by Plains Township Fire Department.
   2.   Such notification shall in form the Plains Township Fire Department
regarding:
   A.   The purpose of the proposed burning.
   B.   The nature and quantities of materials to be burned.
   C.   The date or dates when such burning will take place.
   D.   The location of the burning site.
   3.   The Plains Township Fire Department, after receiving notification, may
determine that the open burning is not allowed under this Part and the Plains
Township Fire Department shall notify the applicant to this effect.
(Ord. 2009-6, 7/9/2009, § 1; Ord. 2015-1, 5/14/2015, § 1)
§ 7-106.   Penalty.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this Part is guilty of a summary
offence subject to a fine not less than $100 nor more than $1,000 for each
violation. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which violation occurs continues. In addition, the offender shall be required
to pay the cost of proper disposal of the material burned. The cost of proper
disposal of the material burned shall be the amount it would have cost to
dispose of the materials in a manner that is consist with the air, water and
solid waste laws, ordinances and regulations of the Township and state.
(Ord. 2009-6, 7/9/2009, § 1; as amended by A.O.; Ord. 2015-1, 5/14/2015, § 1)
Part 2
Reimbursement for Abatement of Hazardous Material
§ 7-201.   Authorization.
   1.   Plains Township hereby authorize the Plains Township Fire Company to
recover the reasonable costs in responding to calls which include, but are not
limited to, costs of equipment, personal hours, hazardous abatement materials,
environmental incident or safety and rescue incident or operation including
vehicular accidents as well as the cost of any equipment damaged or destroyed.
   2.   Costs as outlined above may be recovered directly by submitting such
claims by the Chief of the Fire Department to the Board of Commissioners who
shall authorize the submission of claims for collection directly or through any
authorized agent for collection of these costs.
   3.   In addition to the aforementioned reasonable costs, the fire company
and the Board of Commissioners shall be authorized to collect directly through
the authorized agent, reasonable interest, as well as reasonable administrative
file for collection, some and any and all additional fees as may be authorized
by any statute, case law or common law.
(Ord. 2000-7, 10/12/2000)
Part 3
Fire Insurance Proceeds Escrow
§ 7-301.   Use of Fire Insurance Proceeds.
   1.   No insurance company, association of exchange (hereinafter “insurer”)
doing business in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania shall pay a claim of a named
insured for fire damage to a structure located within the Township of Plains,
Luzerne County, Pennsylvania where the amount recoverable for the fire loss to
the structure under all policies exceeds $7,500, unless the insurer is
furnished by the Treasurer of the Township of Plains with a certificate
pursuant to § 508(b) of the Insurance Company Law of 1921, as amended by Act 98
of 1992 and Act 93 of 1994, 40 P.S. § 638 (collectively the “Act”), and unless
there is compliance with the procedures set forth in §§ 508(c) and 508(d) of
the Act, 40 P.S. § 638(c) and (d).
   2.   A.   Where there are delinquent taxes, assessments, penalties or user
charges against the property (“municipal claims”), or there are expenses which
the Township has incurred as costs for removal, repair or securing of a
building or other structure on the property (collectively “municipal
expenses”), the Secretary of the Township shall immediately render a bill for
such work, if not already done. Upon written request of the named insured
specifying the description of the property, the name and address of the insurer
and the date of receipt by the insurer of a loss report of the claim, the
Treasurer of the Township shall furnish a certificate within 14 days after the
request to the insurer either:
   (1)   Stating that there are no unpaid municipal claims or municipal
expenses against the property.
   (2)   Specifying the nature and amount of such claims or expenses,
accompanied by a bill for such amounts.
   B.   Taxes, assessments, penalties and user charges shall be deemed
delinquent for this purpose if a lien could have been files for such claims
under applicable law. Upon receipt of a certificate and bill pursuant to
Subsection A. of this Section, the insurer shall transfer to the Secretary of
the Township an amount from the insurance proceeds sufficient to pay said sums
prior to making payment to the named insured, subject to the provisions of
Subsection 3. hereof.
   3.   When all municipal claims and municipal expenses have been paid
pursuant to Subsection 2. of this Section or when the Township Treasurer has
issued a certificate described in Subsection 2. Paragraph A. indicating that
there are no municipal claims or municipal expenses against the property, the
insurer shall pay the claim of the named insured; provided, however, that if
the loss agreed upon by the named insured and the insurer equals or exceeds 60
percent of the aggregate limits of liability on all fire policies covering the
building or structure, the following procedures must be followed:
   A.   The insurer shall transfer from the insurance proceeds to the Township
Treasurer, in aggregate, $2,000 for each $15,000 of such claim or fraction
thereof.
   B.   If at the time a loss report is submitted by the insured, such insured
has submitted to the insurer, with a copy to the Township, a contractor’s
signed estimate of the cost of removing, repairing or securing the building or
other structure in an amount less than the amount calculated under the
foregoing transfer formula, the insurer shall transfer to the Secretary of the
Township of Plains from the insurance proceeds the amount specified in the
estimate. If there is more than one insurer, the transfer of proceeds shall be
on a prorated basis by all insurers insuring the building or other structure.
   C.   Upon receipt of the above described portion of the insurance proceeds
the Secretary of the Township of Plains, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, shall do
the following:
   (1)   Place the proceeds in a separate fund to be used solely as security
against the total municipal expenses anticipated by the Township to be required
in removing, repairing or securing the building or structure as required by
this Part. Such costs shall include, without limitation, any engineering, legal
or administrative costs incurred by the Township in connection with such
removal, repair or securing or any proceedings related thereto.
   (2)   Mail to the named insured at the address received from the insurer a
notice that the proceeds have been received by the Township and that the
procedures under this Subsection 3.C. shall be followed.
   (3)   After the transfer, the named insured may submit to the Township of
Plains a contractor’s signed estimate of the cost of removing, repairing or
securing the building or other structure, in which event the Township Secretary
shall, if such estimates deemed by the Board of Commissioners to be reasonable,
return to the insured the amount of the funds transferred to the Township of
Plains in excess of that amount required to pay the municipal expenses;
provided, however, that the Township has not commenced to remove, repair or
secure the building or other structure in which case the Township will complete
the work.
   (4)   Pay to the Secretary of the Township for reimbursement to the Township
General Fund, the amount of the municipal expenses paid by the Township.
   (5)   Pay the remaining balance in the fund without interest to the named
insured upon receipt of a certificate issued by the Township Secretary or Code
Enforcement Officer that the repair, removal or securing of the building or
other structure has been completed in accordance with all applicable codes and
regulations of the Township.
   (6)   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to limit the ability of the
Township to recover any deficiency in the amount of municipal claims or
municipal expenses recovered pursuant to this Part, or to insurance proceeds,
by an action at law or in equity to enforce the Township codes or to enter into
agreement with the named insured with regard to such other disposition of the
proceeds as the Township may deem responsible.
(Ord. 2007-3, 7/19/2007, § 1)
§ 7-302.   Limits of Liability.
   Nothing in this Part shall be construed to make an insurance company,
association or exchange liable for any amount in excess of proceeds payable
under its insurance policy or for any other act performed pursuant to this Part
or to make the Township or any public official of the Township an insured under
a policy of insurance or to create an obligation to pay delinquent property
taxes or unpaid removal liens or expenses other than as provided in this Part.
(Ord. 2007-3, 7/19/2007, § 2)
§ 7-303.   Insurance Company Rights Reserved.
   An insurance company, associated or exchange making payment of policy
proceeds under this Part for delinquent taxes or structural removal liens or
removal expenses incurred by the Township of Plains shall have full benefit of
such payment including all rights of subrogation and of assignment.
(Ord. 2007-3, 7/19/2007, § 3)
§ 7-304.   Construction.
   This Part shall be liberally construed to accomplish its purpose to deter
the commission of arson and related crimes, to discourage the abandonment of
property and to prevent urban blight and deterioration.
(Ord. 2007-3, 7/19/2007, § 4)
§ 7-305.   Notification of Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic
Development.
   The Secretary of the Township of Plains shall transmit a certified copy of
this Part promptly to the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic
Development.
(Ord. 2007-3, 7/19/2007, § 5)
§ 7-306.   Penalty.
   Any owner of property, any named insured or insurer who violates the
provisions of this Part or who shall fail to comply with any of the
requirements hereof shall be sentenced upon conviction thereof to pay a fine
not greater than $1,000 plus costs and in default of payment of said fine and
costs to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day in which an
offense shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 2007-3, 7/19/2007, § 6)
Part 4
Fire Control Measures and Regulations
§ 7-401.   Adoption of Fire Control Measures and Regulations.
   There is hereby adopted by the Plains Township Fire Department the fire
control measures and regulations as herein set forth for the purposes of
controlling conditions which could impede or interfere with fire suppression
forces.
(Ord. 1996-3, 8/8/1996, § 1)
§ 7-402.   Authority at Fires and Other Emergencies.
   The fire prevention code official or duly authorized representatives, as may
be in charge at the scene of a fire or other emergency involving the protection
of life and/or property, is empowered to direct such operations as may be
necessary to extinguish or control any suspected or reported fires, gas leaks
or other hazardous conditions or situations or of taking any other action
necessary in the reasonable performance of their duty. The fire prevention code
official may prohibit any person, vehicle or object from approaching the scene
and may remove or cause to be removed from the scene any person, vehicle or
object which may impede or interfere with the operation of the Fire Department.
The fire prevention code official may remove or cause to be removed any person,
vehicle or object from the hazardous areas. All persons ordered to leave a
hazardous area shall do so immediately and shall not re-enter the area until
authorized to do so by the fire prevention code official.
(Ord. 1996-3, 8/8/1996, § 2)
§ 7-403.   Interference with Fire Department Operations.
   It shall be unlawful to interfere with, attempt to interfere with, conspire
to interfere with, obstruct or restrict the mobility of, or block the path of
travel of any Fire Department emergency vehicle in any way, or to interfere
with, attempt to interfere with, conspire to interfere with, obstruct or hamper
any Fire Department operation.
(Ord. 1996-3, 8/8/1996, § 3)
§ 7-404.   Compliance with Orders.
   A person shall not willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order
or direction of the fire prevention code official or to interfere with the
compliance attempts of another individual.
(Ord. 1996-3, 8/8/1996, § 4)
§ 7-405.   Vehicles Crossing Fire Hose.
   A vehicle shall not be driven or propelled over any unprotected fire hose of
the Fire Department when laid down on any street, alleyway, private drive or
any other vehicular roadway without the consent of the fire prevention code
official in command of said operation.
(Ord. 1996-3, 8/8/1996, § 5)
§ 7-406.   Definition of Authorized Emergency Vehicle.
   Authorized emergency vehicles shall be restricted to those which are defined
and authorized under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 1996-3, 8/8/1996, § 6)
§ 7-407.   Operation of Vehicles on Approach of Authorized Emergency Vehicles.
   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle, giving audible and
visual signal, the operator of every other vehicle shall immediately drive the
same to a position as near as possible and parallel to the right-hand edge or
curb of the street or roadway, clear of any intersection, and shall stop and
remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles
shall have passed, unless otherwise directed by the fire prevention code
official or a police officer.
(Ord. 1996-3, 8/8/1996, § 7)
§ 7-408.   Vehicles Following Fire Apparatus.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle, other than one on
official business, to follow closer than 300 feet from any fire apparatus
traveling in response to a fire alarm, or to drive any vehicle within the block
or immediate area where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm.
(Ord. 1996-3, 8/8/1996, § 8)
§ 7-409.   Unlawful Boarding or Tampering with Fire Department Emergency
Equipment.
   A person shall not without proper authorization from the fire prevention
code official in charge of said Fire Department emergency equipment, cling to,
attach himself or herself to, climb upon or into, board or swing upon any Fire
Department emergency vehicle, whether the same is in motion or at rest, or
sound the siren, horn, bell or other sound-producing device thereon, or to
manipulate or tamper with any levers, valves, switches, starting devices,
brakes, pumps or any equipment or protective clothing on, or a part of, any
Fire Department emergency vehicle.
(Ord. 1996-3, 8/8/1996, § 9)
§ 7-410.   Damage, Injury-Fire Department-Equipment, Personnel.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage or deface, or attempt or
conspire to injure, Fire Department personnel while performing departmental
duties.
(Ord. 1996-3, 8/8/1996, § 10)
§ 7-411.   Emergency Vehicle Operation.
   The driver of any emergency vehicle, as defined in §
7-406 of this Part, shall not sound the siren thereon or have the front red
lights on or disobey any existing traffic regulation, except when said vehicle
is responding to an emergency call or when responding to, but not upon
returning from, a fire. Tactical strategies such as, but not restricted to,
“move-ups” do not constitute an emergency call. The driver of an emergency
vehicle may:
   A.   Park or stand irrespective of the provisions of existing traffic
regulations.
   B.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or other sign, but only after slowing
down as may be necessary for safe operation.
   C.   Exceed the prima facie speed limit so long as the action does not
endanger life or property.
   D.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   E.   The exemptions herein granted to an emergency vehicle shall apply only
when the driver of any such vehicle while in motion sounds audible signal by
bell, siren or exhaust whistles as may be reasonably necessary, and when the
vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red light
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the
front of the vehicle.
(Ord. 1996-3, 8/8/1996, § 11)
§ 7-412.   Blocking Fire Hydrants and Fire Department Connections.
   It shall be unlawful to obscure from view, damage, deface, obstruct or
restrict the access to any fire hydrant or any Fire Department connection for
the pressurization of fire suppression systems, including fire hydrants and
Fire Department connections that are located on public or private streets and
access lanes, or private property. If, upon the expiration of the time
mentioned in a notice of violation, obstructions or encroachments are not
removed, the fire prevention code official shall proceed to remove the same.
Cost incurred in the performance of necessary work shall be paid from the
municipal treasury on certificate of the fire prevention code official and with
the approval of the chief administrative official; and the legal authority of
the municipality shall institute appropriate action for the recovery of such
costs.
(Ord. 1996-3, 8/8/1996, § 12)
§ 7-413.   Hydrant Use Approval.
   A person shall not use or operate any fire hydrant intended for use of the
Fire Department for fire suppression purposes unless such person first secures
a permit for use from the fire prevention code official and the water company
having jurisdiction. This Section shall not apply to the use of such hydrants
by a person employed by, and authorized to make such use by, the water company
having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1996-3, 8/8/1996, § 13)
§ 7-414.   Public Water Supply.
   The fire prevention code official shall recommend to the chief
administrative official of the municipality the location or relocation of new
or existing fire hydrants and the placement or replacement of inadequate water
mains located upon public property and deemed necessary to provide an adequate
fire flow and distribution pattern. A fire hydrant shall not be placed into or
removed from service until approved by the fire prevention code official.
(Ord. 1996-3, 8/8/1996, § 14)
§ 7-415.   Yard Systems.
   All new and existing ship yards, oil storage plants, lumber yards, amusement
or exhibition parks, and educational or institutional complexes and similar
occupancies and uses involving high fire or life hazards, and which are located
more than 150 feet from a public street or which require quantities of water
beyond the capabilities of the public water distribution system shall be
provided with properly placed fire hydrants. Such fire hydrants shall be
capable of supplying fire flows as required by the fire prevention code
official and shall be connected to a water system in accordance with accepted
engineering practices. The fire prevention code official may require the
installation of sufficient fire hose and equipment housed in accordance with
the approved rules and may require the establishment of a trained fire brigade
when the hazard involved requires such measures. Private hydrants shall not be
placed into or removed from service until approved by the fire prevention code
official.
(Ord. 1996-3, 8/8/1996, § 15)
§ 7-416.   Maintenance of Fire Suppression Equipment.
   A person shall not obstruct, remove, tamper with or otherwise disturb any
fire hydrant or fire appliance required to be installed or maintained under the
provisions of the Fire Prevention Code except for the purpose of extinguishing
fire, training or testing purposes, recharging or making necessary repairs, or
when permitted by the fire prevention code official. Whenever a fire appliance
is removed as herein permitted, it shall be replaced or reinstalled as soon as
the purpose for which it was removed has been accomplished. Defective and
nonapproved fire appliances or equipment shall be replaced or repaired as
directed by the fire prevention code official.
(Ord. 1996-3, 8/8/1996, § 16)
§ 7-417.   Sale of Defective Fire Extinguishers.
   A person shall not sell, trade, loan or give away any form, type or kind of
fire extinguisher which is not approved by the fire prevention code official,
or which is not in proper working condition, or the contents of which do not
meet the requirements of the fire prevention code official. The requirements of
this Section shall not apply to the sale, trade or exchange of obsolete or
damaged equipment for junk when said units are permanently disfigured or marked
with a permanent sign identifying the unit as junk.
(Ord. 1996-3, 8/8/1996, § 17)
§ 7-418.   Street Obstructions.
   A person or persons shall not erect, construct, place or maintain any bumps,
fences, gates, chains, bars, pipes, wood or metal horses or any other type of
obstruction in or on any street, within the boundaries of the municipality. The
word “street” as used in this Part, shall mean any roadway accessible to the
public for vehicular traffic, including, but not limited to, private streets or
access lanes, as well as all public streets and highways within the boundaries
of the municipality.
(Ord. 1996-3, 8/8/1996, § 18)
Chapter 8
[Reserved]
Chapter 9
[Reserved]
Chapter 10
Health and Safety
Part 1
Outdoor Solid Fuel Furnaces
§
10-101.   Purpose
§
10-102.   Definitions
§
10-103.   Requirements for Installation, Maintenance and Use of Outdoor Solid
Fuel Furnaces
§
10-104.   Emissions from Outdoor Solid Fuel Furnaces as a Public Nuisance
§
10-105.   Permits and Permit Fees
§
10-106.   Effect of Other Regulations
§
10-107.   Enforcement
§
10-108.   Violations and Penalties
Part 2
Brush, Grass and Weeds
§
10-201.   Cutting and Removal of Noxious Vegetation Required
§
10-202.   Duty of Owner or Occupant of Premises
§
10-203.   Notice to Owner or Occupant; Noncompliance
Part 3
Alarm Devices
§
10-301.   Definition
§
10-302.   Fee for Systems Connected to Fire or Police Department
§
10-303.   Time of Payment
§
10-304.   Suspension of Service for Nonpayment
§
10-305.   Proration of Fee
§
10-306.   Inspections
Part 4
Disabled, Inoperable Vehicle and/or Unattended Vehicle
§
10-401.   Purpose
§
10-402.   Notice to Remove a Disabled, Inoperable Vehicle and/or an Unattended
Vehicle
§
10-403.   Removal of Vehicle in Violation of this Part
§
10-404.   Cost of Removal and Storage
§
10-405.   Exceptions
§
10-406.   Mechanical Repairs Prohibited
§
10-407.   Permitting Violation Prohibited
§
10-408.   Penalties
§
10-409.   Conflict
Part 5
Nuisances
§
10-501.   Definition
§
10-502.   Illustrative Enumeration of Nuisances
§
10-503.   Nuisance Prohibition
§
10-504.   Notice to Abate
§
10-505.   Contents of Notice to Abate
§
10-506.   Service of Notice
§
10-507.   Abatement by Township
§
10-508.   Emergency Abatement by Township
§
10-509.   Township’s Costs Declared Lien
§
10-510.   Additional Remedies
§
10-511.   Enabling Authority
§
10-512.   Fines and Penalties
Part 6
Knox Boxes
§
10-601.   Required for New Commercial Buildings
§
10-602.   Required for Existing Commercial Buildings with Improvements
§
10-603.   Knox Boxes for Existing Commercial Buildings
§
10-604.   Contents
§
10-605.   Locked Gates or Driveways
§
10-606.   Penalties
Part 1
Outdoor Solid Fuel Furnaces
§ 10-101.   Purpose.
   1.   The Constitution of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Article 1, § 27,
provides, in pertinent part, that “the people shall have a right to clean air”.
   2.   In response to the enactment by Congress of the United States of the
Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., and in recognition of the mandate of
the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the Legislature of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has enacted the Air Pollution Control Act, Act
1992-95, § 14, as amended, 35 P.S. §§ 4011 et seq., which, at § 4012 thereof,
provides that a Township may enact an ordinance in respect to air pollution so
long as the provisions of such ordinance “will not be less stringent than the
provisions of the Air Pollution Control Act”.
   3.   The Board of Commissioners of the Township of Plains has considered
with care certain publications, studies, reports and advisories prepared by
international, national and state research and regulatory agencies and
organizations inquiring into the effects and impact of the types of fuel used
in and the scale and durations of the emissions produced by outdoor solid fuel
furnaces. Upon that basis, the Board of Commissioners, while recognizing the
economical alternatives to conventional heating systems provided by outdoor
solid fuel furnaces, has determined that such appliances may create
uncontrolled offensive emissions of smoke, fumes and odors into the ambient
air, which can be potentially detrimental to the health and safety of the
residents of the Township and can deprive neighboring residents of the rightful
use and enjoyment of their property. Accordingly, the Board of Commissioners of
the Township of Plains, upon the enactment of this Part, does hereby establish
and impose various restrictions upon the installation, maintenance, use and
operation of outdoor solid fuel furnaces within the Township of Plains so that
such appliances do not create a private or public nuisance and, further, for
the purpose of securing and promoting the health and comfort, convenience,
safety and welfare of the person and property of the residents of the Township.
(Ord. 2009-2, 1/8/2009, § 1)
§ 10-102.   Definitions.
   The following words or phrases, as the same are used herein or as the same
appear in the context hereof, unless otherwise indicated, shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them in this Part.
   Appliance–an outdoor solid fuel furnace and all appurtenances thereto,
including, but not limited to, all equipment and all components necessary to
and used in connections with the installation, maintenance and use of the
outdoor solid fuel furnace.
   Existing appliance–an appliance that has been constructed, installed,
maintained and used on or before the effective date of this Part.
   New appliance–an appliance that has been constructed, installed, maintained
and used after the effective date of this Part.
   Outdoor solid fuel furnace–any equipment, structure, device or associated
apparatus and related appurtenances, which is installed, affixed or situated
outdoors for the primary purpose of the combustion of approved solid fuels to
produce heat or energy by the distribution, through pipes, of a fluid heated
device and used as the primary or secondary or supplementary heating system,
which provides heat for interior space and/or domestic water within a structure
located on residential premises and is not located within the structure to be
heated or to be provided with hot water.
   Person–any individual, partnership, corporation, firm, association,
institution, governmental agency or entity, enterprise or any other legal
entity whatsoever, which is recognized by law as the subject of rights and
duties.
   Setback–the minimum horizontal distances between the front right-of-way or
rear or side lines of any lot or parcel of land. When two or more lots under
one ownership are used, the exterior property line so grouped shall be used in
determining a setback.
   Structure–a building constructed and used from human habitation, housing of
farm animals or storage of equipment or material of whatever nature.
(Ord. 2009-2, 1/8/2009, § 2)
§ 10-103.   Requirements for Installation, Maintenance and Use of Outdoor Solid
Fuel Furnaces.
   1.   All existing appliances shall be inspected within 90 days of the
effective date of this Part to determine compliance with its manufacturer’s
installation specifications and use instructions in respect to its electrical
and plumbing equipment and components only. If the existing appliance is
determined as being maintained and used in compliance with such manufacturer’s
electrical and plumbing installation specifications and use instructions, then
the existing appliance shall be registered and recorded in a registry
permanently maintained by the Township of Plains. Such registry shall duly and
accurately note the appliance’s owner(s), street location, placement of the
appliance on the lot of the owner(s), manufacturer, date of installation, date
of inspection and date of the registration of the appliance. Such registry
shall be available for public inspection upon request.
   2.   Any new appliance shall be inspected to determine compliance with its
complete manufacturer’s installation specifications and use instructions within
30 days of the completion of its installation. If the installation and use of
the new appliance are determined to be in full compliance with such complete
manufacturer’s installation and use instructions, the owner of the new
appliance shall be granted a permit as provided in §
10-105 of this Part.
   3.   The location of all new appliances shall be in such place on a parcel
or lot of land as in recommended in its manufacturer’s installation
specifications and use instructions in respect to setbacks from the lots lines
of adjoining property owners, but in no event shall any new appliance be
located less than 25 feet from the lot lines of adjoining property owners.
   4.   The only fuels permitted to be burned in an existing appliance or new
appliance shall be those fuels recommended in its manufacturer’s installation
specifications and use instructions.
   5.   The residue of the spent fuel used in any outdoor solid fuel furnace
shall not be disposed of in any manner that would constitute a violation of the
rules and regulations of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection or the ordinance of the Township of Plains. The residue of spent
fuel and any fuel debris shall not be accumulated on the premises for a period
in excess of 90 days.
   6.   All appliances shall be operated only between September 1 and May 31,
annually, unless the appliance is used as the sole source of residential
interior heat and/or domestic hot water service.
(Ord. 2009-2, 1/8/2009, § 3)
§ 10-104.   Emissions from Outdoor Solid Fuel Furnaces as a Public Nuisance.
   1.   Notwithstanding full compliance with all of the terms and provisions of
this Part or the grant of a permit for the installation, maintenance and use of
an existing or new appliance or full compliance with all air quality control
and management provisions of any federal, state, regional or local statutes,
ordinances, rules or regulations of the Township of Plains may suspend a permit
and declare the existence of a public nuisance created by emissions from any
appliance upon the grounds that it is necessary to so act to protect the public
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the Township of Plains and their
property if any of the following conditions occur:
   A.   Malodorous air emissions from the appliance are detectable by persons
or the public generally beyond the property of the owner(s) on whose premises
the appliance is located.
   B.   The emissions from the appliance interfere with the rightful use and
enjoyment of life and property of another, causes severe annoyance or
discomfort, is offensive or objectionable, or all of the foregoing conditions
to any person who lives within the range of the emissions from the appliance
into the ambient air.
   C.   The emissions from the appliance cause damage to vegetation or the
property of another person.
   D.   The emissions from the appliance are or may be harmful to the health of
any person or to the public generally.
   2.   Nothing contained in this Part shall be construed to authorize any
installation, maintenance or use of any appliance that is or becomes a public
or private nuisance regardless of compliance with the terms and provisions of
this Part.
   3.   This Part shall not be a defense to any civil claims.
(Ord. 2009-2, 1/8/2009, § 4)
§ 10-105.   Permits and Permit Fees.
   1.   No person or entity shall cause, allow or maintain the installation or
use of an appliance without first having it registered as an existing appliance
or inspected and having obtained a permit issued by the Township of Plains as a
new appliance within the periods of time stated in §
10-103 of this Part.
   2.   An application for the registration of an existing appliance or for a
permit for a new appliance or for a permit for any modified or suspended
appliance shall be made to the Township of Plains Zoning and Code Enforcement
Officer on forms furnished by the Township of Plains. The applicant shall
furnish the following information on the application:
   A.   Name and address of the applicant (owner of appliance) and the property
owner. If the appliance is installed, maintained and used on premises owned by
a person other that the owner of the appliance.
   B.   Legal description of the property.
   C.   A sketch of drawing of the dimensions of the applicant’s complete
premises, including, locations of all structures thereon and of the appliance’s
proposed locations relative to adjoining property lines and the front street
line and the distances from all adjoining property lines measured from the
proposed location of the appliance.
   D.   A copy of the appliance manufacturer’s installation specifications and
use instructions.
   3.   Prior to the registration of an existing appliance or the issuance of a
permit for a new, modified or suspended appliance, the Township of Plains
Zoning and Code Enforcement Officer shall inspect the appliance and all
associated equipment and appurtenances thereto to determine compliance with its
manufacturer’s installation specifications and use instructions, as provided in
§
10-103 and Paragraphs 4. and 5. of this Section of this Part. Prior to the
registration of an existing appliance or the grant of a permit for a new,
modified or suspended appliance, the Township of Plains Zoning and Code
Enforcement Officer shall issue a written report of such inspection, the
original of which shall be maintained as a permanent record of the Township of
Plains and a copy of which shall be delivered to the owner of such appliance.
   4.   In the event that the maintenance and use of an appliance is suspended
for any reason whatsoever for a period of 18 consecutive months, such appliance
must be inspected by the Township of Plains to determine full compliance with
all of the manufacturer’s installation specifications and use instructions in
the manner provided for new appliances in §
10-103 of this Part. Should such full compliance be determined, a new permit
shall be issued in the manner herein provided. A suspended appliance shall be
considered as a new appliance hereunder.
   5.   In the event that an appliance is modified in any way or for any reason
whatsoever, such appliance must be inspected by the Township of Plains to
determine full compliance with all of the manufacturer’s installation
specifications and use instructions; provided, however, if it is an existing
appliance, which as not been relocated on the premises, the manufacturer’s
installation specifications and use instructions as to setbacks will not apply.
Should such compliance be determined, a permit shall be issued in the manner
herein provided.
   6.   All appliances, associated equipment and materials, and fuel used shall
be subject to inspection by the Township of Plains Zoning and Code Enforcement
Officer at any reasonable time to assure compliance with the terms and
provisions of this Part. The Township of Plains Zoning and Code Enforcement
Officer is authorized to enforce all provisions of this Part. In furtherance of
his or her duty and right to such enforcement, he or she may enter upon and
inspect any parcel of land for the purpose of ascertaining compliance with the
provisions of this Part upon the presentation of his or her credentials to the
occupant of such parcel of land.
   7.   A. registration of a permit may be suspended at any time for a
violation by the owner/operator of the appliance and the owner of the premises
to comply with all of the terms and provisions of this Part or to protect the
public health, safety and welfare of the residents of the Township of Plains.
   8.   A suspended registration or a permit may be reinstated when the
Township of Plains Zoning and Code Enforcement Officer determines that the
condition(s) which resulted in the suspension is/are remedied and written
reasonable assurances of the owner/operator of the appliance and the owner of
the premises are given that such condition(s) shall not occur again. Recurrence
of a condition, which had previously resulted in the suspension of a
registration or a permit, shall be considered as a violation of this Part and
shall be subject to the penalties provided herein.
   9.   The fee for the issuance of permits hereunder shall be the sum in an
amount as established, from time to time, by resolution of the Board of
Commissioners upon the enactment of this Part and shall be subject to
subsequent amendment from time to time by an ordinance of the Township of
Plains. [A.O.]
(Ord. 2009-2, 1/8/2009, § 5; as amended by A.O.)
§ 10-106.   Effect of Other Regulations.
   Nothing contained herein shall authorize or allow burning within and
emissions from or burning or combustion associate with or generated by
appliances, which acts and conditions are or may in the future be prohibited by
codes, laws, rules or regulations promulgated by the United States
Environmental Agency, Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, or
any other federal, state, regional or local agency authorized to exercise
jurisdiction over air quality control management. All new appliances, and all
electrical, plumbing or associated equipment or appurtenances used in
connection with existing appliances, shall be installed, operated and
maintained in strict conformity with the manufacturer’s installation
specifications and use instructions and any and all local, state and federal
ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2009-2, 1/8/2009, § 6)
§ 10-107.   Enforcement.
   Before commencing any action in the nature of a violation of this Part, the
Township of Plains Zoning and Code Enforcement Officer shall first give notice
to the person charged with violating this Part. Such notice shall be in writing
and shall be served personally upon such person or by posting a copy of such
written notice on the premises or attaching a copy of the written notice shall
be sent by United States Postal Service, certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the owner of the land, building, structure or premises in or on
which the appliance is located at the owner’s last known address. The notice
shall specify that failure to remedy the violation within ten days of the date
of personal service of 12 days from the date of mailing may result in penalties
to be levied against the owner of the premises if the specified violations are
not remedied.
(Ord. 2009-2, 1/8/2009, § 7)
§ 10-108.   Violations and Penalties.
   1.   A violation of any provision of this Part shall constitute a summary
offense and shall be enforced by the commencement of an action before a
magisterial district judge in the same manner provided for enforcement of
summary offenses under the applicable provisions of the Pennsylvania Rules of
Civil Procedure. The Solicitor of the Township of Plains may assume charge of
the prosecution of such violations in a manner consistent with the Pennsylvania
Rules of Criminal Procedure relating to trial of summary cases, as the same may
be amended from time to time. [A.O.]
   2.   Any person who shall violate any provision of this Part shall, upon
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $1,000 plus
costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues shall constitute a separate offense. [A.O.]
   3.   In addition to all other remedies provided herein for violations of
this Part, the Township of Plains shall have the right to proceed in any court
of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an injunction,
restraining order or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance with the
provisions of this Part.
(Ord. 2009-2, 1/8/2009, § 8; as amended by A.O.)
Part 2
Brush, Grass and Weeds
§ 10-201.   Cutting and Removal of Noxious Vegetation Required.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying any property within
the Township of Plains to permit any grass or weeds or any vegetation
whatsoever not edible or planted for some useful or ornamental purpose to grow
or remain upon such premises so as to exceed a height of eight inches, or to
throw off any unpleasant or noxious odor, or to conceal any filthy deposit or
to create or produce pollen, provided that the cutting of such grass, weeds or
other vegetation twice a month in the months of May, June, July, August and
September and the removal of the grass, weeds or other vegetation so cut shall
be deemed evidence that no violation of this Section shall have been created.
(Ord. 5/29/1975, § 12-1)
§ 10-202.   Duty of Owner or Occupant of Premises.
   The owner of any vacant premises or premises occupied by the owner, and the
occupant thereof in the case of premises occupied by other than the owner
thereof, shall remove, trim or cut all grass, weeds or other vegetation growing
or remaining upon such premises in violation of any of the provisions of §
10-201 of this Part.
(Ord. 5/29/1975, § 12-2)
§ 10-203.   Notice to Owner or Occupant; Noncompliance.
   The Board of Commissioners, or any officer of the Township designated
thereby for the purpose, is hereby authorized to give notice, by personal
service or by United States mail, to the owner or occupant, as the case may be,
of any premises whereon grass, weeds or other vegetation is growing or
remaining in violation of any of the provisions of §
10-201 of this Part, directing and requiring such owner or occupant to remove,
trim or cut such grass, weeds or other vegetation so as to conform to the
requirements of this Part within five days after the issuance of such notice.
In case any person shall neglect, fail or refuse to comply with such notice
within the period of time stated therein, the Township may cause such grass,
weeds or other vegetation to be removed, trimmed or cut, and the cost thereof,
with an additional charge of ten percent, shall be collected by the Township
from such person in default, in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 5/29/1975, § 12-3)
Part 3
Alarm Devices
§ 10-301.   Definition.
   As used in this Part, the following term shall have the meanings indicated:
   Year or current year–the 12-month period commencing January 1 and ending
December 31.
(Ord. 10/15/1969)
§ 10-302.   Fee for Systems Connected to Fire or Police Department.
   Each and every individual, establishment, partnership, corporation, entity
or concern utilizing any direct communication, burglar or fire alarm system
connected into the Departments of Fire or Police of the Township of Plains
shall pay annually the amount as established, from time to time, by resolution
of the Board of Commissioners to the Township of Plains for the benefits and
advantages received through the use of such systems from the Departments of
Fire and Police.
(Ord. 10/15/1969; as amended by A.O.)
§ 10-303.   Time of Payment.
   Said fee shall be payable by such individual, establishment, partnership,
corporation, entity or concern before January 15 of each year to the Treasurer
of the Township of Plains.
(Ord. 10/15/1969)
§ 10-304.   Suspension of Service for Nonpayment.
   Any individual, establishment, partnership, corporation, entity or concern
who fails to pay said sum within 15 days following the above-mentioned date
shall have his or her alarm connection service with the Township suspended
until such time as the aforesaid fee for the current year is remitted to the
Township Treasurer as aforesaid.
(Ord. 10/15/1969)
§ 10-305.   Proration of Fee.
   Any individual, establishment, partnership, corporation, entity or concern
who shall initiate employment of such service during the year shall pay, on a
prorated basis, an amount equal to that fractional portion of the year for
which he or she is receiving said service.
(Ord. 10/15/1969)
§ 10-306.   Inspections.
   The Township shall, if it deems necessary, have the right to inspect the
connection, operation and maintenance of the system and to make reasonable
charges for such inspections.
(Ord. 10/15/1969)
Part 4
Disabled, Inoperable Vehicle and/or Unattended Vehicle
§ 10-401.   Purpose.
   1.   No owner or responsible person shall leave parked upon a township
street, or highway or alley, on either public or private property a disabled,
inoperable vehicle, and/or a vehicle that has been left parked or unattended
for a period of not more than ten days.
   2.   For the purpose of this Part, a disabled, inoperable vehicle shall be a
vehicle that is not capable of being moved under its own power, or a vehicle
with deflated tire or tires; or is partially disabled, wrecked or junked; or is
not displaying current registration plate(s) or inspection stickers. A left
unattended vehicle is a vehicle that can be moved under its own power but is
left parked in one location over ten days. The vehicle(s) described in this
Part is one that is designed for the purpose of transporting people or property
and it may be motorized or designed to be drawn by a motorized vehicle. This
Part does not exclude that type of vehicle used in construction or farming
activities.
(Ord. 1996-1, 6/13/1996, §1; Ord. 2017-4, 8/10/2017; Ord. 2018-5, 8/9/2018)
§ 10-402.   Notice to Remove a Disabled, Inoperable Vehicle and/or an
Unattended Vehicle.
   A Plains Township Police Department parking ticket shall be issued and
placed on the vehicle in violation or handed to the owner or responsible
person. The parking ticket will be noted with the violation of this Part. This
parking ticket will allow the owner or responsible person seven days to respond
by removing the vehicle and paying the ticket penalty. The officer will
indicate on this parking ticket “Vehicle Must Be Moved”. The Police Department
may allow additional time for the removal of a vehicle on violation of this
Part if the owner or responsible person can show just cause for doing so.
(Ord. 1996-1, 6/13/1996, § 2)
§ 10-403.   Removal of Vehicle in Violation of this Part.
   1.   When the owner or responsible person fails to remove any vehicle that
is in violation of this Part and after receiving notice by the issuance of a
Police Department parking ticket, the Plains Township Police Department shall
then cause the said vehicle to be removed and stored.
   2.   The said vehicle may be removed immediately when it constitutes a
hazard to pedestrian or vehicular traffic or is a health, safety or fire
hazard.
(Ord. 1996-1, 6/13/1996, § 3)
§ 10-404.   Cost of Removal and Storage.
   The owner or responsible person of the vehicle in violation that has been
removed or directed to be removed by the Police Department pursuant to §
10-403 of this Part shall be responsible for all costs of removal and storage
of the said vehicle.
(Ord. 1996-1, 6/13/1996, § 4)
§ 10-405.   Exceptions.
   The provisions of this Part shall not apply to such a vehicle that is
enclosed or stored in a building, or to a vehicle on the premises of a business
enterprise when it is necessary to the operation of the business or to a
vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository unless such storage
constitutes or contributes to a safety, health or fire hazard, or has become a
public nuisance.
(Ord. 1996-1, 6/13/1996, § 5)
§ 10-406.   Mechanical Repairs Prohibited.
   No owner or responsible person shall perform or permit another person to
perform mechanical repairs upon any vehicle while it is parked or left standing
on any Township streets, highways or alleys.
   A.   Major repairs are those that require the changing of a motor
transmission, drive shafts, exhaust systems, the changing of vehicle fluids or
the changing of body parts.
   B.   Exception: this Section does not apply to emergency repairs such as the
changing of a flat tire, or to the duties of tow truck drivers and operators in
order to prepare a vehicle to be moved or towed to a place of repair.
   C.   No vehicle shall leak fluids upon Township streets, highways, alleys or
public or private properties:
   (1)   The owner or responsible person shall clean the roadway in the event
of vehicular leakage in order to deter health and safety hazards or public
nuisances. Fluids shall include gasoline, diesel fuels, transmission oils,
motor oils, anti-freeze and differential fluids.
   (2)   Cleaning shall consist of the washing down of the roadway for some
fluids and the use of sand, sawdust or other absorbent material to collect any
oily based fluids and the proper disposal of the material.
(Ord. 1996-1, 6/13/1996, § 6)
§ 10-407.   Permitting Violation Prohibited.
   No person or responsible person shall allow any violation of this Part to
occur on his or her property. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this
Part shall, upon conviction, pay all fines and costs set forth within this
Part.
(Ord. 1996-1, 6/13/1996, § 7)
§ 10-408.   Penalties.
   The owner or responsible person that has received a parking ticket for any
of the aforementioned violations in this Part shall pay a fine of $100 if paid
within seven days. Failure to pay the parking ticket in the required time shall
result in the filing of a non-traffic citation and then, upon conviction, the
owner or responsible person shall pay a fine of not less than $300 nor more
than $1,000, plus the costs of prosecution and/or up to 30-days’ imprisonment.
Each day that a violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 1996-1, 6/13/1996, § 8; as amended by A.O.; Ord. 2017-4, 8/10/2017)
§ 10-409.   Conflict.
   All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this Part are hereby repealed to the extent of
such inconsistency or conflict.
(Ord. 1996-1, 6/13/1996, § 10)
Part 5
Nuisances
§ 10-501.   Definition.
   For the purposes of this Part:
   Nuisance–as any person doing an unlawful act, or omitting to perform a duty,
or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act,
omission, condition or thing either:
   (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of others;
or
   (2)   Offends decency; or
   (3)   Is offensive to the senses; or
   (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk, stream,
ditch or drainage; or
   (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
   (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Ord. 1996-2, 6/13/1996, § 1; Ord. 2014-1, 1/9/2014, § 1)
§ 10-502.   Illustrative Enumeration of Nuisances.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting to be or
remain on any public or private property of any of the following items,
conditions or actions are hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance;
provided, however, this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be
conclusive, limiting or restrictive:
   A.   Weeds, grass or other rank vegetation to a height greater than eight
inches on average.
   B.   Accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush.
   C.   Poison ivy, ragweed or other poisonous plants, or plants detrimental to
health growing on any lot in such a manner that any part of such vegetation
shall extend upon, overhang or border any neighboring property or such as to
allow seed, pollen or other poisonous particles or emanations therefrom to be
carried through the air into any public place.
   D.   Trees, shrubs, plants or vegetation which overhangs any sidewalk or
street, or which grown thereon in a manner as or obstruct or impair the free
and full use of the sidewalk or street by the public, including the
interruption or interference with the clear vision of pedestrians or persons
operating vehicles thereon. Such obstruction impairment or interference with
clear vision shall be determined at the sole discretion by the Township
Official called to inspect any such condition.
   E.   Trees, shrubs, plants or vegetation which interferes with electrical
poles, wires, pipes or fixtures, or the roots of which interfere with or cause
the surface of the street, sidewalk or curb to be up heaved or disturbed.
   F.   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber or other things.
   G.   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes and other
vermin.
   H.   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located.
   I.   All unnecessary or unauthorized noises and annoying vibrations,
including animal noises.
   J.   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches.
   K.   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death.
   L.   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes or other
substances.
   M.   Any building, structure or other place or location where any activity
which is in violation of local, state or federal law is conducted, performed or
maintained.
   N.   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground.
   O.   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities.
(Ord. 1996-2, 6/13/1996, § 2; Ord. 2014-1, 1/9/2014, § 2; Ord. 2014-5, 8/14/
2014, § 1)
§ 10-503.   Nuisance Prohibition.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, maintain or allow the
creation or maintenance of nuisance.
(Ord. 1996-2, 6/13/1996, § 3; Ord. 2014-1, 1/9/2014, § 3)
§ 10-504.   Notice to Abate.
   Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the Township, the Township Code
Enforcement Officer, Fire Chief, Police Chief or some other duly designated
officer of the Township shall give seven days written notice to the owner and/
or occupant of the property upon which such nuisance exists or upon the causing
or maintaining the nuisance. If the nuisance is not abated within seven days of
the notice the party providing notice of the nuisance may file a citation with
the local magistrate for assessment of any penalties, fines or costs incurred
by the Township.
(Ord. 1996-2, 6/13/1996, § 4; Ord. 2014-1, 1/9/2014, § 4; Ord. 2014-5, 8/14/
2014, § 1)
§ 10-505.   Contents of Notice to Abate.
   The notice to abate a nuisance issued under the provisions of this Part
shall contain:
   A.   An order to abate the nuisance or to request a hearing within a stated
time, which shall be reasonable under the circumstances; such hearing shall
take place before the Plains Township Board of Commissioners within ten days of
the date of a written request for this hearing. All requests for hearings must
be put in writing and delivered to the Township Official who provided the
notice to abate the nuisance.
   B.   The location of the nuisance, if the same is stationary.
   C.   A description of what constitutes the nuisance.
   D.   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance.
   E.   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, the Township will abate
such nuisance and assess the cost thereof against such person.
(Ord. 1996-2, 6/13/1996, § 5; Ord. 2014-1, 1/9/2014, § 5)
§ 10-506.   Service of Notice.
   Proper service of the notice of abatement under this Part shall be by
personal service or registered mail with return receipt requested upon the
person responsible for the nuisance and the owner of the property it employees,
agent or representative. If in the event the owner and/or person responsible
whereabouts are unknown or refuse acceptance of service the notice of abatement
may be posted at the property so it is clearly visible to anyone entering the
premises.
(Ord. 1996-2, 6/13/1996, § 6; Ord. 2014-1, 1/9/2014, § 6; Ord. 2014-5, 8/14/
2014, § 1)
§ 10-507.   Abatement by Township.
   Upon the failure of the person upon whom notice to abate a nuisance was
served pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter to abate the same, the
Township Chief of Police or other duly designated officer of the Township shall
proceed to abate such nuisance and shall prepare a statement of costs incurred
in the abatement thereof.
(Ord. 1996-2, 6/13/1996, § 7; Ord. 2014-1, 1/9/2014, § 7)
§ 10-508.   Emergency Abatement by Township.
   When, in the opinion of the Township Code Enforcement Officer, Fire Chief,
Police Chief or other duly designated officer, there is actual and immediate
danger to the public or occupants of a particular premises caused by a nuisance
on such premises, the Township Code Enforcement Officer, Fire Chief, Police
Chief or other duly designated officer is hereby authorized and empowered,
without any notice or hearing to order and require such premises to be vacated.
The Township Code Enforcement Officer, Fire Chief, Police Chief or other duly
designated officer shall immediately post the premises, warning of the
dangerous condition, and shall then abate such nuisance and prepare a statement
of costs incurred in the abatement thereof.
(Ord. 1996-2, 6/13/1996, § 8; Ord. 2014-1, 1/9/2014, § 8)
§ 10-509.   Township’s Costs Declared Lien.
   Any and all costs, fines or penalties assessed against the owner of any
property for which a citation under this Part is issued shall constitute a lien
against the property if these costs are not paid within 45 days of assessment
by Court assessing such fees. Such lien may be filed and collected as the
Township deems proper and as provided by law.
(Ord. 1996-2, 6/13/1996, § 9; Ord. 2014-1, 1/9/2014, § 9; Ord. 2014-5, 8/14/
2014, § 1)
§ 10-510.   Additional Remedies.
   The Township may pursue the additional remedies under this Chapter as
authorized by the First Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 55101 et seq., as
reenacted, revised and amended by the institution of proceedings in courts of
equity.
(Ord. 1996-2, 6/13/1996, § 10; Ord. 2014-1, 1/9/2014, § 10)
§ 10-511.   Enabling Authority.
   This Part is enacted pursuant to the authority granted in the First Class
Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 55101 et seq.
(Ord. 1996-2, 6/13/1996, § 11; Ord. 2014-1, 1/9/2014, § 11)
§ 10-512.   Penalty.
   Any person or persons, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions
of this Part shall upon summary conviction thereof in a summary proceeding
before the Magistrate of the Township be sentenced to pay a fine not less than
$100 nor more than $300 and costs, and in default of the payment of such fine
and costs, be imprisoned in the county jail for a period not exceeding 90 days.
Each and every day upon which any person or persons, firm or corporation
violates or continues to violate the provisions of this Part, shall constitutes
a separate offense.
(Ord. 1996-2, 6/13/1996, § 12; as amended by A.O.; Ord. 2014-1, 1/9/2014, § 12;
Ord. 2014-5, 8/14/2014, § 1)
Part 6
Knox Boxes
§ 10-601.   Required for New Commercial Buildings.
   All new commercial buildings shall be required to install a Knox Box, of a
Underwriters Laboratory (UL) type and size approved by the Township Fire
Inspector in a location approved and specified by the Township Fire Inspector
prior to the issuance of an occupying permit.
(Ord. 2017-5, 8/10/2017)
§ 10-602.   Required for Existing Commercial Buildings with Improvements.
   All existing commercial buildings constructing improvements that require the
Township Planning Commission or Board of Commissioners approval, shall install
a Knox Box of a Underwriters Laboratory (UL) type and size as approved by the
Township Fire Inspector, in a location approved and specified by the Township
Fire Inspector prior to the issuance of any construction permit.
(Ord. 2017-5, 8/10/2017)
§ 10-603.   Knox Boxes for Existing Commercial Buildings.
   All existing commercial buildings may voluntarily install a Knox Box of a
Underwriters Laboratory (UL) type and size, but should first seek approval of
the type, size and location of the Knox Box from the Township Inspector.
(Ord. 2017-5, 8/10/2017)
§ 10-604.   Contents.
   All Knox Boxes should contain labeled keys that are easily identifiable and
provide access into all properties/buildings and any locked areas within said
building as the Township Fire Department may direct.
(Ord. 2017-5, 8/10/2017)
§ 10-605.   Locked Gates or Driveways.
   Any locked gates or driveways that, when unlocked, provide access to the
commercial property/building, are required to place a Fire Department access
lock at the access point of the gate or driveway to allow immediate emergency
access to the commercial property. All locks on gates and driveways not already
existing, need to be approved by the Township Fire Inspector.
(Ord. 2017-5, 8/10/2017)
§ 10-606.   Penalties.
   Any firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part, upon
conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $300, nor
more than $1,000, plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs,
to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of
this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2017-5, 8/10/2017)
Chapter 11
Housing
Part 1
Landlord/Tenant Regulations, Licensing and Occupancy
§
11-101.   Short Title
§
11-102.   Definitions
§
11-103.   Inspection Required
§
11-104.   Frequency of Inspections
§
11-105.   Inspection Certificate Housing Statistical Report Required Procedure
§
11-106.   Inspection Procedure
§
11-107.   Inspection of Dwelling for Lease or Rent
§
11-108.   Contents of Housing Report
§
11-109.   Request for Inspection
§
11-110.   Housing Report
§
11-111.   Issuance or Denial of Occupancy
§
11-112.   Certificate Review Prior to Tenant Occupancy
§
11-113.   Option of Review by Occupant/Tenant
§
11-114.   Period of Notice
§
11-115.   Notice to Plains Township Zoning Officer
§
11-116.   Fees
§
11-117.   Exceptions
§
11-118.   Disclaimer Waiver
§
11-119.   Liability of the Township
§
11-120.   Filing of Appeal
§
11-121.   Owners Duties
§
11-122.   Occupant Duties
§
11-123.   Occupancy Certificate and Inspection
§
11-124.   Inspection Before or After Sale of Premises
§
11-125.   Grounds for Non-Renewal Suspension or Revocation of License
§
11-126.   Violations and Penalties
§
11-127.   Remedies
§
11-128.   Nuisance Injunction
§
11-129.   Applications
Part 1
Landlord/Tenant Regulations, Licensing and Occupancy
§ 11-101.   Short Title.
   This Part shall be known and may be cited as the “Plains Township Landlord/
Tenant Regulations, Licensing and Occupancy Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 1)
§ 11-102.   Definitions.
   As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the following meanings;
unless the context clearly indicates that a different meaning is intended:
   Dwelling unit–a single unit providing complete independent living facilities
for one or more persons including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
   Renters report–this is a form which will be submitted to the Plains Township
Code Enforcement Office within 30 days of the execution of any rental agreement
of the date which the possession of the rental unit is transferred to the
occupant or tenant. This document shall contain the property location, the
contact information of the owner, manager (if applicable), occupant and tenant
and the start date for the term of the rental agreement.
   Rooming unit–any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit used
or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or eating
purposes.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 2)
§ 11-103.   Inspection Required.
   1.   All two-family and single-family dwellings, multi-family dwellings,
boarding houses, rooming houses, lodging houses, tourist houses, hotels that
rent to permanent residents and dormitories shall be inspected systematically
for compliance with this Part and all other applicable laws.
   2.   The provisions of this Section shall not apply to:
   A.   Dwellings, buildings, structures and uses owned and operated by any
governmental agency, hospitals and nursing homes.
   B.   Dwelling, buildings, structures and uses licensed and inspected by the
state.
   C.   Hotels that do not rent to permanent residents.
   D.   Residential units occupied by members of a group home under an IRC §
501(c)(3) recognized entity.
   3.   Where a nonresidential business or activity, or a state-licensed and
inspected use occupies a portion of a building and premises which would be
otherwise subject to this Part, the provisions of this Part shall be applicable
to the residential and common or public areas of such building and premises.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 3)
§ 11-104.   Frequency of Inspections.
   1.   All rental dwellings subject to the Section shall be inspected upon
entering into a lease agreement, written or otherwise, for any new tenant
occupying a dwelling.
   2.   Neither the common areas nor the dwelling or rooming units in
structures newly constructed shall be further inspected after the completion
and issuance of certificate of occupancy for a period of three years from the
date of said certificate, unless a complaint is made thereof. Thereafter, said
areas and units shall be inspected in accordance with the requirements of this
Part.
   3.   Nothing in this Section shall preclude the inspection of said dwellings
before occupying by a new tenant upon written complaint by tenant occupying any
residential or commercial unit.
   4.   Residential rental units occupied by immediate members of the owner’s
family provided that not more than two unrelated individuals, in addition to
the immediate members of the owner’s family, occupy the dwelling unit at any
time.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 4)
§ 11-105.   Inspection Certificate Housing Statistical Report Required
Procedure.
   No person shall rent, let or let for occupancy any dwelling subject to this
Part without having a valid, current certificate of inspection for that
dwelling housing report.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 5)
§ 11-106.   Inspection Procedure.
   1.   If, upon completion of the inspection, the premises are found to be in
compliance with all applicable Township codes and ordinance and the appropriate
fee has been paid, the Township shall issue a certificate of inspection for the
premises.
   2.   If, upon completion of the inspection, the premises are found to be in
violation of one or more provisions of applicable Township codes and
ordinances, the Township shall provide written notice of such violations and
shall set a re-inspection date before which such violation shall be corrected.
If such violations have been corrected within that period, the Township shall
issue a certificate of inspection for the premises. If such violations have not
been corrected within that period, the Township shall not issue the certificate
of inspection and may take any action necessary to enforce compliance with
applicable Township codes and ordinances. If such uncorrected violations do not
pose an immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of the occupants,
the Township Code Enforcement Officer or the Township Code Enforcement
Officer’s designee may authorize the occupancy of the premises for a period not
to exceed 90 days.
   3.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall review the information contained
within the renter’s report to determine the issuance or denial of an occupancy
as provided in §
11-102 of this Part.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 6)
§ 11-107.   Inspection of Dwelling for Lease or Rent.
   It shall be the obligation of every owner, landlord and manager of a
dwelling unit, as defined in §
11-102 of this Part, to notify the Code Enforcement Officer upon listing,
advertising or offering said dwelling unit(s) for lease or rent. The Code
Enforcement Officer shall provide a “housing report” for said rental unit(s)
based upon physical inspection of said rental units. Housing reports shall be
valid for so long as that tenant or tenants remain at that dwelling unit.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 7)
§ 11-108.   Contents of Housing Report.
   The housing report furnished by the Code Enforcement Officer to the owner,
landlord and/or manger will contain the following:
   A.   The street address or other appropriate description of subject dwelling
unit(s).
   B.   A statement of zoning classification applicable to the subject dwelling
unit(s).
   C.   A statement concerning the conformity or nonconformity of existing uses
maintained within the dwelling unit(s) and violations of the Zoning Ordinance [
Chapter 27], if any, existing at the time of inspection.
   D.   A statement concerning variances and/or use permits issued to date
which affect said dwelling unit(s).
   E.   A statement of housing code violations, if any, existing at the time of
inspection in conformance with this Part.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 8)
§ 11-109.   Request for Inspection.
   The owner of any dwelling subject to this division may request inspections
of said dwelling at any time subject to the fee schedule in §
11-116.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 9)
§ 11-110.   Housing Report.
   The Code Enforcement Officer when preparing a housing report shall inspect
the following items for conformance with the Township building codes and shall
determine whether a minor or major infraction exists for each and any item
listed. If said infraction shall be considered a hazard of the safety, health
and welfare of the occupants or the public and declared unfit for human
habilitations then no occupancy permit shall be issued until such time as these
infractions are corrected. Said information shall include, but are not limited
to, the following:
   A.   Basic equipment and facilities.
   (1)   Kitchen sink not provided.
   (2)   Lavatory basin not provided.
   (3)   Toilet not provided.
   (4)   Tub or shower not provided.
   (5)   Bathroom or toilet not properly enclosed.
   (6)   Hot and cold water not provided to kitchen sink, lavatory basin, tub
or shower.
   (7)   Water heating facilities not provided.
   B.   Light, ventilation and heating.
   (1)   Ventilation not adequate for bathroom.
   (2)   Two electrical outlets, or one outlet and one light fixture, not
provided for each habitable room.
   (3)   Heating facilities inadequate or of unapproved type.
   (4)   Fire sensor/alarm.
   C.   Structural.
   (1)   Porch defective.
   (2)   Outside steps defective.
   (3)   Exterior wall structurally not weather tight.
   (4)   Exterior wall structurally unsafe.
   (5)   Roof not weather tight.
   (6)   Chimney in need of repairs.
   (7)   Exterior openings not weather tight.
   (8)   Exterior openings not in working condition.
   (9)   Foundation not watertight or rodent-proof.
   (10)   Inside stairs not safe.
   (11)   Handrails not provided on exterior nor interior stairs.
   (12)   Floors are defective.
   (13)   Joists are defective.
   (14)   Patch plastering needed lack of adequate fire escape.
   (15)   Plumbing fixture or pipes leaking or obstructed.
   (16)   Plumbing fixture or pipes not properly installed.
   (17)   Plumbing fixtures not maintained in sanitary conditions.
   (18)   Bathroom or lavatory floor not impervious.
   (19)   Bathroom or lavatory floor not maintained in sanitary condition.
   (20)   Heating facilities not maintained in safe, working condition.
   (21)   Drainage system defective.
   (22)   Kitchen range defective.
   (23)   Defective wiring.
   (24)   Lighting fixtures broken, defective or improperly installed.
   (25)   Flexible cords used for branch wiring.
   (26)   Sockets, switches or receptacles broken.
   (27)   Cover-plates broken or missing from switches, receptacles or outlet
boxes.
   (28)   Any such requirements under the UCC or IMPC adapted by the Township.
   (29)   Range hood for open flame gas stove tops.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 10)
§ 11-111.   Issuance or Denial of Occupancy.
   1.   Code Enforcement Officer shall review the information contained within
the “housing report”. Based upon said review the Code Enforcement Officer may
issue an occupancy license, and deliver said occupancy certificate the owner/
landlord and/or agent who lists, advertises or offers a rental unit(s) for
lease or rent.
   2.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall deliver the occupancy certificate to
the owner/landlord and/or agent of said rental unit(s). The occupancy
certificate shall be transferred and delivered by the owner/landlord and/or
manager to the occupant and tenant(s) of said rental unit(s) upon execution of
the rental agreement and/or at the time the occupant and tenant(s) may take-
possession, whichever is earlier.
   3.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall provide and deliver to the owner/
landlord and/or manager written notice and explanation for the denial of a
occupancy certificate for any rental unit listed, advertised or offered for
lease or rent.
   4.   In the event the Code Enforcement Officer denies the occupancy
certificate the owner/landlord and/or manager shall be permitted to apply for
an inspection of the failed rental unit(s). In the event the occupancy
certificate is denied three times within a one-year period, the owner/landlord
and/or manager shall not be permitted to apply for an inspection for at least
90 days from the date of the third failed inspection in order to provide
adequate time for the correction of any and all outstanding problems as listed
by the Code Enforcement Officer. No owner/landlord and/or agent shall permit
any occupants or tenants to occupy the rental unit until the occupancy license
is issued. Failure to adhere to this Section shall cause the owner/landlord
and/or agent to be subject to the same penalties set forth in §
11-127 governing penalties.
   5.   Should the rental unit be occupied at the time of an inspection and
said inspection fails, the tenant shall be permitted to remain for 30 days to
provide ample time for the corrections, repairs or upgrades to be made by the
owner, landlord, manager or tenant. A re-inspection shall be held no later than
35 days from the failed inspection. If the second inspection fails and owner,
landlord, manager or tenant cannot provide good cause for why the repairs,
corrections or upgrades have not been made and there is no hazard to health,
safety or welfare of the tenant or any other individual as determined by the
Code Enforcement Officer, the tenant shall be permitted to remain for an
additional 30 days. At no time shall a Code Enforcement Officer be permitted to
allow any tenant to remain in a rental unit which has failed an inspection for
more than 60 days, after a failed second inspection.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 11)
§ 11-112.   Certificate Review Prior to Tenant Occupancy.
   It shall be the obligation of every owner, landlord and manager to allow the
occupant(s) and tenant(s) to review the occupancy certificate or written notice
denying the occupancy as provided in §
11-111 to the occupant(s) and tenant(s) prior to the execution of any rental
agreement for the dwelling(s), prior to the transfer of possession of the
dwelling(s) and prior to the exchange of any monetary sum relative to the lease
of the rental unit(s).
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 12)
§ 11-113.   Option of Review by Occupant/Tenant.
   1.   The occupant(s) and tenant(s) shall have the right to review the
information
contained within the housing report or to waive the right to review the housing
report prior to entering into a rental agreement.
   2.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall deliver to the owner, landlord and
manager a “renter report” as defined in §
11-102. Said form shall be delivered to the owner, landlord and manager at the
time when the Code Enforcement Officer delivers the occupancy certificate or
written notice denying the occupancy certificate. It shall be the obligation of
every owner, landlord and manager to deliver the “renter report” to the
occupant(s) and/or tenant(s) prior to execution of the rental agreement for the
dwelling(s), prior to the transfer of possession of the rental unit(s) and
prior to the exchange of any monetary sum relative to the lease of the dwelling
(s), should a rental agreement not be utilized.
   3.   Should the occupant(s) and tenant(s) wish to review the housing report,
the Code Enforcement Officer will make arrangements for such and such occupant
(s) and tenant(s) shall sign such report acknowledging they have reviewed the
report.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 13)
§ 11-114.   Period of Notice.
   1.   Six months from date of inspection, if a rental unit(s) has not been
rented or leased, the conclusiveness of the housing report must be either
endorsed, as described in §
11-110, or altered, by a new inspection to indicate appropriate changes. The
housing report will only indicate violations and conditions as of the date of
inspection. Said housing report does not indicate violations and/or corrections
of such occurring between the date of inspection and the date of a rental
agreement for a dwelling(s), or transfer of possession of the rental unit(s)
when a rental agreement is not utilized, and of exchange of a monetary sum
relative to the lease of a rental unit(s).
   2.   However, upon the request of owner/landlord and/or manager, prior to
the expiration of the six-month period referred to in Subsection 1. above, the
Code Enforcement Officer may request and additional inspection extending its
conclusiveness for up to two additional three-month periods, showing any change
to the information shown on the original housing report. Each re-inspection
however, shall extend the conclusiveness of the housing report for only three
months.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 14)
§ 11-115.   Notice to Plains Township Zoning Officer.
   1.   After the occupancy license has been issued, and within 30 days of the
execution of any rental agreement, or upon transfer of possession of the
regulated rental unit(s) to any occupant(s) and/or tenant(s), whichever is
earlier, the owner/landlord and/or manager must file a renter’s report with the
Plains Township Zoning Officer which shall list the following:
   A.   Name, address and contact number of owner/landlord and/or manager.
   B.   Name of the occupants and tenants.
   C.   Location, including street address and apartment number, of rental unit
(s).
   D.   Term of rental agreement.
   E.   Date term shall commence.
   2.   Forms for obtaining this information shall be made available at the
Plains Township Municipal Building during regular business hours.
   3.   It shall be the intent of this Section to maintain the proper
information on record for such needs of the Township, including, but limited
to, tax collection, census counting and head counting used in obtaining state
and/or federal aid or grants.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 15)
§ 11-116.   Fees.
   1.   Fees for each inspection required by this Part shall be established
from time to time by resolution of the Board of Commissioners. [A.O.]
   2.   Fees for each re-inspection required by this Part shall be established
from time to time by resolution of the Board of Commissioners. [A.O.]
   3.   The units enumerated above shall include units used or occupied by the
owner or the owner’s representative.
   4.   For purposes of this Section, the term “unit” shall mean either
residential or
commercial unit.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 16; as amended by A.O.)
§ 11-117.   Exceptions.
   The housing report set forth in §
11-110 shall not be required for rental unit(s) should any of the following
conditions be applicable:
   A.   Where such rental unit(s) is intended to be demolished and a valid
demolition permit has been obtained from the Township of Plains.
   B.   Where such rental unit(s) is given as a gift inter-family, i.e.,
husband and wife, parents and children and spouses of children.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 17)
§ 11-118.   Disclaimer Waiver.
   Notwithstanding any other law or ordinance, the provisions of this Part may
not be waived or disclaimed by an oral or written agreement executed by any
owner/landlord and/or manager or occupant or tenant.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 18)
§ 11-119.   Liability of the Township.
   The housing report shall be compiled from the records of the Township of
Plains and from an inspection of the rental unit(s). Neither the enactment of
this Part nor the preparation and delivery of any housing report required
hereunder shall impose any liability upon the Township of Plains, or officers
or employees thereof, for any errors or omissions contained in such housing
report nor shall the Township of Plains bear any liability not otherwise
imposed by law.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 19)
§ 11-120.   Filing of Appeal.
   1.   Appeals from the findings set forth in the housing report must be filed
in writing with the Board of Commissioners of Plains Township within seven
business days after issuance of said housing report, who will refer the appeal
to the Board or Boards as follows:
   A.   Code Enforcement Board of Appeals, where the conditions reported
constitute violations of the applicable codes of the Township of Plains or deal
with the suitable of any rental unit or structure, with regard to the health,
safety and welfare of our citizens for continued occupancy.
   B.   The Zoning Hearing Board, where the findings set forth in the housing
report relate to matters concerning the classification and the use of property
under the Zoning Ordinance [
Chapter 27] of the Township of Plains.
   2.   Any party(s) may appeal decisions of the Code Enforcement Board of
Appeals or the Zoning Hearing Board to any court of competent jurisdiction.
Said appeal should be taken within 30 days of the date of the written decision.
   A.   All appeals under this Section must be made in writing to the Appeal
Board and directed to the care of the Municipal Secretary addressed to the
municipal building. Said appeal must specify the decision that is being
appealed and state the reason or reasons thereof and facts in support of said
appeal. Further any said appeal must be accompanied by a fee in an amount as
established from time to time by resolution of Board of Supervisors payable to
the Township which should be applied to cover the costs of this hearing. This
fee should be refunded to the appellant if the Board hearing the appeal
reversed the decision of the Code Enforcement Officer. [A.O.]
   B.   The Board whom the appeal is to be heard should schedule a hearing
within 30 days of receipt of this appeal. A stenographer record shall be made
by the hearing board as to any testimony concerning the appeal. A written
decision shall be made by the hearing board and its solicitor within 20 days of
the date of the completion of any testimony provided at the appeal. Said
decision shall be served upon the appellant and the Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 20; as amended by A.O.)
§ 11-121.   Owner’s Duties.
   1.   General.
   A.   It shall be the duty of every owner to keep and maintain all rental
units in compliance with all applicable codes and provisions of all other
applicable state laws and regulations and local ordinances, and to keep such
property in good and safe condition.
   B.   As provided for in this Part, every owner shall be responsible for
regulating the proper and lawful use and maintenance of ever rental unit which
he, she or it owns. As provided for in this Part, every owner shall also be
responsible for regulating the conduct and activities of the occupants of every
rental unit which he, she or it owns in the Township, which conduct or activity
takes place at such rental unit or its premises.
   C.   In order to achieve those ends, every owner of a rental unit shall
regulate the conduct and activity of the occupants thereof both contractually
and through enforcement, as more fully set forth below.
   D.   This Section shall not be construed as diminishing or relieving, in any
way, the responsibility of occupants or their guest for their conduct or
activity, nor shall it be construed as an assignment, transfer or projection
over or onto any owner of any responsibility or liability which occupants or
their guests may have as a result of their conduct or activity under any
private cause of action, shall this Section be construed so as to require an
owner to indemnify or defend occupants or their guests when any such action or
proceeding is brought against the occupant based upon the occupant’s conduct or
activity. Nothing herein is intended to impose any additional civil/criminal
responsibility upon owners other than that which is imposed by existing law.
   E.   This Part is not intended to, nor shall its effect be, to limit any
other enforcement remedies which may be available to the Township against an
owner, occupant or guest thereof.
   2.   Designation of manager. Every owner who is not a full-time resident of
the Township of Plains, or elsewhere in an area that is not within a 20-mile
radius of the Township of Plains, shall designate a manager who shall reside in
an area that is within a 20-mile radius of the Township of Plains. If the owner
is a corporation, a manager shall be required if an officer of the corporation
does not reside within the aforesaid area. If an officer does reside in the
area, the officer shall preform the same function as a manager. If the owner is
a partnership, a manager shall be required if all partners do not reside within
the aforesaid area. Any partner that does reside in the area shall perform the
same function as a manager. The manager shall be the agent of the owner for
service of process and receiving of notices and demands, as well as for
performing the obligations of the owner under this Part and under rental
agreements with occupants. The identity, address and telephone number(s) of a
person who is designated as manager hereunder shall be provided by owner or
manager to the Township, and such information shall be kept current and updated
as it changes.
   3.   Disclosure.
   A.   Owner or manager shall disclose to the occupant in writing on or before
the commencement of the tenancy:
   (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the manager, if applicable.
   (2)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner of the premises.
   B.   Before an occupant initially enters into or renews a rental agreement
for a regulated rental unit, the owner or manager shall furnish the occupant
with the most recent inspection housing report relating to the rental unit.
   4.   Maintenance of premises.
   A.   The owner shall maintain the premises in compliance with the applicable
codes of the Township and shall regularly perform all routine maintenance,
including lawn mowing and ice and snow removal, and shall promptly make any and
all repairs necessary to fulfill his or her obligation.
   B.   The owner and occupant may agree that the occupant is to perform
specified repairs, maintenance tasks, alterations or remodeling. In such case,
however, such agreement between the owner and occupant must be in writing. Such
an agreement may be entered into between the owner and occupant only if:
   (1)   The agreement of the parties is entered into as good faith and not for
the purpose of evading the obligations of the owner or occupant.
   (2)   The agreement does not diminish or affect the obligation of the owner
to other occupants in the premises.
   C.   In no case shall the existence of my agreement between owner and
occupant relieve an owner of any responsibility under this Part or other
ordinances or codes for maintenance of premises.
   5.   Complaints. The owner or manager shall reply promptly to reasonable
complaints and inquiries from occupants.
   6.   Landlord/Tenant Act. The owner shall comply with all provisions of the
Landlord/Tenant Act of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 68 P.S. §§ 250.101 et
seq.
   7.   Common area. Where an owner does not regulate the use of common areas
and the behavior of occupants and guests in the common areas, the owner shall
be directly responsible for the behavior of occupants and guests in the common
area as if the owner were and occupant.
   8.   Enforcement. In the event that the same occupant is convicted of a
third disruptive conduct violation within a license year, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall direct the owner to take all action necessary to evict the
occupant who violated this Part and not to permit the occupant to occupy the
premises during any subsequent licensing.
   9.   Code violations. Upon receiving notice of any code violations from the
Code Enforcement Officer, the owner shall promptly take action, or cause the
necessary action to be taken to abate the offending condition and eliminate the
violation.
   10.   Township can make repairs. In case the owner of premises shall
neglect, fail or refuse to comply with any notice from the Township or its Code
Enforcement Officer to correct a violation relating to maintenance and repair
of the premises under any code within the period of time stated in such notice,
the Township may cause the violation to be corrected. There shall be imposed
upon the owner a charge of the actual costs involved, plus ten percent of said
costs for each time the Township shall cause a violation to be corrected; and
the owner of the premises shall be billed after same has been completed. Any
such bill which remains unpaid and outstanding after the time specified therein
for payment shall be grounds for the imposition of a municipal lien upon the
premises as provided by law. Such a lien may be reduced to judgment and
enforced and collected as provided by this Subsection 10. are not exclusive and
the Township and its Code Enforcement Officer may invoke such other remedies
available under this Part or other applicable codes, ordinances or statues,
including where appropriate, condemnation proceedings or declaration of
premises as unfit for habitation, or suspension, revocation or non-renewal of
the occupancy certificate issued hereunder.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 21)
§ 11-122.   Occupant Duties.
   1.   Health and safety regulations.
   A.   The maximum number of persons permitted to reside in any rental unit
shall not exceed four unless they are related by blood, marriage or legal
adoption, then it shall not exceed six.
   B.   The occupant shall dispose from his or her rental unit all rubbish,
garbage and other waste in a clean and safe manner, and separate and place for
collection all recyclable materials in compliance with the recycling schedule
and garbage collection set forth by the Township.
   2.   Peaceful enjoyment. The occupant shall conduct himself or herself and
require other persons, including, but not limited to, guests on the premises
and within his or her rental unit with his or her consent, to conduct
themselves in a manner compliant with the ordinances and regulations of the
Township of Plains that will not disturb the peaceful enjoyment of adjacent or
nearby dwellings by the persons occupying same.
   3.   Residential use. The occupant shall, unless otherwise permitted by
applicable law or ordinance, occupy or use his or her rental unit for no other
purpose than as a residence.
   4.   Illegal activities. The occupant shall not engage in, nor tolerate nor
permit others on the premises to engage in, any conduct declared illegal under
any federal criminal statute, and/or under the Pennsylvania Crimes Code, 18
Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq., or Liquor Code, 47 P.S. §§
1-101 et seq., or the Controlled Substance, Drug, Device and Cosmetic Act, 35
P.S. §§ 780-A01 et seq.. Any misdemeanor or felony arrests shall be considered
the basis for immediate occupant eviction proceedings by owner.
   5.   Disruptive conduct.
   A.   The occupant shall not engage in, nor tolerate nor permit others on the
premises to engage in, disruptive conduct or other violations of this Part.
   B.   When police investigate an alleged incident of disruptive conduct, he
or she shall complete a disruptive conduct reported upon a finding that the
report incident did, in his or her judgment constitute “disruptive conduct” as
defined herein and shall provide the same to the Code Enforcement Officer of
the Township of Plains. The information filled in on said report shall include,
if possible, the identity or identities of the alleged perpetrator(s) of the
disruptive conduct and all other obtainable information including the factual
basis for the disruptive conduct requested on the prescribed form. Where the
police make such investigation, said police officer shall then submit the
completed disruptive conduct report to the Code Enforcement Officer. In all
cases, the Code Enforcement Officer shall mail a copy of the disruptive conduct
report to the owner or manager within five working days of the occurrence of
the alleged disruptive conduct.
   6.   Damage to premises. The occupant shall not intentionally cause, nor
permit nor tolerate others to cause, damage to the premises. Any conduct which
results in damages in excess of $500 shall be considered a violation of this
Part.
   7.   Inspection of premises. The occupant shall permit inspections by the
Code Enforcement Officer of the premises at reasonable times, upon reasonable
notice (24-hour notice, either written or oral, by the Code Enforcement
Officer).
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 22)
§ 11-123.   Occupancy Certificate and Inspection.
   1.   License requirement.
   A.   As a prerequisite to entering into a rental agreement or permitting the
occupancy of any rental unit (except as provided in Subsection 3. below), the
owner of every such rental unit shall be required to apply for and obtain an
occupancy license for each rental unit.
   B.   An occupancy certificate shall be required for all rental units except
those excluded under §
11-103.
   C.   An occupancy certificate shall not be required for multi-unit
dwellings, although an occupancy license shall be required for each rental unit
within the structure. The foregoing notwithstanding, all other provisions of
this Part shall apply to the common areas of the structure.
   D.   The application for the occupancy certificate shall be in a form as
determined by the Township.
   E.   The owner shall maintain a current list of occupants in each rental
unit which shall include their names, permanent address and permanent telephone
number. The owner shall furnish the list to the Township upon request and shall
notify the Township of any changes in the number of occupants so that revisions
can be made to the license.
   2.   Inspection.
   A.   All premises shall be subject to periodic inspection by the Code
Enforcement Officer or another duly authorized agent of the Township. Such
inspection may take place when an application is submitted for an occupancy
certificate or at any time during the year when a property becomes subject to
this Part. The fees for inspections are contained in §
11-116 of this Part.
   B.   The Code Enforcement Officer is hereby designated as the official
authorized to enforce this Part and to take appropriate measures to abate
violations hereof, for and on behalf of the Township of Plains.
   C.   This Section shall not be construed so as to limit or restrict the Code
Enforcement Officer’s authority to conduct inspections of premises, whether or
not subject to the permitting and inspection requirements of this Part,
pursuant to any other ordinance or code.
   3.   Search warrant. Upon a showing of probable cause that a violation of
this Part or any other ordinance of the Township of Plains has occurred the
Code Enforcement Officer may apply to the magisterial district judge having
jurisdiction in the Township of Plains for a search warrant to enter and
inspect the premises. [A.O.]
   4.   Posting of contact information. Any multi-unit regulated rental unit
shall be required to conspicuously post the contact name and address of the
owner, landlord and manager for the benefit of all tenants and residents. Said
information shall be posted in the common area of the multi-unit rental unit.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 23; as amended by A.O.)
§ 11-124.   Inspection Before or After Sale of Premises.
   1.   Generally.
   A.   If a rental inspection has occurred within three months before the sale
of the premises (the date is defined as the date of settlement) the specific
unit, but not the entire premises, is exempt from the inspection prior to sale.
Verification of the inspection must be shown to the Code Enforcement Officer
prior to the inspection for sale.
   B.   If an inspection was conducted for the sale of a property and the
inspection for a sale has occurred three months prior to the need for an
inspection (i.e., a change in a tenant), the Code Enforcement Officer may waive
the need for an inspection provided there is not circumstances which would
necessitate a re-inspection (i.e., drug activity, criminal activity, probable
cause to believe there is a nuisance or that the rental unit(s) are not up to
code). Such decision as to whether an inspection is necessary within three
months after the inspection for sale is at the sole discretion of the Code
Enforcement Officer.
   2.   Sale of premises. It shall be unlawful for any owner of any premises
within the Township of Plains which has one or more rental units unless the
inspections herein are conducted or lawfully exempt, to sell the premises until
the inspections have been completed as set forth herein.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 24)
§ 11-125.   Grounds for Non-Renewal Suspension or Revocation of License.
   1.   General. The Code Enforcement Officer may initiate action against an
owner that may result in a formal warning, non-renewal, suspension or
revocation of the owner’s license, for violating any provision of this Part
that imposes a duty upon the owner and/or for failing to regulate the breach of
duties by occupants as provided for herein.
   2.   Definitions of options to the Code Enforcement Officer.
   A.   Formal warning. Formal written notification of at least one violation
of this Part. Upon satisfaction of compliance with this Part and any conditions
imposed by the Code Enforcement Officer and/or the Township of Plains the
formal warning shall be removed when the owner applies for certificate renewal
at a time set by the Code Enforcement Officer or by the Township of Plains.
   B.   Non-renewal. The denial of the privilege to apply for occupancy
certificate renewal after expiration of the occupancy term. The Township will
permit the owner to maintain occupants in the premises until the end of the
occupancy term but will not accept applications for renewal of the occupancy
certificate until a time set by the Code Enforcement Officer or by the Township
of Plains such time not to exceed one year from the renewal date.
   C.   Suspension. The immediate loss of the privilege to rent the rental
units for a period of time set by the Code Enforcement Officer or the Township
of Plains. The owner, suspension period apply for occupancy renewal without the
need to show cause why the owner’s privilege to apply for a occupancy
certificate should be reinstated. Upon suspension, the owner shall take
immediate steps to evict the occupants.
   D.   Revocation. The immediate loss of the privilege to rent the rental
units for a period of time set by the Code Enforcement Officer or the Township
of Plains and the loss of the privilege to apply for renewal of the license at
the expiration of the time period as determined by the Code Enforcement Officer
from the date of revocation. Upon the loss of the privilege to rent, the owner
shall take immediate steps to evict the occupants.
   E.   Reinstatement. A rental registration shall be reinstated if the owner
or operator of a rental unit corrects the reason for the revocation of the
residential rental registration and has paid the residential rental
registration reinstatement fee.
   3.   Criteria for applying sanctions. The Code Enforcement Officer, when
recommending sanctions, and the Township of Plains, when applying sanctions,
shall consider the following:
   A.   The effect of the violation on the health, safety and welfare of the
occupants of the rental unit and of the residents of the premises.
   B.   The effect of the violation on the neighborhood.
   C.   Whether the owner has prior violations of this Part and other
ordinances of the Township or has received notices of the violations as
provided for in this Part.
   D.   Whether the owner has been subject to sanctions under this Part.
   E.   The effect of sanctions against the owner and the occupants.
   F.   The action taken by the owner to remedy the violations and to prevent
future violations, including any written plan submitted by the owner.
   G.   The policies and lease language employed by the owner to manage the
rental unit to enable the owner to comply with the provisions of this Part.
   H.   In addition to enforcing sanctions as set forth above, the Code
Enforcement Officer may recommend and Township of Plains may impose upon the
existing or subsequent license reasonable conditions related to fulfilling the
purpose of this Part.
   4.   Grounds for imposing sanctions. Any of the following may subject an
owner to sanctions as provided for in this Part:
   A.   Failure to abate a violation of the Township codes and ordinances that
apply to the premises within and directed by the Code Enforcement Officer.
   B.   Refusal to permit inspection of the premises by the Code Enforcement
Officer.
   C.   Failure to take steps to remedy and percent violations of this Part by
occupants of rental unit.
   D.   Failure to evict occupants after having been directed to do so by the
Code Enforcement Officer.
   E.   Three violations of this Part or other ordinances of the Township that
apply to the premises within a license term. For purposes of this Part, there
need be no criminal conviction before a violation can be found to exist. Before
a prior violation can be considered under this Section, the owner must have
received notice in writing of this violation within 30 days after the Code
Enforcement Officer received notice of the violation.
   5.   Procedure for non-renewal, suspension or revocation of license and
appeal. Notification, following a determination that grounds for non-renewal,
suspension or revocation of a license exist, the Code Enforcement Officer shall
notify the owner of the action to be taken and the reason therefore. Such
notification shall be in writing, addressed to the owner in question, and shall
contain the following information:
   A.   The address of the premises in question and identification of the
particular rental units affected.
   B.   A description of the violation which has been found to exist.
   C.   A statement that the license for said rental unit(s) shall be either
suspended or revoked, or will not be renewed for the next license or that the
owner will receive a formal warning. In the case of a suspension or revocation,
the notice shall state the date upon which such suspension or revocation will
commence, and in the case of a suspension shall also state the duration of said
suspension.
   D.   A statement that, due to the non-renewal, suspension or revocation (as
the case may be), the owner or any person acting on his, her or its behalf is
prohibited from renting, letting or permitting occupancy of the rental unit(s)
by more than two unrelated individuals subject to said enforcement action, from
and during said action is in effect.
   E.   Any person affected by a decision of the Code Enforcement Officer or a
notice or order issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall have the right to
appeal to the Board of Appeals, provided that a written application for appeal
is filed within ten days after the day the decision, notice or order was
served. All application for appeal may be made when it is claimed that the true
intent of the codes or rules legally adopted thereunder has been incorrectly
interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an equally good
or better method can be used. See International Property Maintenance Code, §PM
111.0, “Means of Appeal” [
Chapter 5, Part 5]. See also the Codified Ordinances of the Township of Plains.
[A.O.]
   6.   Delivery of notification.
   A.   All notices shall be sent to the owner and manager, if applicable, by
certified mail. In the event that the notice is returned by the postal
authorities marked “unclaimed” or “refused” then the Code Enforcement Officer
or other agent of the Township shall attempt delivery by personal service on
the owner or manager if applicable. The Code Enforcement Officer or other agent
of the Township also post the notice at a conspicuous place on the premises.
   B.   If personal service cannot be accomplished after a reasonable attempt
to do so, then the notice may be sent to the owner or manager at the address
stated on the most current occupancy certificate application for the premises
in question, by regular first class mail, postage prepaid. If such notice is
not returned by the postal authorities within five days of its deposit in the
U.S. mail, then it shall be deemed to have been delivered to and received by
the addressee on the fifth day following its deposit in the U.S. mail.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 25; as amended by A.O.)
§ 11-126.   Violations and Penalties.
   1.   Basis for violation. It shall be unlawful for any person as either
owner or manager of a rental unit for which a license is required, to operate
without a valid, current license issued by the Township authorizing such
operation. It shall also be unlawful for any person, either owner or manager,
to allow the number of occupants of a regulated rental unit to exceed the
maximum limit as set forth on the license, or to violate any other provision of
this Part. It shall be unlawful for any occupant to violate this Part.
   2.   A.   Penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision of this Part
or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements hereof, or the building
code of the Township, or shall in violation of an approved plan or directive of
the Code Enforcement Officer shall, upon conviction thereof, before the
magisterial district judge of the Township of Plains, Pennsylvania, be liable
to pay the following penalties: [A.O.]
   (1)   First violation. A fine of $500, or 30 days imprisonment, or both.
   (2)   Second violation. A fine of $750, or 30 days imprisonment, or both.
[A.O.]
   (3)   Third and each subsequent violation. A fine of $1,000, or 30 days
imprisonment, or both. [A.O.]
   B.   Upon conviction of a third offense, the owner of the property will be
required to begin eviction of the tenants/occupants of the property. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day for which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 26; as amended by A.O.)
§ 11-127.   Remedies.
   1.   Non-exclusive remedies. The penalties provisions of this Part and the
license non-renewal, suspension and revocation procedure provided in this Part
shall be independent, non-mutually exclusive separate remedies, all of which
shall be available to the Township as may be deemed appropriate for carrying
out the purposes of this Part. The remedies and procedures provided in this
Part for violation hereof are not intended to supplant or replace, to any
degree, the remedies and procedures available to the Township in the case of a
violation of any other code or ordinance of the Township, whether or not such
other code or ordinance is cited in this ordinance.
   A.   For purposes of this Part, any notice required hereunder to be given to
a manager shall be deemed as notice given to the owner.
   B.   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that any notice required to be
given to the owner under this Part shall have been received by such owner if
the notice was given to the owner in the manner provided by this Part.
   C.   A claimed lack of knowledge by the owner of any violation hereunder
cited shall be no defense to license non-renewal, suspension or revocation
proceedings as long as all notices prerequisite to institution of such
proceedings have been given and deemed received in accordance with the
applicable provisions of this Part.
   2.   Changes in ownership/occupancy. It shall be the duty of each owner of a
rental unit to notify the Code Enforcement Officer in writing within five days
of any change in ownership of the premises or of the number of rental units on
the premises. It shall also be the duty of the owner to notify the Code
Enforcement Officer in writing within five days of any increase in the number
of occupants in any regulated rental unit or of the changing of a rental unit
from owner occupied to non-owner-occupied, which thereby transforms the rental
unit into a rental unit for purposes of this Part. Failure to so notify the
Code Enforcement Officer shall be considered a violation of this Part.
   3.   Owners severally responsible. If any rental unit is owned by more than
one person, in any form of joint tenancy, as a partnership, or otherwise, each
person shall be jointly and severally responsible for the duties imposed under
the terms of this Part, and shall be severally subject to prosecution for the
violation of this Part.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 27)
§ 11-128.   Nuisance Injunction.
   Any violation of this Part is hereby declared to be a nuisance. In addition
to any other relief provided by this Part, the Township Solicitor may apply to
a court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to prohibit the
continuation of any violation of this Part Such application for relief may
include seeking a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction and
permanent injunction.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 28)
§ 11-129.   Applications.
   All dwelling units in the Township of Plains must be inspected in accordance
with the guidelines and requirements herein no later than January 10, 2013.
Additionally, any information which may be necessary and/ or must be provided
by the owner, landlord or manager under this Part must be provided to the
Office of Code Enforcement no later than April 30, 2007, regardless of whether
an inspection is required.
(Ord. 2013-1, 1/10/2013, § 30)
Chapter 12
[Reserved]
Chapter 13
Licenses, Permits and General Business Regulations
Part 1
Peddling and Soliciting
§
13-101.   Legislative Intent
§
13-102.   Definitions
§
13-103.   Registration Required
§
13-104.   Registration Certificate
§
13-105.   Application for Certificate
§
13-106.   Investigation of Applicants
§
13-107.   Denial or Issuance of Certificate
§
13-108.   Fees
§
13-109.   Bonding Requirements
§
13-110.   Appeals from Denial of Certificate
§
13-111.   Revocations of Certificates
§
13-112.   General Regulations
§
13-113.   Exemptions
Part 2
Regulations for Special Events, Concerts and Activities
§
13-201.   Definition
§
13-202.   License Required
§
13-203.   License Application/Procedure
§
13-204.   License Fee
§
13-205.   Athletic Exhibitions
§
13-206.   Insurance
§
13-207.   Security and Fire Protection
§
13-208.   Access by Township Police Officers/Officials
§
13-209.   Penalty
Part 3
Mechanical Amusement Devices
§
13-301.   Title
§
13-302.   Definitions
§
13-303.   Licensing and Fees
§
13-304.   Violations and Penalties
Part 4
Alarm Devices
§
13-401.   Permit Fee
§
13-402.   [Repealed by Ord. 2020-4]
§
13-403.   [Repealed by Ord. 2020-4]
§
13-404.   False Alarms
§
13-405.   [Repealed by Ord. 2020-4]
§
13-406.   [Repealed by Ord. 2020-4]
§
13-407.   Rights and Privileges
§
13-408.   Provisions
Part 5
Liquor License Transfers
§
13-501.   Written Application
§
13-502.   Filing Fee
Part 6
Regulation of Mining and Quarry Operations
§
13-601.   Scope
§
13-602.   Mining and Excavation Operations
§
13-603.   Local Ordinances
Part 7
Regulation of Pawn Brokers
§
13-701.   Definitions
§
13-702.   License Required
§
13-703.   Application for License
§
13-704.   Issuance of Licenses
§
13-705.   Investigation by Chief of Police
§
13-706.   Bond
§
13-707.   License Requirements
§
13-708.   Nonuse and Transfer of License
§
13-709.   Posting
§
13-710.   Forfeiture or Pawn
§
13-711.   Pawn Ticket to Be Furnished
§
13-712.   Memorandum of Entry
§
13-713.   Receipt for Payment to Be Furnished
§
13-714.   Separate Pawn Ticket for Each Item
§
13-715.   Maximum Interest Rate
§
13-716.   Sign to Be Posted Showing Interest and Service Charged
§
13-717.   Records
§
13-718.   Daily Report
§
13-719.   Report Slip
§
13-720.   Filing of Reports; Inspection
§
13-721.   Persons from Whom Pawn May Not Be Taken
§
13-722.   Minors Not to Receive Pledge or Make Loans
§
13-723.   Acts of Employees
§
13-724.   Goods Which May Not Be Taken for Pawn
§
13-725.   Safekeeping of Pledges
§
13-726.   Charges
§
13-727.   Employee Registration
§
13-728.   Revocation of License
§
13-729.   Secondhand Dealers
§
13-730.   Location
§
13-731.   Penalty
Part 8
Restriction of Yard Sales
§
13-801.   Definitions
§
13-802.   Permits and Fees
§
13-803.   Licensing
§
13-804.   Information to be Filed
§
13-805.   Persons and Sale Excepted
§
13-806.   Fines and Fees
Part 9
Mobile Food Facilities or Booths
§
13-901.   Title
§
13-902.   Purpose
§
13-903.   Definitions
§
13-904.   Applicability
§
13-905.   Permit Application and License Requirements
§
13-906.   Permit Fee
§
13-907.   Mobile Food Facility or Booth Regulations
§
13-908.   Equipment
§
13-909.   Display and Transfer of Permit
§
13-910.   Denial of Permit
§
13-911.   Revocation of Permit
§
13-912.   Notice/Service; Corrective Measures; Appeal Rights
§
13-913.   Penalties
Part 1
Peddling and Soliciting
§ 13-101.   Legislative Intent.
   This Part is adopted to regulate the distribution of certain materials,
peddling, soliciting and related activities within the Township of Plains. The
registration of persons engaged in the above-mentioned activities is required
so that the identity of persons going door to door or distributing materials
within the Township may be established, so that general regulations may be more
effectively enforced for the protection and maintenance of the health, safety
and welfare of the inhabitants of the Township and to prevent dishonest
business practices and the dishonest solicitation of funds in the Township.
(Ord. 5/29/1975, § 53-1)
§ 13-102.   Definitions.
   As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
   Distributor–any person who distributes or causes to be distributed on any
street or public place within the Township any newspapers, periodicals, books,
magazines, handbills, circulars, cards or pamphlets or printed material of any
kind.
   Merchandise–all goods, wares, food, meat, fish, ice cream, fruit,
vegetables, magazines, periodicals, printed material, farm products, services,
orders or contracts for services, home improvements or alterations and anything
that may be sold or distributed by peddlers, solicitors or distributors, as
defined herein.
   Peddler–any person, whether a resident of the Township or not, who goes from
house to house, from place to place or from street to street, traveling by
foot, automotive vehicle or any other type of conveyance, carrying or
transporting merchandise for the purpose of selling and delivering the
merchandise to customers. The word “peddler” shall also include the words
“hawker” and “huckster”.
   Person–any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, organization, club,
association or any principal or agent thereof.
   Solicitor–any person, whether a resident of the Township or not, who goes
from house to house, from place to place or from street to street, traveling by
foot, automotive vehicle or any other type of conveyance, soliciting, taking or
attempting to take orders for the sale of merchandise or services of any kind
for future performance or delivery, whether or not such individual has, carries
or exposes for sale a sample of the merchandise or services and whether or not
he or she is collecting advance payments on such sales or orders or who engages
in any of the foregoing activities from a stationary location on any street or
other public place. The word “solicitor” shall also include the word
“canvasser” or any person who goes from door to door, as described above, for
the purpose of soliciting and/or who collects funds from a stationary location
on any street or other public place.
   Transient merchant–any person engaging in the activities commonly referred
to as transient merchant or itinerant vendor, who merchandises or sells with
the intent to close out or discontinue such business within a period of one
year from the date of commencement and occupies a room, building, tent, lot or
other premises for the purpose of selling merchandise.
(Ord. 5/29/1975, § 53-2)
§ 13-103.   Registration Required.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor, distributor or transient
merchant to sell, offer for sale or distribute merchandise, printed material or
services within the Township without first registering with and filing an
application for registration, paying a registration fee and obtaining a
registration certificate from the Township of Plains.
(Ord. 5/29/1975, § 53-3)
§ 13-104.   Registration Certificate.
   Upon obtaining a registration certificate as hereinafter provided, a
peddler, solicitor, distributor or transient merchant may conduct his or her
activities within the Township only as long as he or she adheres to the
regulations set forth herein and carries the registration certificate upon his
or her person at all times during the conduct of his or her activities. The
registration certificate shall identify the person and the type of activity for
which he or she has registered and shall be shown to any person or police
officer upon request. All certificates shall expire on December 31 of the
calendar year in which they are issued.
(Ord. 5/29/1975, § 53-4)
§ 13-105.   Application for Certificate.
   Every applicant for a certificate under this Part shall file with the
Township Secretary a sworn, written application on a form to be furnished by
said Secretary, which shall give or be accompanied by the following information
or documents:
   A.   The name and description of the applicant.
   B.   The permanent home address and full local address of the applicant.
   C.   A brief statement of the nature of the business and a description of
the merchandise or service to be sold.
   D.   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship.
   E.   The length of time for which the certificate is desired.
   F.   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of such vehicle and its
license number.
   G.   The place where the merchandise or services to be sold or offered for
sale are manufactured or produced, where such goods or property is located at
the time such application is filed and the proposed method of delivery.
   H.   A photograph of the applicant taken within 60 days immediately prior to
the date of the application, which photograph shall clearly show the head and
shoulders of the applicant and shall measure two inches by two inches.
   I.   Two business references located in the County of Luzerne, Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania, or in lieu thereof, such other available evidence of the
character and business responsibility of the applicant as will enable an
investigator to properly evaluate such character and responsibility.
   J.   A statement as to whether the applicant has been convicted of any
crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of the
offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
   K.   The fingerprints of the applicant.
(Ord. 5/29/1975, § 53-5)
§ 13-106.   Investigation of Applicants.
   1.   When the application is properly filled out and signed by the
applicant, the original and duplicate thereof shall be filed with the Township
Secretary, and the Secretary shall refer the original to the Chief of Police,
who shall make or cause to be made within five days such investigation of the
applicant’s business responsibility and character as he or she deems necessary
for the protection of the public good.
   2.   If, as a result of such an investigation, the applicant’s character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the Chief of Police
shall endorse on such application his or her disapproval and his or her reasons
therefor and shall return the said application to the Township Secretary. Any
determination by the Chief of Police that an application is unsatisfactory
shall be based on one or more of the following findings with respect to the
applicant:
   A.   Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude.
   B.   Prior violation of a peddling or soliciting ordinance.
   C.   Previous fraudulent acts or conduct.
   D.   Record of breaches or solicited contracts.
   E.   Concrete evidence of bad character.
   3.   In the absence of any such finding, the Chief of Police shall find the
application satisfactory, shall endorse his or her approval on the application
and shall return the application to the Township Secretary.
(Ord. 5/29/1975, § 53-6)
§ 13-107.   Denial or Issuance of Certificate.
   1.   If an application is found unsatisfactory by the Chief of Police and he
or she has endorsed his or her disapproval upon the application, the Township
Secretary shall notify the applicant, by mail, that the application is
disapproved and shall deny the applicant any registration certificate.
   2.   If an application is found satisfactory by the Chief of Police, the
Township Secretary shall issue a registration certificate addressed to the
applicant to conduct the business applied for upon the payment of the proper
fee by the applicant. Such certificate shall contain the signature of the
issuing officer and shall show the name, address and photograph of the
applicant, the type of business (peddler, solicitor, distributor or transient
merchant) the applicant has registered for, the kind of goods or services to be
sold thereunder, the date of issue, the length of time the certificate shall be
operative and the license number and other identifying description of any
vehicle used in the activity licensed.
(Ord. 5/29/1975, § 53-7)
§ 13-108.   Fees.
   1.   At the time of the issuance of a registration certificate, a fee in an
amount as established, from time to time, by resolution of the Board of
Commissioners per day shall be paid by the applicant to cover the costs of
investigation and the administration and enforcement of this Part. [A.O.]
   2.   Where an organization has several agents peddling, soliciting or
distributing merchandise or printed material, each agent shall be registered
separately and each shall pay the appropriate fee. Upon the expiration of a
certificate, a new certificate will be issued upon compliance with all the
provisions of this Part and the payment of fees and the posting of the bond,
except that the investigation and waiting period therefor may be waived if
approved by the Township Secretary and Chief of Police.
(Ord. 5/29/1975, § 53-8, as amended by Ord. 12/1/1977; and by A.O.)
§ 13-109.   Bonding Requirements.
   1.   Prior to the issuance of any certificate, the applicant shall file with
the Township Secretary a bond running to the Township in the amount of $1,500,
with good and sufficient surety, in such form as shall be approved by the
Township Solicitor or his or her designated representative. Said bond shall
remain in force for the term of the certificate and shall be conditioned to
indemnify and pay the Township for any penalties or costs incurred in the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this Part and to indemnify or reimburse
any purchaser of personal property from the holder of the certificate in a sum
equal to at least the amount of any payment such purchaser may have been
induced to make through the misrepresentation as to the kind, quality or value
of the personal property, whether the misrepresentations were made by the
licensee or said licensee’s agents, servants or employees either at the time of
making the sale or through any advertisement printed or circulated with
reference to such personal property or any parts thereof.
   2.   The aforesaid bond shall be declared forfeited upon proof of
falsification in the application for a certificate.
   3.   Said bond shall be deemed forfeited upon proof of violation of any of
the provisions of this Part by the applicant or his or her agents, servants or
employees.
   4.   The Board of Commissioners may, by resolution, exempt persons from the
bond requirement, provided that the applicant satisfies the Board that the
nature of his or her activity does not jeopardize the position of the Township
or the protection given herein to the residents.
(Ord. 5/29/1975, § 53-9)
§ 13-110.   Appeals from Denial of Certificate.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police or of the Township
Secretary in the denial of a certificate, as provided in §
13-107 of this Part, shall have the right of appeal to the Board of
Commissioners. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Board of
Commissioners, within 14 days after the notice of the action complained of has
been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written statement setting
forth fully the grounds for appeal. The Board of Commissioners shall set a time
and place for a hearing on such appeal, and notice of such hearing shall be
given in the same manner as provided in §
13-111 of this Part for notice of hearing on revocation. The decision of the
Board of Commissioners on such appeal shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 5/29/1975, § 53-10)
§ 13-111.   Revocations of Certificates.
   1.   Certificates issued under the provisions of this Part may be revoked by
the Board of Commissioners after notice and hearing for any of the following
causes:
   A.   Fraud, misrepresentation or a material incorrect statement contained in
the application for a certificate.
   B.   Fraud, misrepresentation or a material incorrect statement made in the
course of carrying on his or her business as solicitor, peddler, distributor or
transient merchant.
   C.   Any violation of this Part.
   D.   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor.
   E.   Conducting the business of peddler, solicitor, distributor or transient
merchant in an unlawful manner or in such manner as to constitute a breach of
the peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of
the public.
   2.   A notice of the hearing for the revocation of a certificate shall be
given by the Township Secretary, in writing, setting forth specifically the
grounds of complaint and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall
be mailed, postage prepaid, to the holder of the certificate at the address
given on the application at least five days prior to the date set for the
hearing or shall be delivered by the agent of the Township in the same manner
as a summons at least three days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   3.   Upon revocation, the certificate shall be surrendered to the Township
Secretary.
(Ord. 5/29/1975, § 53-11)
§ 13-112.   General Regulations.
   No person or certificate holder shall:
   A.   Peddle, solicit or distribute merchandise except between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., unless specifically having been invited into a house
by the occupant or having made an appointment with a person previously.
   B.   Attempt to peddle, solicit or distribute merchandise or printed
material without first having identified himself or herself as a peddler,
solicitor or distributor registered with the Township and displaying his or her
certificate.
   C.   Have the exclusive right to any location in the public streets or
operate in any congested area where his or her operations might impede or
inconvenience the public.
   D.   Leave at a property or house or in any public place circulars, samples
or other matter, except newspapers, which shall be defined as a periodical with
a paid circulation of at least 90 percent of its total circulation, except when
handed to a person or house occupant.
   E.   Enter or attempt to enter the land of any resident in the Township
without an express invitation from the occupant of the house.
   F.   Conduct himself or herself in such a manner as to become objectionable
to or annoy an occupant of any house.
   G.   Shout, cry out, blow a horn, ring a bell or use any sound-making or
amplifying device upon any of the streets, parks or public places of the
Township or upon private premises where sound of sufficient volume is emitted
or produced therefrom which is capable of being plainly heard upon the streets,
avenues, parks or other public places of the Township or upon private premises,
for the purpose of attracting attention to any merchandise or services.
   H.   Distribute obscene merchandise or printed material or that which
advocates unlawful conduct.
   I.   Litter the streets, public places or properties within the Township
with any merchandise or printed material.
(Ord. 5/29/1975, § 53-12)
§ 13-113.   Exemptions.
   The following persons or organizations are exempt from the payment of a fee
and, in the discretion of the Board of Commissioners, the application and/or
investigation procedures, upon compliance with all the other provisions of this
Part and the submission of applicable identification and documents to support
the claim to exemption:
   A.   Any charitable or religious society that shall conduct sales of
personal property when the proceeds thereof shall be applied to the payment of
the expenses thereof and to the charitable or religious object for which the
society exists.
   B.   Any person selling fruits and farm products grown by himself or
herself, with or without the help of others.
   C.   Any person engaged in the delivery of goods, wares or merchandise or
other articles or things in the regular course of business to the premises of
persons who had previously ordered the same or were entitled to receive the
same by reason of a prior agreement.
   D.   Any schools, political or civic organization, benevolent society,
service club or organization not for profit which is located in or has a
substantial membership from the Township.
(Ord. 5/29/1975, § 53-13; as amended by A.O.)
Part 2
Regulations for Special Events, Concerts and Activities
§ 13-201.   Definition.
   The term special event, concert or activities as worded in this Part shall
be held to mean and include any temporary plays, musical event, carnival,
circus, side shows, operating events or other similar temporary amusement
enterprises which are open to the public and for admission to which a fee is
charged.
(Ord. 2009-7, 9/10/2009, § 1)
§ 13-202.   License Required.
   It will be unlawful to conduct or operate within the Township of Plains any
special events, concerts or activities which are open to the public without
first securing a license; such license will be purchased on an annual basis, by
the applicant if they intend to hold any such activities. Such licenses may be
purchased at any time and shall expire 12 months after securing the license and
shall be applied for through the Plains Township Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 2009-7, 9/10/2009, § 2; as amended by Ord. 2011-2, 3/11/2011, § 2)
§ 13-203.   License Application/Procedure.
   1.   In addition to the license application, which shall be provided to
application to Township, each applicant will be required to provide to the
Township a completed application which sets forth the following:
   A.   Name and address of the applicant.
   B.   The date, time and place for the proposed special event, concert or
activity, during the period of time this application is in effect. If the
applicant wishes to hold any additional events, concert or activity not listed
on its original application, the applicant may request permission for this
additional event, concert or activity and submit it to the appointed Township
official for approval.
   C.   A description of what type of event, concert or activity is to take
place.
   D.   The measures proposed to ensure adequate traffic control, crowd
protection and security for both the premises and the surrounding area where
special event, concert or activity will take place.
   E.   A statement by the applicant that it meets all appropriate Township
ordinances and zoning requirements to conduct this special event, concert or
activity.
   F.   Such other information that may be requested in the application
provided to the applicant.
   2.   Once received by the Township, a license will be issued within ten days
of receipt of the application. If the applicant will not be granted a license
to operate then a written notice shall be supplied to the applicant at the
address provided by applicant. If the applicant fails to fully complete the
application and provide all necessary information, the Township will notify
applicant of its failure to complete and no decision shall be issued until
fully completed and submitted to the Township for review.
(Ord. 2009-7, 9/10/2009, § 3; as amended by Ord. 2011-2, 3/11/2011, § 3)
§ 13-204.   License Fee.
   1.   Upon satisfactorily completing application and being approved by the
Township, the Township shall issue a license to conduct any special events,
concerts or activities to which a fee in an amount as established, from time to
time, by resolution of the Board of Commissioners shall be charged for each
application. No additional fee will be charged for any additional application
which may be filed during the period of the yearly application. Although the
application fee shall be yearly, any additional fees in connection with
additional applications such as, but not limited to, Zoning, inspection or
municipal service fees, which may be applicable. [A.O.]
   2.   Further, no application fee will be charged for any special event,
concert or activity where the same is sponsored by or given for the benefit of
any religious, educational, charitable, social or fraternal organization.
(Ord. 2009-7, 9/10/2009, § 4; as amended by Ord. 2011-2, 3/11/2011, § 4; and by
A.O.)
§ 13-205.   Athletic Exhibitions.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct, operate or exhibit any athletic event
between person, animal, vehicle or any other athletic contest or exhibit to
which a fee is charged without first securing a license therefore; provided
that no license shall be required for any grade school, high school, college,
university or club team or for the benefit of any religious, educational,
charitable, social or fraternal organization.
(Ord. 2009-7, 9/10/2009, § 5; as amended by Ord. 2011-2, 3/11/2011, § 5)
§ 13-206.   Insurance.
   No license will be issued for conducting a special event, concert or
activity until the applicant has placed on file with the Township, a
certificate of insurance, indicating that there is in effect public liability
insurance covering any damage arising in connection to/from any special event,
concert or activity. Further, the Township will be named as an additional
insured for which the limits of liability will be set by the Township of which
shall be no less than $1,000,000.
(Ord. 2009-7, 9/10/2009, § 6; as amended by Ord. 2011-2, 3/11/2011, § 6)
§ 13-207.   Security and Fire Protection.
   The applicant shall have at least three people on the premises for every
special event, concert or activity, to provide security service on the premises
during all hours of operation and whenever the event is open to the public
until the event or activity concludes and the general public has left the venue
or place of the event, concert or activity conducted. The Chief of Police, of
Plains Township shall have the right to request additional security services as
a condition of the issuance of a permit if the size, type or location of the
special event, concert or activity at the discretion of the Police Chief
requires additional security for protection of the patrons and nearby area. All
security must be with off-duty law enforcement officer or personnel licensed
under state law to provide security. Further, fire and panic regulations as set
forth by the Plains Township Fire Department shall be provided to the applicant
upon approval of the license, to protect the public.
(Ord. 2009-7, 9/10/2009, § 7; as amended by Ord. 2011-2, 3/11/2011, § 7)
§ 13-208.   Access by Township Police Officers/Officials.
   All police officers and fire officials of the Township of Plains and the
Code Enforcement Officers as designated by the Township, shall have full access
to any and all special events, concerts or other activities for which admission
is being charged for the purpose of inspection and to enforce compliance with
the provisions of this Part or any other ordinance, while the premises are open
to the public. This shall include those times before, during or after any such
special event, concert or activity as contemplated under this Part.
(Ord. 2009-7, 9/10/2009, § 8; as amended by Ord. 2011-2, 3/11/2011, § 8)
§ 13-209.   Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said
fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that
a violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2009-7, 9/10/2009, § 9; as amended by Ord. 2011-2, 3/11/2011, § 9; and by
A.O.)
Part 3
Mechanical Amusement Devices
§ 13-301.   Title.
   This Part shall be known and cited as the Mechanical Amusement Device
Ordinance.
(Ord. 2-2022, 8/11/2022)
§ 13-302.   Definitions.
   As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
      Device-any pool table, juke box, electronic video game and/or mechanical
amusement device under this Part.
      Mechanical Amusement Device-any device that, upon insertion of a monetary
coin/bill, slug, token, plate disc, or key may be operated by the general
public for use as a game for entertainment or amusement, whether or not
registering a score, that shall include such devices as games of skill, pinball
machines, skill balls, mechanical grab machines, video games, bowling machines,
juke boxes, shufflebox, and all games, operation, or transactions similar
thereto, under whatever name they may be indicated. Provided that it shall not
include any gambling device or any mechanism that has been legislatively or
judicially determined to be a gambling device.
      Person-shall include natural person, firm, association, copartnership or
cooperation.
(Ord. 2-2022, 8/11/2022)
§ 13-303.   Licensing and Fees.
   1.   Any person displaying for public patronage, or keeping for operation
for use by public or its members, any mechanical device shall be required to
obtain a license from the Township of Plains.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for the owner/occupant of the premises where
mechanical amusement devices are conducted and maintained and for which said
devices are used by said general public or members of any establishment or
facility without first having obtained from the Township of Plains an annual
license fee for each licensing year, which each year shall begin as of January
1 of each year and expire December 31 of the same year.
   3.   Every license issued under this Part shall be subject to the right,
which is expressly reserved to the Township of Plains, to revoke some or all
licenses should the licensee directly or indirectly permit operation of any
mechanical amusement device in violation of the provisions of this Part or any
other Township Ordinance. Such license may be revoked by the Township if, after
receiving a citation from the code enforcement officer for violation of this
section and not complying with this Part within ten days of receipt of this
violation. If licensee is found guilty of violation before the District
Magistrate, he or she may be precluded from being granted a license to operate
any such mechanical amusement device in the Township of Plains.
   4.   Every person operating any mechanical amusement of device as set forth
in this Part shall be required to pay a licensing fee of One Hundred Twenty-
Five ($125.00) Dollars per mechanical amusement device, machine or mechanism.
If any machine is acquired after the license date of January 1, then the
licensing of that device shall be prorated for the remainder of that year.
However, any device removed, damaged, destroyed or otherwise disposed of after
a license is applied for paid shall not be entitled to any refund for the
remainder of that licensing period. Further, any transfer of a licensed
mechanical amusement device may be allowed subject to a Twenty-Five ($25.00)
Dollars transfer fee and receiving a certificate of transfer from the Township.
   5.   An application for licensing shall be provided by the Township of
Plains to each person operating said mechanical amusement device which shall be
completely filled out and fee paid for each individual device. A certificate
shall be provided and maintained by each person at their business,
establishment or club.
(Ord. 2-2022, 8/11/2022)
§ 13-304.   Violations and Penalties.
   Any person convicted before any District Magistrate or court of record for
violating or failing to follow any provisions of this Part, including, but not
limited to, providing complete information on any application for license,
paying the annual license fee on a timely basis, providing false or fraudulent
information, shall be liable for a fine or penalty of not less than Three
Hundred ($300.00) Dollars, nor more than One Thousand ($1,000.00) Dollars, for
each and every offense. The Code Enforcement Officer or any other
representative of the Township so directed by the Board of Commissioners shall
have the authority to enforce this Part.
(Ord. 2-2022, 8/11/2022)
Part 4
Alarm Devices
§ 13-401.   Permit Fee.
   Any individual, establishment, partnership, corporation, or any other entity
or concern installing a burglar/hold-up/panic, fire alarm, and/or medical alert
alarm system shall be required to notify the Secretary/Clerk of the Township of
Plains as to what system is being installed and how police, fire or emergency
response employees would be notified to respond.
(Ord. 1998-2, 5/14/1998, §1; as amended by Ord. 2020-4, 6/11/2020)
§ 13-402.   [Repealed by Ord. 2020-4]
§ 13-403.   [Repealed by Ord. 2020-4]
§ 13-404.   False Alarms.
   1.   Should any burglar and/or fire alarm and/or medical alert alarm system
hereinbefore described cause more than three false alarms, whether by reason of
malfunction of said system or other reason, to occur during any 12-month
period, then a service charge shall be levied against the owner or occupier of
the premises in or upon which such system is installed for each and every false
alarm occurring more than three times during such 12-month period.
   2.   Should any hold-up/panic alarm system hereinbefore described cause more
than one false alarm(s), whether by reason of malfunction of said system or
other reason, to occur during any 12-month period, then a service charge shall
be levied against the owner or occupier of the premises in or upon which such
system is installed for each and every false alarm occurring more than one time
during such 12-month period.
   3.   The service charge hereby imposed per occurrence shall be as
established, from time to time, by resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
[A.O.]
   4.   For the purpose of this Part, the following shall not be considered to
be false alarms:
   A.   Alarms caused by the testing, failure or repair of telephone equipment
or lines, provided that the testing and the like, is reported to the Plains
Township Police Department and/or Plains Township Fire Department prior to
testing.
   B.   Alarms caused by an act of God, such as earthquakes, floods, windstorm,
thunder or lightening.
   C.   Alarms caused by an attempted illegal entry or any other crime of which
there is visible or reasonable evidence of an attempted break-in, fire, smoke
and the like.
   D.   Alarms followed by a call to the Police/Fire Departments with proper
coded identification cancelling the alarms within five minutes of the
activation or prior to the arrival of the Police and/or Fire Departments.
(Ord. 1998-2, 5/14/1998, § 4; as amended by Ord. 2004-2, 5/13/2004, § 404; and
by A.O.)
§ 13-405.   [Repealed by Ord. 2020-4]
§ 13-406.   [Repealed by Ord. 2020-4]
§ 13-407.   Rights and Privileges.
   The Township of Plains through any police officer, firefighter, Code
Enforcement Officer shall, if it deems necessary, have the right and privilege,
upon prior notification to the owner or occupier of any premises upon which any
such burglar/hold-up/panic or fire alarm and/or medical alert alarm system
shall have been installed, to inspect the connection, operation and maintenance
of the system in order to ensure the safe or proper operation thereof in order
to avoid or minimize the malfunction of any such system.
(Ord. 1998-2, 5/14/1998, § 7)
§ 13-408.   Provisions.
   1.   The provisions of this Part shall not apply to any self-contained
battery-operated fire or smoke or carbon monoxide alarm detector or burglar
alarm detector installed by the owner or occupier of any premises located
within the Township of Plains, which is not attached to or an integral part of
a burglar/holdup/panic or fire alarm system.
   2.   That the provisions of §
13-404 of this Part shall not apply to any premises owned, leased, rented or
under the immediate control of the United States; to any premises owned,
leased, rented or under the immediate control of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania or its agencies; to any premises owned, leased, rented or under
the immediate control of any political subdivision of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 1998-2, 5/14/1998, § 8)
Part 5
Liquor License Transfers
§ 13-501.   Written Application.
   The Zoning Officer of the Township of Plains is hereby authorized to create
a written application which is to be completed by any individual and/or entity
seeking to transfer a liquor license into the Township of Plains in order to
provide the necessary and complete information to effectuate the transfer of
the liquor license into the Township of Plains.
(Ord. 2003-1, 1/9/2003, § 1)
§ 13-502.   Filing Fee.
   The Township of Plains does hereby establish a filing fee in the amount as
established, from time to time, by resolution of the Board of Commissioners,
which shall be paid contemporaneously with the filing of the application, which
application must be filed with the Zoning Officer of the Township of Plains
prior to being processed and advertised for public hearing by the Solicitor of
the Township of Plains. The filing fee is a nonrefundable fee to cover the cost
of processing and advertising of the application and is wholly earned when paid
to the Township of Plains irrespective of whether the application is approved.
(Ord. 2003-1, 1/9/2003, § 2; as amended by A.O.)
Part 6
Regulation of Mining and Quarry Operations
§ 13-601.   Scope.
   This Part shall apply to any and all mining operating, quarries or
commercial businesses which may move or excavate any rock or other natural
resource within any part of the Township. After the effective date of this
Part, no person, firm or corporation shall operate in violation of these rules
and regulations. Further nothing in this Part shall be construed to void or
supersede any federal, state or local rules and regulations already in
existence.
(Ord. 2008-4, 10/9/2008, § 1)
§ 13-602.   Mining and Excavation Operations.
   1.   Smoke and Toxic Gases. The emission of smoke shall be governed by
regulations promulgated by and under the supervision of the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection: 25 Pa.Code, Part 1, Subpart C:
Protection of Natural Resources, Article III, Air Resources. [A.O.]
   2.   Odor. The emission of unpleasant odors shall be governed by regulations
promulgated by and under the supervision of the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection, 25 Pa.Code, Part1, Subpart C: Protection of Natural
Resources, Article III, Air Resources. [A.O.]
   3.   Fly ash and soot. The emission of fly ash and soot shall be governed by
regulations promulgated by and under the supervision of the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection: 25 Pa.Code, Part 1, Subpart C:
Protection of Natural Resources, Article III, Air Resources. [A.O.]
   4.   Dust control.
   A.   General rules. All reasonable precautions shall be taken to prevent
particulate matter from becoming airborne. In determining what is reasonable,
consideration will be given to factors such as the proximity of particulate
emitting operations to human habitations and/or activities and atmospheric
conditions which might affect the movement of particulate matter. Some of the
reasonable precautions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
   (1)   Use of control equipment. Adequate containment methods should be
employed during mining, excavation, blasting or other operations.
   (2)   Covering of trucks. Covering open trucks transporting materials which
may potentially release particulate matter must be covered.
   B.   Removal of materials. Prompt removal of earth or other stored material
from streets.
   (1)   Visible emissions. No owner, occupant or tenant shall permit the
discharge of any particulate matter into the atmosphere from any construction
site, development site, unpaved parking lot, industrial yard, vacant lot or
maneuvering area where the emission becomes a public nuisance, health hazard or
safety hazard.
   (2)   Evidence. Prima facia evidence of a public nuisance, health hazard or
safety hazard shall exist if the emission for a period or periods aggregating
more than 30 seconds in any 60-minute period is greater than 50 percent opacity
as determined by procedures specified in 40 C.F.R. § 60, Appendix A, Method 9,
Appendix A, Method 22, or a State of Pennsylvania approved equivalent method.
   C.   Control methods. Control methods may include, but are not limited to,
the following:
   (1)   Use of water or other environmentally safe dust palliative for control
of dust in the demolition of existing buildings or structures, construction
operations, the grading of roads or the clearing of land. The use of water
resulting in mud on public streets will not be permitted. Any mud or spillage
shall be immediately removed.
   (2)   Dust suppressants (such as water or other environmentally safe dust
palliative) must be used to control the release of particulate matter when
practicable.
   (3)   Paving: paving of roadways and their maintenance in a clean condition.
   D.   Exceptions. The provisions of this Section shall not apply to
agricultural land as defined by Township ordinances.
   5.   Vibration. Any use creating intense earth-shaking vibration, except
blasting, which is provided for below, shall be set back as far as possible
from any resident property lines on all sides. All regulations for vibrations
caused by blasting shall follow all federal and state guidelines required by
the proper regulating agencies.
   6.   Storage and waste disposal. The storage of flammable or explosive
liquids, solids or gases and the disposal of industrial wastes shall be
governed by regulations promulgated by and under the supervision of the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection including, but not limited
to: 25 Pa.Code, Part 1, Subpart C: Protection of Natural Resources, Article 1,
Land Resources (Chapter 17, Mining) and Article, III, Air Resources; and
Subpart D: Environmental Health and Safety, Article IV, Occupational Health and
Safety (Chapter 211, Storage, Handling and Use of Explosives). [A.O.]
   7.   Noise.
   A.   The sound level of any operation, including the operation of motor
vehicles or other trasportation facilities (excluding the operations involved
in the construction or demolition of structures, emergency alarm signals or
time signals), shall not exceed the decibel levels in the designated octave
bands as stated below. The sound-pressure level shall be measured with a Sound
Level Meter and Octave Band Analyzer that conform to specifications published
by the American National Standards Institute. (American National Standards
Institute, Inc., New York, and the American Standards Specification for an
Octave, Half Octave and Third Octave Band Filter Sets, SI. 11-1966, R 1971,
American National Standards Institute, Inc., New York, New York, shall be
used.)
   B.   Sound-pressure levels shall be measured at the district line upon which
the emission occurs. The maximum permissible sound-pressure levels for noise
shall be as follows on the Decibel Measurement Table. (All of the decibel
levels stated below shall apply in each case).
Maximum Permitted
Sound-Pressure Level
(Decibels)
Frequency Band (Cycles Per Along Residence District Along Other District
Second)                    Boundaries               Boundaries
Maximum Permitted
Sound-Pressure Level
(Decibels)
Frequency Band (Cycles Per Along Residence District Along Other District
Second)                    Boundaries               Boundaries
0 to 75                    72                       79
76 to 150                  67                       74
151 to 300                 59                       66
301 to 600                 52                       59
601 to 1200                46                       53
1,201 to 2,400             40                       47
2,401 to 4,800             34                       41
above 4,800                32                       39
 
   8.   Additional regulations. All mining and quarry activities shall be
subject to the following exceptional regulations:
   A.   Buffer area. No mining or processing of mined materials shall be
conducted within 100 feet of any district boundary. All buffer areas shall be
landscaped with trees and shrubbery, except for roadways crossing these buffer
areas, and maintained in good condition with no littering allowed. No parking
of vehicles or storage or equipment and supplies shall be allowed in the buffer
area.
   B.   Slopes and drainage. Slopes at the edge of the excavated area of any
mining operation shall be governed by regulations promulgated by and under the
supervision of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection: 25
Pa.Code, Part 1, Subpart C: Protection of Natural Resources, Article 1, Land
Resources (Chapter 77, Mining). [A.O.]
   C.   Location of processing equipment. To reduce airborne dust, dirt and
noise, all structures for sorting, crushing, grinding, loading, weighing,
washing, heating and other operations shall be governed by regulations
promulgated by and under the supervision of the supervision of the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection: 25 Pa.Code, Part 1, Subpart C:
Protection of Natural Resources, Article 1, Land Resources 9 (Chapter 77,
Mining). [A.O.]
   D.   Fencing. For the protection of the safety of the public, all mining
operations shall comply within 60 days from the adoption of this Part with the
following fencing requirements. All operations shall erect a chain link fence
of woven wire enclosing completely the perimeter of any proposed or existing
excavation in the M Mining District. The specifications of the fence shall be
six feet in height, number nine gauge, chain link woven wire fence with two-
inch mesh, steel line posts outside diameter two and one-half inches, line
posts set on ten-foot centers, one and five-eighths inches outside diameter
steel top and steel center rails. The fence shall be equipped with a gate six
feet high and constructed of the same materials and in the same manner as the
fence, which gate shall be closed and locked at all times when mining
activities are not in operation. There shall exist no gaps under the fence or
gate more than three inches wide. The fence and gate shall be maintained to
comply with these standards at all times.
   E.   Blasting. The use of explosives for mining purposes shall be in
accordance with the regulations promulgated by and under the supervision of the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection: 25 Pa.Code, Part 1,
Subpart C: Protection of Natural Resources, Article 1, Land Resources 9
(Chapter 77, Mining). [A.O.]
   F.   Time of operations.
      (1)   No mining or aggregate quarry processing operations of any sort
shall be allowed earlier than 7:00 a.m. or later than 7:00 p.m. during each day
of the week except Sunday, when no mining activities shall be permitted.
      (2)   No asphalt processing and loading of mineral aggregate materials
shall be allowed earlier than 6:30 a.m. or later than 7:00 p.m. during each day
of the week except Sunday, when no processing or loading of such materials
shall be permitted.
   G.   Bonding and insurance. Bonding and insurance requirements shall be
governed by regulations promulgated by and under the supervision of the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection: 25 Pa.Code, Part 1,
Subpart C: Protection of Natural Resources, Article 1, Land Resources (Chapter
77, Mining). Verification of such bonding and insurance shall be supplied to
the Township Board of Commissioners upon request. [A.O.]
(Ord. 2008-4, 10/9/2008, § 3; as amended by A.O.)
§ 13-603.   Local Ordinances.
   Except with respect to ordinances adopted pursuant to the act of July 31,
1968 (P.L. 805, No. 247), known as the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code, all local ordinances and enactments purporting to regulate surface mining
are hereby superseded. The Commonwealth, by this enactment, hereby preempts the
regulation of surface mining as herein defined.
Part 7
Regulation of Pawn Brokers
§ 13-701.   Definitions:.
   For the purpose of this Part, the following words, terms and phrases have
the meaning indicated herein:
   Pawnbroker–Any person within the Township who loans money on deposits of
personal property or deals in the purchase or possession of personal property
on condition of selling the same back again to the pledgor or depositor, or who
loans or advances money on personal property by taking chattel mortgage
security thereon, and takes or receives such personal property into his or her
possession, is hereby declared to be a pawnbroker.
   Secondhand Dealer or Antique Dealer–Individual, partnership, association,
corporation or other business organization or entity which is regularly engaged
in the business or purchasing or taking upon consignment precious metals,
secondhand or used goods for resale or refining, or an individual who acts as
agent for such individual, partnership, association, corporation or other
business organization or entity.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 1)
§ 13-702.   License Required.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or transact a pawnbroker
business or pawnshop in the Township without first having procured a Township
license therefor as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 2)
§ 13-703.   Application for License.
   1.   The application shall state the name of the person, and, in case of a
firm or corporation, the names of all of the partners in such firm, or
corporation, the names of all of the partners in such firm, or of the
directors, officers and stockholders of such corporation; also the place,
street and number where such business is to be carried on, and shall specify
the amount of capital proposed to be used by the applicant in such business,
and shall be signed by at least ten citizens of the Township, of good
reputation, certifying to the good reputation and moral character of the
applicant.
   2.   At the time of filing such petition, the applicant shall deposit an
amount of money equal to at least one-half year’s, and not more than one year’s
charge for the license applied for. This sum of money shall be refunded to the
applicant, upon demand, in case the license petitioned for shall not be
granted.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 3)
§ 13-704.   Issuance of Licenses.
   No such license shall be issued to any person, corporation, copartnership or
association other than the real and actual proprietor of the business and place
of business for which it is issued.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 4)
§ 13-705.   Investigation by Chief of Police.
   All applications for pawnbroker’s licenses or renewals thereof shall be
presented to the Township Board of Commissioners at a regular meeting thereof.
No application shall be acted upon until a recommendation for or against the
application is received from the Chief of Police, provided that the Township
Board of Commissioners shall not be bound by the Chief’s recommendation.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 5)
§ 13-706.   Bond.
   The applicant shall file, with the application, a bond running to the
Township, conditioned for the faithful, observance of all provisions of this
Part respecting pawnbrokers, during the continuance of such license, and any
renewal thereof, for not more than one year. This bond shall be in the sum of
$10,000, with a corporate surety or two or more individual sureties. To such
bond shall be attached a justification to the effect that the sureties are
residents within the county and each is worth the amount specified in such
bond, over and above all just debts and liabilities, and exclusive of property
exempt from execution.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 6)
§ 13-707.   License Requirements.
   The license issued under this Part shall state the name of the person to
whom issued, the place of business and street number where such business is
located and the amount of capital employed. Such license shall entitle the
person receiving it to do business at the place designated in such license.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 7)
§ 13-708.   Nonuse and Transfer of License.
   If a pawnbroker shall not conduct said business for a period of 90 days, the
license shall be null and void. Pawnbroker’s licenses shall not be transferable
to any other person, except by a majority vote of the Township Board of
Commissioners, and the filing of an application and a new bond by the person to
whom such license is, or may be, transferred or assigned. It shall be unlawful
for any person to do business, or attempt to do business, under a license
transferred to him or her without such approval of the Township Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 8)
§ 13-709.   Posting.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or transact a pawnbroker
business in the Township unless he or she shall keep posted in a conspicuous
place in the place of business the license certificate therefor, and a copy of
all ordinances relating to pawnbrokers.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 9)
§ 13-710.   Forfeiture or Pawn.
   The pawnbroker shall retain in his or her possession every pledge or pawn 90
days after the maturity of the loan, or 90 days after the last payment of
interest, or part of the principal, whichever is greater. If the pledgor shall
fail or neglect for 90 days after maturity of the loan, or 90 days after the
last payment of interest, or part of the principal, to redeem the pawned
property, the pawnbroker may sell any such property held for redemption for a
period of not less than 150 days from the date of pledge. After a loan is in
default the pawnbroker may refuse to accept any payment less than the entire
principal and interest due.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 10)
§ 13-711.   Pawn Ticket to Be Furnished.
   1.   Each pawnbroker shall furnish to the pledgor a printed receipt clearly
showing the amount loaned with a specific, detailed description of the pledged
property pawned or received, date of receipt thereof, time for redemption, the
name of the pledgee. The reverse side of said receipt shall be marked in such a
manner that the amounts of principal and interest and any other charged paid by
the person securing the loan can be clearly designated thereon. Each payment
shall be entered upon the reverse side of said receipt and shall designate how
much to interest, and how much to any other charge, with the date of said
payments shown thereon. The pawnbroker shall affix to each article or thing a
tag upon which shall be inscribed a number, of legible characters, which shall
correspond to the number on the pawn ticket and be entered in the book required
to be kept by §
13-717 hereof. The pawnbroker shall furnish all information required by law to
be given to borrowers by state law and federal law.
   2.   The following information shall be printed on the front or back of each
pawn ticket required to be given the pledgor: “In the event of failure to pay
the loan within 90 days after maturity, or within 90 days after payment of any
monthly interest when due, whichever period of time is the greater, you shall
thereby forfeit all right and title unto such pledged and pawned property to
the pawnbroker who shall thereby acquire an absolute title to the same.”
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 11)
§ 13-712.   Memorandum of Entry.
   Every pawnbroker shall, at the time of each loan, deliver to the person
pawning or pledging any goods, articles or things, a memorandum or note signed
by him or her, containing the substance of the entry required to be made by him
or her in such record book, and an estimated value of the goods, articles or
things pledged; and no charge shall be made or received by any pawnbroker for
any such entry, memorandum or note.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 12)
§ 13-713.   Receipt for Payment to Be Furnished.
   Upon redemption of any pledge, the pawnbroker shall furnish to the pledgor
at the time of redemption a written signed receipt indicating the exact amount
paid on principal and interest in order that said pledgor may have the benefit
of said receipt for income tax purposes and other matters. Said written receipt
shall be either printed or stamped with the name of the pawnbroker and the
address, and shall be legibly written so that the figures thereon are clearly
discernible.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 13)
§ 13-714.   Separate Pawn Ticket for Each Item.
   Every pawnbroker shall prepare and deliver to the pledgor at the time of the
pledge a separate pawn ticket for each and every item pledged.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 14)
§ 13-715.   Maximum Interest Rate.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker to charge interest exceeding
percent per month on any pledge. The amount of interest so tendered and
received shall be recorded on the reverse side of the pawn ticket for each
separate pledge, together with the initials of the person accepting such
tender. Each and every pawn ticket shall provide, in addition to other required
printing thereon as specified in this Part the following words:
   “Maximum legal interest rate two and one-half percent per month plus $1
service charge.”
   2.   Pledgor shall sign ticket on a space provided thereunder.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 15)
§ 13-716.   Sign to Be Posted Showing Interest and Service Charged.
   Each and every pawnbroker shall post and maintain, in a prominent location
within the confined of said pawnshop and maintain, in a prominent location
within the confines of said pawnshop, a printed sign not less than 15 by 20
inches with clearly discernible red lettering on a white background in not less
than two-inch size, the following words:
   “Maximum legal interest two and one-half percent per month plus $1 service
charge.”
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 16)
§ 13-717.   Records.
   Every pawnbroker shall keep book in which shall be entered and legibly
written in ink, at the time of each loan or receipt of personal property, an
accurate account and description of the goods, articles or things pawned, or
received, the amount of money loaned or advanced thereon, the number of the
pawn ticket given to the pledgor, the time when redeemable, the time both day
and hour, of pawning or receiving such goods, articles or things, and the name,
residence, age, sex, race and description as near as possible of the person
pawning or delivering the goods, articles or things. No entry made in such book
shall be erased, obliterated or defaced by the Chief of Police or any officer
directed by the Chief.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 17)
§ 13-718.   Daily Report.
   Every pawnbroker or pawnshop keeper in the Township must, before the hour of
12 noon of every day except Sunday and days the pawnbroker is closed all day,
make and deliver to the Chief of Police, at the police station, a full, true
and detailed copy of all pawn tickets legibly written, setting forth an exact
description of each article or thing pawned or received by such pawnbroker or
pawnshop keeper during the period since the last such report. Said ticket shall
be a full, detailed and correct copy of all entries in the book required to be
kept in the immediately preceding Section. If no article or thing has been
pawned or received, a report must be made to that effect.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 18)
§ 13-719.   Report Slip.
   The Chief of Police shall cause such a number of blanks to be printed as may
be necessary for the purpose of making the reports required by this Part. He or
she shall from time to time cause such additional blanks to be printed as may
be required. The blanks shall be so printed and subdivided that they shall have
space for writing in all the matters required by this Part to be registered and
reported. This report shall be written in the English language in a clear,
legible manner. Such blanks shall bear a caption, providing spaces in which
shall be filled in the date of the report, the name and residence of the person
making the same and the hour of day when made, and all other matters required
by this Part to be reported.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 19)
§ 13-720.   Filing of Reports; Inspection.
   The Chief of Police shall deliver the blanks provided for in the immediately
preceding Section to the person from whom these reports are required, from time
to time, at the cost of the Police Department. He or she shall, upon receipt of
such reports, file them in some secure place in his or her office, and they
shall be open to inspection only by the Chief of Police or any officer directed
by the Chief, or upon any order of court.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 20)
§ 13-721.   Persons from Whom Pawn May Not Be Taken.
   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker, pawnshop keeper, his or her servant
or employee to receive any goods, articles or things in pawn or pledge from a
person who is intoxicated, under the influence of drugs, insane or a person
under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 21)
§ 13-722.   Minors Not to Receive Pledge or Make Loans.
   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker to employ any clerk or person under
the age of 18 years to receive any pledge or make any loan.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 22)
§ 13-723.   Acts of Employees.
   The holder of a pawnbroker’s license shall be responsible for any and all
acts of his or her employees, and for any violation by them of the provisions
of this Part.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 23)
§ 13-724.   Goods Which May Not Be Taken for Pawn.
   No licensed pawnbroker shall buy, sell, or take for pledge, pawn or
security, any brass knuckles.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 24)
§ 13-725.   Safekeeping of Pledges.
   Every pawnbroker licensed under the provisions hereof shall provide a safe
place for the keeping of the pledges received by him or her and shall have
sufficient insurance on the property held on pledges, for the benefit of the
pledgors, in case of destruction by fire or loss by theft.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 25)
§ 13-726.   Charges.
   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker to charge or receive any appraisal
fee, storage fee or any fee or charge other than the amounts specified in this
Part. No charges shall be made for restoring stolen property to its rightful
owner.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 26)
§ 13-727.   Employee Registration.
   Every employee of a pawnshop as hereinafter defined shall, within 30 days
from the effective date of this Part, register his or her name and address with
the Police Department of the Township and shall have had his or her
thumbprints, fingerprints and photograph taken and filed with the Township and
receive a certificate showing compliance therewith. For the purpose of this
Section, an employee of a pawnshop shall include all persons working in a
pawnbroker’s shop and any owner, stockholder if the owner is a corporation,
partner or any other person who receives income in any manner from the
operation of said pawnshop. Every person seeking to be registered under the
provisions of this Section shall first pay to the Township the sum as
established from time to time by resolution of the Board of Commissioners as a
condition precedent to having issued to him or her a certificate as provided
herein.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 27; as amended by A.O.)
§ 13-728.   Revocation of License.
   The Township Board of Commissioners may revoke any pawnbroker’s license for
repeated violations of the provisions of this Part. Any licensee shall have the
opportunity for a hearing before such revocation.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 28)
§ 13-729.   Secondhand Dealers.
   No pawnbroker shall engage in the business of buying and selling or trading
secondhand merchandise without obtaining a secondhand dealer’s license in
addition to a pawnbroker’s license.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 29)
§ 13-730.   Location.
   No pawnbroker’s license shall be issued in any location in which such
business is not permitted by the Zoning Ordinance of the Township [
Chapter 27].
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 30)
§ 13-731.   Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $500 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said
fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that
a violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2005-6, 5/12/2005, § 31; as amended by A.O.)
Part 8
Restriction of Yard Sales
§ 13-801.   Definitions.
   As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
   Goods–Any goods, warehouse merchandise or other property capable of being
the object of a sale regulated hereunder.
   Persons–Individuals, partnerships, voluntary associations and corporations.
   Yard sales–all sales entitled “yard sale”, lawn sale, attic sale, “garage
sale”, rummage sale, “flea market” or any other similar casual sale of tangible
personal property which is advertised by any means whereby the public at large
is or can be made aware of the said, which includes having personal property
placed in the open for the public to see and stop for purchase of this
property.
(Ord. 2016-2, 6/9/2016, § 1)
§ 13-802.   Permits and Fees.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a yard sale in the
Township without first filing with the Township Zoning Officer the information
hereinafter specified and obtaining from said Zoning Officer a permit to do so,
to be known as a “yard sale permit”. No fee for said permit shall be charged by
the Township. In the event of a multi-family yard sale, one person may acquire
a permit but must list all homes participating in the yard sale.
   2.   Any sale conducted for more than one day shall not keep any property
for sale outdoors.
(Ord. 2016-2, 6/9/2016, § 2)
§ 13-803.   Licensing.
   Such permit shall be issued to any person four times within a 12-month
period and no such permit shall be used for more than three consecutive
calendar days. There shall be no more than four sales at any one location in a
12-month period.
(Ord. 2016-2, 6/9/2016, § 3)
§ 13-804.   Information to be Filed.
   The information to be with the Secretary pursuant to this Part should
include the following:
   A.   Name of persons, firm, group, corporation, association or organization
conducting the sale.
   B.   Name of the owner of the property on which said sale is to be conducted
and consent of the owner if applicant is other than the owner.
   C.   Location at which sale is to be conducted.
   D.   Date(s) of intended sale.
   E.   How many sales this applicant has conducted in the last 12-month period
and how many sales have been conducted at the location within the past 32-month
period.
   F.   Sworn statement of affirmation by the applicant signing that the
information therein given is complete and truthful information known to the
person applying.
(Ord. 2016-2, 6/9/2016, § 4)
§ 13-805.   Persons and Sale Excepted.
   The provisions of this Part should not apply to or affect the following
persons or sales:
   A.   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order process of Court of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   B.   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as a public
official.
   C.   Any person selling or advertising for sale an item of personal property
which are specifically names or described in the advertisement and which
separate items do not exceed seven in number.
(Ord. 2016-2, 6/9/2016, § 5)
§ 13-806.   Fines and Fees.
   Any person, association or corporation conducting such sale without being
properly licensed therefore or who shall violate any of the other terms and
regulations of this Part shall upon conviction be fined not less than $100, no
more than $500 for each violation.
(Ord. 2016-2, 6/9/2016, § 6)
Part 9
Mobile Food Facilities or Booths
§13-901.   Title.
   This Part shall be known and cited as the "Township of Plains Mobile Food
Facilities or Booths Ordinance".
(Ord. 1-2021, 7/8/2021)
§13-902.   Purpose.
   The general purpose of this Part is to provide and protect the health,
safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare of the citizens of the
Township of Plains and the individuals who may patronize mobile food facilities
and booths by requiring new and existing mobile food vendors to provide
residents and customers with the cleanliness, quality and safety during the use
of the mobile food facilities and/or booths. It is also the intent to establish
reasonable guidelines and restrictions for mobile food vendors and to encourage
the safe and convenience use of Township public right-of-way.
(Ord. 1-2021, 7/8/2021)
§13-903.   Definitions.
   The followings words and phrases shall have the meaning indicated, unless a
different meaning clearly appears from the context:
      Applicant-any person or business who applies for a license under the
provisions of this Part.
      Board of Commissioners-the governing body of the Township of Plains,
Luzerne County, Pennsylvania.
      Booth-a structure at a fixed location within the Township at any given
time to be used for a limited duration to sell or offer to sell prepackaged
food or prepared food. A Booth may be located adjacent to or near a mobile food
facility during events at which multiple mobile food facilities.
      Code Enforcement Officer-a person appointed by the Board of Commissioners
to administer and enforce the Township of Plains Code of Ordinances. This may
also include a sworn officer of the Township of Plains Police Department.
      Landowner-the legal or beneficial owner of land, including the holder of
an option or contract to purchase (whether or not such option or contract is
subject to any condition); a lessee if he or she is authorized under the Lease
to exercise the rights of the Landowner or other person having a property
interest in the land.
      Mobile food facility-a mobile vehicle, including, but not limited to,
what is commonly known as a food truck, either to be used on the street,
sidewalk or lot within the Township that is used to sell prepackaged or
prepared food and having a temporary location within the Township at any given
time. This Ordinance does not require a permit for the operation of a Mobile
Food Facility or Booth during special events sponsored or permitted by the
Township of Plains.
      Mobile food vendor-a person who sells, intends to sell, or offers to sell
food products in or about the streets of the Township of Plains from a mobile
food facility and/or booth.
      Owner-any person operating a mobile food facility or booth or entitled to
the use and possession of the mobile food facility or booth, having the right
in or title to the mobile food facility, other than a lienholder.
      Park or parking-the temporary storing or halting of a mobile food
facility, whether in operation or not, on the land.
      Person-any individual, firm, partnership, limited liability partnership,
limited liability company, cooperative, corporation, joint venture,
association, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, holding
company, or other group or combination, acting as a unit, in the singular or
plural, and the agent or employee having charge or control of a mobile food
facility or booth in the absence of the principal.
      Prepackaged food-a product where no preparation or assembly of foods or
beverages takes place. The food or beverages are packaged or made up in advance
in a container or wrapped and ready for offer to the consumer, or is in a form
that is edible without washing, cooking, or additional preparation.
      Prepared food-a product where cooking, preparation and assembly of food
items or beverage products is required.
      Pushcart vending-a cart that is limited to minimal cooking, holding and
serving of plated, wrapped, an example being frankfurter-like foods.
      Right-of-way-the legal right, established by usage or grant, to pass
along a specific route through grounds or property belonging to another. A
public right-of- way is a public right to travel unhindered over a piece of
land, even if that land is privately owned. For purposes of this Part this term
is in reference to roads or streets that are located within the Township.
      Road or street-the entire width between the boundary lines of every way,
publicly or privately maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of
the public for purposes of vehicular travel and the terms include that portion
of a highway, road or street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the sidewalk, berm or shoulder.
(Ord. 1-2021, 7/8/2021)
§ 13-904. Applicability.
   This Part does not apply to the following:
      A.   Any catering of prepared food to a specific location not open to the
public for a limited duration of not more than ten times per year or for a
special occasion less than four times per year.
      B.   The operation of a mobile food facility or booth during special
events, such as a Township sponsored event where one or more mobile food
facilities or booths would be gathered.
(Ord. 1-2021, 7/8/2021)
§ 13-905. Permit Application and License Requirements.
   1.   An applicant for a permit shall apply, no less than 30 days prior to
the operation of the mobile food facility or booth in the Township of Plains.
   2.   An application for a permit may be acquired from the Township Zoning
Office or Township Secretary that must be completed in its entirety and
returned to the Township with the required permit fee. Failure to pay the fee
or fully completing the application shall be reason to deny the permit to
applicant.
   3.   No person shall commence operation of a mobile food facility or booth
in the Township of Plains unless the required license has been obtained for the
facility and, if required by the State, its commissary from the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture. Mobile food facilities or booths not
requiring license by the State must show proof of application and inspection by
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture as required by State
law.
   4.   All licenses from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Department of
Agriculture shall be prominently displayed at all times during operation of a
mobile food facility or booth. If not prominently displayed, a copy of a
current license from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture
must be produced to the Enforcement Officer upon request.
   5.   Upon request from the Enforcement Officer, a mobile food facility or
booth vendor must show proof of general liability insurance in the amount of
$100,000 per individual and $300,000 per occurrence.
   6.   Any mobile food facility or booth vendor operating without the required
license(s) shall be deemed in violation of this Part, and the mobile food
facility or booth vendor shall be subject to penalties and fines as provided
within this Part and otherwise provided by law.
   7.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall be authorized to deny, revoke or
suspend operations for any mobile food facility or booth vendor found in non-
compliance with the established requirements.
(Ord. 1-2021, 7/8/2021)
§ 13-906. Permit Fee.
   1.   The permit fee for a mobile food facility or booth shall be $50. This
fee may be changed from time to time by resolution of the Township of Plains
Board of Commissioners.
   2.   Each mobile food facility or booth shall be permitted separately.
   3.   The permit fee shall be valid for the calendar year in which it is
issued, ending December 31 of that year and shall not be prorated.
(Ord. 1-2021, 7/8/2021)
§ 13-907. Mobile Food Facility or Booth Regulations.
   1.   No mobile food facility or booth vendor shall park, stand or stop at
and operate in any private road or right-of-way and within 50 feet of the
primary entrance of any property having another use.
   2.   A mobile food facility or booth shall not be allowed in any residential
zoned district.
   3.   A mobile food facility or booth shall not operate where the access
could become congested and in a manner that impedes vehicular or pedestrian
traffic. A mobile food facility or booth shall not cause any congestion of
traffic flow, and, if vehicular traffic or pedestrian flow becomes congested,
the owner of the mobile food facility shall immediately and without delay,
vacate its location so as to allow for the free flow of traffic and relief of
the congestion.
   4.   A mobile food facility or booth shall only be open for business between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
   5.   A mobile food facility or booth may not operate on any private property
without written permission from the landowner, and must comply if asked to
leave by the landowner.
   6.   Any signage identifying or advertising the mobile food facility or
booth shall be affixed to the mobile food facility or booth and must only
advertise the name and products being sold or offered for sale from the mobile
food facility or booth. no moving objects used to attract attention to the
mobile food facility or booth shall be permitted. Flashing, blinking,
twinkling, animated or moving signs are prohibited. Signs which emit smoke,
visible vapors or particles, sound or odor are prohibited. Balloons that are
greater than 50 cubic feet that are tethered to the site or any mobile facility
or booth or other structure are prohibited. neon lighting of more than ten
square feet shall be prohibited.
   7.   No lighting from a mobile food facility or booth shall illuminate any
public right-of-way or adjoining property. Flood lights and lasers are
prohibited.
   8.   Every mobile food facility or booth shall provide a portable waste
receptacle for customers and the owner shall be responsible for proper disposal
of the receptacle daily. Waste receptacles may not be left out when the mobile
food facility or booth is not open for business. Under no circumstances shall a
mobile food facility or booth use containers or receptacles for use of the
general public.
   9.   Wastewater from a mobile food facility or booth shall not be drained
onto the ground or any public or private roadway, or be deposited into any
storm or sewer drain outlet.
   10.   Continuous music or repetitive sounds shall not project from the
mobile food facility or booth. Generator noise shall be minimized so as not to
offend neighboring property owners, and the owner shall otherwise remain in
compliance with the Township Nuisance Ordinance.
   11.   A five foot clear space must be maintained around the mobile food
facility or booth at all times, except for a permitted portable waste
receptacle. A mobile food facility or booth shall be located not less than 25
feet from a side yard line and not less than 30 feet from a rear yard line.
   12.   A "No Smoking" sign must be posted next to the order window on the
mobile food facility or booth.
   13.   A fire extinguisher having a current inspection tag with a 10 BC
rating and a fire extinguisher having a current inspection tag with a Class K
rating shall be kept accessible at all times in the mobile food facility or
booth.
   14.   Proper electrical power shall be maintained and installed as per the
International Electrical Code. Extension cords running from any residential
living space for power will not be allowed. Extension cords from a commercial
use or business shall not run across areas accessible to the public, and to
vehicular and pedestrian travel.
   15.   Public restroom facilities must be available upon the property where
the mobile food facility or booth is located while it is operating.
Informational signs directing the public on where and how to access the
restrooms must be posted at the order window while the mobile food facility or
booth is operating on the property.
   16.   A minimum of ten off-street parking spaces shall be made exclusively
available on the property for the mobile food facility or booth while it is
open for business. All off-street parking spaces shall be located within 100
feet walking distance of the mobile food facility or booth. Every other use of
the property shall also meet the minimum number of off-street parking space
requirements for that use as per the Township of Plains Zoning Ordinance. This
shall be in addition to the minimum number of off-street parking spaces for the
mobile food facility or booth. The mobile food facility or booth shall not
obstruct parking and access aisles serving other uses on the property no matter
whether or not those other uses are open for business when the mobile food
facility or booth is in operation.
   17.   No mobile food facility is permitted to park or stop to serve
customers within a 150 feet radius of any principal customer entrance to any
restaurant or food establishment serving food products within the Township of
Plains during that establishment's hours of operation or within 150 feet from
any permitted mobile food facility or booth location, and shall locate the
mobile food facility or booth at the curb in such a way as to cause any line
which forms to do so along the curb.
   18.   All mobile food facilities or booths shall be attended by at least one
operator who is at least 18 years of age.
   19.   All mobile food facilities or booths shall meet the requirements of
all Township of Plains Zoning Ordinances.
   20.   No mobile food facility or booth vendor shall use utilities (electric,
water or wastewater) of the Township of Plains without written consent of the
Township of Plains Board of Commissioners.
   21.   Upon request of the Township of Plains, a mobile food facility or
booth vendor must submit proof of payment of the Township's Mercantile Tax,
Pennsylvania Sales Tax and any and all other taxes under the Local Tax Enabling
Act.
(Ord. 1-2021, 7/8/2021)
§ 13-908. Equipment.
   1.   When it appears to the Enforcement Officer that the operation of the
mobile food facility or booth poses an immediate and imminent threat to the
public health and safety that will occur if the mobile food facility or booth
is not immediately closed, the Enforcement Officer shall have the power to
order the immediate closure of the mobile food facility or booth until such
time that the violations complained of have been corrected or the Township of
Plains Board of Commissioners or other appropriate hearing board overrules the
determination of the Enforcement Officer.
   2.   Nothing set forth in this section may limit the pursuit of other
appropriate actions or proceedings at law or in equity available to the
Township of Plains.
(Ord. 1-2021, 7/8/2021)
§ 13-909. Display and Transfer of Permit.
   All persons shall display the permit issued to them on the original form
provided by the Township of Plains in a conspicuous place clearly visible from
the outside of the mobile food facility or booth. A permit shall not be
transferable and a transfer of controlling interest shall be considered a
termination of the old permit and the establishment of a new mobile food
facility or booth requiring a permit.
(Ord. 1-2021, 7/8/2021)
§ 13-910. Denial of Permit.
   No application for a permit shall be denied if it is in compliance with this
Part. If a permit is denied, the Code Enforcement Officer shall send the owner
written notice of the denial, along with the reasons for denial, within 30
calendar days of receipt of the application for a permit by the Code
Enforcement Officer. The owner has the right to appeal the denial of the permit
under Section
13-912 of this Part.
(Ord. 1-2021, 7/8/2021)
§ 13-911. Revocation of Permit.
   Any permit issued may be subsequently revoked by the Code Enforcement
Officer when the Code Enforcement Officer finds that the information contained
in the application for a permit is false, or when the owner is operating in
violation of this Part (after notice and an opportunity to cure or appeal was
first given to the owner). A permit may only be revoked by the Code Enforcement
Officer after written notice to the owner describing the violation of this Part
or the condition of permit citing the applicable sections of this Part. The
owner has the right to appeal the revocation of the permit under Section
13-911 of this Part.
(Ord. 1-2021, 7/8/2021)
§ 13-912. Notice/Service; Corrective Measures; Appeal Rights.
   1.   Notice/Service. The Code Enforcement Officer shall have authority to
give notice, by personal service, posting of the mobile food facility or booth,
or by regular United States mail, postage prepared, to any owner violating this
Part, or when denying or revoking a permit. Notice by personal service or
posting shall be effective immediately, and noticer by regular United States
mail shall be effective three calendar days after the date of mailing.
   2.   Corrective Measures. For a violation, the notice shall direct
compliance with this Part within ten calendar days following service of the
notice. Any notice issued for a violation of this Part shall be sufficient to
constitute notice of any subsequent violation provided that the violation is
for the same section of this Part and the violation occurs within the same
calendar year.
   3.   Appeal. Any person directly affected by a determination of the Code
Enforcement Officer shall have the right to appeal to the Township of Plains
Board of Commissioners, provided that a written application for appeal is filed
within ten calendar days after the day the notice was served or the permit
issued.
   4.   Stays of Enforcement. Appeals of notices or permits issued by the Code
Enforcement Officer (except for a revocation of a permit) shall stay the action
or enforcement of the notice until the appeal is heard by the Township of
Plains Board of Commissioners. Said hearing shall be held within ten days of
the date of receipt of the written application for appeal. A decision from the
Township of Plains Board of Commissioners regarding the appeal shall be
supplied in writing within five days of the date of the appeal hearing.
   5.   Appeals to Court of Common Pleas. Any person aggrieved by any decision
of the Township of Plains Board of Commissioners may appeal to the Luzerne
County Court of Common Pleas within 30 days of the mailing of the decision of
the Township of Plains Board of Commissioners to the appellant.
(Ord. 1-2021, 7/8/2021)
§ 13-913. Penalties.
   Any person or owner who violates or permits the violation of this Part shall
be guilty of a summary offense, and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay
a fine of not less than $250, nor more than $1,000, plus the costs of
prosecution, and, in default of payment of fine and costs, to imprisonment for
a term of not more than 30 days; or a civil penalty of not more than $600
together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees. A violation of this
Part shall arise for each day of the violation; and each applicable section of
the Part.
(Ord. 1-2021, 7/8/2021)
Chapter 14
[Reserved]
Chapter 15
Motor Vehicles and Traffic
Part 1
General Regulations
§
15-101.   General Rule
§
15-102.   Definitions and Interpretations
§
15-103.   Authority of Police Officers
§
15-104.   Official Traffic Signs, Signals and Markings
§
15-105.   Authorization of the Use of Mechanical, Electrical and Electronic
Motor Vehicle Speed Timing Devices
§
15-106.   Prosecution under Local Ordinance Is Superseded by the Pennsylvania
Vehicle Code
§
15-107.   Manner of Adopting Permanent Traffic and Parking Regulations
§
15-108.   Temporary and Emergency Regulations
§
15-109.   Experimental Regulations
§
15-110.   Traffic on Streets Closed or Restricted for Construction, Maintenance
or Special Events
§
15-111.   Use of Streets by Processions and Assemblages
Part 2
Traffic Regulations
§
15-201.   Maximum Speed Limits Established
§
15-202.   Maximum Speed Limits Established on Certain Bridges and Elevated
Structures
§
15-203.   Maximum Speed Limits Established for Certain Vehicles on Hazardous
Grades
§
15-204.   Maximum Speed Limits Established in Parks
§
15-205.   Operation of Certain Vehicles Prohibited in Parks
§
15-206.   Traffic Signals at Certain Locations
§
15-207.   Intersections Where Turns Prohibited on Red Signal
§
15-208.   One-Way Streets Established
§
15-209.   Rotary Traffic Islands Established
§
15-210.   Turning at Certain Intersections Prohibited or Restricted
§
15-211.   Movement Other than Right Turn at Intersections
§
15-212.   Right Turn Only Permitted at Certain Intersections
§
15-213.   U-Turns Prohibited at Certain Locations
§
15-214.   Passing Zones Established
§
15-215.   Through Highways Established
§
15-216.   Stop Intersections Established
§
15-217.   Yield Intersections Established
§
15-218.   Play Highways Established and Authorized
§
15-219.   Snowmobile and ATV Roads Designated
§
15-220.   Skate, Coasters, Sleds and Other Toy Vehicles
§
15-221.   Through Traffic Prohibited at Certain Locations
§
15-222.   Use of Private or Public Property to Avoid Traffic Control Device
Part 3
Restrictions on Size, Weight and Type of Vehicles and Loads
§
15-301.   General Rule
§
15-302.   Vehicle Weight Limits Established on Certain Streets and Bridges
§
15-303.   Truck Traffic Restricted on Certain Roads and Streets
§
15-304.   Parking, Stopping, Standing of Certain Vehicles Prohibited
§
15-305.   Vehicle Size Restrictions
§
15-306.   Restriction of Truck Traffic and Limits on Vehicle Weight on Posted
Ways
Part 4
Stopping, Standing and Parking
§
15-401.   Parking Prohibited at All Times in Certain Locations
§
15-402.   Parking Prohibited in Certain Locations Certain Days and Hours
§
15-403.   Standing and Parking
§
15-404.   Special Purpose Parking Zones Established; Parking Otherwise
Prohibited
§
15-405.   Vehicles to Be Parked in Marked Places
§
15-406.   Angle Parking Required on Parts of Certain Streets
§
15-407.   Operation of Motor Vehicle on Sidewalks
§
15-408.   Penalty for Violation of Part
Part 5
Miscellaneous Provisions
§
15-501.   Pedestrians to Obey Traffic Control Signs
§
15-502.   Pedestrians Crossing at Other than Marked Crossings
§
15-503.   Duties and Responsibilities of Pedalcycle Riders
§
15-504.   Snow or Ice Emergency
§
15-505.   Depositing Snow on Roadway
Part 6
Interpretation and Repeal
§
15-601.   Provisions to Be a Continuation of Existing Regulations
Part 7
Commercial Traffic Route Restriction and Weight Limits
§
15-701.   Weight Limits
§
15-702.   Erection of Signs
§
15-703.   Determination of Weight
§
15-704.   Exemption from this Part
§
15-705.   Description of Commercial Routes
§
15-706.   Penalty
Part 8
Prohibition on the Use of Engine Brakes Commonly Known as “Jake Brake”
§
15-801.   Operation of an Engine Brake
§
15-802.   Excessive Noise
§
15-803.   Limited to Locations
§
15-804.   Sign
§
15-805.   Not Applied to Emergency Driving Situations
§
15-806.   Penalties
Part 9
Handicapped Parking
§
15-901.   Legislative Intent
§
15-902.   Definitions
§
15-903.   Application Procedure
§
15-904.   General Provisions
§
15-905.   Penalties
§
15-906.   Location
Part 1
General Regulations
§ 15-101.   General Rule.
   Except as provided, the provisions of this Chapter relating to the
operation, parking and movement or restrictions of vehicles, pedalcycles and
pedestrians, refer exclusively to the operation, parking and movement or
restrictions of vehicles, pedalcycles and pedestrians upon highways and streets
within the boundaries of Plains Township, except where a specific place is
specifically referred to in a particular Section or provision of this Chapter.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 101)
§ 15-102.   Definitions and Interpretations.
   1.   Words and phrases, when used in this Chapter, except for Sections and
Parts to which different or additional definitions apply, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, the Act of June 17,
1976, P.L. 162, No. 81, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq., as amended, except that,
in this Chapter, the word “street” may be used interchangeably with the word
“highway” and “trafficway” and shall have the same meaning as the word
“highway” and “trafficway” as defined in the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code.
   Legal holiday–including, but not be limited to: New Years Day, Easter,
Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
   2.   In this Chapter, the singular shall include the plural, the plural
shall include the singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine.
   3.   Although the streets in Plains Township run generally in a southeast-
southwest and a northwest-northeast direction, for the purpose of this Chapter,
Interstate 81 (I-81) and the streets running parallel or generally parallel to
I-81 shall be deemed to run in a north-south direction, and the streets that
are perpendicular or generally perpendicular to I-81 shall be deemed to run in
an east-west direction.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 102)
§ 15-103.   Authority of Police Officers.
   The police officers of Plains Township and the police officers of other
jurisdictions, when requested, shall have the authority to direct traffic on
the streets of Plains Township, at intersections, in public and other places
and highways where the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, the Act of June 17, 1976,
P.L. 162, No. 81, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq., as amended, or the First Class
Township Code, 53 P.S. §§ 55101 et seq., or this Chapter apply.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 103)
§ 15-104.   Official Traffic Signs, Signals and Markings.
   All signs, signals and markings erected shall conform with the requirements
set forth in the provisions of 67 Pa.Code, Chapter 212, “Official Traffic-
Control Devices”, as published by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department
of Transportation. In order to secure uniformity in the design, location and
operation of all official traffic signs, signals and markings in the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. This uniformity will correlate with and so far as
possible conform to the system set forth in the most recent edition of the
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways and other
standards issued and enforced by the Federal Highway Administration, United
States Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 104)
§ 15-105.   Authorization of the Use of Mechanical, Electrical and Electronic
Motor Vehicle Speed Timing Devices.
   1.   The police officers of Plains Township and the police officers of other
jurisdictions when requested, are hereby authorized and empowered to use any
and all mechanical, electrical and electronic devices (non-radar), or a
combination thereof, on all highways, trafficways and streets, for determining
the rate of speed of any vehicle and enforcing the maximum and minimum speed
limits established by the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et
seq., and this Chapter and other Township ordinances.
   2.   The authority hereby granted shall relate to all highways, trafficways
and streets within Plains Township.
   3.   The authority hereby granted shall pertain to all present speed timing
devices as well as those to be developed and authorized for such use in the
future.
   4.   All speed timing devices shall be of the type approved by the
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 105)
§ 15-106.   Prosecution under Local Ordinance Is Superseded by the Pennsylvania
Vehicle Code.
   In compliance with § 6301 of the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, the Act of June
17, 1976, P.L. 12, No. 81, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 6301, as amended, except for parking
violations, when the same conduct is proscribed under the Pennsylvania Vehicle
Code and this Chapter, the charges shall be brought under the Pennsylvania
Vehicle Code and not this Chapter.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 106)
§ 15-107.   Manner of Adopting Permanent Traffic and Parking Regulations.
   All traffic and parking regulations of a permanent nature shall be enacted
as ordinances, parts of ordinances or as amendments to the ordinances of Plains
Township only after completion of an engineering and traffic study, except
where the laws of the Commonwealth specifically authorize less formal action.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 107)
§ 15-108.   Temporary and Emergency Regulations.
   1.   The Chief of Police or the Plains Township Board of Commissioners shall
have the following powers to regulate traffic and parking temporarily and in
time of emergency:
   A.   In the case of fire, flood, storm or other emergency, to establish
temporary traffic and/or parking regulations.
   B.   In the case of emergency public works or public events of limited scope
or duration, to restrict or prohibit traffic and/or parking in limited areas
for periods of not more than 72 hours.
   2.   These temporary and emergency regulations shall be enforced by the
Police Department of Plains Township in the same manner as permanent
regulations. Any person who drives, operates or parks a vehicle in violation of
such regulation shall be guilty of a violation and upon conviction, shall be
liable for the penalty set out in the law or elsewhere in this Chapter for a
violation of that nature, and, in the case of a violation for which no specific
penalty is set out in the law or elsewhere in the Chapter, to a fine of $25 and
costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 108)
§ 15-109.   Experimental Regulations.
   The Plains Township Board of Commissioners may, from time to time, by
resolution, designate places upon and along the streets and highways in Plains
Township where, for a period of not more than 90 days, specific traffic and/or
parking regulations, prohibitions and restrictions shall be in force and
effect, and shall designate those locations by proper signs and markings. Those
regulations, prohibitions and restrictions shall be effective just as if they
had been specified in this Chapter. No person shall drive, operate or park a
vehicle in violation of any such regulation, prohibition or restrictions, and
no person shall move, remove, destroy or deface any sign or marking erected,
posted or made by authority of this Section. Any person who violates any
provision of this Section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a summary
offense, and be liable to the penalty set out in the law or elsewhere in this
Chapter, to a fine of $25 and costs; provided, the purpose of this Section is
to allow for tests and experimental determination of the feasibility and
desirability of permanent changes in the ordinance of Plains Township relative
to traffic and parking.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 109)
§ 15-110.   Traffic on Streets Closed or Restricted for Construction,
Maintenance or Special Events.
   1.   The Chief of Police or the Plains Township Board of Commissioners shall
have the authority to close any street or specific part of a street to
vehicular, pedalcycle and pedestrian traffic and to place barriers or station
police officers, flaggers or other authorized and appropriately attired persons
at each end of the closed street or portion thereof, while construction or
maintenance work is underway or a special event is being conducted on the
closed street or portion thereof. It is unlawful for any person to drive or
operate a vehicle or pedalcycle upon any such closed street or portion thereof.
   2.   The Plains Township Board of Commissioners, or its designated
representative, shall have the authority to establish a restricted traffic area
upon any street where construction or maintenance work is underway and to
station flaggers at each end of the restricted portion. It shall be unlawful
for any person to drive or operate a vehicle upon any such restricted traffic
area at any time when the flagger is displaying a sign directing that vehicle
to stop, or is signaling that vehicle, by flag or other device, not to proceed.
   3.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a summary offense and be sentenced to pay a fine of
$25 and costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 110)
§ 15-111.   Use of Streets by Processions and Assemblages.
   1.   For the purpose of this Section, the words “assemblage” and
“procession” shall have the following meanings:
   Assemblage–a gathering of people without vehicles, which interferes with the
movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on any street.
   Procession–a group of individuals, vehicles, animals and/or objects moving
along a street in a way that interferes with the normal movement of traffic
and/or pedestrians; provided, a procession shall not include a funeral caravan
or military convoy.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or participate in any
assemblage unless the person organizing or conducting the assemblage first
obtains a permit from the Plains Township Board of Commissioners or its
designee, which shall be issued without a fee. However, the person organizing
or conducting the assemblage may be required to pay Plains Township the actual
expenses incurred by the Township to provide the necessary police protection
for the assemblage and detour of traffic. Application for the permit shall be
made to the Chief of Police or the Township Manager at least four weeks in
advance of the day on which the assemblage is proposed to be held, but in any
case where a state designated highway is proposed to be used, the application
shall be made at least three days in advance of the proposed date. The
application shall state the street and the date when the assemblage is to be
held, the hour the assemblage is to convene and the hour by which it shall be
completely dispersed. The application shall also contain the name of the
person, estimated number of participants and the purpose of the assemblage. It
shall be unlawful for any person to lead or participate in any assemblage
unless the permit has been granted, or at any time or place other than that
authorized by the permit.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or to participate in any
procession unless the person organizing or conducting the procession first
obtains a permit from the Township Manager or the Chief of Police, which shall
be issued without a fee. However, the person organizing or conducting the
procession may be required to pay to Plains Township the actual expenses
incurred by the Township to provide the necessary escort, police protection and
detour of other traffic for the procession. Application for the permit shall be
made to the Township Manager or the Chief of Police at least 20 days in advance
of the day when the procession is proposed to be held, but in any case where a
state designated highway is proposed to be used, application shall be made at
least 45 days in advance of the proposed date. The application shall state the
date on which the procession is to be held, the route or routes to be followed
by the procession, the hour when and the place where the participants may
commence to assemble and form the before the procession is underway, time when
the procession may commence to move along its route, the time by which the end
of the procession shall have reached the end of the route of the procession and
the person organizing or conducting the procession, and the number of estimated
individuals, vehicles, animals and/or objects participating in the procession.
It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or participate in any procession
unless the permit shall have been granted, or under any conditions as to time,
date or route are other than those stated in the permit.
   4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to continue to hold or to
participate in any assemblage or procession in violation of Subsections 2. or
3. of this Section after having been given a lawful order by a police officer
to desist.
   5.   Any person who violates any provisions of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a summary offense, and shall be sentenced as follows:
   A.   Upon conviction of Subsections 2. or 3. of this Section, the person
shall be sentenced to a fine of $25 and costs.
   B.   Upon conviction of Subsection 4. of this Section, the person shall be
sentenced to a fine of not less than $300 nor more than $1,000 and/or to a term
of imprisonment in the county prison or not less than 30 days or more than 90
days.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 111)
Part 2
Traffic Regulations
§ 15-201.   Maximum Speed Limits Established.
   1.   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed, the
limits specified in this Section shall be the maximum lawful speeds established
for all Plains Township streets, highways, trafficways, alleys and no person
shall drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of the following maximum limits:
   A.   Twenty-five miles per hour on any Township street/trafficway/highway.
   B.   Fifteen miles per hour on any Township alley or school zone.
   C.   Any other maximum speed limit established under this Section.
Street Between Maximum Speed Limit (MPH)
Street             Between                          Maximum Speed Limit (MPH)
Bald Mt. Road      Entire Length                    40
Foxhill Road       Entire Length                    35
Jumper Road        Entire Length                    40
Miner Street       Entire Length                    35
North Main Street  Entire Length                    35
North River Street Enterprise Street to West Saylor 45
                   Avenue
North River Street West Carey Street to Enterprise  35
                   Street
Oak Street         Stark Street to Miner Street     35
Ridgewood Road     Entire Length                    35
Route 115          1425 feet North of Route 309     45
Route 115          1425 feet South of Route 309     50
Route 315          Entire Length                    45
South River Street Entire Length                    35
Stark Street       Entire Length                    35
Union Street       Entire Length                    35
West Saylor Avenue Entire Length                    35
Westminister Road  Entire Length                    40
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to a fine between a minimum of $100 and a maximum $500
and costs. Any person exceeding the maximum speed limit by more than five miles
per hour shall pay an additional penalty of $2 per mile for each mile per hour
in excess of five miles per hour over the maximum speed limit.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 201; as amended by Res. 2009-26, 11/12/2009)
§ 15-202.   Maximum Speed Limits Established on Certain Bridges and Elevated
Structures.
   1.   Maximum speed limits are established as follows on certain bridges and
elevated structures, and it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle
over any bridge or elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a
speed greater than the maximum posted speed for that bridge or elevated
structure:
 
Bridge or Elevated Structure Location Maximum Speed Limit
                                      (MPH)
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine between a minimum of $100 and a maximum
$500 and costs. Any person exceeding the maximum speed limit by more than five
miles per hour shall pay an additional penalty of $2 per mile for each mile per
hour in excess of five miles per hour over the maximum speed limit.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 202)
§ 15-203.   Maximum Speed Limits Established for Certain Vehicles on Hazardous
Grades.
 
                                                                 Required to
Street    Between       Direction of Maximum Gross Maximum Speed Stop Before
                        Travel       Weight        Limit (MPH)   Proceeding
                                                                 Downhill
Route 115 Township line North        10-1/2 Tons   20            Yes
 
   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine between a minimum of $100 and a maximum
$500 and costs. Any person exceeding the maximum speed limit by more than five
miles per hour shall pay an additional penalty of $2 per mile for each mile per
hour in excess of five miles per hour over the maximum speed limit.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 203)
§ 15-204.   Maximum Speed Limits Established in Parks.
   1.   A speed limit of 15 miles per hour is established in the public parks
maintained and operated by Plains Township. It shall be unlawful for any person
to operate a vehicle in excess of the maximum speed limit.
 
Park                  Street Location               Maximum Speed Limit (MPH)
Hilldale Park                Parking Lot            15
Plains Municipal Park        Park entrance road and 15
                             parking lots
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine between a minimum of $100 and a maximum
$500 and costs. Any person exceeding the maximum speed limit by more than five
miles per hour shall pay an additional penalty of $2 per mile for each mile per
hour in excess of five miles per hour over the maximum speed limit.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 204)
§ 15-205.   Operation of Certain Vehicles Prohibited in Parks.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a motor
vehicle, motorcycle, motorized pedalcycle, snowmobile or other motorized
recreational vehicle in the public parks maintained or operated by Plains
Township, except, motor vehicles which are titled and registered in this
Commonwealth or another state according to the Vehicle Code of Pennsylvania. 75
Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq., and operated by a person(s) licensed to operate such
class of vehicle may by driven or operated only on the park streets and parking
lot of the public parks maintained and operated by Plains Township, as listed
below:
   A.   Amesbury Park.
   B.   Hilldale Park.
   C.   Irishtown Park.
   D.   Keystone Park.
   E.   Plains Municipal Park.
   2.   Any person who violates any portion of this Section shall, upon
conviction be guilty of a summary offense, and will be sentenced to pay a fine
between a minimum of $100 and a maximum $500 and costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 205)
§ 15-206.   Traffic Signals at Certain Locations.
   1.   At the following locations, traffic signals as indicated below shall be
erected or ratified (if previously erected), and traffic at these locations
shall be directed by these signals.
Location Type of Signal
Location                                               Type of Signal
Intersection of Abbott Street, South Main Street and   Traffic Signals
Maffett Street [Res. 1996-11]
Intersection of East Mountain Boulevard and Baltimore  Traffic Signals
Drive [Res. 2011-16A]
Intersection of East Mountain Boulevard and East       Traffic Control Signal
Mountain Business Park drive [Res. 1993-27]
Intersection of East Mt. Drive and David Baltimore
Drive
Intersection of Fox Hill Road and Route 315            Traffic Control Signal
Intersection of Jumper Road (SR 2020) and East         Traffic Control Signal
Mountain Boulevard [Res. 1994-18]
Intersection of Laird Street and the main entrance to  Traffic Signals
the Woodlands [Res. 2006-18]
Intersection of Maffett Street, River Street, North    Traffic Control Signal
Cross Valley Exp. and Route 309
Intersection of Main and Carey Streets                 Traffic Control Signal
Intersection of Route 115 and East Mountain Boulevard  Traffic Control Signal
[Res. 9/9/1993]
Intersection of Route 115 and East Mt. Drive           Traffic Control Signal
Intersection of Route 315 and Jumper Road (SR 2020)    Traffic Control Signal
[Res. 1994-19]
Intersection of SR 315 and Laird Street/Woodlands Inn  Traffic Signal
Driveway [Res. 2009-13]
Intersection of Route 315 and Laird Street and the     Traffic Signals
main entrance to the Woodlands [Res. 2008-17]
Intersection of SR 315 and Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs Traffic Signal
main entrance [Res. 2009-15]
Intersection of Route 315 and Motorworld Drive         Traffic Control Signal
Intersection of Route 315 and Motorworld Drive/Cross   Traffic Signal
Creek Pointe [Res. 2009-12]
Intersection of Route 315 and Ramp AB [Res. 2006-16]   Traffic Signals
Intersection of Route 315 and Route 309 (North Cross   Traffic Control Signal
Valley)
Intersection of Route 315 and Route 2020 (Jumper Road/ Traffic Control Signal
East Main Street) [Res. 2009-14]
Intersection of Route 315 and Route 8045 Ramp AB, Ramp Traffic Signal
A Spur [Res. 2009-11]
Intersection of Route 315 and Scott Grocery Warehouse  Traffic Control Signal
Intersection of SR 315 and Sunshine Drive [Res. 2009-  Traffic Signal
16]
Main Street (SR 2024) and Courtright Street (SR 2013)  Flashing Warning Devices
[Res. 2001-9]
Main Street (SR 2022) at the Loree Associates Driveway Traffic Control Signal
to the Prospect Bank Project [Res. 1997-24]
River Street, SR 2004 Segment to Offset 2505 [Res.     Traffic Control Signal
1997-23]
River Street (SR 2004) and Waterfront Park/Cross       Traffic Signal
Valley Centre [Res. 2009-21]
South River Street [Res. 2012-3]                       Traffic Signal
SR 309 and River Street and Maffett Street [Res. 2008- Traffic Signal
19]
SR 315 and Jumper Road/East Main Street (SR 2020)      Traffic Signal
[Res. 2012-6]
SR 315 and Laird Street/Woodlands Inn Driveway [Res.   Traffic Signal
2012-6]
SR 315 at the main entrance to the Pocono Downs [Res.  Traffic Signal
2008-15]
SR 315 at the main entrance to Motorworld and Cross    Traffic Signal
Creek Point [Res. 2008-18]
SR 315 and Motorworld Drive [Res. 1993-18]             Traffic Control Signal
SR 315 and Richland Boulevard [Res. 2012-5]            Traffic Signals
SR 315 and Scott Grocery Drive [Res. 1997-6]           Traffic Control Signal
SR 2022, Main Street                                   Flashing Warning Devices
 
   2.   Any driver of a vehicle who disobeys the directions of any traffic
control signal shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine between a
minimum of $100 and a maximum $500 and costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 206; as amended by Res. 1993-18, 6/10/1993; by
Res. 9/9/1993; by Res. 1993-27, 9/9/1993; by Res. 1994-18, 3/10/1994; by Res.
1994-19, 3/10/1994; by Res. 1996-11, 1/18/1996; by Res. 1997-6, –/–/1997; by
Res. 1997-22, 8/14/1997; by Res. 1997-23, 8/14/1997; by Res. 1997-24, 9/11/
1997; by Res. 2001-9, 9/13/2001; by Res. 2006-16, 5/11/2006; by Res. 2006-17,
5/11/2006; by Res. 2006-18, 5/11/2009; by Res. 2006-19, 5/11/2006; by Res.
2008-15, 5/8/2008; by Res. 2008-16, 5/8/2008; by Res. 2008-17, 5/8/2008; by
Res. 2008-18, 5/8/2008; by Res. 2008-19, 6/12/2008; By Res. 2009-11, 8/13/2009;
by Res. 2009-12, 8/13/2009; by Res. 2009-13, 8/13/2009; by Res. 2009-14, 8/13/
2009; by Res. 2009-15, 8/13/2009; by Res. 2009-16, 8/13/2009; by Res. 2009-21,
9/10/2009; by Res. 2011-16A, 3/10/2011; by Res. 2012-3, 2/9/2012; by Res. 2012-
5, 3/8/2012; and by Res. 2012-6, 3/8/2012)
§ 15-207.   Intersections Where Turns Prohibited on Red Signal.
   1.   The following are established as intersections where drivers of
vehicles headed in the direction or directions indicated are prohibited from
making a right turn (or left turn from a one-way street into another one-way
street) on a steady red signal.
Intersection Vehicle Traveling On Facing
Intersection                            Vehicle Traveling On       Facing
Crossvalley Exp. and South River Street Crossvalley Exp. Exit Ramp West
Crossvalley Exp. and South River Street South River Street         South
East Main Street and Route 315          East Main Street           East
Jumper Road and Route 315               Jumper Road                West
Main and Carey Streets                  East Main Street           West
Main and Carey Streets                  North Main Street          South
Main and Carey Streets                  South Main Street          North
Main and Carey Streets                  West Main Street           East
 
   2.   Any person who violates any portion of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine between a minimum of $100 and a maximum
$500 and costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 207)
§ 15-208.   One-Way Streets Established.
   1.   The Board of Commissioners, with respect to any highway, roadway, part
of a roadway or specific lanes upon which vehicular traffic shall proceed in
one direction at all times or such times as shall be indicated by official
traffic-control devices.
Street From To Direction of Travel
Street               From               To                 Direction of Travel
Abbott Street [Res.  East from its      West side of the
1997-20]             intersection with  intersection of    West
                     South Main Street  Gouge Street
Farrell Lane [Res.   South Main Street  Stadium Lane       East
2006-12]
Hancock Street [Res. North River Street St. Mary Street    East
2006-13]
Hopkins Street [Res. Mill Street North  East Carey Street  South to North
1997-17]                                and Hudson Road
Hopkins Street [Ord. Mill Street        Hudson Road and    North
2002-1]                                 Carey Street
O’Malley Street    South River Street St. Mary Street    East
Sand Street [Res.    South of Cleveland North of Cleveland
2011-21]             Street             Street
Warner Street        Haines Street      Hollenback Street  South
 
   2.   Any person who violates any portion of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine between a minimum of $100 and a maximum
$500 and costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 208; as amended by Res. 1997-17, 7/10/1997; by
Res. 1997-20, 8/14/1997; by Ord. 2002-1, 9/12/2002, § 208; by Res. 2006-12, 3/
9/2006; by Res. 2006-13, 3/9/2006; by Res. 2011-18, 8/12/2011; and by Res.
2011-21, 8/12/2011)
§ 15-209.   Rotary Traffic Islands Established.
   1.   The following are established as rotary traffic islands, and every
vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only to the
right of the island.
   2.   Any person who drives a vehicle other than to the right of any rotary
traffic island shall be guilty of a violation of this Section, and, upon
conviction be sentenced to pay a fine between a minimum of $100 and a maximum
$500 and costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 209)
§ 15-210.   Turning at Certain Intersections Prohibited or Restricted.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for a driver of any vehicle traveling on the first
named street at any of the following intersections, in the direction or
directions indicated in each case, to make a left turn and/or a right turn into
the second named street, as indicated, at any time when such a turn is
prohibited by this Section.
 
Vehicles     Direction of Not to Make Into           When      Type of Vehicle
Traveling On Travel
South River  South        Left        Maffett Street All times All
Street
South River  South        Right       Off ramp       All times All
Street
 
   2.   Any person who violates any portion of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine between a minimum of $100 and a maximum
$500 and costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 210)
§ 15-211.   Movement Other than Right Turn at Intersections.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any operator of any vehicle traveling on the
first named street at any of the following intersections traveling in the
direction indicated to make any movement other than a right turn without
stopping the vehicle and yielding to oncoming traffic.
 
Street Traveled On Direction of Travel Not to Make Left or Straight Onto
Hudson Road        South               Straight onto Hopkins Street
Oak Street         North               Straight onto Oak Street
Oak Street         South               Left onto Stark Street
Oak Street         South               Straight onto South Oak Street
School Street      South               Left onto First Street
 
   2.   Any person who violates this Section shall be guilty of a summary
offense and shall, upon conviction be sentenced to pay a fine of $100 and
costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 211)
§ 15-212.   Right Turn Only Permitted at Certain Intersections.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, traveling upon the first
named street at any of the following intersections, in the direction or
directions indicated in each case, to make other than a right turn, at any time
stated, both left turns and straight across traffic being prohibited:
 
Vehicle Traveling On Direction of Travel Times Not to Make Left Turn Into or
                                               Travel Straight Across
South River Street   South               All   Maffett Street
 
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 212)
§ 15-213.   U-Turns Prohibited at Certain Locations.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, traveling upon any
of the following portions of streets, in the direction or directions indicated
for that street, to make a U-turn:
 
Street             Portion                             Direction of Travel
South River Street North Cross Valley Exp. (Route 309) South
 
   2.   Any person who violates any portion of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine between a minimum of $100 and a maximum
$500 and costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 213)
§ 15-214.   Passing Zones Established.
   The following are established as passing zones, and it shall be lawful for
the driver of any vehicle to overtake or pass another vehicle or to drive on
the left side of the roadway in any passing zone:
 
Street Direction of Travel Between
   [Reserved]
 
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 214)
§ 15-215.   Through Highways Established.
   1.   The following streets are established as through highways, thus
authorizing stop or yield signs to be erected facing traffic approaching every
intersection with the through highway except for those intersections with
traffic control signals, or with exceptions or modifications as indicated
below. Every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop or yield sign authorized by
this Section shall stop the vehicle or yield the right-of-way as required by §
3323(b) or § 3323(c) of the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 3323(b),
(c), as the case may be, and shall not proceed into or across the through
highway until he or she has followed all applicable requirements of that
section of the law:
Highway Between
Highway                      Between
East Carey Street            Entire Length
East Mountain Drive          Entire Length
East and West Saylor Avenues Entire Length
Foxhill Road                 Entire Length
Hudson Road                  Entire Length
Jumper Road                  Entire Length
Maffett Street               Entire Length
Miner Street                 Entire Length
North Main Street            Entire Length
North River Street           Entire Length
South Main Street            Entire Length
South River Street           Entire Length
Route 115                    Entire Length
Route 315                    Entire Length
Stark Street                 Entire Length
West Carey Street            Entire Length
 
   2.   Any person who violates any portion of this Section shall, upon
conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine between a minimum of $100 and a
maximum $500 and costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 215)
§ 15-216.   Stop Intersections Established.
   1.   The following intersections are established as stop intersections, and
official stop signs shall be erected (or are ratified if previously erected) in
such a position as to face traffic approaching the second-named street (the
intersection or through street) on the first-named street (the stop street) in
the direction or directions indicated for that intersection. Every driver of a
vehicle approaching the intersection on the first-named or stop street, in the
direction indicated in each case, shall stop the vehicle as required by § 3323
(b) of the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 3323(b), and shall not
proceed into or across the second-named or intersecting or through street until
he or she has followed all applicable requirements of that section of law.
Stop Street Intersection or Through Street Direction of Travel
Stop Street                   Intersection or Through       Direction of Travel
                              Street
                              Abbott Street and Bailey
                              Streets and the exit driveway
Abbott Street [Res. 1999-10]  of the Leo E. Solomon         Both Directions
                              Educational Complex, Plains
                              Memorial K thru 8 School
Abbott Street [Ord. 2002-1]   Bailey Street (4-way stop)
Abbott Street                 South Main Street             West
Abbott Street [Ord. 2002-1]   Stocker Street (2-way stop)
Abbott Street                 Stocker Street                East
Abbott Street                 Stocker Street                West
Amesbury Street               Maffett Street                East
Amesbury Street               Maffett Street                West
Amesbury Street               Poplar Street                 South
Amesbury Street               South Main Street             East
Amesbury Street               Wyoming Street                North
Amesbury Street               Wyoming Street                South
Avon Street                   Bear Creek Boulevard          South
Avon Street                   Iroquois Street               East
Avon Street                   Iroquois Street               West
Bailey Street                 Abbott Street                 South
Bailey Street                 East Carey Street             North
Bank Street                   Hudson Road                   West
Birch Avenue                  North Beech Street            West
Birch Avenue                  South Beech Street            East
Blanchard Street              Cemetery Street               East
Blanchard Street              North Main Street             West
Brader Street                 Powell Street                 South
Briar Creek Road              Mill Creek Road               East
Burke Street [Res. 2011-19]   Powell Street                 4-way
Burke Street                  Powell Street                 North
Burke Street                  Powell Street                 South
Catherine Street              Perkins Street                East
Cedar Road                    South Beech Street            South
Cedar Road                    Spruce Street                 North
Cemetery Street               William Street                South
Center Street                 North Street                  East
Chamberlain Street            Clark Street                  East
Chamberlain Street            Emily Street                  East
Chamberlain Street            Emily Street                  West
Chamberlain Street            North Main Street             West
Chamberlain Street            Penn Street                   East
Chamberlain Street            Penn Street                   West
Cheryl Street                 Hill Street                   West
Clark Lane                    Driftwood Drive               North
Clark Lane                    Elm Street                    East
Clark Lane                    Elm Street                    West
Clark Lane                    North Main Street             West
Clark Lane                    South Beech Street            East
Clark Lane                    South Beech Street            West
Cleveland Street              First Street                  East
Cleveland Street              Miner Street                  West
Conlon Lane                   School Street                 West
Conlon Lane                   Union Street                  North
Cook Street                   Garden Drive                  East
Cook Street                   Garden Drive                  West
Cook Street                   Maffett Street                West
Cook Street                   Oak Street                    East
Cook Street                   South Main Street             East
Cottage Avenue                Stocker Street                West
Cotton Avenue                 Martin Street                 South
Cotton Avenue                 Miner Street                  North
Cotton Avenue                 Minter Street                 South
Courtright Street             North Main Street             East
Courtright Street             North River Street            East
Courtright Street             North River Street            West
Crescent Street               Riverview Street              West
Crescent Street               Terrace Street                North
Crow Street                   Hudson Road                   West
Delaware Street               East Carey Street             South
Delaware Street [Res. 2012-   East Merritt Street
11]
Diana Street                  Sarah Street                  East
Diana Street                  South River Street            West
Dingwall Street               Amesbury Street               North
Driftwood Drive               North Main Street             West
East Ann Street               Maffett Street                West
East Ann Street               South Main Street             East
East Bergh Street             Hill Street                   West
East Bergh Street             School Street                 West
East Bergh Street             Union Street                  East
East Charles Street           South Main Street             East
East Charles Street           South Main Street             West
East Merritt Street           Delaware Street               East
East Merritt Street           Delaware Street               West
East Merritt Street           Hudson Road                   East
East Merritt Street           North Main Street             West
East Mountain Drive           Jumper Road                   North
East Mountain Drive           Route 115                     South
East Saylor Avenue            North Main Street             West
East Stanton Street           Hill Street                   East
East Stanton Street           Hill Street                   West
East Stanton Street           School Street                 West
East Stanton Street           Union Street                  East
East Thomas Street            Second Street                 East
Elizabeth Street              Hancock Street                South
Elm Road                      Birch Avenue                  North
Elm Road                      Birch Avenue                  South
Elm Road                      Clarke Lane                   North
Elm Road                      Spruce Street                 South
Emily Street                  Hilldale Avenue               South
Farrell Lane                  South Main Street             West
Farrell Street                William Street                East
Farrell Street                William Street                West
First Street                  Cleveland Street              North
First Street                  Cleveland Street              South
Foote Street                  Cotton Avenue                 West
Foote Street                  School Street                 East
Gail Drive                    Saylor Avenue                 North
Gallagher Road                South River Street            East
Garden Drive                  Cook Street                   North
Garden Drive                  Cook Street                   South
Garden Drive                  Hudson Road                   South
Garden Drive                  New Street                    North
Gouge Street                  Abbott Street                 North
Gouge Street                  Farrell Lane                  South
Grace Drive                   Cotton Avenue                 East
Grace Drive                   New Street                    South
Gibbons Street                Miner Street                  North
Haines Street                 Maffett Street                East
Haines Street                 South River Street            West
Haines Street                 Warner Street                 East
Haines Street                 Warner Street                 West
Hancock Street                North River Street            West
Hancock Street                Rose Avenue                   East
Hancock Street                Rose Avenue                   West
Hancock Street                St. Mary Street               East
Hancock Street                St. Mary Street               West
Harriet Street                North Main Street             West
Helen Street                  Maffett Street                East
Helen Street                  South River Street            West
Hemlock Street                Mack Street                   South
Hemlock Street                West Carey Street             North
Henry Street                  Delaware Street               East
Henry Street                  Delaware Street               West
Henry Street                  Hudson Road                   East
Henry Street                  North Main Street             West
High Street                   Parkview Drive                North
High Street                   Price Street                  South
Hill Street                   East Bergh Street             North
Hill Street                   East Bergh Street             South
Hill Street                   Union Street                  South
Hilldale Avenue               North Main Street             West
Hilldale Avenue               Penn Street                   East
Hilldale Avenue               Penn Street                   West
Hollenback Street             Maffett Street                East
Hollenback Street             South River Street            West
Hollywood Avenue              Courtright Street             South
Hopkins Street                East Carey Street             North
Hopkins Street                Mill Street                   South
Jay Drive                     Gail Drive                    East
Jay Drive                     West Saylor Avenue            North
Jones Street                  Cotton Avenue                 West
Jones Street                  School Street                 East
Jumper Road                   Westminster Road              East
Juniper Street                Cook Street                   South
Juniper Street                Kennedy Drive                 South
Kelly Street                  Bear Creek Boulevard          South
Kelly Street                  Iroquois Street               North
Kelly Street                  Iroquois Street               South
Kennedy Drive                 Garden Drive                  East
Kennedy Drive                 Garden Drive                  West
Laird Street                  Route 315                     East
Lan Creek Road                Briar Creek Road              West
Lan Creek Road                Mill Creek Road               East
Lathrop Street                Mercer Street                 East
Lathrop Street                Warner Street                 West
Laurel Street                 Amesbury Street               West
Litchey Road                  Route 115                     South
Louis Street                  Hill Street                   West
Mack Street                   Sarah Street                  East
Mack Street                   Sarah Street                  West
Mack Street                   South River Street            West
Maple Street                  East Main Street              North
Margaret Street               Helen Street                  South
Marlino Drive                 Birch Street                  West
Marlino Drive                 Garden Drive                  East
Martin Street                 Oak Street                    West
May Street                    McCullough Street             North
McCullough Street             North River Street            East
McCullough Street [Res. 2009- O’Neil Street               East
18]
McCullough Street [Res. 2009- O’Neil Street               West
18]
Mercer Street                 Maffett Street                South
Michele Street                Hill Street                   West
Mill Creek Road               Jumper Road                   South
Mill Street                   East Carey Street             North
Mitchell Street               Reese Street                  East
Mitchell Street               Reese Street                  West
Mitchell Street               Robert Street                 West
Napoli Street                 Ridgewood Road                South
New Street                    Cotton Avenue                 East
New Street                    Garden Drive                  West
New Street                    Oak Street                    East
New Street                    Oak Street                    West
Nicholson Street              Burke Street                  West
Nicholson Street              Slope Street                  North
Ninotti Street                Hemlock Street                East
Ninotti Street                Sarah Street                  West
North Beech Road              Birch Avenue                  North
North Beech Road              Birch Avenue                  South
North Beech Road              North Main Street             North
North Beech Road              Spruce Street                 South
North Street                  Cleveland Street              North
North Street                  Cleveland Street              South
O’Donnell Street            Bear Creek Boulevard
O’Malley Street             St. Mary Street               East
Oak Street                    Miner Street                  South
Oak Street                    New Street                    North
Oak Street                    New Street                    South
Parkview Drive                River Street                  West
Pearl Street                  Courtright Street             North
Penn Avenue                   Farrell Lane                  North
Pennsylvania Avenue           Center Drive                  East
Penny Lane                    East Saylor Avenue            South
Perkins Street                West Carey Street             South
Pine Road                     South Beech Road              South
Pine Road                     Spruce Street                 North
Poplar Street                 South River Street            West
Powell Street [Res. 2011-19]  Burke Street                  4-way
Powell Street                 North Main Street             East
Price Street                  Amesbury Street               East
Price Street                  South River Street            West
Railroad Street               Mill Street                   East
Reese Street                  Courtright Street             North
Reese Street                  Mitchell Street               North
Reese Street                  Mitchell Street               South
Ridgewood Road                Route 315                     East
Ridgewood Road                Union Street                  West
Riverview Drive               St. David Street              South
Riverview Drive               Terrace Street                North
Robert Street                 Courtright Street             North
Rose Avenue                   Hancock Street                North
Rose Avenue                   Hancock Street                South
Rose Avenue                   West Carey Street             South
Sandra Street                 Hill Street                   West
Sarah Street                  Helen Street                  South
Sarah Street                  West Carey Street             North
School Street                 Union Street                  South
Scott Street                  Cemetery Street               East
Scott Street                  North Main Street             West
Second Street                 East Main Street              North
Sheridan Street               Delaware Street               East
Sheridan Street               Delaware Street               West
Sheridan Street               Hudson Road                   East
Shiffer Lane                  Miner Street                  South
Short Gouge Street            Gouge Street                  East
Short Gouge Street            South Main Street             West
Skidmore Street               Cotton Avenue                 West
Skidmore Street               School Street                 East
Skyview Road                  Clarke Street                 East
Skyview Road                  Driftwood Drive               North
Slope Street                  Burke Street                  West
Slope Street                  North Main Street             East
South Beech Road              Birch Avenue                  North
South Beech Road              Cedar Avenue                  South
South Beech Road              Clarke Lane                   North
South Beech Road              Pine Street                   South
South Beech Road [Res. 2010-  Spruce Avenue                 South
8]
South Beech Road              Spruce Street                 North
South Main Street             Maffett Street                North
South Oak Street              Stark Street                  North
Spruce Street                 Elm Street                    North
Spruce Street                 North Beech Road              West
Spruce Street                 South Beech Avenue            East
St. James Street              Rose Avenue                   East
St. James Street              St. Mary Street               West
St. John Street               Rose Avenue                   East
St. John Street               St. Mary Street               West
St. Mary Street               Hancock Street                North
St. Mary Street               Hancock Street                South
St. Mary Street               West Carey Street             South
Stadium Alley                 Abbott Street                 North
Stadium Alley                 Farrell Lane                  North
Stadium Alley                 Farrell Lane                  South
Stocker Street                Abbott Street                 South
Stocker Street                East Carey Street             North
Sunset Drive                  Route 315                     West
Tamarac Street                East Main Street              North
Terrace Avenue                Courtright Street             South
Terrace Street                North Main Street             East
Tulip Drive                   Kennedy Drive                 South
Tulip Drive                   New Street                    North
Union Street                  Ridgewood Road                North
Union Street                  School Street                 West
Warner Street                 Hollenback Street             South
Warner Street [Res. 2010-4]   West Ann Street (aka Penn     All (4-way)
                              State Alley)
West Ann Street               Maffett Street                East
West Ann Street (aka Penn     Warner Street                 All (4-way)
State Alley) [Res. 2010-4]
West Bergh Street             Cotton Avenue                 West
West Bergh Street             School Street                 East
West Carey Street             River Street                  West
West Charles Street           Maffett Street                East
West Charles Street           Maffett Street                West
West Merritt Street           North Main Street             East
West Merritt Street           Perkins Street                West
West Saylor Avenue            North Main Street             East
West Saylor Avenue            North River Street            West
West Stanton Street           Cotton Avenue                 West
West Stanton Street           School Street                 East
Wildflower Drive              East Mountain Drive           East
Wilcox Street                 Cemetery Street               East
Wilcox Street                 Garden Drive                  East
Wilcox Street                 North Main Street             West
William Street                Chamberlain Street            North
William Street                Chamberlain Street            South
William Street                Delaware Street               East
William Street                Delaware Street               West
William Street                Hilldale Avenue               South
William Street                Hudson Road                   East
William Street                North Main Street             West
Wyoming Street                Amesbury Street               East
Wyoming Street                Amesbury Street               West
Wyoming Street                South River Street            West
   2.   Any person who violates any portion of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine between a minimum of $100 and a maximum
$500 and costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 216; as amended by Res. 1999-10, 8/15/1999; by
Res. 1999-17, 10/14/1999; by Ord. 2002-1, 9/12/2002, § 216; by Res. 2009-18, 8/
13/2009; by Res. 2010-4, 2/11/2010; by Res. 2010-7, 5/14/2010; by Res. 2010-8,
5/14/2010; by Res. 2010-12, 8/12/2010; by Res. 2011-19, 8/12/2011; and by Res.
2012-11, 4/13/2012)
§ 15-217.   Yield Intersections Established.
   1.   The following intersections are established as yield intersections, and
official yield signs shall be erected (or are to be ratified if previously
erected) to such position as to face traffic approaching the second-named
street (the through street) on the first-named street (the yield street) in the
direction or directions indicated for that intersection. Every driver of a
vehicle approaching the intersection on the first-named street or yield street,
in the direction indicated in each case, shall slow down or stop the vehicle as
required by § 3323(c) of the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 3323(c),
and then yield the right-of-way as required by that Subsection of the
Pennsylvania Vehicle Code:
 
Yield Street Through Street Direction of Travel
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any portion of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine between a minimum of $100 and a maximum
$500 and costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 217)
§ 15-218.   Play Highways Established and Authorized.
   1.   The following areas upon the streets in Plains Township are established
as play highways:
 
Street Between Days Hours
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   The Plains Township Commissioners are authorized to designate as play
highways, whenever it deems that action advisable, and for whatever period of
time directed by them, any part of any Township-designated street in the
Township, where sledding and coasting and community block parties shall be
permitted. That play highway shall be set apart for the purpose under the
direction of the Chief of Police or the Plains Township Road Department
Supervisor. Notification of such closure shall be forwarded to the Chief of the
Plains Township Fire Department.
   3.   Any person, or group of persons may request the Plains Township Board
of Commissioners, to establish a “play highway”, for specified time period(s),
by making such request in writing, no less than 30 calendar days prior to the
established event.
   4.   No person shall drive any motor vehicle upon any play highway at any
time when the street shall be designated as a play highway, except in the case
of an emergency, with special permission from the Chief of Police or the Plains
Township Road Department Supervisor, or the police officer in charge, who shall
first clear that play highway of all persons using it for the purposes for
which it was set aside. Any person who violates any provision of this
Subsection 4. shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine between a
minimum of $100 and a maximum $500 and costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 218)
§ 15-219.   Snowmobile and ATV Roads Designated.
   1.   The following roads and streets within the Township are designated as
special snowmobile and ATV roads:
 
Street Between Used by Snowmobiles Only When Shared With Vehicular Traffic
               Closed to Vehicular Traffic
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile on any
highway, street or road in the Township other than provided above.
   B.   Nothing in this Section shall prohibit any person from operating a
snowmobile or ATV on any other street in the Township:
   (1)   As authorized by § 7721 of the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A.
§ 7721, for emergency and bridge crossings and for direct crossing of streets
or two lane highways; or
   (B)   For special snowmobile or ATV events which are authorized in advance
and the street is blocked off as provided in § 7723 of the Pennsylvania Vehicle
Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 7723.
   3.   No person shall operate a snowmobile or ATV on private property without
the written consent of the owner of the property, said consent shall be
maintained on the person at all times.
   4.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall be subject
to the penalties prescribed in § 7752(a) of the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75
Pa.C.S.A. § 7752(a).
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 219)
§ 15-220.   Skates, Coasters, Sleds and Other Toy Vehicles.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a sled upon any sidewalk in
the Township, or upon any roadway unless that roadway is on a portion of a
street blocked off for sledding by authority of the §
15-109 of Part 1 or of §
15-217 of Part 2 of this Chapter; provided, nothing in this Subsection 1. shall
prevent a pedestrian from pulling a sled, with or without a rider, upon a
sidewalk.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in rollerskating or to
ride upon or to propel any coaster or other toy vehicle upon:
   A.   Any street in order to cross the roadway; or
   B.   Any sidewalk located in a business district, except that nothing in
this Subsection 2. Paragraph B. shall prevent a pedestrian from pulling a
coaster or other toy vehicle, with or without a rider, upon a sidewalk.
   3.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine between a minimum of $100 and a maximum
$500 and costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 220)
§ 15-221.   Through Traffic Prohibited at Certain Locations.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any driver of any vehicle, traveling on any of
the following streets or portions of streets to use said streets or portions
thereof as a direct travel or route, except to stop at or make deliveries along
said street or portion thereof:
 
Street Portion Direction
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any portion of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine between a minimum of $100 and a maximum
$500 and costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 221)
§ 15-222.   Use of Private or Public Property to Avoid Traffic Control Device.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on any
private or public property to avoid a traffic control device placed in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   2.   Any person violating this Section shall be guilty of a summary offense
and shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine between a minimum of
$100 and a maximum $500 and costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 222)
Part 3
Restrictions on Size, Weight and Type of Vehicles and Loads
§ 15-301.   General Rule.
   Chapter 49 of the Vehicle Code of Pennsylvania, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 4901 et
seq., deals with size, weight and load of vehicles. The provisions of Chapter
49 of the Vehicle Code apply to all streets designated as Township streets in
Part 2, §
15-201, of this Chapter.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 301)
§ 15-302.   Vehicle Weight Limits Established on Certain Streets and Bridges.
   1.   By authority of § 4902(a) of the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 53 P.S. §
4902(a), a maximum gross weight of 60,000 pounds is established for any vehicle
or combination of vehicles using the Township designated streets in Part 2, §
15-201, of this Chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to
drive any vehicle or combination of vehicles having a gross weight in excess of
the maximum prescribed.
   2.   By authority of § 4902(a) of the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75
Pa.C.S.A. § 4902(a), a maximum gross weight is established as follows for
vehicles or combination of vehicles using the following named bridges. It shall
be unlawful for any person or persons to drive any vehicle or combination of
vehicles having a gross weight in excess of the maximum prescribed below for
that bridge.
 
Bridge Location Maximum Gross Weight
   [Reserved]
 
   3.   Any person who violates any portion of this Section shall be prosecuted
under §§ 4902(a) and 4902(g-i) of the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §
4902(a), (g-i), and upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $150
plus $150 for each 500 pounds, or part.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 302)
§ 15-303.   Truck Traffic Restricted on Certain Roads and Streets.
   1.   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle other than
a passenger vehicle, bus or Class 3 vehicle as described in §§ 1913 and 1916 of
the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 1913, 1916, on any of the
following streets or portions of street:
Street Between
Street                        Between
Abbott Street                 Mill Street and South Main Street
Bailey Street                 Carey Street and Abbott Street (excluding
                              deliveries to residential homes)
Birchwood Hills               Entire Development
First Street                  Scott Street (Wilkes-Barre) to Miner Street
Helen Street                  South River Street and Maffett Street
Hemlock Street [Res. 2011-20] Except local deliveries
Hudson Gardens                Entire Development
Ninotti Street [Res. 2011-20] Except local deliveries
Riverview Terrace             North Main Street and Rose Avenue
Sarah Street [Res. 2011-20]   Except local deliveries
 
      B.   Provided, nothing in this Section shall prohibit any person from
driving an emergency vehicle on any of those streets or portions of streets, or
from driving on any of those streets or portions of streets a truck or other
commercial vehicle making local deliveries to or pickups from premises located
along that street or portion of street.
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $250, plus costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, §303; as amended by Res. 2011-20, 9/9/2011; as
amended by Ord. 2018-6, 8/9/2018)
§ 15-304.   Parking, Stopping, Standing of Certain Vehicles Prohibited.
   1.   It is unlawful for any person to park, stop or let stand any vehicle
having a gross weight of 7,001 pounds or more, and being registered Class 3 and
above, between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any roadway in Plains
Township.
   2.   Any person who violates this Section shall be guilty of a summary
offense and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and
costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 304)
§ 15-305.   Vehicle Size Restrictions.
   1.   Biscontini Distribution Centers, 175 South Main Street, Plains
Township, Luzerne County, PA, is engaged in the business of storing, handling
and transporting goods and merchandise.
   2.   It is necessary for Biscontini Distribution Centers to transport said
merchandise to Biscontini Distribution Centers located at 175 South Main
Street, Plains Township, Luzerne County, PA.
   3.   Both Biscontini Distribution Centers and its customers utilize trailers
being 48 feet long by 102 inches wide and 53 feet long by 102 inches wide
because these are now the common size trailers used in the trucking and
distribution industry.
   A.   That the Plains Township Board of Commissioners do hereby grant to
Biscontini Distribution Centers, 175 South Main Street, Plains Township,
Luzerne County, PA, permission to use the above stated trailer types for
ingress and egress to that certain section of South Main Street in Plains
Township beginning with the border of Wilkes-Barre City and Plains Township up
to the entrance to Biscontini Distribution Centers, 175 South Main Street,
Plains Township, Luzerne County, PA, being a total distance of four-tenths of
one mile.
   B.   That Plains Township Board of Commissioners thereby grant to Biscontini
Distribution Centers, 175 South Main Street, Plains Township, Luzerne County,
PA, permission to use the same sized trailers on Maffett Street beginning at
the end of the Cross-Valley Expressway Exit Ramp (Exit 5) also known as Route
309-North and proceeding along Maffett Street to East Ann Street then along
East Ann Street across South Main Street to Biscontini. Distribution Centers
being a total distance of eight-tenths of one mile.
(Res. 1996-34, 6/13/1996)
§ 15-306.   Restriction of Truck Traffic and Limits on Vehicle Weight on Posted
Ways.
   1.   Purpose and authority. The purpose of this Section is for the
restriction of truck traffic and to set limits on vehicle weight on posted
ways. Also, this enacted Section will prevent damage to Township roads, streets
and alleys which may be caused by vehicles of excessive weight; to lessen
safety hazards and the risk of injury to the traveling public; to extend the
life expectancy of the Township roads, streets and alleys; and to reduce the
public expense of their repairs and maintenance. This Section is adopted
pursuant to 75 Pa. C.S. 4902, et seq.
   2.   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following words shall
have the following meanings. Any word that is not specifically defined herein
shall have its ordinary, common meaning.
      Trailer–the attachment to the motor vehicle, when in combination with the
said motor vehicle, or cab, shall total 30 feet or more. This shall also be
meant to describe any large transport conveyance designed to be pulled by a
truck, a tractor or other motor vehicle.
      Truck–any large commercial motor vehicle which is, or maybe, used for
attaching or pulling a trailer. This term shall also refer to any large
commercial motor vehicle, dump truck, tri-axle vehicle, tractor trailer, and/or
any heavy motor vehicle designed for carrying or pulling heavy loads.
      Truck trailer–any motor vehicle which attaches to a trailer and which is
primarily used for the transportation of materials, and which, when in
combination, or on their own, total 30 feet or more. This term is commonly
referred to as a “tractor trailer” or any “18 wheel” vehicle. This term is not
meant to include vehicles which are making local deliveries in permitted areas.
   3.   Restrictions.
      A.   No person shall operate, move or park a truck tractor or trailer or
tri-axle dump truck on any road, street or alley owned and maintained by the
Township of Plains for which restrictions for operating truck traffic is posted
by the Township, except as provided in Subsection D. below.
      B.   The operation, moving or parking of such vehicles are not intended
to restrict the use of these vehicles on roads, streets or alleys in a
commercial or industrial zone area of the Township wherein such roads, streets,
or alleys lie wholly with that zone.
      C.   No motor vehicle, with a total length, including any attachment
thereto (e.g., trailer) of 30 feet and/or any vehicle or combination vehicle
registered for a gross weight of 23,000 pounds, shall be prohibited from use on
Sunset Drive or any other Township road, street or alley as determined by the
Township of Plains Commissioners.
      D.   Nothing in this Section shall be intended to prohibit the following
trucks, trailers, or motor vehicles, and are therefore exempt:
         (1)   School buses;
         (2)   Emergency vehicles;
         (3)   Commercial vehicles for home deliveries;
         (4)   Garage and/or refuse trucks owned by the Township or operating
on behalf of the Township;
         (5)   Local municipal or state motor vehicles or those trucks,
trailers or a combination thereof that may be authorized by the Township for
maintenance of the public roads or appurtenances thereto.
   4.   Erection of signs and enforcement. The Township of Plains shall erect,
or cause to be erected and maintained, traffic signs designating the
restrictions set forth in this Section. The Township of Plains Police
Department, pursuant to any and all legislative authority, is confirmed as
having full regulatory powers to enforce all provisions of the Vehicle Code and
all provisions of this Section, according to, and as permitted by, the terms
and provisions of said Vehicle Code and this Section.
   5.   Violations and penalties. Any persons operating a truck, trailer,
combination truck or motor vehicle upon Sunset Drive in the Township of Plains
or any other Township road, street or alley posted restricting such vehicles as
imposed under this Section shall be guilty of a summary offense and shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $100, nor more than
$500, and in default of payment may result in imprisonment for a term not to
exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 2-2023, 4/13/2023)
Part 4
Stopping, Standing and Parking
§ 15-401.   Parking Prohibited at All Times in Certain Locations.
   1.   Parking shall be prohibited at all times in the following locations:
   A.   On any roadway or edge of any curb line.
   B.   On any sidewalk.
   C.   Within an intersection.
   D.   Within a crosswalk.
   E.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation.
   F.   At any place where official signs and/or markings prohibit parking.
   G.   At any place that would hinder the free flow of traffic.
Street Side Between
Street      Side  Between
Abbott
Street      North From South Main Street to Mill Street
[Res. 2010-
6]
Abbott
Street      South From a point 20 feet west of the intersection of Abbott Street and Stadium
[Res. 1997-       Alley along the entire length of the front of the new elementary school
20]
Amesbury    Both  South Main to Maffett Street
Street      Sides
Amesbury
Street      East  Wyoming Street to north corner of Township Park
[Ord. 1996-
6]
Bailey      East  Entire Street
Street
Bank Street
[Res. 2009- South From Hudson Road to the alley behind SS Peter and Paul School
19]
Bank Street South Entire Street
Bowl
Complex     Both  Beginning at the vehicle gate, south for the entire length of road.
Road [Ord.
1998-3]
Brader
Street      North
[Res. 1997-
4]
Brader
Street      West  North from intersection with Powell Street for 41 feet.
[Ord. 1997-
2]
Center
Street      North West of the intersection with North Street for a distance of 20 feet from
[Res. 1997-       the intersection
3]
Center
Street      North West from intersection with North Street for 25 feet.
[Ord. 1997-
2]
Clark Lane        The entire length of the service road(s) south of the entrance gate for
[Res. 1997- Both  those fields and facilities located in the lower level (pit) of the park
21]
Clark Lane        The main entrance road online from the rear of the Jescavage property, east
[Res. 1997- Both  to the paved pedestrian crosswalk
21]
Clark Lane        Beginning at east side of intersection of Clark Lane and South Beech Road
[Ord. 1998- Both  East to first pedestrian crosswalk inside Birchwood Municipal Park.
3]
Cleveland
Street      South Entire length fronting Township Park
[Ord. 1996-
6]
Cook Street North Entire Street
Cottage     North Entire Street
Avenue
Courtright
Street      South The entrance of River Ridge Development-Hollywood Drive to house number 83-
[Res. 2009-       85-87 Courtright Street
7]
Diana       South Entire Street
Street
Dingwall
Street      West  South of the intersection with Amesbury Street for a distance of 20 feet
[Res. 1997-       from the intersection
3]
Dingwall
Street      West  South from the intersection with Amesbury Street for 22 feet
[Ord. 1997-
2]
Driftwood   South Entire Street
Street
East Ann
Street      North 30 feet of the stop sign, 30 feet of South Main Street, 20 feet of the alley
[Res. 1995-
22]
East Ann
Street      South 30 feet of the stop sign, 30 feet of Maffett Street, 20 fee of the alley
[Res. 1995-
22]
East Carey  South Entire Street
Street
East        Both
Charles     Sides Entire Street
Street
East Main   Both  Entire Street
Street      Sides
East        Both
Mountain    Sides Entire Street
Drive
Farrell     North Entire Street
Lane
Farrell     South Entire Street
Lane
Gouge       West  Entire Street
Street
Harriet     North Entire Street
Street
Helen       South Entire Street
Street
Hudson Road
[Ord. 1996- West  William Street to Crow Alley
6]
Jones       South Entire Street
Street
Laurel
Street      North
[Res. 2001-
10]
Maffett     Both  Mercer Street to Ann Street
Street      Sides
Maffett     West  Entire Street
Street
Main Street
(SR 2024)   North Approximately 100 feet south of Main Street’s intersection with West Carey
[Ord. 2009-       Street
10]
Main Street
(SR 2024)   North Approximately 325 feet south of Main Street’s intersection with West Carey
[Ord. 2009-       Street
10]
Main Street
(SR 2024)   South Approximately 325 feet South of Main Street’s intersection with West Carey
[Ord. 2009-       Street
10]
Martin      Both  Entire Street
Street      Sides
McCullough  North Entire Street
Street
Michelle
Street      East
[Res. 2005-
14]
Mill Street East  Entire Street
Mill Street West  Entire Street
Miner       South Entire Street
Street
New Street  North Cotton to Tulip
New Street  South Tulip to Garden
North Main  Both  Carey Street to East Saylor Avenue
Street      Sides
North
Street      East  South from the intersection with Cleveland Street for 172 feet
[Ord. 1997-
2]
North
Street      West  North from intersection with Center Street for 20 feet.
[Ord. 1997-
2]
Oak Street  Both  Miner to Stark
            Sides
Perkins     East  Entire Street
Street
Poplar      Both  Entire Street
Street      Sides
Powell      East  100 feet
Street
Powell
Street      North West from intersection with Brader Street for 24 feet
[Ord. 1997-
2]
Powell
Street      West
[Res. 1997-
4]
Railroad    Both  Entire Street
Street      Sides
Ridgewood   Both  Entire Street
Road        Sides
School      West  Entire Street
Street
Short Gouge North Entire Street
Street
South Main  East  Entire Street
Street
South Main  West  Entire Street
Street
St. Mary    West  Entire Street
Street
Stadium     East  Entire Street
Alley
Stadium     West  Entire Street
Alley
Stark       North Entire Street
Street
Stark
Street      South 15 feet East of driveway at 55 Stark Street to 15 feet West of driveway at
[Ord. 1996-       55 Stark Street
6]
Stocker     West  Entire Street
Street
Union
Street      Both  C&P Railroad tracks to Laflin Borough boundary
[Ord. 1996- sides
6]
West Ann    North Entire Street
Street
Westminster North From the PP&L right-of-way along Pennsylvania American Water land to the
Road (SR    and   northerly side of Jumper Road (SR 2020) to lands of Michael J. Pasonick, Jr.
2039) [Ord. West  a distance of 1,745 feet more or less
2014-4]*
Westminster
Road (SR    South From the lands of Thomas Bowman a distance of 647 feet more or less along
2039) [Ord.       Westminister Road to a one lane tunnel
2014-4]*
Westminster       Along the south side of Jumper Road (SR 2020) to the lands of the
Road (SR    West  Pennsylvania American Water driveway off of Jumper Road a distance of 1,304
2039) [Ord.       feet more or less
2014-4]*
Wyoming
Street      Both  Entire Street
[Ord. 1996- sides
6]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction be sentenced to pay a fine of $50 plus costs. [Ord. 2009-10]
   3.   *Any person who violates disobeys or refuses to comply with Ord. 2014-
4 shall be guilty of a summary offense and upon conviction shall be fined not
less than $50 or more than $300. [Ord. 2014-4]
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 401; as amended by Res. 1995-16, 8/18/1995; by
Res. 1995-22, 11/16/1995; by Res. 1996-37, 10/10/1996; by Ord. 1996-6, 11/14/
1996, § 1; by Ord. 1997-2, 6/12/1997, § 1; by Res. 1997-3, 2/13/1997; by Res.
1997-4, 2/13/1997; by Res. 1997-20, 8/14/1997; by Res. 1997-21, 8/14/1997; by
Ord. 1998-3, 5/14/1998, § 1; by Res. 2001-10, 11/8/2001; by Res. 2005-13, –/–/
2005; by Res. 2005-14, 12/8/2005; by Res. 2009-7, 5/14/2009; by Res. 2009-19,
8/13/2009; by Ord. 2009-10, 9/10/2009, Articles 1 and 2; and by Res. 2010-6, 5/
14/2010; and by Ord. 2014-4, 8/4-2014)
§ 15-402.   Parking Prohibited in Certain Locations Certain Days and Hours.
   1.   Parking shall be prohibited in the following locations at all times on
the days and between the hours indicated in this Section, as follows:
 
Street             Side  Between            Days              Hours
Diana Street [Res.       Signs access from  not less than 60
2007-21]           North 13 Diana Street    days or more than
                                            90 days
12 East Carey            Along the curb     not less than 60
Street [Res. 2007-       line in front of   days or more than 30 minutes
17]                      12 East Carey      90 days
                         Street
                         216 feet north
                         (the north                           15 minute parking
South Main Street        curbline of Abbott                   9:00 a.m. to 5:00
[Res. 1997-14]           Street) of Abbott                    p.m.
                         Street along the
                         east curb
                         No parking here to
                         corner, at the
St. Marys Street         intersection with  not less than 30
[Res. 1998-9]      East  St. David Street,  days or more than
                         South, for a       90 days
                         distance of 30
                         feet
 
   2.   Any person who violates, disobeys or refuses to comply with this
Section shall be guilty of a summary offense and upon conviction shall be fined
not less than $25 nor more than $300. [Ord. 2007-4]
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 402; as amended by Res. 1997-14, 5/8/1997; by Res.
1998-9, 5/14/1998; by Res. 2007-17, 4/12/2007; by Ord. 2007-4, 7/19/2007; and
by Res. 2007-21, 8/9/2007)
§ 15-403.   Standing and Parking.
   No person shall park or stop any motor vehicle, tractor or semi-trailer in
any of the following locations:
   A.   In front of a public or private driveway.
   B.   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
   C.   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection.
   D.   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop sign or
traffic control device located at the site of a roadway.
   E.   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station or the side
of the street opposite the entrance of any fire station within 75 feet of said
entrance.
   F.   In a designated “Loading-Unloading” Zone, unless loading or unloading
such vehicle, and loading or unloading such vehicle, then for a period not to
exceed 45 minutes.
   G.   No angle parking unless otherwise permitted by official signs or
markings.
   H.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   I.   At any place that would hinder the free flow of traffic.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 403)
§ 15-404.   Special Purpose Parking Zones Established; Parking Otherwise
Prohibited.
   1.   Handicapped person zones. It shall be unlawful for any person to park,
or allow to remain parked, any vehicle in any space reserved as a “Handicapped
Parking Zone” unless said vehicle is displaying handicapped registration plates
or severely disabled veteran handicapped parking placards as authorized by §
1338 of the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 1338. This Section shall
apply to designated “Handicapped Parking Zones” on both public and private
property, as authorized by 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 3354(D)(3), when so posted in
accordance with PennDOT regulations after a traffic study has been completed.
   2.   Fire lanes. The Board of Commissioners and the Fire Chief, may require
the owners of shopping centers, businesses or other commercial property owners
to establish fire lanes around the buildings and structures on their property.
Fire lanes shall be at least 20 feet in width, with the road edge closest to
the structure at least ten feet from the structure. It shall be unlawful for
any person to park or allow to remain parked, any vehicle in an area about any
commercial establishment, or other buildings which have been designated as a
“fire lane”. This Section shall apply to areas designated as a “fire lane” on
both public and private property. The property owner will provide the required
signs and pavement markings. All designated fire lane signs and markings shall
be maintained in a clean and legible condition at all times and replaced when
necessary to ensure adequate visibility. “Fire lane” signs required are to be
12 inches by 18 inches with a white background with red lettering “No Parking
Fire Lane”. Pavement markings must be yellow in color. Any Plains Township law,
ordinance or Code Enforcement Officer may enforce this provision. [Ord. 1998-4]
   3.   Parking on private property or quasi-public property. No person shall
park or leave unattended any vehicle, tractor or semi-trailer on private
property or quasi-public property without the proper consent of the owner or
other person in control or possession of the property, or in any of the
following locations on such property:
   A.   Within any fire lane, where posted by official signs.
   B.   Within any “trafficway”. A “trafficway” is the entire width between
property lines or other boundary lines of every way or place of which any part
is open to the public for the purpose of vehicular travel as a matter of right
or custom.
   C.   In a designated “Handicapped Parking Zone” unless the vehicle bears
registration plates or an official placard issued to handicapped or disabled
persons and is being operated by or for the transportation of the handicapped
or disabled person.
   D.   At any place where official signs and/or markings prohibit stopping,
standing or parking.
   E.   In a designated “Loading-Unloading” zone unless loading or unloading
such vehicle, and if loading or unloading, then for a period not to exceed 45
minutes.
   4.   Citations. The Fire Chief, Deputy Fire Chief and Fire Inspectors shall
be allowed to issue citations for any if the following violations:
   A.   Parking or leaving unattended any vehicle within a fire lane legally
posted or lawfully marked as such.
   B.   Parking or leaving unattended any vehicle within 25 feet of any fire
stations unless lawfully marked or posted.
   C.   Parking or leaving unattended any vehicle within 15 feet of any fire
hydrant.
[Ord. 2003-2]
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 404; as amended by Ord. 1998-4, 6/11/1998, § 1;
and by Ord. 2003-2, –/–/2003, § 404)
§ 15-405.   Vehicles to Be Parked in Marked Places.
   Whenever a space is marked off on any street for the parking of an
individual vehicle, every vehicle parked there shall be parked wholly within
the lines bounding that space, and it shall be a violation of this Section for
any person to park a vehicle or to allow it to remain parked otherwise.
 
Street Side Spaces Locations
   [Reserved]
 
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 405)
§ 15-406.   Angle Parking Required on Parts of Certain Streets.
   1.   Restriction. Only angle parking shall be permitted on the following
portions of streets:
 
Street Side Between
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Exception. on all streets where angle parking is required, every
vehicle parked at the angle shall be parked with its front nearest to the curb.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 406)
§ 15-407.   Operation of Motor Vehicle on Sidewalks.
   1.   “Sidewalk” shall be defined as that portion of the property fronting,
on the side of, or abutting private property, which is located between the
trafficway and the front, side or abutting yard, and is open to the public for
the purposes of pedestrian travel as a matter of right or custom.
   2.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon or across any sidewalk,
except in order to gain access to or egress from a driveway or alley at such
locations where the curb, if such sidewalk is curbed, shall have been properly
cut down for the purpose.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 407)
§ 15-408.   Penalty for Violation of Part.
   1.   Any person who violates any provision of this Part 4 shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more that $15 and costs. Each day
that a violation of this Part continues shall be a separate offense, with the
following exceptions:
   A.   Any person who violates the following parking regulations shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $10:
   (1)   Where signs prohibit parking.
   (2)   On a sidewalk.
   (3)   In a intersection.
   (4)   On a crosswalk.
   (5)   Double parking.
   (6)   Left side to the curb.
   (7)   Within 25 feet of curb line.
   B.   Any person who violates the following parking regulations shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $15:
   (1)   Within 25 feet of a fire station.
   (2)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
   (3)   Blocking free flow of traffic.
   (4)   Within 30 feet of a stop sign.
   (5)   Within 30 feet of a traffic signal.
   (6)   In front of a private driveway.
   C.   Any person who violates the following parking regulation shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of nor more than $25.
   (1)   In a handicapped parking area.
   (2)   In a fire lane.
   2.   Provided, it shall be the duty of any police officer of Plains Township
and the parking enforcement personnel of Plains Township to report to the Chief
of Police all violations of the parking violation provision of this Part 4 or
the Vehicle Code, indicating in each case the Section violated of this Part 4
or the Vehicle Code; the license number, make and color of the vehicle
involved; the location where the violation took place; and any other facts that
might be necessary to secure a clear understanding of the circumstances
attending the violation. The police officer or other person making the report
shall also attach to or place upon every such vehicle a notice stating that the
vehicle was parked in violation of this Part 4 or the Vehicle Code, 75
Pa.C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq. The notice shall contain instructions to the owner or
driver of the vehicle that if he or she will report to the Township business
office and pay the indicated sum within 72 hours after the time of violation or
notice or mail to Plains Township the sum of indicated in check or money order
form, the act will save the violator from prosecution and from payment of the
fine and costs prescribed in the first sentence of this Section. Failure to
respond in 72 hours will result in the filing of a traffic citation against the
last registered owner of record of the vehicle in question resulting in a fine
of not less than $15 nor more than $25 and costs of prosecution.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 408)
Part 5
Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 15-501.   Pedestrians to Obey Traffic Control Signs.
   At all locations in the Township where official traffic control signals are
installed, pedestrians, except where directed otherwise by pedestrian control
signals, shall obey the directions of those traffic control signals as follows:
   A.   When facing a green signal, a pedestrian may proceed across the roadway
within a crosswalk.
   B.   When facing a steady yellow signal, a pedestrian shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   C.   When facing a steady red signal, a pedestrian shall not enter the
roadway.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 501)
§ 15-502.   Pedestrians Crossing at Other than Marked Crossings.
   1.   Except when authorized by a police officer or other appropriately
attired person authorized to direct, control or regulate traffic, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the roadway at any of the following
locations:
 
Intersection                     Direction of Travel
Route 315 and East Main Street   All
South River Street and Route 309 All
 
   2.   Any pedestrian who violates any provision of this Part shall be guilty
of a summary offense and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of
$5 and costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 502)
§ 15-503.   Duties and Responsibilities of Pedacycle Riders.
   1.   Every person riding a pedacycle on a roadway shall be granted all the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle except as to special provisions which by their nature do not apply, as
provided for in Chapter 35 of the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§
3501 et seq.
   2.   Any person violating any provision of this Section is guilty of a
summary offense and shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $10
and costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 503)
§ 15-504.   Snow or Ice Emergency.
   1.   Declaration of snow or ice emergency. In order to facilitate the
movement of traffic and to combat the hazards of snow or ice on the snow
emergency routes named in this Section, the Board of Commissioners or its
designated representative, may declare a snow or ice emergency. Information on
the existence of a snow or ice emergency may be given by the Township through
radio, newspaper or other available media, and information on the termination
of the emergency may be given in the same manner.
   2.   Parking prohibited, driving motor vehicles restricted on snow or ice
emergency routes during emergency. After any snow or ice emergency is declared
it shall be unlawful at any time during the continuance of the emergency for
any person to:
      A.   Park a motor vehicle or to allow that motor vehicle to remain parked
on the odd numbered side of the street on any snow or ice emergency route
designated in this Section when a snow or ice emergency is declared by the
Township.
      B.   Drive any motor vehicle on any such snow or ice emergency route,
unless that vehicle is equipped with snow tires.
   3.   The following are designated snow or ice emergency routes:
Streets:
E. Bergh Street  Stocker Street
Center Street    E. Merritt Street
Gauge Street     Hancock Street
Margaret Street  Grace Drive
Mercer Street    Rose Avenue
St. Johns Street Amesbury Street
St. Janes Street Laurel Street
Cotton Avenue    Mack Street
Warner Street    Hopkins Street
Perkins Street   Burke Street
Powell Street     
 
   4.   If at any time during a period of a snow or ice emergency under this
Section, a person shall park a motor vehicle or allow a motor vehicle to remain
parked anywhere upon a snow or ice emergency route, that person shall be guilty
of a violation of this Section and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay
a fine of not more than $100 along with court costs, towing fees and storage
costs.
   5.   If at any time during a period of a snow or ice emergency declared
under this Section, if a person shall drive a motor vehicle upon a snow or ice
emergency route without having the vehicle equipped with snow tires, that
person shall be guilty of a violation of this Section and, upon conviction
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, §504; as amended by Ord. 2019-1, 2/14/2019)
§ 15-505.   Depositing Snow on Roadway.
   1.   General. It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or
corporation owning and/or occupying any gasoline stations, parking lots,
commercial, industrial or residential property abutting or bordering upon any
street or highway in the Township, to throw, shovel or cause, allow or permit
any person or persons to deposit, throw or shovel any snow or ice in or upon
the traveled portion of any such street or highway, or immediately next to a
fire hydrant or on any sidewalk, or any loading and unloading areas of a public
transportation system.
   2.   Parking prohibited. After any snowfall of three inches or more, parking
shall be restricted as hereinafter specified. It will be unlawful for any
person to park a vehicle or motor vehicle, as defined under the Vehicle Code of
Pennsylvania, 75 Pa. C.S.A. §§ 101 et seq., contrary to the regulations
hereinafter specified, on any Township street, road, highway or alley. On the
first day after a snowfall of three inches or more, between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 5:00 p.m., no vehicle or motor vehicle shall be parked on the even-
numbered side of the street to facilitate cleaning up snow. The following day,
vehicle or motor vehicle parking shall be prohibited on the odd-numbered side
of the streets.
   3.   Penalty. Any person or persons, firm or corporation violating any
portion of this Section is guilty of a summary offense and shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs. Each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 505; as amended by Ord. 1998-3, 5/14/1998, § 3)
Part 6
Interpretation and Repeal
§ 15-601.   Provisions to Be a Continuation of Existing Regulations.
   The provisions of this Chapter, so far as they are the same as those of
ordinances and regulations in force immediately before the enactment of this
Chapter are intended as a continuation of those earlier ordinances and
regulations, and not as new enactments. Nothing in this Chapter shall affect
any act done or liability incurred, or any suit or prosecution pending or to be
instituted under any of those repealed or superseded ordinances or regulations.
(Ord. 1993-12, 12/30/1993, § 602)
Part 7
Commercial Traffic Route Restriction and Weight Limits
§ 15-701.   Weight Limits.
   Whenever signs are erected giving notice thereof it shall be unlawful for
any person owning or operating any motor vehicle, commercial motor vehicle or
truck-trailer combination, exceeding a maximum gross weight of 20,000 pounds,
to drive or propel the same or to cause or permit the same to be driven or
propelled at any time upon or across any of the hereinafter designated in
Plains Township, as restricted streets.
(Ord. 2009-8, 9/10/2009, § 1)
§ 15-702.   Erection of Signs.
   The Plains Township Road Department, upon instruction by the Board of
Commissioners, is hereby authorized to post appropriate signs on any street in
the Township which signs shall state and declare any restrictions or local
limits for that right-of-way.
(Ord. 2009-8, 9/10/2009, § 2)
§ 15-703.   Determination of Weight.
   Any police officer shall have authority to require any person driving or in
control of any motor vehicle proceeding over a street to proceed to any public
or private scale within a radius of ten miles for the purpose of weighing and
determining whether the provisions of this Part have been complied with.
(Ord. 2009-8, 9/10/2009, § 3)
§ 15-704.   Exemption from this Part.
   The provisions of this Part shall not apply to:
   A.   Prohibit any vehicle making deliveries of any kind; provided there most
direct route to complete such delivery is taken.
   B.   Any vehicle operated by the Township or a private operator under
contract with the Township.
   C.   Any vehicle owned by a public utility while necessarily in use in the
construction, installation or repair of any public utility.
   D.   Emergency vehicles.
   E.   School buses or Township/county transit vehicles.
   F.   Other local transit vehicles owned by a municipality, county or school
district when picking up and/or discharging passengers.
(Ord. 2009-8, 9/10/2009, § 4)
§ 15-705.   Description of Commercial Routes.
   In accordance with the Township of Plains Traffic ordinances the following
streets, or a portion of streets, are hereby designated and classified as
restricted and the regulations prescribed shall appertain hereto:
 
Street
East Mountain Boulevard
 
(Ord. 2009-8, 9/10/2009, § 5)
§ 15-706.   Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this Part 5,
shall be cited by the Plains Township Police Department and issued a fine which
shall not be less that $100 dollars and nor more than $500 dollars for each
offense.
(Ord. 2009-8, 9/10/2009, § 6)
Part 8
Prohibition on the Use of Engine Brakes Commonly Known as “Jake Brake”
§ 15-801.   Operation of an Engine Brake.
   The operation of an engine brake commonly known as “jake brake” on a
gasoline powered or diesel powered motor vehicle, including, but not limited
to, commercial and interstate trucks, which create by definition excessive
noise through the use of such engine brake, adversely affects the health,
safety and welfare of the residents of the Township of Plains; and are hereby
declared to be a nuisance in fact.
(Ord. 2000-8, 10/12/2000, § 1)
§ 15-802.   Excessive Noise.
   No person shall operate a gasoline powered or diesel powered motor vehicle,
including, but not limited to, commercial and interstate trucks, utilizing in
such operation an engine brake commonly known as “jake brake”, thereby
permitting excessive noise to be created by such motor vehicle to the detriment
of the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the Township of Plains.
(Ord. 2000-8, 10/12/2000, § 2)
§ 15-803.   Limited to Locations.
   The aforesaid prohibition as set forth in §
15-801 shall be limited to the following locations within the Township of
Plains:
   A.   Ridgewood Road (SR 2011). Between Route 315 (SR 315) and the
intersection of Union Street and Ridgewood Road. [Res. 2000-21]
   B.   East Saylor Avenue (SR 2015). Between the Jenkins Township/Plains
Township boundary line and the intersection of East Saylor Avenue and North
Main Street (SR 2024). [Res. 2000-21]
   C.   South River Street (SR 2004). From Poplar Street to a location 80 feet
east of the Mack Street intersection, a total distance of 1,915 feet. [Ord.
2014-2]
   D.   North River Street (SR 2004). From Courtright Street to a location
south of the Hancock Street intersection, a total distance of 0.8 miles. [Ord.
2015-5]
(Ord. 2000-8, 10/12/2000, § 3; as amended by Res. 2000-21, 9/14/2000; as
amended by Ord. 2014-2, 3/13/2014; as amended by Ord. 2015-5, 7/9/2015)
§ 15-804.   Sign.
   The aforesaid locations shall be specified by a specific sign in the form
and size as set forth on Exhibit “B” as notice to all motor vehicles traveling
on the aforesaid road sections in the Township of Plains. Exhibit “B” is on
file in the township offices and available for review.
(Ord. 2000-8, 10/12/2000, § 4)
§ 15-805.   Not Applied to Emergency Driving Situations.
   This Part 8 shall not be applied to emergency driving situations requiring
the utilization of an engine brake commonly known as “jake brake” where such
use by the operator of a motor vehicle is required due to an emergency
situation.
(Ord. 2000-8, 10/12/2000, § 5)
§ 15-806.   Penalties.
   1.   Any person violating the aforesaid Part shall be fined not less that
$25 and not more than $300 plus costs; and in default thereof, shall be
imprisoned for a period not to exceed 30 days. [Ord. 2000-8]
   2.   Any violation of §
15-803C. or D. shall upon conviction be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $100 and not more than $300 plus costs. [Ord. 2014-2; Ord. 2015-5]
(Ord. 2000-8, 10/12/2000, § 6; Ord. 2014-2, 3/13/2014, § 2; Ord. 2015-5, 7/9/
2015, § 2)
Part 9
Handicapped Parking
§ 15-901.   Legislative Intent.
   The Township of Plains recognized the special needs of handicapped persons
in the Township and hereby establishes a Reserved Parking Program which will
facilitate access to and from the handicapped person’s place of residence.
(Ord. 2000-4, 6/8/2000, §I)
§ 15-902.   Definitions.
   1.   As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
   Handicapped person–an individual possessing a handicapped or severely
disabled veteran registration plate.
   Issuing authority–Plains Township Board of Commissioners.
   Reserved parking signs–a sign issued by the Township of Plains reserved
parking for one vehicle space and erected at a designated and agreed upon area
for access for handicapped persons.
   2.   In this Part, the singular shall include the plural and the plural
shall include the singular. The masculine shall include the feminine.
(Ord. 2000-4, 6/8/2000, §II)
§ 15-903.   Application Procedure.
   1.   General. The Township of Plains will promulgate and have available
applications for reserved parking signs. Said applications can be obtained from
the Secretaries at the Township Municipal Building on Main Street, Plains,
Pennsylvania. Once the application has been completed, it will be submitted to
the Plains Township Board of Commissioners. Said Board of Commissioners shall
authorize the police to do a traffic study to determine if any traffic problems
are created if said reserved parking space is approved. Any person who erects
or utilizes a reserved parking sign or handicapped parking sign who has not
followed the requirements of this Part 9 is subject to penalties set forth
herein.
   2.   Application fee. Upon submission of an application the applicant shall
pay a fee in an amount as established, from time to time, by resolution of the
Board of Commissioners to the Township of Plains. [A.O.]
   3.   Renewal. All approved applicants shall be required to file a renewal
application by February 15 of each seceding year in which the reserved space is
held. Renewal forms will be sent to the applicant each year in January. A
renewal fee in an amount as established, from time to time, by resolution of
the Board of Commissioners must accompany the application. A physician’s
signature is not required on the renewal of an applicant previously adjudged
permanently disabled. [A.O.]
   4.   Possession of registration plate. Applicants must possess a handicapped
or severely disabled veteran registration plate in order to obtain an
application. (Owners of disabled veteran plates as distinguished from owners of
severely handicapped veteran’s plates are not eligible for handicapped parking
signs).
   5.   Application, generally. Applications are to be completed in their
entirety. Applications not completed in their entirety will not be considered.
   6.   Physician statement. Each applicant shall submit with the completed
application a written statement from his or her physician describing the
disability at the time of application, including but not limited to the
anticipated duration of the disability.
   7.   Written approval or denial. Written approval or denial of applications
will be made within 60 days of the Plains Township Board of Commissioners
(issuing authority).
   8.   Signs. Upon approval of an application and payment of requisite fees
the Township of Plains will erect two reserved parking signs with the
applicant’s vehicle registration number for use by the applicant.
   9.   Log. The Secretary for the Township of Plains shall maintain a log of
all applications for a reserved parking sign and shall periodically provide the
Plains Township Police Department a copy thereof.
(Ord. 2000-4, 6/8/2000, §III; as amended by A.O.)
§ 15-904.   General Provisions.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person or owner of realty to erect a
reserved parking sign or handicapped parking sign upon the streets of the
Township of Plains without first making application to the Plains Township
Board of Commissioners. Any person who erects or utilized a reserved parking
sign or a handicapped parking sign who has not followed the requirements of
this Part 9 is subject to penalties set forth herein.
   2.   Any stipulations made at the time of application regarding the
eligibility of an applicant may be updated periodically at the request of the
issuing authority.
   3.   Reserved parking signs shall not supersede existing parking
regulations, including, but not limited to, street sweeping, snow ban or snow
removal regulations.
   4.   Reserved parking signs will remain the property of the Township of
Plains.
   5.   The issuing authority shall be notified immediately if an eligible
person no longer qualifies for a sign under this Part 9, for example, if an
eligible person enjoys an improved health condition or moves from the premises
wherein the sign is located. Failure to notify the issuing authority
constitutes a violation of this Part 9.
   6.   The issuing authority will take the following factors into
consideration when issuing reserved parking signs.
   A.   Overall availability of parking in the area wherein a sign is requested
shall be taken into consideration.
   B.   The living arrangements of an individual applicant shall be taken into
consideration; for example, a disabled person living alone and responsible for
his or her own transportation.
   C.   Existing parking problems in the area where a sign is requested.
   D.   A traffic study completed by the Plains Township Police and submitted
to issuing authority for its review.
   7.   The Plains Township Police Department reserves the right to remove any
reserved parking signs or handicapped parking signs for cause shown.
   8.   No reserved parking sign will be placed in front of the home of a
person other than the applicant unless that property owner signs a notarized
statement stating that they have no objection to the placement of the sign.
   9.   The reserved parking area will be defined by the place of two reserved
parking signs. Each reserved parking sign shall state the license plate number
of the vehicle authorized to occupy the reserved parking space.
(Ord. 2000-4, 6/8/2000, §IV)
§ 15-905.   Penalties.
   1.   Any person who parks in a reserved parking space who is not authorized
to do so shall be subject to immediate citation and the vehicle will be subject
to immediate removal.
   2.   No person shall erect a reserved or handicapped parking sign upon the
streets of the Township of Plains without issuing authority under this Part 9
from the Plains Township Board of Commissioners.
   3.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Part shall, upon
summary conviction thereof in a summary proceeding before a magisterial
district judge of the Township of Plains, be sentenced to pay a fine of not
less than $25 and not more than $300, and costs and/or to be imprisoned in the
county jail for a period not exceeding 90 days. Each and every day upon which
any person violates or continues to violate the provisions of this Part shall
constitute a separate offense. [A.O.]
(Ord. 2000-4, 6/8/2000, §V; as amended by A.O.)
§ 15-906.   Location.
   1.   Birchwood Municipal Park. Five handicap parking spaces.
   A.   Birchwood Municipal Park, parking lot west side of handicap play area:
two temporary handicap parking spaces.
   B.   Birchwood Municipal Park, anywhere within the Municipal Park, where
handicap parking may be necessary, as determined by the Plains Township
Recreation Board, at various times, events and locations, to temporarily
accommodate parking for handicapped persons, while attending such events,
provided that, the required handicap parking signs are present.
   C.   For the purpose of the temporary handicap parking spaces only, portable
sign standards may used to designate such parking spaces, provided, the signs
comply with the current signing requirements established for handicap parking
spaces.
   2.   North Main Street. Front 126 North Main Street (West side-Southbound).
   3.   South Main Street. Front 88 South Main Street (West side-Southbound).
   4.   Henry Street. Front 79 Henry Street (South side-Eastbound).
   5.   Henry Street. Front 82 Henry Street (North side-Westbound).
   6.   Miner Street. Front 34 Miner Street (North side-Westbound).
   7.   Helen Street. Front 78 Helen Street (North side-Westbound).
   8.   Helen Street. Front 66 Helen Street (North side-Westbound).
   9.   Helen Street. Front 58 Helen Street (North side-Westbound).
   10.   Mack Street. Front 34 Mack Street (North side Westbound).
   11.   Perkins Street. Front 62 Perkins Street (East side-Northbound).
   12.   Clark Lane. Five handicapped parking spaces on the West side of the
handicap play area, for a period of 90 days. [Res. 1997-21]
   13.   Jones Street. Front 33 Jones Street. [Res. 1997-8]
   14.   Helen Street. Front 68 Helen Street. [Res. 1997-8]
   15.   Perkins Street. Front 62 Perkins Street. [Res. 1997-8]
   16.   Cleveland Street. Along the curb line, in front of 61 Cleveland Street
for a period of not less than 60 days or more than 90 days. [Res. 2000-14]
   17.   East Carey Street. In front of 134 East Carey Street. [Res. 1999-14]
(Ord. 1998-3, 5/14/1998, § 2; as amended by Res. 1997-8, 3/13/1997; by Res.
1997-21, 8/14/1997; by Res. 1999-14, 9/10/1999; and by Res. 2000-14, 3/9/2000)
Chapter 16
Parks and Recreation
Part 1
Park Rules and Regulations
§
16-101.   Definitions
§
16-102.   Park Hours
§
16-103.   Animals Prohibited
§
16-104.   Certain Vehicles Prohibited
§
16-105.   Enforcement
§
16-106.   Penalties
Part 1
Park Rules and Regulations
§ 16-101.   Definitions.
   As used in this Part 1, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
   Park or parks–unless specifically limited, shall be deemed to include all
parks, playgrounds, recreation areas, tennis courts, beaches, recreation
structures and facilities, and also entrances and approaches thereto, and all
other land or property or structures under the jurisdiction of the Plains
Township Parks and Recreation Board, now or hereafter owned or acquired by
Plains Township for park or recreational purposes.
   Person–any natural person, corporation, organization of persons, company,
association or partnership.
(Ord. 1996-5, 12/9/1996, § 1)
§ 16-102.   Park Hours.
   All parks shall be opened daily to the public from sunrise to sunset and in
no event shall any person be permitted to be in attendance in any park at any
other time, unless special permission be granted by the Plains Township Parks
and Recreation Board.
(Ord. 1996-5, 12/9/1996, § 2)
§ 16-103.   Animals Prohibited.
   No person shall bring, permit or allow into any park any animal including,
but not limited to, dogs, cats and any and all animals whatsoever. However, the
provisions of this Section shall not apply to a guide dog accompanying any
blind persons, or to a dog used to assist any other physically handicapped
person.
(Ord. 1996-5, 12/9/1996, § 3)
§ 16-104.   Certain Vehicles Prohibited.
   No person shall operate in any park a snowmobile, minibike, motorcycle, all-
terrain vehicle or other recreational type vehicle at any time.
(Ord. 1996-5, 12/9/1996, § 4)
§ 16-105.   Enforcement.
   The police officers of Plains Township are charged with enforcement of the
provisions of this Part.
(Ord. 1996-5, 12/9/1996, § 5)
§ 16-106.   Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this
Part 1 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1996-5, 12/9/1996, § 6; as amended by A.O.)
Chapter 17
[Reserved]
Chapter 18
Sewers and Sewage Disposal
Part 1
On-Lot Disposal Systems
A.   Conventional Systems
§
18-101.   Administration
§
18-102.   Issuance of Permits
§
18-103.   Permit Fee
B.   Holding Tanks
§
18-111.   Purpose
§
18-112.   Definitions
§
18-113.   Rights and Privileges Granted
§
18-114.   Rules and Regulations
§
18-115.   Rules and Regulations to Be in Conformity with Applicable Law
§
18-116.   Rates and Charges
§
18-117.   Exclusiveness of Rights and Privileges
§
18-118.   Duties of Improved Property Owner
§
18-119.   Violations
§
18-120.   Abatement of Nuisances
Part 2
Mandatory Sewer Connection
§
18-201.   Definitions
§
18-202.   Connections Required
§
18-203.   Discontinuance of Private Sewer System
§
18-204.   Erecting, Constructing, Using or Maintaining a Privy, Cesspool,
Sinkhole or Septic Tank
§
18-205.   Connection Fee; Permit
§
18-206.   Failure to Comply; Performance of Work by Township
§
18-207.   Penalties
§
18-208.   Granting to the Authority
Part 3
Uniform Requirements for Direct and Indirect Contributors to the Waste Water
Collection and Treatment System
A.   General Provisions
§
18-301.   Purpose and Policy
§
18-302.   Definitions
B.   Regulations
§
18-311.   General Prohibitions
§
18-312.   National Categorical Limits Override
§
18-313.   Prohibition on Pass Through and Interference
§
18-314.   Local Limits and Local Equivalent Categorical Limits
§
18-315.   State Requirements
§
18-316.   Township’s Right of Revision
§
18-317.   Excessive Dilution
§
18-318.   Prohibition on Discharge of Stormwater and Cooling Water
C.   Fees
§
18-321.   Purpose
§
18-322.   Charges and Fees
§
18-323.   Surcharges
D.   Pretreatment Requirements for Industrial Users
§
18-331.   Pretreatment Requirement
§
18-332.   WVSA Approval for Pretreatment
§
18-333.   Permit Requirement
§
18-334.   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Provisions
§
18-335.   Permit Application Process
§
18-336.   Modification of Permit
§
18-337.   Classifications of Dischargers
§
18-338.   Grease and Sediment Traps for Class IV Users
§
18-339.   Standard Designs
§
18-340.   Inspection
§
18-341.   Operation and Maintenance of Pretreatment Facilities
§
18-342.   Flow Measurement
§
18-343.   WVSA Monitoring
§
18-344.   User Self-Monitoring
§
18-345.   User Reporting and Recordkeeping
§
18-346.   Reporting of Hazardous Waste Discharge
§
18-347.   Signatory Responsibility
§
18-348.   Monitoring Location
§
18-349.   Classified Information
§
18-350.   Accidental Discharges
§
18-350A.   Emergency Discharge
E.   Violations and Enforcement
§
18-351.   Notification of Violation
§
18-352.   Show Cause Hearing
§
18-353.   Other Legal Action
§
18-354.   Revocation or Suspension of Permit
§
18-355.   Suspension of Sewer Service
§
18-356.   Civil Penalties
§
18-357.   Right of Appeal
§
18-358.   Public Notification
F.   Cooperation
§
18-361.   Cooperation
Part 4
Sludge
§
18-401.   Short Title
§
18-402.   Prohibition
§
18-403.   Definitions
§
18-404.   Closure of Landfill Site
§
18-405.   Closure Plan
§
18-406.   Notice Required
§
18-407.   Violation and Penalties
§
18-408.   Exemption
Part 1
On-Lot Disposal Systems
A.   Conventional Systems
§ 18-101.   Administration.
   The Zoning Officer of the Township of Plains is hereby designated as the
proper official to administer the provisions of the Pennsylvania Sewage
Facilities Act, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq., and to issue permits for on-site
disposal systems.
(Ord. 5/15/1970, § 1)
§ 18-102.   Issuance of Permits.
   Permits shall be issued only in accordance with said Act and the rules and
regulations applicable thereto, as promulgated by the Pennsylvania Department
of Health.
(Ord. 5/15/1970, § 2)
§ 18-103.   Permit Fee.
   The fee for said permit shall be in an amount as established, from time to
time, by resolution of the Board of Commissioners which shall be collected by
the Zoning Officer at the time the application for permit is made and paid into
the Treasury of the Township.
(Ord. 5/15/1970, § 3; as amended by A.O.)
B.   Holding Tanks
§ 18-111.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Part 1B is to establish procedures for the use and
maintenance of holding tanks designed to receive and retain sewage whether from
residential or commercial uses and it is hereby declared that the enactment of
this Part 1B is necessary for the protection, benefit and preservation of the
health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of this Township.
(Ord. 5/30/1974, § 1)
§ 18-112.   Definitions.
   Unless the context specifically and clearly indicates otherwise, the meaning
of terms used in this Part 1B shall be as follows:
   Holding tank–a watertight receptacle which receives and retains sewage and
is designed and constructed to facilitate ultimate disposal of the sewage at
another site. Holding tanks include, but are not limited to, the following:
   Chemical toilet–a toilet using chemicals that discharge to a holding tank.
   Retention tank–a holding tank where sewage is conveyed to it by a water
carrying system.
   Vault pit privy–a holding tank designed to receive sewage where water under
pressure is not available.
   Improved property–any property within the Township upon which there is
erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy
or use by human beings or animals and from which structure sewage shall or may
be discharged.
   Owner–any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or partial,
of any property located in the Township.
   Person–any individual, partnership, company, association, corporation or
other group or entity.
   Sewage–any substance that contains any of the waste products or excrement or
other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals and any noxious or
deleterious substance being harmful or inimical to the public health, or to
animal or aquatic life or to the use of water for domestic water supply or for
recreation.
   Township–Plains Township, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 5/30/1974, § 2)
§ 18-113.   Rights and Privileges Granted.
   The Township hereby undertakes within the Township the control and methods
of holding tank sewage disposal and the collection and transportation thereof.
(Ord. 5/30/1974, § 3)
§ 18-114.   Rules and Regulations.
   The Township may adopt such rules and regulations concerning sewage which it
may deem necessary from time to time to effect the purposes herein.
(Ord. 5/30/1974, § 4)
§ 18-115.   Rules and Regulations to Be in Conformity with Applicable Law.
   All such rules and regulations adopted by the Township shall be in
conformity with the provisions herein, all other ordinances of the Township,
and all applicable laws, and applicable rules and regulations of administrative
agencies of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 5/30/1974, § 5)
§ 18-116.   Rates and Charges.
   The Township shall have the right and power to fix, alter, charge and
collect rates, assessments, and other charges in the area served by its
facilities at reasonable and uniform rates as authorized by applicable law.
(Ord. 5/30/1974, § 6)
§ 18-117.   Exclusiveness of Rights and Privileges.
   The collection and transportation of all sewage from any improved property
utilizing a holding tank shall be done solely by or under the direction and
control of the Township, and the disposal thereof shall be made only at such
site or sites as may be approved by the Department of Environmental Protection
of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 5/30/1974, § 7; as amended by A.O.)
§ 18-118.   Duties of Improved Property Owner.
   The owner of an improved property that utilizes a holding tank shall:
   A.   Maintain the holding tank in conformance with this or any ordinance of
this Township, the provisions of any applicable law, and the rules and
regulations of the Township and any administrative agency of the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania.
   B.   Permit only the Township or its authorized agent acting under the
direction of the Township to collect, transport and dispose of the contents
therein.
(Ord. 5/30/1974, § 8)
§ 18-119.   Violations.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of §
18-118, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said
fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that
a violation of this Part 1 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 5/30/1974, § 9; as amended by A.O.)
§ 18-120.   Abatement of Nuisances.
   In addition to any other remedies provided in this Part 1, any violation of
§
18-118 above shall constitute a nuisance and may be abated by the Township by
either seeking appropriate equitable or legal relief from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 5/30/1974, § 10)
Part 2
Mandatory Sewer Connection
§ 18-201.   Definitions.
   Authority–the Sewer Authority of the Township of Plains as originally
organized and as presently or hereafter constituted, which has been created by
the Township Commissioners of Plains Township and to which has been referred by
the Township Commissioners of Plains Township the specific project of sewers.
   Occupied building–each single dwelling unit, household unit, flat or
apartment unit, store, shop, office, business or industrial unit or family unit
contained within any structure and intended for continuous or periodic
habitation, occupancy or use by human beings or animals and from which
structure sanitary sewage is, or may be, discharged. [Ord. 4/2/1981]
   Person–an individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   Property accessible to the sewer system–improved property which adjoins,
abuts on or is adjacent to the sewer system.
   Sanitary sewage–the normal water carried household and toilet wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments.
   Sewer system–refers to the public sanitary sewer collection system, together
with appurtenant facilities about to be acquired and constructed for a portion
of the Township and any improvements, additions or extensions that hereafter
may be made thereto by the Authority or the Township to any part or parts of
any or all thereof.
   Township–Plains Township, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, or the duly
constituted and elected Township officials therefor.
(Ord. –/–/1976, § 1; as amended by Ord. 4/2/1981)
§ 18-202.   Connections Required.
   1.   All persons owning any occupied building now erected upon property in
the Township accessible to the sewer system shall, at their own expense,
connect such building with the sewer system within 60 days after written notice
to such persons from the Township.
   2.   All persons owning any property in the Township accessible to the sewer
system upon which an occupied building is hereafter erected shall, at the time
of the erection of such building and at their own expense, connect the same
with the sewer system.
   3.   All persons owning an occupied building upon property in the Township
which hereafter becomes accessible to the sewer system shall, at their own
expense, connect such building with the sewer system within 60 days after
notice to do so from the Township.
   4.   Where more than one occupied building, as hereinbefore defined, is
contained in a separate structure, a single common connection to the lateral of
the sewer system may be permitted for accommodating all units contained in such
structure, except that separate connections shall be required for each semi-
detached or row-type house or structure.
(Ord. –/–/1976, § 2)
§ 18-203.   Discontinuance of Private Sewer System.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning any property in the Township
accessible to the sewer system to erect, construct or use or maintain or cause
to be erected, constructed, used or maintained, any privy, cesspool, sinkhole,
septic tank or other receptacle on such premises for receiving sanitary sewage
after the expiration of the particular period specified in §
18-202 hereof, or otherwise at any time to erect, construct, use or maintain
any pipe conduit, drain or other facility for the discharge of sanitary sewage
into the gutters of the Township, the storm sewers of the Township or upon
public or private property or otherwise, except into the sewer system.
(Ord. –/–/1976, § 3)
§ 18-204.   Erecting, Constructing, Using or Maintaining a Privy, Cesspool,
Sinkhole or Septic Tank.
   Any person who erects, constructs, uses or maintains a privy, cesspool,
sinkhole or septic tank on any property accessible to the sewer system, or
otherwise erects, constructs, uses or maintains any pipe, conduit, drain or
other facility for the discharge of sanitary sewage in violation of this Part
2, shall be deemed and shall be declared to be erecting, constructing and
maintaining a nuisance, which nuisance the Township is hereby authorized and
directed to abate in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. –/–/1976, § 4)
§ 18-205.   Connection Fee; Permit.
   No connection shall be made to the sewer system, except in compliance with
the ordinances and resolutions, as well as such rules and regulations as may,
from time to time, be enacted, adopted, approved or promulgated by the Township
of the Authority.
(Ord. –/–/1976, § 5)
§ 18-206.   Failure to Comply; Performance of Work by Township.
   After the expiration of the particular periods specified in §
18-202 of this Part 2, if any owner of an occupied building on property in the
Township accessible to the sewer system shall have failed to connect such
property with the sewer system as required by said §
18-202, the Township shall cause to be served on the owner of such property so
failing to connect to said sewer system, and also upon the occupants of the
building in question, a copy of this Part and a written or printed notice
requiring such connection to be made, and such notice shall further state that
its requirements shall be complied with within 30 days from the date thereof.
(Ord. –/–/1976, § 6)
§ 18-207.   Penalties.
   The provisions of this Part are declared to be for the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the Township and persons violating any provisions of
this Part 2, upon conviction thereof before any magisterial district judge of
Luzerne County, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $1,000 plus
costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues shall constitute a separate offense. Each occupied building, as
hereinbefore defined, whether or not the owners thereof shall be permitted to
connect two or more occupied buildings or units by a single common connection
to a lateral of the sewer system or shall be required to make separate
connections for each occupied building or unit, shall constitute a separate and
distinct unit under the provision of this Part 2 and the persons owning
occupied buildings, consisting of multiple units contained in the same
structure, who violate any of the provisions of this Part 2, shall be subject
to the aforesaid fine for each and every one of such occupied buildings or
units which are in violation of the provisions of this Part 2.
(Ord. –/–/1976, § 7; as amended by A.O.)
§ 18-208.   Granting to the Authority.
   The Township Commissioners of the Township do hereby grant to the Authority
all easements, rights-of-way and other rights on, under and over the public
streets and alleys of the Township necessary or desirable to facilitate the
construction of the sewer system subject to all applicable Township ordinances.
(Ord. –/–/1976, § 8)
Part 3
Uniform Requirements for Direct and Indirect Contributors to the Waste Water
Collection and Treatment System
A.   General Provisions
§ 18-301.   Purpose and Policy.
   1.   Plains Township (hereinafter the “municipality”) owns and operates a
wastewater collection system which is subject to a service agreement with the
Wyoming Valley Sanitary Authority for the collection and treatment of wastes
and sewage collected by such system and contributed by residents of the
municipality.
   2.   This Part 3 sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system and enables
the Township and the Authority to comply with all applicable state and federal
laws as required by the Clean Water Act of 1977, 33 U.S.C.A. §§ 1251 et seq.,
the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. Part 403), the Pennsylvania
Clean Streams Law and the provisions of the service agreement.
   3.   The objectives of this Part 3 are:
   A.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
collection and treatment system which will interfere with the operation of the
system, contaminate the resulting sludge, be difficult to treat by conventional
means or otherwise be incompatible with the system.
   B.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater system
which will pass through the system, inadequately treated, into receiving
streams or the atmosphere, causing pollution.
   C.   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludges from the system.
   D.   To provide for equitable distribution of costs occasioned by the
acceptance of industrial or other wastes of unusual characteristics.
   4.   This Part 3 provides for the regulation of contributors to the
municipal wastewater system through the establishment of standards for
discharge of wastes; by authorizing the issuance of permits to certain
nondomestic users; by providing general requirements for all users; by
authorizing monitoring and enforcement activities; by requiring certain
reporting by users; and by providing for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   5.   This Part 3 shall apply to all persons who discharge wastes, wastewater
or sewage into the sanitary sewer system of the municipality. Except as
otherwise provided herein, the Executive Director of the WVSA shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this Part 3.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 1.1)
§ 18-302.   Definitions.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this Part, shall have the meanings hereinafter designated:
   Act or the Act–the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act of 1977, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   Approval authority–the Administrator of the EPA, Region III, or the
Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) if duly authorized by the EPA to
administer the Pretreatment Program.
   Authorized representative–the person authorized to sign required reports, as
defined at 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(1).
   Best Management Practices (BMPs)–schedules of activities, prohibition of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to implement
the provisions of this Part 3, including the prohibitions listed in §
18-311 and other pretreatment standards and requirements. BMPs also include
treatment requirements, operating procedures and practices to control plant
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage. For purposes of determining significant noncompliance under
§
18-358 of this Part, BMPs are considered a narrative pretreatment standard or
requirement.
   Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)–the quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure, as
specified, in five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration
(milligrams per liter (mg/l)).
   Categorical industrial user–industrial user that is subject to a National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
   Chemical oxygen demand (COD)–the measure of the oxygen-consuming capacity of
inorganic and organic matter present in water, sewage, industrial wastewater or
other liquid as determined by standard laboratory procedure, as specified,
expressed as milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   Control authority–the WVSA.
   Cooling water–the water discharged from any system of condensation, such as
air conditioning, cooling or refrigeration and which does not contain any
pollutants or contaminants at levels which would require regulation under this
Part 3. Cooling water which contains pollutants or contaminants which requires
regulation shall be considered industrial wastewater.
   Direct discharge–the discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   Domestic sewage–the normal water-borne sewage and other wastes normally
discharged by a household, including toilet wastes, laundry, washwater and
other gray water, and similar wastes.
   Domestic user–a user who discharges only domestic sewage.
   Environmental Protection Agency or EPA–the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   Executive director–the person designated as such by the WVSA to supervise
the operation of WVSA facilities, or his or her duly authorized representative.
   Grab sample–a sample which is taken from a waste stream on a onetime basis
with no regard to flow and over a period of time not exceeding 15 minutes
   Holding tank–a storage tank installed by the user to hold such industrial
wastewater which is prohibited from being discharged to the sanitary sewer
system and from which the contents must be hauled to a disposal site. Such tank
shall be approved by the municipality and shall not be connected to the
sanitary sewer system.
   Indirect discharge or discharge–the discharge or the introduction of
pollutants into the sanitary sewer system from any nondomestic user.
   Industrial user–any user that discharges industrial wastewater.
   Industrial wastewater–liquid waste and water-borne liquid, gaseous, and
solid substances (except domestic sewage which is separately discharged) that
is discharged from any industrial, manufacturing, trade or commercial
establishment including non-profit organizations, governmental agencies or
business activities. If domestic sewage is mixed with industrial wastewater,
the mixture is industrial wastewater.
   Industrial wastewater discharge permit–a permit authorizing the discharge of
industrial wastewater into the sanitary sewer system.
   Interference–the inhibition or disruption of the WVSA treatment process or
operations such as to cause or threaten to cause or contribute to a violation
of any requirement of the WVSA’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of any violation. The term includes prevention of sewage
sludge use or disposal by the WVSA in accordance with § 405 of the Act, 33
U.S.C. § 1345, or any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to
the Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6962, (including the RCRA), the Clean
Air Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15
U.S.C.A. §§ 2601 et seq. or any more stringent state criteria for the use or
disposal of sewage sludge.
   Local limits–indirect discharge limits, which may include best management
practices, established by the WVSA as required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(c) (which
such limits shall be deemed pretreatment standards), and any other limits
developed by WVSA to implement the provisions of this Part 3 or the WVSA Rules
and Regulations.
   National Categorical Pretreatment Standard–EPA-promulgated indirect
discharge standards for certain industrial process categories under §§ 307(b)
and (c) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b), (c), which are codified at 40 C.F.R.
Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405 through 471.
   New source–any source, the construction of which is commenced after
publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the Act, 33
U.S.C.A. § 1317(c), which will be applicable to such source, if such standard
is thereafter promulgated, as defined at 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(m)(1).
   Nondomestic user–a user engaged, wholly or in part, in the manufacturing,
fabricating, processing, cleaning, laundering, bottling or assembling of a
product, commodity or article, or in any commerce or trade and which
discharges, or has the capacity to discharge, wastewater other than domestic
sewage.
   Non-significant categorical industrial user–An industrial user subject to
National Categorical Pretreatment Standards that is determined by the control
authority to be a non-significant industrial user on a finding that it never
discharges more than 100 gallons per day of industrial waste subject to
National Categorical Pretreatment Standards and that the following conditions
are met:
   (1)   The industrial user, prior to the control authority’s determination,
has consistently complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment
standards and requirements.
   (2)   The industrial user annually submits the following certification
statement together with any additional information necessary to support the
certification statement:
   “Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the Categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 C.F.R.
(insert applicable section), I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and
belief that during the period from ____ to ____ [month, day, year]: (a) The
facility described as __________ [facility name] met the definition of a non-
significant categorical industrial user as described in § 403.3(v)(2); (b) the
facility complied with all applicable pretreatment standards and requirements
during this reporting period; and (c) the facility never discharged more than
100 gallons of total categorical wastewater on any given day during this
reporting period. This compliance certification is based upon the following
information:___________________.”
   (3)   The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
wastewater.
   Oil and grease–the result of the Hexane Extractible Materials Test, EPA
Method 1664, or an equivalent method approved by EPA.
   Pass through–a discharge which exits the WVSA treatment plant into the
receiving stream in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction
with a discharge or discharges from other sources, causes or contributes, or
threatens to cause or contribute to a violation of any requirement of the
WVSA’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation.
   Person–any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns.
   pH–the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions.
   Pollution–the alteration of the thermal, chemical, physical, biological or
radiological integrity of, or the contamination of, any water to the extent
that the water is rendered harmful, detrimental or injurious to humans, animal
life, vegetation or property, or to public health, safety or welfare, or that
impairs the usefulness of the public enjoyment of that water. The violation of
any water quality standard or criterion established by the PADEP through
regulation, rule, permit or order shall be pollution.
   Pretreatment or treatment–the reduction by physical, chemical or biological
means of the amount or rate of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants or the
alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater to a less
harmful state prior to discharge, except by means prohibited by 40 C.F.R. §
403.6(d).
   Pretreatment requirements–any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, which is imposed on an
industrial user.
   Pretreatment standards–National Categorical Pretreatment Standards and
National Prohibited Standards as stated at 40 C.F.R. § 403.5 and local limits
developed to implement the national prohibited standards.
   Prohibited waste–any waste which is totally restricted from discharge into
the sanitary sewer system by this Part 3.
   Sanitary sewer system or sewer system–all of the property involved in the
operation of a sanitary sewer collection and treatment facility, including, but
not limited to, land, wastewater lines, appurtenances, pumping stations,
metering chambers and the wastewater treatment plant, whether owned by the
municipality, the WVSA or any other person.
   Shall versus may–shall is mandatory; may is permissive.
   Significant industrial user–any user, not classified as a non-significant
industrial user by the WVSA:
   (1)   That is subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards; or
   (2)   That discharges an average flow of 25,000 gallons or more per day of
process wastewater (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater); or
   (3)   That contributes a process wastestream which makes up five percent or
more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the WVSA’s
treatment plant; or
   (4)   That is designated as such by the WVSA on the basis that the user has
a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the WVSA’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
   Significant noncompliance–As defined in §
18-358 of this Part 3.
   Slug discharge–any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including,
but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge
which has reasonable potential to cause interference or pass through or in any
other way violate the provisions of this Part 3, any industrial wastewater
discharge permit or any provision of the WVSA Rules and Regulations.
   Standard industrial classification (SIC)–a classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   State–the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   Stormwater–any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   Surcharge–an additional service charge levied against any person for
discharging wastewater into the sanitary sewer system that requires additional
handling, treatment, disposal or other costs.
   Suspended solids–the total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, and which is removable by filtration.
   Toxic pollutant or priority pollutant–pollutants designated by EPA under
provision of § 307(a) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), as listed on Tables II
and III of Appendix D of 40 C.F.R. Part 122.
   User–any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the WVSA.
   Waste or wastewater–domestic sewage, industrial wastewater and any other
wastes or water-borne matter discharged, deposited or released by any person.
   Wastewater treatment plant or treatment plant–the facilities owned and
operated by the WVSA for the treatment and disposal of wastewater.
   The Wyoming Valley Sanitary Authority or WVSA–a municipal corporation
organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
under the Municipal Authorities Act of 1945, 53 P.S. §§ 301 et seq., as
amended, with which the Township has a service agreement providing for the
collection and treatment of wastewater flowing from the sanitary sewer system
of the Township. The principal place of business of the WVSA is located at 1000
Wilkes-Barre Street, Wilkes-Barre, PA 18711.
   WVSA facilities–all facilities owned, maintained, or operated by the WVSA,
including the treatment plant, interceptor sewers, pumping stations and other
such facilities.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 1.2)
B.   Regulations
§ 18-311.   General Prohibitions.
   1.   No person shall discharge, release, place or allow to be placed, any
wastewater of any nature into any stream, storm sewer, waterway or any other
place within the Township other than the sanitary sewers.
   2.   No user shall contribute, cause or allow to be discharged, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation
or performance of the sewer system or the WVSA facilities. These general
prohibitions apply to all users of the sewer system whether or not the user is
subject to any pretreatment standards or requirements or any other federal,
state or local pretreatment standards or requirements. A user shall not
contribute the following substances to the sanitary sewer system or the WVSA’s
facilities:
   A.   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with any
other substance to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to
the WVSA or to the operation of the WVSA’s treatment plant. Discharges
prohibited under this Section shall include, but not be limited to,
wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140°F or 60°C using the
test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21. At no time shall two successive
readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the
system (or any point in the system) be more than five percent, nor any single
reading over ten percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter.
Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene,
naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes,
peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides
and any other substances which cause or contribute to a fire hazard or a hazard
to the sewer system in the quantities or concentrations discharged.
   B.   Any wastewater having a pH value less than 6.0 or greater than 11.5 in
any grab sample, or a wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of
causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and/or personnel.
   C.   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow in
a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to, garbage with particles greater than
one-half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones,
hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders,
sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass
clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastic, gas,
tar, asphalt residues, mud, or glass grinding or polishing wastes.
   D.   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which a user knows
or has reason to know will cause interference to the sewer system. In no case
shall a discharge have a flow rate or contain a concentration of pollutants
that exceed for any time period longer than 15 minutes more than five times the
average 24 hour flow or concentration of pollutants during normal operation.
Notwithstanding the criteria above, any slug discharge shall be prohibited.
   E.   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the WVSA treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
any wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the WVSA facilities
which exceeds 40°C (104°F).
   F.   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with any wastewater treatment process, which
will cause pass through or interference, or exceed the limitation set forth in
a National Categorical Pretreatment standard or local limit.
   G.   Any discharge which may result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the treatment system in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems or is sufficient to create a public nuisance or
hazard.
   H.   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral oil
origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.
   I.   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the WVSA.
   J.   Any substance which may cause the WVSA treatment plant’s effluent or
any other product of the WVSA such as residues, sludges or scums, to be
unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation or
disposal process. In no case shall a substance discharged to the WVSA’s
facilities cause the WVSA to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal
criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under § 405 of the Act, any
criteria guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal developed
pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6962, the Clean Air Act,
42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C.A. §§
2601 et seq., or state criteria applicable to the sludge management or disposal
method being used.
   K.   Any substance which will cause or contribute to a violation of the
WVSA’s NPDES permit or cause interference or pass through, as established by
the local limits adopted by the WVSA.
   L.   Any wastewater with color not removed in the treatment process, such
as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions such as
would cause or contribute to pass through or interference.
   M.   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes by such
half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Executive
Director in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
   N.   Any substance which causes a hazard to human life or creates a public
nuisance.
   3.   When a local limit has been developed to implement any of the above
prohibited waste standards, compliance with the local limit shall be deemed
compliance with the prohibited waste standard unless the user has reason to
know that the discharge, notwithstanding the local limit, has a reasonable
potential to cause interference or pass through.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 2.1)
§ 18-312.   National Categorical Limits Override.
   Upon the promulgation of National Categorical Pretreatment Standards for a
particular industrial category or subcategory, the national standards, if more
stringent than limitations imposed under this Part 3 for sources in that
subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this
Part 3. The Executive Director shall notify all affected users of the
applicable reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12. However, failure to
notify a categorical user of the applicable regulations shall not act to excuse
any such user from its duty to comply with applicable law.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 2.2)
§ 18-313.   Prohibition on Pass Through and Interference.
   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed any discharge which by
nature shall cause an upset in the performance of the WVSA’s treatment system
or pass through or interference such that the WVSA will violate or will be in
danger of violating any provision of its NPDES permit or applicable state or
federal regulations.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 2.3)
§ 18-314.   Local Limits and Local Equivalent Categorical Limits.
   1.   The WVSA will develop local limits as set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5,
and such other local limits as it deems advisable for the safe, efficient and
reliable operation of the sewer system and the WVSA facilities. Local limits
shall be applicable to such users as WVSA shall designate including, but not
limited to, all industrial users.
   2.   WVSA may develop equivalent mass limits or equivalent concentration
limits to implement categorical pretreatment standards when requested by a
categorical industrial user, pursuant to the provisions at 40 C.F.R. §§ 403.6
(c)(5) and (6).
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 2.4)
§ 18-315.   State Requirements.
   State requirements and limitations on wastewater indirect discharge shall
apply in any case where they are more stringent than federal and/or local
requirements and limitations, or those in this Part.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 2.5)
§ 18-316.   Township’s Right of Revision.
   The Township reserves the right to establish more stringent limitations or
requirements on discharges to the sewer system if deemed necessary to comply
with the objectives presented in Part 3A of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 2.6)
§ 18-317.   Excessive Dilution.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in any pollutant-specific limitations
developed by the WVSA or the Commonwealth; provided, however, that dilution may
be an acceptable means of complying with certain of the prohibitions set forth
in §
18-311, e.g., the pH and temperature prohibitions, if such dilution is
authorized by an industrial wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 2.7)
§ 18-318.   Prohibition on Discharge of Stormwater and Cooling Water.
   No user shall discharge any stormwater, including, but not limited to,
basement or foundation drainage, or any uncontaminated cooling water into the
sanitary sewer system, provided that such discharges are allowable into those
portions of the sewer system (if any) that are designated combined sewers by
the Township. When, upon application to do so, the direct discharge of
uncontaminated cooling water has been prohibited by the PADEP, the Township and
WVSA may permit such a discharge into the sanitary sewer system upon
application by the user to do so.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 2.8)
C.   Fees
§ 18-321.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to provide for the recovery of costs from
users of the WVSA’s facilities for the implementation of the discharge control
program established herein. In consideration of the service provided by WVSA
and as provided in the service agreement, WVSA is hereby authorized to collect
from users within the Township all such charges or fees as shall be set forth
in the WVSA’s Schedule of Charges and Fees.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 3.1)
§ 18-322.   Charges and Fees.
   1.   The Township and/or the WVSA may adopt charges and fees which may
include:
   A.   Fees for reimbursement of clerical, labor and overhead costs of
administering and operating the WVSA’s Pretreatment Program;
   B.   Fees for monitoring, inspections and sampling of industrial users,
including any extraordinary costs incurred for response costs or to ensure
compliance by a noncompliant user;
   C.   Fees for reviewing slug discharge control and spill prevention
procedures, pretreatment plans, and plans for grease and sediment interceptors;
   D.   Fees for response to accidental or slug discharges;
   E.   Fees for permit applications;
   F.   Fees for consistent removal of pollutants otherwise subject to federal
pretreatment standards as provided by 40 C.F.R. § 403.7;
   G.   Fees and surcharges for removal of pollutants such as BOD, TSS, oil and
grease, phosphorus or nitrogen discharged in amounts greater than those found
in domestic sewage;
   H.   Other fees as the Township and/or the WVSA may deem necessary to carry
out the requirements contained herein.
   2.   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this Part and are
separate from all other fees chargeable by the Township and WVSA.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 3.2)
§ 18-323.   Surcharges.
   1.   The WVSA may require payment of a surcharge by any user who discharges
wastewater of higher than normal concentration or loading of any substance,
which results in additional treatment costs to the WVSA. Such surcharges shall
be in addition to the regular sewer rent set forth in the rules and regulations
of the WVSA.
   2.   Surcharges shall be established by the WVSA in its duly adopted rules
and regulations.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 3.3)
D.   Pretreatment Requirements for Industrial Users
§ 18-331.   Pretreatment Requirement.
   1.   Any user generating wastewater of a character prohibited from discharge
into the sanitary sewer system under Part 3B shall provide for pretreatment of
the wastewater as necessary to attain the standards established by this Part 3
and the rules and regulations of the WVSA. The Township may, at its sole
discretion and in conformance with the provisions of Act 537, permit the
installation of holding tanks for wastes which are not amenable to pretreatment
upon application by a user. The installation, operation and maintenance of
holding tanks shall be as prescribed by the Township as a condition of its
approval.
   2.   Grease traps or sediment traps shall be provided for the proper
handling of waste containing grease, sand or sediment, in amounts above the
limits provided herein. All traps shall meet the standards prescribed in §
18-338.
   3.   Storage, handling, disposal and transportation of materials removed
from pretreatment facilities, grease traps or sediment traps shall be
accomplished according to all applicable federal, state and local regulations
that pertain to the type and/or class of waste generated.
   4.   Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to
the WVSA shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user’s expense.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.1)
§ 18-332.   WVSA Approval for Pretreatment.
   1.   Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and documentation of
operating procedures shall be submitted to the WVSA for review, and shall be
acceptable to the WVSA before construction of the facility. The review of such
plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of constructing, operating or modifying the facility as
necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the WVSA under the provisions of
this Part 3. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of
operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the WVSA prior to the
user’s initiation of the changes.
   2.   In addition to approval of WVSA, a building permit may be required by
the Township and the provisions of this Part 3 shall not supersede any
requirements of the building code applicable to the user’s facilities.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.2)
§ 18-333.   Permit Requirement.
   1.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to the sanitary sewer system of the
Township, any wastewater of any kind except as authorized by this Part 3 or the
rules and regulations of the WVSA, as amended.
   2.   All nondomestic users proposing to connect to or to contribute to the
sewer system shall notify the WVSA of such intent prior to connection or prior
to the commencement of discharge if the connection point already exists.
   3.   Industrial users shall apply for and obtain an industrial wastewater
discharge permit from the WVSA before connecting to or discharging industrial
wastewater to the sewer system. Other nondomestic users may be required to
apply for and obtain a permit to discharge wastewater other than domestic
sewage by the WVSA as provided in its rules and regulations.
   4.   WVSA may, at its discretion and in conformance with the provisions of
40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(l)(iii)(A), develop and issue general permits for certain
classes of nondomestic user.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.3)
§ 18-334.   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit Provisions.
   1.   Industrial wastewater discharge permits shall be issued for a specified
time period, not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less
than five years or may be stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall
apply for a permit reissuance a minimum of 90 days prior to the expiration of
the user’s existing permit. The terms and conditions of the permit may be
subject to modification by the WVSA during the term of the permit as
limitations or requirements as identified in Part 3B are modified or other just
cause exists. The user shall be informed of any proposed changes in the permit
at least 30 days prior to the effective date of change. Any changes or new
conditions in the permit itself shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance, as determined by the WVSA.
   2.   Industrial wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user
for a specific operation and type of discharge. A permit shall not be
reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises
or a new or changed operation without the approval of the WVSA. If approval is
granted by the WVSA, any succeeding owner or user shall also comply with the
terms and conditions of the existing permit.
   3.   Permits shall contain such terms and conditions as the WVSA shall
determine as expressed in its rules and regulations. Permits may include the
following:
   A.   Effluent limits and best management practices based on National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, local limits or other applicable discharge
standards.
   B.   Specifications for monitoring programs which include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, types and standards for tests (including the
requirement that all sampling be representative of the discharge) and reporting
schedules.
   C.   Compliance schedules.
   D.   Requirements for submission at specified times to the WVSA of technical
reports, laboratory analysis reports or discharge reports.
   E.   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating to
wastewater discharge as specified by the WVSA, and affording WVSA access
thereto at reasonable times for examination and copying.
   F.   Requirements for notification of the WVSA or any new introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system.
   G.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities.
   H.   Requirements for notification of slug discharges as per §
18-344.
   I.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the WVSA to ensure compliance
with this Part 3 and the WVSA rules and regulations.
   J.   Notice of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation of
pretreatment standards and requirements or other provisions of this Part 3, the
permit, or the rules and regulations of WVSA.
   K.   A schedule of user charges and fees for the wastewater to be discharged
into the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.4)
§ 18-335.   Permit Application Process.
   1.   All industrial users shall submit to the WVSA an industrial wastewater
discharge questionnaire containing information as set forth in this Part 3 or
required by the rules and regulations of the WVSA. Other nondomestic users may
be requested to submit information at the discretion of WVSA upon review of the
notice required by §
18-333 Subsection 2. of this Part 3.
   2.   Users required to obtain an industrial wastewater discharge permit
shall be so notified by the WVSA and shall timely complete and file with the
WVSA an application in the form prescribed by the WVSA, and accompanied by the
appropriate fee. In support of the application, the user shall submit, in units
and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information, as required by
WVSA:
   A.   Name, address and location (if different from the address).
   B.   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual,
Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended.
   C.   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including but not limited
to those mentioned in Chapter 2B of this Part 3 as determined by an accredited
analytical laboratory; sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance
with procedures contained in 40 C.F.R. Part 136, as amended.
   D.   Time and duration of discharge.
   E.   Average daily wastewater flow rates, short term peaks or batch
discharge rates, and daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any.
   F.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details to
show all sewers, sewer connections and appurtenances by the size, location and
elevation.
   G.   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are or could be discharged.
   H.   Material safety data sheets (MSDS) for all chemicals used on site.
   I.   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any local, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment facilities are required
for the user to meet applicable pretreatment standards.
   J.   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
   (1)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
“milestone” dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading
to the construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the
user to meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction and the
like)
   (2)   No increment referred to in Subsection 2. Paragraph 2.J.(1) above
shall exceed nine months.
   (3)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the
final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Executive Director including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay and the
steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the Executive Director.
   K.   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and rate of
production.
   L.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day).
   M.   Number of employees per shift, hours of operation of plant and proposed
or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system.
   N.   Any other information as may be deemed by the WVSA to be necessary to
evaluate the permit application.
   3.   The WVSA will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require
additional information. After evaluation of the data furnished, the WVSA may
issue an industrial wastewater discharge permit subject to terms and conditions
provided herein.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.5)
§ 18-336.   Modification of Permit.
   Within three months of the promulgation of a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard, the industrial wastewater discharge permit of users
subject to such standards shall be revised to require compliance with such
standards within the time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user,
subject to a newly promulgated National Categorical Pretreatment Standard had
not previously submitted an application for an industrial wastewater discharge
permit as required by §
18-333, the user shall apply for an industrial wastewater discharge permit
within 180 days after the promulgation of the applicable National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard. In addition, the user with an existing industrial
wastewater discharge permit shall submit to the Executive Director, within 180
days after the promulgation of an applicable National Categorical Pretreatment
Standard, the information required by §
18-335 Subsection 2. Paragraphs I. and J.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.6)
§ 18-337.   Classifications of Dischargers.
   1.   Following review of a report submitted under §
18-333 of this Part 3, each nondomestic user shall be placed into the
appropriate classification of discharger. Said classifications are defined as
follows:
   A.   A significant industrial user shall be a Class I user.
   B.   A Class II user shall include non-significant categorical industrial
users and any nondomestic user that discharges any wastes other than domestic
sewage to the sanitary sewer system in amounts that on a routine basis are
determined by the WVSA not to have a significant impact on the treatment
system, but may present a potential to impact on the treatment system, such as,
but not limited to, users with oil and grease or settleable solids discharges
that may present a potential to cause sewer obstructions, and those that have
the potential to have slug discharges or chemical spills.
   C.   A Class III user shall be any nondomestic user who discharges only
domestic sewage or has a dry process, or is considered to have insignificant
impact on the treatment system.
   D.   A Class IV or commercial user shall be any nondomestic user who
discharges industrial wastewater of the nature produced by facilities such as
vehicle wash facilities, vehicle maintenance shops, fluid change facilities,
steam cleaning facilities, restaurants, lounges and the like.
   2.   For the purpose of the permit process all Class I users shall be
required to obtain an industrial wastewater discharge permit from the WVSA.
Class II, Class III and Class IV users may be required to obtain a permit, as
determined by the WVSA.
   3.   Whether a user is required to obtain a permit or not, it may be
required to install such facilities as the WVSA or Township deems necessary to
comply with the provisions of this Part 3.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.7)
§ 18-338.   Grease and Sediment Traps for Class IV Users.
   Class II and IV users that discharge or have the potential to discharge
significant quantities of oil and grease or sediment, as determined by the
WVSA, shall install and properly operate and maintain a grease trap or sediment
trap (or both when necessary) satisfactory to the WVSA as required by its rules
and regulations. Proper operation and maintenance of grease and sediment traps
includes, but is not limited to, removal of accumulated grease or sediment on a
routine basis and maintenance of documentation of such activity pursuant to §
18-344. Failure to timely install, or to properly operate or maintain a grease
or sediment trap required by this Part 3 shall be a violation of this Part 3
and may result in the rescission or suspension of the right to discharge
wastewater to the sewer system, whether or not a permit has been issued by the
WVSA.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.8)
§ 18-339.   Standard Designs.
   Users required or choosing to install grease traps or sediment traps shall
apply to the WVSA for a list of standard construction design criteria as
prepared by and available through the WVSA’s Engineering Department in
accordance with current pretreatment design requirements. Users may deviate
from standard construction design criteria only with permission of the
Executive Director.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.9)
§ 18-340.   Inspection.
   The Township and the WVSA may inspect the facilities of any nondomestic user
to ascertain whether the purpose of this Part 3 is being met and all
requirements are being complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where
wastewater other than domestic sewage is created or discharged shall allow
representatives of the Township and WVSA ready access at all reasonable times
to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination and/or copying, or in the performance of any of their duties. The
Township, WVSA, PADEP and/or the EPA shall have the right to set up on the
nondomestic user’s property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling,
inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has
security measures in force which would require proper identification and
clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall make necessary
arrangements with its security personnel so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, representatives of the Township, WVSA, PADEP and/or the EPA
will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.10)
§ 18-341.   Operation and Maintenance of Pretreatment Facilities.
   1.   It shall be the responsibility of the industrial user to maintain its
pretreatment facility in a working order to provide consistent compliance with
the limitations set forth in the industrial wastewater discharge permit and/or
the rules and regulations of the WVSA. Operation of the pretreatment system
shall be undertaken by the user according to the prescribed methods of the
manufacturer as approved by the WVSA, to provide consistent compliance with the
limitations set forth in this Part 3, the industrial wastewater discharge
permit and the rules and regulations of the WVSA. The user shall be required to
maintain documentation reflecting operations and maintenance of all
pretreatment facilities.
   2.   If required by the WVSA, a user shall develop and implement a slug
control plan containing the elements itemized at 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(2)(vi).
The slug control plan shall be submitted to the WVSA for review and approval
before implementation.
   3.   Any user required to install and operate a grease trap or sediment trap
shall maintain the equipment in working order to provide consistent compliance
with the limitations set forth in any permit issued by the WVSA and/or the
rules and regulations of the WVSA. Operation of the trap shall be undertaken by
the user according to the prescribed methods of the manufacturer as approved by
the WVSA, to provide consistent compliance with the limitations set forth in
this Part 3, any permit and the rules and regulations of the WVSA. The user
shall be required to maintain documentation reflecting operations and
maintenance of all grease and sediment traps for a period of three years or for
such period of time as may be required by any permit.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.11)
§ 18-342.   Flow Measurement.
   The volume of flow used in computing loadings or surcharges shall be based
on the total water consumption data as obtained from the permittee or the
records of the local water utility. If a user has a substantial portion of the
metered water that does not reach the sanitary sewer system the user may, at
its own expense, and with approval from the Executive Director, install a
separate flow metering device to measure the actual discharge into the sanitary
system. If the actual flow to the sanitary system is measured, the equipment
used for the measurement of the flow must be maintained in proper working order
at all times. A separate written record of calibration and maintenance must be
kept for the flow metering device and made readily available for inspection by
the WVSA.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.12)
§ 18-343.   WVSA Monitoring.
   The WVSA may conduct periodic monitoring of the following types:
   A.   Scheduled or unscheduled sampling and inspections of the user’s
facilities and records shall be conducted at all Class I users at least once
each year.
   B.   Additional sampling or inspections may be conducted whenever the WVSA
determines a need to investigate the discharges of a user.
   C.   Demand sampling and inspections may be performed in response to a
complaint or an unusual or emergency situation, such as when the WVSA
determines a change in the normal discharge characteristics of the user’s
wastewater flow, if a violation was detected during sampling or self-monitoring
under §
18-344, if problems that may be attributable to the user’s discharge occur in
the sewer system or WVSA facilities, or if a complaint or report of
noncompliance is received by the Township or WVSA.
   D.   If the WVSA performs routine compliance sampling of a user in lieu of
the self-monitoring provisions of §
18-344, the WVSA shall be subject to the repeat sampling requirement of §
18-344 Subsection 2. in the case that a violation of any pretreatment standard
or requirement is detected.
   E.   All discharge sampling and analyses conducted by WVSA shall be in
accordance with the sampling and analysis requirements for user self-monitoring
in §
18-344.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.13)
§ 18-344.   User Self-Monitoring.
   1.   A.   Users subject to an industrial wastewater discharge permit may be
required, at the user’s expense, to conduct sampling and analyses of their
wastewater on a periodic schedule as established by the permit. Should the
results of said analyses indicate a violation of any provision of the user’s
permit, the user must:
   (1)   Report the violation to the WVSA within 24 hours of becoming aware of
the violation.
   (2)   Repeat the sampling and analysis within 30 days of becoming aware of
the violation and report the results to the WVSA.
   B.   The resampling is not required if:
   (A)   The WVSA conducts monthly sampling.
   (B)   The WVSA conducted compliance sampling between the time when the
initial sample was collected and when the laboratory results were received.
   2.   All wastewater sampling shall be representative of the indirect
discharge. Unless otherwise specified in the wastewater discharge permit (and
documented in the WVSA files), all samples shall be collected as flow-
proportional composite samples over a 24-hour period, except for samples for
pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile organic
compounds which shall be obtained as grab samples. Grab samples for cyanide,
total phenols and sulfides may be obtained as multiple grab samples and
composited in the field or the laboratory before analysis; grab samples for oil
and grease and volatile organic compounds may be obtained as multiple grab
samples and composited in the laboratory before analysis. For constituents
required to be collected as grab samples, the permit shall specify the number
of grab samples required for each representative analysis.
   3.   Unless otherwise specified in a permit, all sampling, sample
preservation and laboratory analyses shall be according to the requirements in
40 C.F.R. Part 136.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.14)
§ 18-345.   User Reporting and Recordkeeping.
   1.   All users subject to an industrial wastewater discharge permit shall be
required to submit such reports as required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.12 or the
industrial wastewater discharge permit. Said reports include:
   A.   Baseline monitoring reports for all categorical industrial users, as
provided by 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b); sampling shall be as provided at 40 C.F.R. §
403.12(g)(4), and shall include a minimum of four grab samples for pH, cyanide,
total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic compounds for
facilities for which historical sampling data do not exist, and a number as
established by WVSA for facilities for which historical sampling data are
available.
   B.   Compliance schedule reports as required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b)(7) and
(c).
   C.   Ninety-day compliance reports for categorical industrial users, as
provided by 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(d); sampling shall be as provided at 40 C.F.R. §
403.12(g)(4), and shall include a minimum of four grab samples for pH, cyanide,
total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic compounds for
facilities for which historical sampling data do not exist, and a number as
established by WVSA for facilities for which historical sampling data are
available.
   D.   Periodic reports on continued compliance as scheduled in accordance
with the user’s industrial wastewater discharge permit and §
18-344 of this Part 3.
   E.   Immediate notice to the WVSA of any discharge that constitutes a slug
discharge.
   F.   Immediate notice to the WVSA of any change in the user’s facility that
could affect the potential to have a slug discharge.
   G.   Notification of any planned changes or modifications to the volume or
character of the industrial wastewater discharge, including any changes to
listed or characteristic hazardous waste discharges reported under §
18-346 of this Part 3.
   H.   Sampling results and resampling reports as required by §
18-344 of this Part 3.
   2.   Every significant industrial user and any nondomestic user which is
required, by permit or by request of the WVSA, to institute any monitoring,
BMP, sampling, grease or sediment removal, or any other activity which will
produce a record (such as flow meter or pH recorder charts, laboratory results,
or hauled waste records) shall retain all such records for a period of at least
three years. All sampling records of significant industrial users shall include
the information as set forth at 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(o).
   3.   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall be
made available to officials of the approval authority upon request. The reports
and other documents required to be submitted or maintained under this Section
may be subject to the provisions of § 309(c)(4) of the Clean Water Act, as
amended, and 18 Pa.C.S.A. § 4904, as amended, governing false statements,
representations or certifications.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.15)
§ 18-346.   Reporting of Hazardous Waste Discharge.
   1.   All industrial users shall be required, in accordance with 40 C.F.R. §
403.12(p), to report the discharge into the sanitary sewer system of any
substance, which if otherwise disposed of, would be a listed or characteristic
hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. Part 261. Said notification shall be in writing
to the WVSA, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director and the PADEP
hazardous waste authorities, and shall include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the
type of discharge (batch, continuous or other).
   2.   If the user discharges more than 100 kilograms of such waste per
calendar month to the WVSA, the notification shall also contain the following:
   A.   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes.
   B.   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the
wastestream to be discharged in that calendar month.
   C.   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months.
   3.   All notifications must take place within 180 days of the first
discharge of said hazardous waste. Any notification under this Section needs to
be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharged, provided that any
planned change in the volume or character of the hazardous waste discharge must
be reported as provided in §
18-344 of this Part 3. The notification requirement does not apply to
pollutants already reported under the self-monitoring requirements of this Part
3.
   4.   In the case of any notification made under this Section, the user shall
certify that it has in place a program to reduce the volume and toxicity of
hazardous wastes generated.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.16)
§ 18-347.   Signatory Responsibility.
   1.   All required reports submitted by a user must be signed by an
authorized representative, as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(1) to be:
   A.   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice president
if the user is a corporation.
   B.   A manager of one or more manufacturing, production or operating
facilities, provided that the manager is authorized to make management
decisions which govern the operation of the manufacturing facility and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedure.
   C.   A general partner or proprietor if the user is a partnership or sole
proprietorship respectively.
   D.   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated in
Subsection 1. Paragraphs 1.A., 1.B. or 1.C. above if the authorization is made
in writing by the person designated in Subsection 1. Paragraphs 1.A., 1.B. or
1.C. above, the authorization specifies either the individual or a position
having responsibility for the overall operation of the facility from which the
discharge originates; and the authorization is submitted to the WVSA.
   2.   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representation or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to federal pretreatment regulations and/
or this Part 3, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate
any monitoring device or method required under federal pretreatment regulations
or this Part 3, shall be subject to the civil and criminal penalties as set
forth at 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(n) governing false statements, representations or
certifications in reports
required under the Act, as well as 18 Pa.C.S.A. § 4904, as amended, and other
applicable state law.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.17)
§ 18-348.   Monitoring Location.
   1.   The WVSA may require to be provided and operated at the user’s own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems from which a
discharge flows into the sewer system. The monitoring facility should normally
be situated on the user’s premises, but the municipality may, upon application
by the user and when such a location would be impractical or cause undue
hardship on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street
or sidewalk area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping
or parked vehicles.
   2.   There shall be ample room in or near such monitoring facility to allow
accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The monitoring
facility shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition at the expense of the user.
   3.   Whether constructed on public or private property, the monitoring
facilities shall be provided in accordance with the WVSA’s requirements and all
applicable local construction standards and specifications. Construction shall
be completed within 90 days following written notification of approval of the
plans by the WVSA or within such other time as may be authorized by WVSA.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.18)
§ 18-349.   Classified Information.
   1.   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits, monitoring programs and inspections shall be
available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction unless
the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction
of the WVSA that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of
the user.
   2.   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this Part 3, the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, and the
Pretreatment Program; provided, however, that such portions of a report shall
be available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial review or
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristic shall not be recognized as confidential
information.
   3.   Information accepted by the WVSA as confidential, shall not be
transmitted to the general public by the WVSA until and unless a ten-day
notification is given to the user. Information accepted as confidential by the
WVSA shall be made available to governmental agencies. If requested by the
user, the EPA and PADER will treat the submitted information as confidential to
the extent provided in 40 C.F.R. Part 2.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.19)
§ 18-350.   Accidental Discharges.
   1.   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this Part 3. Facilities
to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials and to mitigate, reduce
and contain any such discharge shall be provided and maintained at the user’s
expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
this protection shall be submitted to the WVSA for review, and shall be
approved by the WVSA before construction of the facility. No user who commences
discharge of industrial wastewater to the sanitary sewer system after the
effective date of this Part 3 shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into
the system until accidental discharge protection, containment and
countermeasure procedures have been approved by the WVSA. Review and approval
of such plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the user from the
responsibility to modify the user’s facility as necessary to meet the
requirements of this Part 3.
   2.   In the case of an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of the
user to immediately telephone and notify the WVSA of the incident. The
notification shall include location of the discharge, type of waste,
concentration and volume, and corrective actions being taken.
   3.   Within five days following an accidental discharge, the user shall
submit to the Executive Director a detailed report describing the cause of the
discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future
occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss,
damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the
WVSA, its facilities, or any other person or property; nor shall notification
relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other liability which may be
imposed by this Part 3 or other applicable law. Failure to notify the Executive
Director of an accidental discharge shall constitute a separate and distinct
violation of this Part 3.
   4.   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of an
accidental discharge. Employers shall ensure that all employees who may be
present in an area where an accidental discharge may occur are advised of the
emergency notification procedure as well as the containment and countermeasures
developed by the user to mitigate and control any such discharge.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.20)
§ 18-350A.   Emergency Discharge.
   In the case of a nondomestic user that, for reasons of emergency
maintenance, equipment failure, or other similar unforeseen event beyond the
user’s reasonable control, must discharge prohibited, high strength or other
wastewater of unusual strength, character or volume, the user may apply to the
Executive Director for an emergency discharge permit. The Executive Director
may issue such a permit, on terms and conditions as he or she deems
appropriate, upon his or her review of the information provided and in his or
her sole discretion. No discharge of the unusual wastewater may be made until
and unless an emergency discharge permit has been issued. An emergency
discharge permit shall not be issued for longer than 30 days and may be renewed
only after a new application has been made.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 4.21)
E.   Violations and Enforcement
§ 18-351.   Notification of Violation.
   Whenever the WVSA finds that any nondomestic user has violated or is
violating this Part 3, the rules and regulations of the WVSA, its industrial
wastewater discharge permit, or any prohibition, limitation or requirements
contained herein, the WVSA may serve upon such person a written notice of
violation stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days of the date of
the notice, or within such other reasonable time as the Executive Director
shall state, a plan for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted
to the WVSA by the user.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 5.1)
§ 18-352.   Show Cause Hearing.
   1.   The WVSA may notify any user who is in violation of this Part 3, an
industrial wastewater discharge permit, or the rules and regulations of the
WVSA, to show cause before the WVSA Board of Directors (or such other
adjudicative body as the WVSA shall select) why a proposed enforcement action
should not be taken. The notice shall be served on the user specifying the time
and place of a hearing to be held by the WVSA regarding the violation, the
reasons why the action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and
directing the user to show cause before the WVSA why the proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served
personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at
least ten days before the hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer
of a corporation.
   2.   A show cause hearing is not subject to the requirements of the Local
Agency Law, 2 Pa. C.S.A. §§ 551 et seq., but may be conducted as provided in
that statute at the discretion of the WVSA Board or adjudicative body.
   3.   Within a reasonable time after the conclusion of a show cause hearing,
the Board of Directors (or adjudicative body) shall issue an opinion regarding
the alleged violation and any enforcement action which it believes is
appropriate. The WVSA may then proceed to undertake the recommended enforcement
action, if any.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 5.2)
§ 18-353.   Other Legal Action.
   1.   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastewater or other wastes
into the sanitary sewer system contrary to the provisions of this Part 3,
federal or state pretreatment requirements, the WVSA rules and regulations or
any permit issued by the WVSA, the Municipal Solicitor may commence an action
for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the courts. When the WVSA
determines the need for legal action, said action shall be undertaken by the
Township within 30 days of notification by the WVSA.
   2.   In the alternative, for purposes of enforcement of this Part 3 and the
Pretreatment Program, the Township hereby appoints the Wyoming Valley Sanitary
Authority as its agent and authorizes the WVSA or its duly appointed agents and
employees, to undertake any legal action in the name of the Township, including
but not limited to the filing of a civil complaint in the Court of Common Pleas
of Luzerne County. In the case that WVSA acts in the name of the Township, the
Township shall cooperate with and support the WVSA in the prosecution of any
civil action as may be necessary.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 5.3)
§ 18-354.   Revocation of Suspension of Permit.
   1.   Any user who violates the following conditions of this Part 3,
applicable state or federal regulations, or an industrial wastewater discharge
permit is subject to having its industrial wastewater discharge permit revoked
or suspended in accordance with the procedures of this Section:
   A.   Failure of a user to factually and accurately report the wastewater
constituents and characteristics of its discharge.
   B.   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations, or
changes in industrial wastewater constituents and characteristics, including,
but not limited to, changes in facilities related to the control of slug
discharges as required by §
18-345 Subsection 1. Paragraph F.
   C.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring.
   D.   Violation of any condition of the industrial wastewater discharge
permit.
   2.   Upon notice of suspension or revocation of an industrial wastewater
discharge permit, the user shall immediately cease the discharge of industrial
wastewater to the sewer system. Any discharge of industrial wastewater to the
sewer system after notice of revocation or suspension shall be a violation of
this Part 3 and subject to the penalties provided herein. In the case of a
suspension, the permit shall be reinstated upon a showing that the user has
corrected the condition for which the suspension was imposed. In the case of a
revocation, the user may only receive a new permit by going through the
application process as stated in §
18-335 of this Part 3.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 5.4)
§ 18-355.   Suspension of Sewer Service.
   1.   The Township and/or the WVSA may suspend the wastewater treatment
service when such suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the WVSA, in order
to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, to
the environment, causes interference or pass through at the WVSA’s treatment
plant or causes the WVSA or Township to violate or be in danger of violating
any condition of an NPDES permit or state-issued water quality management
permit.
   2.   Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service
shall immediately stop or eliminate the discharge. In the event of a failure of
the person to comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Township may,
and the WVSA is authorized to, take such steps as deemed necessary including
immediate severance or obstruction of the sewer connection from the user’s
property, to prevent or minimize damage to the sewer system or the WVSA
facilities or endangerment to any individuals. The WVSA or the Township shall
reinstate the wastewater treatment service only upon satisfactory proof of
elimination of the noncomplying discharge. All costs associated with the
severance and/or reconnection of a sewer shall be incurred by the user.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 5.5)
§ 18-356.   Civil Penalties.
   1.   Any user who is found to have violated any provision of this Part 3,
the rules and regulations of the WVSA, as amended, or any regulations or
permits issued by the WVSA or the Township shall be subject to a civil penalty
of not less than $100 nor more than $1,000 per each violation. Each day on
which a violation shall occur or continue to occur shall be deemed a separate
and distinct violation.
   2.   The Township recognizes that the WVSA has independent civil penalty
authority under the provisions of the Publicly Owned Treatment Works Penalty
Law (Act 9 of 1992, 35 P.S. §§ 752.1 et seq.). Any violation of this Part 3
shall constitute a violation of the WVSA’s EPA-Approved Industrial Pretreatment
Program and subject an industrial user to the penalties provided thereunder.
Should WVSA choose to assess a civil penalty under its independent authority
against a user who violates any provision of this Part 3, the Township shall
cooperate to the extent necessary to aid WVSA in such an action.
   3.   In addition to the civil penalties provided herein, the Township and/or
the WVSA may recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs, court reporters’
fees and other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the
person found to have violated this Part 3, the WVSA rules and regulations or
any permit issued hereunder.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 5.6)
§ 18-357.   Right of Appeal.
   Any user subject to an enforcement action or issuance or denial of an
industrial wastewater discharge permit under this Part 3 may file an appeal
with the WVSA within 15 days of receipt of the notice of the enforcement action
or permit issuance, revision or denial. Said appeal shall be conducted by the
WVSA as provided in the Local Agency Law, 2 Pa. C.S.A. §§ 551 et seq.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 5.7)
§ 18-358.   Public Notification.
   1.   The WVSA shall annually publish in a local newspaper of general
circulation, a list of the significant industrial users which were in
significant noncompliance with the pretreatment standards and requirements
contained herein at least once during the previous calendar year. Significant
noncompliance shall include any of the following:
   A.   Chronic violations, defined as those in which 66 percent or more of all
measurements taken for the same pollutant parameter during a six-month period
are in excess of an applicable numeric pretreatment standard or requirement,
including instantaneous maximum limits.
   B.   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined as those in which
33 percent or more of all measurements taken for the same pollutant parameter
during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits multiplied
by the applicable TRC. TRC is 1.4 for BOD, TSS, oil and grease, and 1.2 for all
other pollutants except pH.
   C.   Any other violations of a pretreatment standard or requirement,
including a narrative standard, which the WVSA determines has caused or
contributed to interference or pass through.
   D.   Any discharge that has caused imminent endangerment to human health and
safety or the environment, or has resulted in the WVSA’s exercise of its
authority to halt or prevent such a discharge under §§
18-354 or 18-355 of this Part 3.
   E.   Failure to meet a compliance schedule milestone within 90 days of the
schedule date.
   F.   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, required reports
as itemized in §
18-345 of this Part 3.
   G.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
   H.   Any other violation or groups of violations including a violation of a
BMP imposed by a permit or implemented as part of a plan developed by the user
and approved by the WVSA, which the WVSA determines to adversely affect the
operation or implementation of its approved Pretreatment Program.
   2.   The newspaper notice shall also summarize any enforcement actions taken
against the user during the same time period.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 5.8)
F.   Cooperation
§ 18-361.   Cooperation.
   The Township and the WVSA shall cooperate in all matters as they pertain to
this Part 3. Neither the Township nor the WVSA shall act in any manner so as to
compromise in any way the ability of the other party to administer this Part 3.
(Ord. 2012-4, 9/13/2012, § 6)
Part 4
Sludge
§ 18-401.   Short Title.
   This Part shall be known and cited as the “Sludge Ordinance”.
(Ord. 1/3/1983, § 1)
§ 18-402.   Prohibition.
   Any owner and/or agent of property within the Township of Plains shall be
expressly prohibited from utilizing sludge and/or any similar material which
may be classified as a form of waste water material as cover and/or, fill
material within sites currently or previously utilized as a landfill site.
(Ord. 1/3/1983, § 2)
§ 18-403.   Definitions.
   The term sludge and/or similar material which may be classified as
wastewater material shall be defined in accordance through the DEP standards.
(Ord. 1/3/1983, § 3)
§ 18-404.   Closure of Landfill Site.
   Prior to the undertaking of any work or activities related to the closure of
a landfill site, the owner and/or agent responsible for such work or activities
shall provide the Township with the following information:
   A.   The exact type of materials proposed to be utilized for fill and/or
cover in the closure.
   B.   The chemical and organic composition of all materials proposed to be
utilized as fill and/or cover material.
   C.   The quantitative amount of each type of material proposed to be
utilized as fill and/or cover material.
(Ord. 1/3/1983, § 4)
§ 18-405.   Closure Plan.
   Any owner and/or agent who files a closure plan with DEP for a landfill site
and undertakes the activities thereunder shall meet or exceed the highest
standards as set forth by DEP regulations for the closures of a landfill site
within the Township of Plains.
(Ord. 1/3/1983, § 5; as amended by A.O.)
§ 18-406.   Notice Required.
   No owner and/or agent of a landfill site shall undertake any work or related
activities required for the closure of a landfill site until said owner and/or
agent receives written notification from the Township that all regulations as
set forth in this Part have been fully met.
(Ord. 1/3/1983, § 6)
§ 18-407.   Violation and Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this Part
4, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than
$25 nor more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and
costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part 4 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1/3/1983, § 7; as amended by A.O.)
§ 18-408.   Exemption.
   Exempt from this Part will be any landfill site whose closure plan has been
approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
(Ord. 1/3/1983; as added by Ord. 1990-12, 12/13/1990, § 10; and as amended by
A.O.)
Chapter 19
[Reserved]
Chapter 20
Solid Waste
Part 1
Municipal Collection and Disposal Service for Garbage and Rubbish
A.   Collection and Disposal
§
20-101.   Intent and Purpose
§
20-102.   Definitions
B.   Disposal by Township and Residents
§
20-111.   Administration
§
20-112.   Fees
C.   Disposal by Private Haulers
§§ 20-121–20-127.   Reserved
D.   Penalties
§
20-131.   Penalties
E.   Unacceptable Waste
§
20-141.   Short Title
§
20-142.   Definitions
§
20-143.   Unacceptable Waste Prohibited
§
20-144.   Application
§
20-145.   Penalties
Part 2
Recycling
§
20-201.   Title
§
20-202.   Definitions
§
20-203.   Establishment of Program
§
20-204.   Lead Acid Batteries
§
20-205.   Separation and Disposal of Leaf Waste
§
20-206.   Municipal Ownership of Recyclables
§
20-207.   Recycling of Materials
§
20-208.   Franchise or License
§
20-209.   Incentive, Violation, Penalty and Enforcement
§
20-210.   Enforcement and Administration
§
20-211.   Alternative Collection of Recyclable Materials
Part 3
Waste Dumpsters
§
20-301.   Scope
§
20-302.   Definitions
§
20-303.   Permit Required
§
20-304.   Permit Fee
§
20-305.   Time Limitation for Construction Waste Dumpster
§
20-306.   Regulations
§
20-307.   Prohibitive Uses for Nonconstruction Waste
§
20-308.   License
§
20-309.   Safety Hazard
§
20-310.   Violation and Penalties
Part 1
Municipal Collection and Disposal Service for Garbage and Rubbish
A.   Collection and Disposal
§ 20-101.   Intent and Purpose.
   All domestic, commercial and industrial refuse accumulated or stored upon
any property within the Township of Plains shall be collected and removed by
the Township or a responsible person or private hauler who shall be licensed
with the Township of Plains and shall be disposed in an area authorized by and
approved by the Board of Commissioners in accordance with all state
regulations.
(Ord. 1990-11, 12/13/1990, Art. I, § 1)
§ 20-102.   Definitions.
   Acceptable waste–Township waste, but excluding unacceptable waste.
   Disposal–transporting waste material to an incinerator, sanitary landfill, a
resource recovery facility or other site, and making final disposition.
   Hazardous waste–
   A.   Any material or substance which, by reason of its composition or
characteristics, is:
   (1)   Toxic or hazardous wastes as defined in:
   (a)   Either the Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., or § 6
(e) of the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. § 2605(e), or any laws of
similar purpose or effect, and any rules, regulations or policies promulgated
thereunder; or
   (b)   Either PaSWMA or any laws of similar purpose or effect, any rules,
regulations or policies promulgated thereunder.
   (2)   Special nuclear or by-products materials within the meaning of the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 42 U.S.C. §§ 2011 et seq.
   B.   Any other materials which the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection or any governmental agency or unit having appropriate jurisdiction
shall determine from time to time is ineligible for disposal in a landfill,
whether by reasons of being harmful or dangerous or otherwise. [A.O.]
   Municipal waste–any garbage, refuse, industrial lunch room or office waste
and other material, resulting from operation of residential, municipal,
commercial or institutional establishments and from community activities and
any sludge not meeting the definition of residual or hazardous waste in the
Solid Waste Management Act, 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq., from a municipal,
commercial or institutional water supply treatment plan, wastewater treatment
plant or air pollution control facility. This term does not include source
separated materials.
   Person–a natural person, firm, association, copartnership, corporation or
other business entity.
   Private hauler–any person collecting or transporting municipal solid waste
for monetary or business purposes, including the municipality itself if it
undertakes the collection of municipal solid waste directly and any business or
institution within the municipality which generates sufficient municipal solid
waste to required disposal directly by its own employees and equipment. The
term “private hauler” and “collector” shall be used interchangeably in this
Part 1 and shall have the same meaning.
   Refuse–garbage, ashes, rubbish and acceptable waste as herein defined.
   Residual waste–as defined in § 103 of PaSWMA, 35 P.S. § 6018.103, and any
rules, regulations or policies promulgated thereunder.
   Rubbish–all waste materials not included in garbage and ashes except
building rubbish from building construction or reconstruction, street refuse,
industrial refuse, dead animals, abandoned large machinery or vehicles,
unacceptable waste or other such waste materials as are not commonly produced
in homes, stores and institutions.
   Solid waste–any waste, including but not limited to, municipal, residual or
hazardous wastes, including solidified liquids, semisolids or tainted gaseous
materials.
   Special handling waste–any “municipal waste” (as the term “municipal waste”
is defined in § 103 of PaSWMA, 35 P.S. § 6018.103:
   (A)   Which is defined as a “special handling waste” by rules, regulations
or policies applied by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection
or other governmental agency having appropriate jurisdiction;
   (B)   For which the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection or
other governmental agency having appropriate jurisdiction requires special or
separate approval or authorization before permitting its disposal in a
landfill; or
   (C)   Upon which the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection or
governmental agency having appropriate jurisdiction has imposed permitting,
handling or operational controls or requirements different from those
applicable to municipal waste generally. Special handling waste includes sewage
sludge, infectious waste, chemotherapeutic waste and ash residue from a
municipal waste processing facility. [A.O.]
   Unacceptable waste:
   A.   Hazardous waste.
   B.   Residual waste.
   C.   Special handling waste.
   D.   Any other material or substance which, in the reasonable judgment of
the company:
   (1)   May present a substantial endangerment to health, safety or the
environment.
   (2)   Contains less than 20 percent solids.
   (3)   May affect the integrity of the landfill’s liner or other aspects of
the landfill’s liner or other aspects of the landfill’s construction.
   (4)   May adversely affect the ability of the landfill’s leachate treatment
facility to treat leachate to a quality required by any applicable law or
permit requirement.
   (5)   May cause sludge generated by the landfill’s leachate treatment
facility to become a hazardous waste, or (6) has a reasonable possibility of
otherwise adversely affecting the operation of the landfill.
   Unacceptable waste–includes drums, sealed containers, explosives, including
dynamite, hand grenades, blasting caps, shotgun shells, fireworks and any other
explosives, gasoline, kerosene, turpentine, waste oil, acids, hydraulic oil,
petroleum, caustics, sewage or process wastewater, leachate, sewage sludge,
flammable or volatile liquids, and any other liquids, demolition debris,
asbestos, infectious, pathological, chemotherapeutic and biological waste,
ashes, radioactive materials, human or animal remains, agricultural and farm
machinery and equipment, tar, tires, white goods including refrigerators,
washing machines, and other large metal objects, and motor vehicles and motor
vehicle parts including transmissions, rear ends, springs, fenders and other
large motor vehicle parts.
   The singular shall include the plural and the masculine shall include the
feminine and the neuter.
(Ord. 1990-11, 12/13/1990, Art. I, § 2; as amended by A.O.)
B.   Disposal by Township and Residents
§ 20-111.   Administration.
   1.   All refuse accumulated in the Township shall be collected, conveyed and
disposed of by the Township and the costs of such service shall be paid as
provided in the schedule of fees set forth in §
20-112 hereof by the person producing the refuse, or responsible for the
existence or disposal thereof or for whom such refuse is removed. It shall be
unlawful for any person to collect, convey over any of the streets or alleys of
the Township or dispose of, any refuse accumulated in the Township; provided,
however, that this Part 1 shall not prohibit the actual producers of refuse and
unacceptable waste, or the owners of the premises upon which refuse and
unacceptable waste has accumulated, from personally collecting, conveying and
disposing of such refuse, if such producers or owners comply with all federal,
Pennsylvania and Township regulations for collection, conveyance and disposal,
or as prescribed in this Part 1, or made by the Commissioners under the terms
hereof; and, provided further, that collectors of refuse and unacceptable waste
(other than from their own premises or as produced by them in the Township as
hereinbefore provided for) shall have the right to haul such refuse over
Township streets, provided such collectors comply with the provisions of Part1C
of this Chapter.
   2.   The collection and disposal of refuse in Plains Township shall be under
the supervision of the Board of Commissioners of the said Township. It shall
have the authority to make regulations concerning the days of collection, type
and location of waste containers and such other matters pertaining to the
collection and disposal as it may deem advisable, and to change and modify the
same after notice as required by law, provided that such regulations are not
contrary to the provisions hereof.
   3.   The producers of refuse and unacceptable waste or the owners of
premises upon which refuse is accumulated who desire personally to collect and
dispose of such refuse and unacceptable waste and who desire to haul over the
streets of the Township, shall use a watertight vehicle provided with a tight
cover and so operated as to prevent offensive odors escaping therefrom and
refuse from being blown, dropped or spilled. Such disposal shall be made only
at a disposal area approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection. Further, said producers or owners shall provide the Township with
all of the information required of private haulers of refuse pursuant to Part
1C of this Chapter. The Board of Commissioners of the Township shall have
authority to make such other reasonable regulations concerning individual
collection and disposal as it may deem necessary. [A.O.]
   4.   Ownership of refuse material set out for collection shall be vested in
the Township.
   5.   All garbage bags shall be tied and the contents shall not weigh more
than 40 pounds. Further, residents shall be limited to placing no more than
four bags per week out for collection except as follows:
      A.   Residents shall be allowed to place in excess of four bags not to
exceed six bags, for collection during the holiday weeks of Christmas, Memorial
Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day and Thanksgiving.
      B.   No resident shall be allowed to place any refuse bags out for
collection before 6:00 p.m. on the day before the normal collection date for
that residence.
      C.   The Township of Plains has the right to inspect any bags placed out
for any weekly collection. If the Township determines that any bags include
garbage or waste not from the household where the garbage was picked up the
owner and/or individuals residing at that residence shall be subject to any
penalties set forth in §
20-131. [Ord. 2010-3; Ord. 2015-3]
   6.   All persons whose garbage or rubbish is not being collected by the
Township under the terms of this Part 1 shall furnish the Township Zoning
Officer, immediately upon his or her request, a statement of the method and
means of disposal of their garbage or rubbish and furnish such other
information relating thereto as shall be required of private haulers pursuant
to Part 1C of this Chapter.
(Ord. 1990-11, 12/13/1990, Art. II, §1; as amended by Ord. 2010-3, 8/12/2010,
§1; and by A.O.; and by Ord. 2015-3, 6/11/2015; and by Ord. 2016-3, 7/14/2016;
and by Ord. 1-2022, 3/10/2022)
§ 20-112.   Fees.
   The fees for the collection and disposal of refuse placed for collection at
ground level and not more than ten feet distant from the side of the streets or
alley from which collection is made and shall be as follows:
   A.   All refuse to be collected by the Township shall only be deposited in
garbage bags or other receptacles approved and distributed by the Township.
   B.   (1)   Each residential family unit and small business shall each year
be required to purchase approved garbage bags or other receptacles from Plains
Township in increments of 50 bags for a fee in an amount as established, from
time to time, by resolution of the Board of Commissioners. Any bags unused by
the end of any calendar year may be used the next year. [A.O.]
   (2)   The fee established in Paragraph B.(1) of this Section shall remain in
effect until revised thereafter, from time to time, by resolution duly enacted
by the Board of Commissioners.
   C.   All of the fees fixed by this Section shall be payable at the time of
purchase of the bags.
(Ord. 1990-11, 12/13/1990, Art. II, § 2; as amended by Ord. 1991-6, 12/12/1991,
§ 2; by Ord. 1997-9, 12/11/1997, § 2; by Ord. 2002-4, 12/12/2002, § 2; by Ord.
2007-8, 12/20/2007, § 2; and by A.O.)
C.   Disposal by Private Haulers
§§ 20-121–20-127.   Reserved.
D.   Penalties
§ 20-131.   Penalties.
   Any person whether as property owner or tenant, principal, agent or
employee, violating or assisting in the violation of any of the provisions of
this Part 1 or of any resolution made by the Commissioners of the Township
under the provisions hereof shall, upon conviction thereof, pay a fine of not
less than $50 nor more than $1,000, costs of prosecution and reasonable
attorney’s fees for each and every violation thereof, and in default of payment
of such fine and costs to be imprisoned for a period of not more than 30 days.
After notice, each day’s neglect to comply with the provisions of this Part 1
or any such regulations shall be deemed a separate offense, and separate
proceedings may be instituted and separate penalties imposed for each day’s
offense after the first conviction.
(Ord. 1990-11, 12/13/1990, Art. IV, § 1; as amended by A.O.; and by Ord. 2015-
3, 6/11/2015)
E.   Unacceptable Waste
§ 20-141.   Short Title.
   This Part 1E shall be known and may be cited as “Plains Township
Unacceptable Waste Ordinance”.
(Ord. 1994-1, 4/14/1994, § 1)
§ 20-142.   Definitions.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words and phrases shall be
construed throughout this Part to have the meanings herein indicated:
   Hazardous waste–
   (1)   Any material or substance which, by reason of its composition or
characteristics, is:
   (a)   Toxic or hazardous wastes as defined in:
   (1)   Either the Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., or § 6
(e) of the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. § 2605(e), or any laws of
similar purpose or effect, and any rules, regulations or policies promulgated
thereunder; or
   (2)   Either Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management Act, 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et
seq., or any laws of similar purpose or effect, and any rules, regulations or
policies promulgated thereunder.
   (b)   Special nuclear or by-products materials within the meaning of the
Atomic Energy Act 1954, 42 U.S.C.A. §§ 2011 et seq.
   (2)   Any other materials which the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection or any governmental agency or unit having appropriate jurisdiction
shall determine from time to time is ineligible for disposal in a landfill,
whether by reasons of being harmful or dangerous or otherwise. [A.O.]
   Person–any individual, association, public or private corporation, for
profit or not for profit, partnership, licensee, lessee, property owner, firm,
trust, estate, department, board, bureau or agency of the Commonwealth,
political subdivision, municipality, district authority or any other legal
entity whatsoever which is recognized by law as the subject of rights and
duties. Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty or
imposing a fine or imprisonment, the term person shall include the members of
any association, partnership or firm and the officers and directors of any
local agency or municipal corporation, public or private corporation for profit
or not for profit.
   Residual waste–as defined in § 103 of Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management
Act, 35 P.S. § 6018.103, and any rules, regulations or policies promulgated
thereunder.
   Special handling waste–any “municipal waste” (as the term “municipal waste”
is defined in § 103 of Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management Act, 35 P.S. §
6018.103:
   (1)   Which is defined as a special handling waste by rules, regulations or
policies applied by Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection or
other governmental agency having appropriate jurisdiction;
   (2)   For which the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection on
other governmental agency having appropriate jurisdiction requires special or
separate approval or authorization before permitting its disposal in a
landfill; or
   (3)   Upon which the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection or
governmental agency having appropriate jurisdiction has imposed permitting,
handling or operational controls or requirements different from those
applicable to municipal waste generally. Special handling waste includes sewage
sludge, infectious waste, chemotherapeutic waste, medical waste and ash residue
from a municipal waste processing facility. [A.O.]
   Unacceptable waste–
   (1)   Hazardous waste.
   (2)   Residual waste.
   (3)   Special handling waste.
   (4)   Any other material or substance which, in the reasonable judgement of
the Board of Commissioners may present a substantial danger to health, safety
or the environment.
(Ord. 1994-1, 4/14/1994, § 2; as amended by A.O.)
§ 20-143.   Unacceptable Waste Prohibited.
   The handling, storage, transportation, transfer, processing, treatment, and/
or disposal of any unacceptable waste is prohibited within the Township of
Plains by any person except as follows and at a minimum:
   A.   The person must make application to and receive approval of the Plains
Township Zoning Board and comply with any conditions required by said Board.
   B.   The operation shall be located in an I-1 District.
   C.   A minimum lot area of two acres is required.
   D.   The operation must take place in a building located at least 300 feet
from any residential district/area and 100 feet from any adjoining and/or
adjacent properties.
   E.   A solid closed fence with a height of eight feet shall be installed on
all boundaries.
   F.   Trees having a diameter of at least six inches and a height of at least
six feet shall be planted not further then 15 feet apart, as to effectively
screen the operation from adjoining and/or adjacent properties.
   G.   Unacceptable waste shall not remain within Plains Township for more
than 24 hours.
   H.   A performance bond in the amount of $100,000 must be provided to the
Township.
   I.   The person must comply with any and all zoning or other ordinances in
effect and which are applicable whereto.
(Ord. 1994-1, 4/14/1994, § 3)
§ 20-144.   Application.
   1.   A fee in an amount as established from time to time by resolution of
the Board of Commissioners shall be submitted along with. [A.O.]
   2.   Completed application for zoning permit.
   3.   Copies of any and all required DEP permit applications (if applicable).
[A.O.]
   4.   Listing of the locations of any similar operations in which applicant
is involved (if applicable).
   5.   Proof of liability insurance in an amount as established from time to
time by resolution of the Board of Commissioners. [A.O.]
(Ord. 1994-1, 4/14/1994, § 4; as amended by A.O.)
§ 20-145.   Penalties.
   Any person violating or assisting in the violation of any provisions of this
Part 1 or of any resolution made by the Board of Commissioners of the Township
of Plains, under provisions hereof shall, upon conviction thereof pay a fine of
not more then $1,000 and costs of prosecution for each and every violation
thereof, and in default of payment of such fines and costs to be imprisoned for
a period of not more than 30 days. After notice, each day’s neglect to comply
with the provisions of this Part 1 or any such regulations shall be deemed a
new and separate offense, and separate proceedings may be instituted and
separate penalties imposed for each day’s offense after the first conviction.
(Ord. 1994-1, 4/14/1994, § 5; as amended by A.O.)
Part 2
Recycling
§ 20-201.   Title.
   The short title of this Part shall be the “Plains Recycling Program
Ordinance”, or “P.R.P.” and the same may be cited in that manner.
(Ord. 1990-6, 9/26/1990, §I)
§ 20-202.   Definitions.
   Terms that are used in this Part:
   Aluminum cans–empty all aluminum beverage and food containers.
   Bimetallic containers–empty food or beverage containers consisting of steel
and aluminum.
   Commercial establishment–those properties used primarily for commercial or
industrial purposes and those multiple dwelling residential buildings.
   Community activities–events that are sponsored by public or private agencies
or individuals that include, but are not limited to, fairs, bazaars, socials,
picnics and organized sporting events attended by 200 or more individuals per
day.
   Corrugated cardboard–structural paper material with an inner core shaped in
rigid parallel furrows and ridges.
   Curbside collection–the collections by the Township or its authorized agent
(s) of recyclable materials placed at the curbside or other designated
location, such as recycling center/drop off site.
   Ferrous containers–empty steel or tin-coated steel food or beverage
containers.
   Glass containers–bottles and jars made of clear, green or brown glass.
Excluded are plate glass, automotive glass, blue glass and porcelain and
ceramic products.
   High grade office paper–all white paper, bond paper and computer paper used
in commercial, institutional and Township establishments and in residences.
   Institutional establishment–those facilities that house or serve groups of
people such as hospitals, schools, day care centers and nursing homes.
   Lead acid batteries–shall include, but not be limited to, automotive, truck
and industrial batteries that contain lead.
   Leaf waste–leaves from trees.
   Magazines and periodicals–printed matter containing miscellaneous written
pieces published at fixed or varying intervals. Expressly excluded are all
other paper products of any nature whatsoever.
   Multi-family housing properties–any properties having four or more dwelling
units per structure.
   Municipal establishments–public facilities operated by the Township and
other governmental and quasi-governmental authorities.
   Municipality–the Township of Plains.
   Newspapers–paper of the type commonly referred to as newsprint and
distributed at fixed intervals, having printed thereon news and opinions,
containing advertisements and other matters of public interest. Expressly
excluded are glossy advertising inserts often included with newspapers, and
newspapers which have been soiled.
   Person(s)–owners, lessees and occupants of residences, commercial or
institutional establishments.
   Plastic containers–empty plastic food and beverage containers. Due to the
large variety of types of plastic, the recycling regulations may stipulate
specific types of plastic which may be recycled.
   Recyclable materials–source separated recyclable materials, including
materials listed in § 1501 of Act 101, 53 P.S. § 4000.1501, and materials
identified by the Township to be recycled.
   Residential dwellings–any occupied single- or multi-family dwelling from
which the Township or private haulers provides municipal waste collection
service.
   Solid waste–all refuse (garbage and rubbish) and other discarded solid
material normally collected by a municipal or private hauler.
   Source separated recyclable materials–those materials separated at the point
of origin for the purpose of being recycled.
   Waste–a material whose original purpose has been completed and which is
directed to a dispoal or processing facility or is otherwise disposed.
   Yard waste–prunings, grass clippings, weeds, and leaves and garden waste.
(Ord. 1990-6, 9/26/1990, §II)
§ 20-203.   Establishment of Program.
   1.   There is hereby established by the Township of Plains hereinafter
referred to as the Township, a recycling program that mandates that recyclable
materials shall be kept separate from solid waste by all persons, from
residential to commercial premises within the borders of the Township of
Plains, and outlines its elements in accordance with Act 101, § 1501(c), 53
P.S. § 4000.1501(c).
   2.   The elements of the recycling program include the following:
   A.   Separation of recyclables by residences, storage and collection.
   B.   Separation of recyclables by commercial, Township and institutional
establishments and community activities, storage and collection.
   C.   Separation of recyclables by multi-family housing properties, storage
and collection.
   D.   Separation, collection and composting of leaf waste.
   E.   A sustained public information and education program.
   3.   The specific program regulations are provided as an attachment to this
Part 2, and that the Board of Commissioners is empowered to make changes to the
program regulations as necessary. Subsequent changes in the program regulations
may be made through approval of the Township and public notice and notification
of all affected parties and should not necessitate a change in this Part 2
itself.
(Ord. 1990-6, 9/26/1990, §III)
§ 20-204.   Lead Acid Batteries.
   It prohibits disposal of lead acid batteries at the curb with the ordinary
household waste.
(Ord. 1990-6, 9/26/1990, §IV)
§ 20-205.   Separation and Disposal of Leaf Waste.
   Leaf waste will be separated from the regular Township solid waste, and be
picked up at curbside by the Township at all residential establishments,
commercial, business, Township and institutional establishments, during a
normal leaf waste collection period, which shall be in effect from on or about
the second week of October to no later than the third week of December. Leaf
waste shall be placed at curbside, in containers designated by the Township, or
where designated by the Township, such as recycling center/drop-off site.
(Ord. 1990-6, 9/26/1990, §V)
§ 20-206.   Municipal Ownership of Recyclables.
   From the time of placement at the curb or at a recycling center/drop-off
site of any recyclable material, pursuant to the provisions of this Part 2 and
the regulations issued hereunder, all recyclable materials shall become and be
the property of the Township of Plains. It shall be a violation of the terms of
this Part 2 for any person, other than authorized personnel of the Township, to
collect, pick up or cause to be collected or picked up, any such recyclable
material. Each such collection or “pick-up” in violation hereof shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 1990-6, 9/26/1990, §VI)
§ 20-207.   Recycling of Materials.
   Recyclable materials designated by the Township shall be placed at curbside
or other Township designated location, such as recycling center/drop-off site.
All recyclable materials shall be kept separate from other solid waste or leaf
waste, in containers that the Township deems appropriate for separate
collection or drop off at such places, times and dates as may be hereinafter
established by regulations.
(Ord. 1990-6, 9/26/1990, §VII)
§ 20-208.   Franchise or License.
   The Township may enter into agreements with public or private agencies or
firms to authorize them to collect all or part of the recyclable materials from
curbside or elsewhere as designated by the Township.
(Ord. 1990-6, 9/26/1990, §VIII)
§ 20-209.   Incentive, Violation, Penalty and Enforcement.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this Part and program
regulations shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not
more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs,
to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of
this Part 2 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1990-6, 9/26/1990, §IX; as amended by A.O.)
§ 20-210.   Enforcement and Administration.
   The Township is authorized and directed to enforce this Part 2. The same is
hereby authorized and directed to establish and promulgate reasonable
regulations as to the manner, days and times for the collection of recyclable
materials in accordance with the terms hereof and any other matters required to
implement this Part 2. The Township may change, modify, repeal or amend any
portion of said rules and regulations at any time.
(Ord. 1990-6, 9/26/1990, §X)
§ 20-211.   Alternative Collection of Recyclable Materials.
   Any person may donate or sell recyclable materials to individuals or
organizations. These materials must be delivered to the individual’s or
organization’s site.
(Ord. 1990-6, 9/26/1990, §XI)
Part 3
Waste Dumpsters
§ 20-301.   Scope.
   1.   Short title. This Part 3 may be cited as the “Waste Dumpster Ordinance”
of the Township of Plains hereinafter referred to as the “Dumpster Ordinance”.
   2.   Effective date. The provisions of this Part and rules and regulations
interpreting such provisions shall become effective as provided in this Part.
   3.   Legislative. If any Section, Subsection, Sentence, Clause or Phrase of
this Part 3 is for any reason declared to be invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions herein. The Board of
Commissioners hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining Sections,
Subsections, Sentences, Clauses or Phrases irrespective of any one or more
Sections, Subsections, Sentences, Clauses or Phrases which have been ruled
invalid.
   4.   Interchangeability. Words used in the present tense include the future;
words used in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter, the
singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular.
   5.   Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this Section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies.
(Ord. 2005-3, 3/10/2005, § 1.0)
§ 20-302.   Definitions.
   As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meaning indicated.
   Cartway–that portion of the right-of-way designated for vehicular use. This
shall include both opened and unopened streets.
   Construction waste dumpster–a unit designed for the deposit if waste
materials at building construction, repair or demolition sites, commonly
located on a temporary basis on a public right-of-way abutting the site and
transportable to and from the site for purposes of disposal of its contents by
means of a carry vehicle.
   Garbage–putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   Nonconstruction waste dumpster–a unit designed for the deposit of all types
of rubbish materials, excluding garbage, generated at sites other than building
construction, repair or demolition.
   Person–any individual, firm or partnership, association or corporation.
   Public right-of-way–the width of a strip of land between property lines set
aside for public use or ownership as a street, alley, crosswalk, easement or
other facility but shall not include the tree lawn.
   Rubbish–nonputrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible waste such as paper, wrapping, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans,
yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar items.
   Sidewalk–that portion of the sidewalk area which is paved for pedestrian
use.
   Sidewalk area–that area extending from the curb line to the property line
which is designed for pedestrian use.
   Treelawn–that portion of the treelawn area which is grass and/or tree lined.
   Treelawn area–that area extending from the curb line to the sidewalk area
which is designed for grass and/or trees.
(Ord. 2005-3, 3/10/2005, § 2.0)
§ 20-303.   Permit Required.
   The regulations applicable to the permit requirements for the placement of
construction or nonconstruction waste dumpsters upon a public right-of-way are
as follows:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place upon, cause to the placed
upon, or permit to remain upon a public right-of-way, a construction or
nonconstruction waste dumpster without first filing with the Code Enforcement
Officer or Zoning Officer an application, in writing, and obtaining a formal
permit. The duration of such permit shall be contingent upon full compliance
with the regulations set forth in this Part 3.
   B.   An application for a permit shall be filed with the Code Enforcement
Officer or Zoning Officer by the property owner or a licensed contractor
employed in their respective field by the property owner in connection with the
placement of a construction or nonconstruction waste dumpster. An application
must be signed by the property owner and, in the case of a permit being issued
to a licensed contractor employed by the property owner, an application permit
must also be signed by the contractor.
   C.   All permits issued shall cover only the work set forth in the permit
application, however, in the event that it is necessary to replace a
construction or nonconstruction waste dumper upon a public right-of-way prior
to the completion of said work, additional permits shall not be required.
   D.   The placement of only one dumpster per job site upon a public right-of-
way shall be permitted at any one time.
   E.   To permits shall be issued by the Code Enforcement Officer or Zoning
Officer if, in their opinion, the location and placement of this construction
or nonconstruction waste dumpster will create a safety hazard to the use of the
sidewalk area, treelawn area or cartway by pedestrians or vehicles.
   F.   Upon the issuance of a construction or nonconstruction dumpster permit
by the Code Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer, the permit must be displayed
in a conspicuous place in front of the premises plainly visible to passerby and
kept there for the duration of the permit. The application is responsible for
the maintenance of this permit and should it be destroyed or removed, must
immediately obtain another copy.
(Ord. 2005-3, 3/10/2005, § 3.0)
§ 20-304.   Permit Fee.
   A fee in an amount as established, from time to time, by resolution of the
Board of Commissioners shall be paid for each construction or nonconstruction
waste dumpster permit issued by the Code Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer.
(Ord. 2005-3, 3/10/2005, § 4.0; as amended by A.O.)
§ 20-305.   Time Limitation for Construction Waste Dumpster.
   A construction waste dumpster shall be permitted to be placed upon a public
right-of-way for the duration of a specific building construction, repair or
demolition project for which a building permit was secured from the Code
Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer.
(Ord. 2005-3, 3/10/2005, § 5.0)
§ 20-306.   Regulations.
   Regulations applicable to the placement of construction or nonconstruction
waste dumpsters upon a public right-of-way are as follows:
   A.   The placement of a construction or nonconstruction waste dumpster upon
a public right-of-way must be temporary in nature and must be one that can be
readily removed from the right-of-way.
   B.   A construction or nonconstruction waste dumpster placed upon a public
right-of-way shall not extend into a cartway nor impede or endanger the free
flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   C.   A construction or nonconstruction waste dumpster placed upon a public
right-of-way shall not be placed within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an
intersection.
   D.   A construction or nonconstruction waste dumpster placed upon a public
right-of-way shall not be placed within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
   E.   A construction or nonconstruction waste dumpster placed upon a public
right-of-way shall bear the owner’s name and telephoned number displayed in a
conspicuous place plainly visible to passerby and kept there for the duration
of the permit.
   F.   A construction or nonconstruction waste dumpster placed upon a public
right-of-way shall bear reflect markings in sufficient positions and with
sufficient reflective capacity to provide reasonable warning to approaching
nighttime traffic of items location, and a standard barricade light shall be in
operation on the dumpster side nearest the travel lane of the public right-of-
way from sunset to sunrise.
   G.   No public right-of-way shall be closed for the purpose of location or
utilization of a construction or nonconstruction waste dumpster.
   H.   The location and utilization of a construction or nonconstruction waste
dumpster upon a public right-of-way shall not be such as to constitute a safety
hazard to person or property.
   I.   The placement of a construction or nonconstruction waste dumspter shall
not extend into the sidewalk area any more than one-third the width of the
sidewalk area, but in no case more than three feet.
   J.   The placement of a construction or nonconstruction waste dumpster shall
not extend into the treelawn area unless approved by the Code Enforcement
Officer or Zoning Officer.
   K.   The location and utilization of a construction or nonconstruction waste
dumpster upon a public right-of-way shall be in compliance with all other
federal, state and local statues, rules and regulations applicable thereto.
(Ord. 2005-3, 3/10/2005, § 6.0)
§ 20-307.   Prohibitive Uses for Nonconstruction Waste.
   A nonconstruction waste dumpster shall not be permitted to be placed upon a
public right-of-way for the disposal of garbage as defined in §
20-302 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2005-3, 3/10/2005, § 7.0)
§ 20-308.   License.
   1.   Every person engaged in the business of construction and/or
nonconstruction waste dumpsters shall before engaging in such occupation obtain
a license therefor from the Code Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer after
the submission of the following documents:
   A.   A certificate of insurance, naming the Township of Plains as
certificate holder, establishing that said hauling contractor is currently
covered by a reputable insurance company acceptable to the Code Enforcement
Officer or Zoning Officer and the Township of Plains conserving said hauling
contractor in the amount of not less than $300,000 being single limit or split
limit for bodily injury and property damage. Said certificate shall be for
continuous coverage. In the event that the insurance is canceled, the Code
Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer shall be notified in writing within 30
working days by said insurance company.
   B.   A certificate of workers compensation insurance, naming the Township of
Plains as certificate holder. In the event that a hauling contractor is not
obligated to maintain workers compensation insurance because he or she does not
employ any individuals, he or she shall be required to file an affidavit form
with the Code Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer, affirming that he or she
is not obligated to maintain workers compensation insurance.
   C.   Their federal or state employer identification number.
   D.   An indemnity agreement, in a form acceptable by the Township of Plains
promising to indemnify, save harmless and defend the Township of Plains, its
officials, agents, servants and employees and each of them against, and hold it
and them harmless from, and all lawsuits, claims, costs and reasonable
attorney’s fees, for or on account of such injury, or any damage to any
property, which may arise or which may be alleged to have arisen out of or in
connection with the placement or utilization of the waste dumpster in the
public right-of-way. A license shall not be transferable or assignable.
   2.   Every person licensed under this Part 3 shall give immediate notice of
any change in his or her home or business address.
   3.   Every person engaged in the business of construction and/or
nonconstruction waste dumpsters shall before engaging in such occupation pay an
annual license fee in an amount as established, from time to time, by
resolution of the Board of Commissioners. [A.O.]
   4.   All construction and/or nonconstruction waste dumpster hauling
contractor licenses shall be issued solely by the building inspector and shall
be valid for one licensing year and renewed annually. Prior to renewing a
license, a hauling contractor must submit the following documents to the Code
Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer:
   A.   A certificate of insurance, naming the Township of Plains as
certificate holder, establishing that said of hauling contractor is currently
covered by a reputable insurance company acceptable to the Code Enforcement
Officer or Zoning Officer and the Township of Plains covering said hauling
contractor in the amount of not less then $300,000 being single limit or split
limit for bodily injury and property damage. Said certificate shall be for
continuous coverage. In the event that the insurance is canceled, the Code
Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer shall be notified in writing within 30
working days by said insurance company.
   B.   A certificate of workers compensation insurance, naming the Township of
Plains as certificate holder. In the event that a hauling contractor is not
obligated to maintain workers compensation insurance because he or she does not
employ any individuals, he or she shall be required to file a contractor
affidavit form with the Code Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer, affirming
that he or she is not obligated to maintain workers compensation insurance.
   C.   Their federal or state employer identification number.
   5.   In the event that a licensed construction and/or nonconstruction waste
dumpster hauling contractor fails to renew his or her license at the specified
time established by the Township, the Township will provide written
notification within seven working days after the date their license has expired
giving the hauler 45 days to renew said license. The hauling contractor will be
required to pay, in addition to the normal license fee, a late charge in an
amount as established, from time to time, by resolution of the Board of
Commissioners, made payable to the Township of Plains. [A.O.]
   6.   A.   Any construction and/or nonconstruction waste dumpster hauling
contractor’s license issued to any person may be suspended by the Code
Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer if, after a thorough and proper
investigation, it is determined that:
   (1)   Said license was partially or wholly procured by or through
nondisclosure, misstatement or misrepresentation.
   (2)   If a previously imposed penalty shall not have met with full
compliance.
   (3)   The holder of said license has repeatedly and/or willfully violated
any one of the provisions of this Part 3. Repeated violations is hereby defined
as a minimum of three separate offenses within a period of five years under
this Part 3 for which the licensee or offender has either pleaded guilty by a
magisterial district judge or other court of competent jurisdiction. [A.O.]
   B.   The Code Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer, prior to invoking a
suspension of a license, shall first cause to be served upon said licensee by
certified or registered mail, a written notice of suspension or revocation of
license, as the case may be setting forth in specific terms and language the
nature of the repeated violations, the times thereof and places of occurrence.
   C.   On a first offense, a hauling contractor’s license shall be suspended
for a period of one to three months. On a second offense, a hauling
contractor’s license shall be suspended for a mandatory six months. A third
offense shall constitute an immediate revocation of a hauling contractor’s
license.
   D.   Any person aggrieved by the suspension of such license may take an
appeal to the Board of Commissioners within ten working days from the notice of
license suspension. The Board of Commissioners shall convene a hearing within
30 days and issue a written decision within ten days thereafter.
   E.   If during the time of suspension, a hauling contractor’s license is
eligible for renewal, said contractor will be exempt from meeting the license
renewal provisions as defined in Subsection 3. above for the entire time period
said license is suspended. Within 30 working days from the date the suspension
is removed by the Code Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer the license
renewal provisions as defined in the Subsection 3. above shall apply. In the
event that the hauling contractor fails to renew his or her license within 30
working days from the date of the suspension was removed, the provisions
outlined in Subsection 4. above shall apply.
   7.   A.   Revocation of license any construction and/or nonconstruction
waste dumpster hauling contractor’s license issued to any person may be
immediately revoked by the Code Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer if, after
a thorough and proper investigation, it is determined that:
   (1)   The holder of said license has willfully or negligently damaged or
caused to be damaged the Township’s public right-of-way.
   (2)   The holder of said license has willfully or negligently placed a
construction waste dumpster in a public right-of-way which has created a
dangerous or unsafe condition which poses a threat to the safety and welfare of
pedestrian and/or vehicular traffic.
   (3)   The holder of said license has repeatedly and/or willfully ignored
stop work order(s) issued by the Code Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer.
   B.   Any hauling contractor’s license which has been revoked by the Code
Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer shall not be reactivated.
   C.   Any person aggravated by the revocation of such license may take an
appeal to the Board of Commissioners within ten working days from the notice of
license suspension or revocation. The Board of Commissioners shall convene a
hearing within 30 days and provide a written decision within ten days
thereafter.
   8.   Use of license by another prohibited. No person licensed under these
provisions shall allow a permit to be issued in his, her or its own name for
use by a person not licensed as required herein to place construction or
nonconstruction waste dumpsters within the Township public right-of-way under
penalty or forfeiture of his, her or its license.
(Ord. 2005-3, 3/10/2005, § 8.0; as amended by A.O.)
§ 20-309.   Safety Hazard.
   1.   Whenever the placement of a construction or nonconstruction waste
dumpster shall have been declared a safety hazard to the use of the sidewalk
area, treelawn area or cartway by pedestrians or vehicles by the Code
Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer or his or her designee, the Code
Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer or his or her designee shall serve or
cause to be served upon the owner or other person who may have a vested or
contingent interest in said waste dumpster, a written notice describing the
unsafe or hazardous condition and ordering the same be made safe and secure or
removed within 48 hours after notice has been issued relative to the unsafe or
hazardous condition.
   2.   If the person to whom such notice and order is addressed cannot be
found after a diligent search then such notice and other shall be sent by
registered mail to the last known address of such person; and a copy of such
noticee shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the construction or
nonconstruction waste dumpster to which it relates. Such mailing and posting
shall be deemed adequate service.
   3.   If the person served with a notice to make safe and secure or remove
the construction or nonconstruction waste dumpster should fail, within the time
frame specified by the Code Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer or his or her
designee, to comply with requirements thereof, Code Enforcement Officer or
Zoning Officer building inspector or his or her designee, when authorized by
the Board of Commissioners may have said waste dumpster removed from the public
right-of-way. Any costs incurred shall be paid out of the Township treasury on
certification by of the Code Enforcement Officer or Zoning Officer or his or
her designee.
   4.   The Township Solicitor or other prosecuting authority shall institute
proper actions against the owner of the construction or nonconstruction waste
dumpster for the recovery of costs incurred by the Code Enforcement Officer or
Zoning Officer or his or her designee in the performance of having said waste
dumpster removed from the public right-of-way.
   5.   Any person aggrieved by the actions of the Code Enforcement Officer or
Zoning Officer may take an appeal to the Board of Commissioners within ten
working days from the notice to make safe and secure, convene a hearing within
30 days and provide a written decision within ten days thereafter.
(Ord. 2005-3, 3/10/2005, § 9.0)
§ 20-310.   Violation and Penalties.
   1.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part 3, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this
Part 3 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   2.   The owner of a building, structure or premises, where the violation of
this Part 3 shall be placed or shall exist, and the contractor employed in
connection therewith and who may have assisted in the commission of such
violation and the owner of the waste dumpster who may have assisted in the
commission of such violation, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part 3
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2005-3, 3/10/2005, § 10.0; as amended by A.O.)
Chapter 21
Streets and Sidewalks
Part 1
Pave Cuts and Street Excavations
A.   Definitions
§
21-101.   Definitions
B.   Permits
§
21-111.   Alternate Permit Procedure
§
21-112.   Emergency Permit Procedures
§
21-113.   Nonfee Permits
§
21-114.   Penalty for Failure to Obtain a Permit
§
21-115.   Insurance Protection
§
21-116.   Safety Precautions
§
21-117.   Road Closing
§
21-118.   Time Periods
§
21-119.   Scheduling
§
21-120.   Excavated Material
§
21-121.   Suitability of Materials
§
21-122.   Waste Material
§
21-123.   Wet Material
§
21-124.   Dry Material
§
21-125.   Opening of a Street
§
21-126.   Special Type Pavements
§
21-127.   Responsibility for Damages
§
21-128.   Backfilling
§
21-129.   Temporary Restoration
§
21-130.   Permanent Restoration
§
21-131.   Restoration
§
21-132.   Restoration-Special
§
21-133.   Testing and Inspection
§
21-134.   Repaving and Reconstruction
§
21-135.   Limestone and Monuments
§
21-136.   Parking Meters
§
21-137.   Test Borings
§
21-138.   Replacement of Pavement Markings
§
21-139.   Replacement of Electronic Traffic Control Devices and Ancillary
Equipment
C.   Preparation of Streets for Pavings, Repair or Reconstruction
§
21-141.   Purpose
§
21-142.   Determination of Lines and Grades by the Township Engineer
§
21-143.   Utility Corridor; Vertical Assignments for New Street Construction
§
21-144.   Horizontal and Aerial Utility Corridors
§
21-145.   Determination of Reimbursement
§
21-146.   Commencement of Utility Relocation Activities
D.   Enforcement
§
21-151.   Delegation of Authority to the Township Zoning Officer
§
21-152.   Street Inspectors
§
21-153.   Noncompliance
§
21-154.   Resumption of Suspended Work
§
21-155.   Penalties for Noncompliance
§
21-156.   Nonissuance
§
21-157.   Designation of Statutory Agent
§
21-158.   Pertaining to General Contractors
E.   Repealer
§
21-161.   Effect on Existing Proceedings, Regulations and Contracts
§
21-162.   Repealed Laws Not Revived and the Like
§
21-163.   Penalty for Violation
§
21-164.   Acknowledgment of Guilt
Part 2
Snow and Ice Removal From Sidewalks
§
21-201.   Responsibility
§
21-202.   Removal by Township; Recovery of Costs
§
21-203.   Violations and Penalties
§
21-204.   Definition
Part 3
Railroad Crossings
§
21-301.   Repairs and Improvements
§
21-302.   Penalty
Part 1
Pave Cuts and Street Excavations
A.   Definitions
§ 21-101.   Definitions.
   1.   The following words, terms and phrases when used in this Part shall
have the same meaning ascribed to them in this Section, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   2.   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory. Whenever
in this Part, the words “directed”, “required”, “permitted”, “ordered”,
“designated”, “prescribed” or words of like import are sued, it shall be
understood that the direction, requirement, permission, order, designation or
prescription of the Township Engineer is intended; and similarly, the words
“approved”, “acceptable”, “satisfactory” or words of like import shall mean
approved by, acceptable to or satisfactory to the Township Engineer.
   Application for a pave cut permit–a form provided the utility by the
Township noting pertinent data for the purposes of inspection and control by
the Township and constituting a receipt for services performed by the Township.
   Capital improvement–preplanned to improve upgrade and existing system or to
install a completely new system providing new or additional service.
   Emergency repair–work necessitated by the rupture or sudden malfunction of
existing underground facilities.
   Inspection–a careful or critical investigation not necessarily confined to
optical observation but is understood to embrace tests and examination for the
purpose of ascertaining quality and compliance as prescribed in this Part and
discovering and correcting error.
   Municipal corporation–all cities, boroughs, towns, townships or counties of
this Commonwealth and also any public corporation, authority or body whatsoever
created or organized under any laws of this Commonwealth for the purpose of
rendering any service similar to that of a public utility. For the purpose of
this document, “municipal corporation” shall mean the Township of Plains.
   New pavement–any pavement to a road that is less than five years old. [Ord.
2015-2]
   Pavements–riding surfaces of machine laid asphalt over a base of concrete,
brick, Belgian block, crushed stone, bituminous concrete or oil and stone.
   Person–individuals, partnerships or associations other than corporations and
includes their lessees, assignees, trustees, receivers, executors,
administrators or other successors in interest.
   Public utility–
   (1)   Persons or corporations now or hereafter owning or operating in this
Commonwealth equipment or facilities for:
   (a)   Producing, generating, transmitting, distributing or furnishing
natural or artificial gas, electricity or steam for the production of light,
heat or power to or for the public for compensation.
   (b)   Diverting, developing, pumping, impounding, distributing or furnishing
water to or for the public for compensation.
   (c)   Transporting, or conveying natural or artificial gas, crude oil,
gasoline or petroleum products by pipe lines or conduit, for the public for
compensation.
   (d)   Conveying or transmitting messages or communications by telephone or
telegraph to the public for compensation.
   (2)   The term “public utility” shall not include:
   (a)   Any person or corporation, not otherwise a public utility, who or
which furnishes services only to himself, herself or itself.
   (b)   Any bona fide cooperative association which furnishes services to its
stockholders or members on a non-profit basis.
   (c)   Any producer of natural gas not engaged in distributing such gas
directly to the public for compensation.
   Service–“service” is used in this Part in its broadest and most inclusive
sense, and includes any and all acts done, rendered or performed, and any and
all things furnished or supplied, and any and all facilities used, furnished or
supplied by public utilities, in the performance of their duties under this
Part to their patrons, employees, other public utilities and the public, as
well as the interchange of facilities between two or more of them. A copy of
the completed application signed by the Township Engineer or his or her agent
shall be in the hands of a competent person at the worksite described in said
application and shall constitute a permit.
   Special pavement–riding surfaces of concrete, brick, Belgian block or
cobblestone.
   Street–street shall mean and include any street, highway, road, land, court,
alley or place of whatever nature, whether dedicated or not, open to the use of
the public as a matter or right for purposes of vehicular travel.
   Township pave cut log–a chronological record of pave cuts as required to the
Township containing pertinent data as required by the Township for the purposes
of inspection and control.
   Utility corridor–an area within any public right-of-way, usually underground
but not limited to same, reserved for and assigned to a specified utility by
the Township Engineer. The area to be used by the specified utility for placing
and operating its facilities for transmitting and distributing its particular
commodity or service.
   Utility relocation–utility relocation shall mean and include the adjustment,
replacement or relocation of utility facilities as required by street
construction or repaving project, such as: removing or reinstalling the
facility, acquiring the necessary rights-of-way, moving or rearranging existing
facilities, chancing the type of facility, and any necessary safety and
protective measures. It shall also mean the construction of a replacement
facility functionally equal to the existing facility, where necessary for the
continuous operation of the utility service, the project economy, or sequence
of street construction.
   Work–the furnishing of all materials, labor, equipment and other incidentals
necessary or convenient to the successful completion of the project and the
fulfillment of all duties and obligations imposed by this Part.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 101; as amended by Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, §§ 101, 106)
B.   Permits
§ 21-111.   Alternate Permit Procedure.
   1.   Notification by telephone, to the Township Zoning Officer must be made
a minimum of 15 minutes in advance of excavation, but not more than 24 hours in
advance of excavation. An entry in the Township pave cut log (the record of
notification of the Township) together with a completed application for pave
cut permit shall constitute a permit. The completion of an application form
alone shall not constitute a permit.
   2.   An application form, properly completed and including a location sketch
shall be collected from the utility on a monthly basis by the Township. Permit
fees shall be billed on a monthly basis by the Township of Plains and shall be
payable to the Township. Application forms shall be provided by the Plains
Township Zoning Officer.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 201)
§ 21-112.   Emergency Permit Procedures.
   1.   In the case where an emergency repair, as herein before defined, is
found, the utility shall first notify the Township Zoning Officer, and inform
him or her that an emergency exists.
   2.   When the emergency occurs after the normal Township working hours, on
weekends and holidays, the Township Police Dispatcher must be notified.
Emergency pave cuts shall be recorded in the Township pave cut log at the start
of the next business day following the emergency.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 202)
§ 21-113.   Nonfee Permits.
   Pave cuts necessitated by the Township sponsored public improvements will be
on a nonfee basis but limited to a specific contract area. Work done outside a
project area will be handled under §
21-111, and will require a permit fee. A list of noting exact locations and
dimensions of all such cuts shall be submitted to the Department of Public
Works at the completion of work. Notification will be required for any pave
cuts made in state highways located within the Township for which a highway
occupancy permit has been issued.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 118)
§ 21-114.   Penalty for Failure to Obtain a Permit.
   All work done without a permit shall be subject to a penalty plus regular
fees. (See Fee Schedule.)
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 119)
§ 21-115.   Insurance Protection.
   1.   The applicant shall protect, defend, indemnify and save harmless the
municipality, its officers and/or agents thereof, from all claims, suits,
actions and proceedings of every nature and description which may be brought
against the municipality, its officers or agents thereof, for or on account of
any injuries or damages to persons or public or private property, because of
any materials or appliances used in the work, or by or on account of improper
materials or workmanship, or for or on account of any accident or any other
act, negligence or omissions of said applicant, or his or her agents, servants
or employees, and the municipality shall not, in any way, be liable therefor
during the period of the work progress and for the period following the
completion of the work until the street is resurfaced or reconstructed by the
municipality.
   2.   Minimum insurance shall be:
   A.   Five hundred thousand dollars liability per individual with a limit of
$1,000,000 for each occurrence for bodily injury.
   B.   Five hundred thousand dollars liability for property damage.
   C.   Evidence of insurance in the form of a certificate or letter executed
by a duly authorized representative of the applicant’s insurance carrier shall
be submitted to the Engineer each January 15. Said evidence of insurance must
include the provision that the Township shall be given proper advance notice of
at least 30 days of cancellation or any material alteration in the applicant’s
policy.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 120; as amended by Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, § 120)
§ 21-116.   Safety Precautions.
   During the progress of work the applicant shall provide and maintain such
barricades, warning signs and flagpersons as may be deemed necessary by the
Township to prevent accidents to the public and/or adjoining tenants. Minimum
precautions must include, but should not be limited to, advance warning signs
on all approaches to the work, safe crossing for pedestrians each 300 feet,
barricades with flashers on each exposed side at 50-foot intervals. All
precautions shall be in accordance with the “Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices” as adopted by USTA 1972 and current update.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 121)
§ 21-117.   Road Closing.
   No street in the Township of Plains may be completely closed to traffic at
any time. One lane of traffic must be able to pass unobstructed at all times.
Flagpersons must be posted at the limits of work at all times to direct traffic
through the work area, and all established traffic patterns must be maintained
at all times. If all other means of traffic control have been exhausted, the
Township may permit a road to be completely closed temporarily only with the
consent of the Township Fire Chief and the Township Police Chief. When an
emergency exists the Police and Fire Departments shall be notified. An
application form for a permit to close a street will be available from the
Township Zoning Officer. The completed application bearing the signatures of
the before mentioned officers shall be returned to the applicant and shall
constitute a permit. A penalty shall be imposed for failure to notify the
Chiefs of the Fire and Police Bureaus. (See Fee Schedule.)
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 122)
§ 21-118.   Time Periods.
   For small area pave cuts, the utility or contractor shall be required to
complete the temporary restoration within 48 consecutive hours of the initial
cuts during the normal working week excluding holidays and weekends. Extension
time may be allowed upon appeal to the Township Engineer, provided the
contractor substantiates sufficient reasons for the extension required. Work on
long cuts, those over 25 feet in length, shall proceed in a continuous manner
in accordance with §
21-116, Safety Precautions. Permits for long cuts or capital improvements will
not be granted during the months of November through March except by written
permission from the Township Engineer. The utility or contractor shall
coordinate planned cuts in the Township streets with the paving program of the
Township. A construction schedule comprised of planned cuts shall be submitted
to the Township Engineer as it become available. The Township will provide a
paving program for a one-year period to the utilities prior to February 15.
Changes in the utilities schedule of planned cuts shall require confirmation
from the Township Engineer. Changes in the Township paving program shall be
submitted to all utilities at the earliest possible date to permit the
utilities to adjust their respective schedule.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 123; as amended by Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, § 123)
§ 21-119.   Scheduling.
   1.   All excavations shall be commenced and completed by the use of a
reasonable work force. In congested areas and the central business district,
the municipality may limit work to other than normal daytime working hours. At
the cessation of work, adequate steel plates shall be placed over the
excavation while it is not being worked to ensure full traffic flow. The
maximum length of any opening in the roadway shall be 200 feet, unless
otherwise permitted, in writing, by the Municipal Engineer.
   2.   In accordance with the Pennsylvania One Call System, those individuals
or entities making pave cuts shall be required to mark said cuts with the
following colors:
   A.   Red: electric power lines, cables, conduit and lighting cables.
   B.   Yellow: gas, oil, steam, petroleum or gaseous materials.
   C.   Orange: communications, alarm or signal lines, cables or conduit.
   D.   Blue: water, irrigation and slurry lines.
   E.   Green: sewers and drain lines.
   F.   Pink: temporary survey markings.
   G.   White: proposed excavation.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 124; as amended by Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, § 124)
§ 21-120.   Excavated Material.
   In peak traffic areas all excavated material shall be removed daily at the
cessation of work. All gutters and drainage devices shall be kept clean of all
debris and excavated material. Fire hydrants adjacent to the work shall be at
all times readily accessible to fire apparatus, and no material or obstructions
shall be placed within 15 feet of any hydrant.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 125)
§ 21-121.   Suitability of Materials.
   The suitability of materials to be used as backfill shall be determined by
the Township Engineer or his or her agent. All materials not conforming to the
requirements of this Part whether in place or not, shall be rejected. Such
materials shall be removed promptly from the work site.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 126)
§ 21-122.   Waste Material.
   Material which is unsuitable and any sum of excavated material shall be
considered waste and shall be disposed of by the utility or contractor beyond
the project limits. In no case shall waste material be left at the work site.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 127)
§ 21-123.   Wet Material.
   Material containing moisture in excess of that percentage which will ensure
satisfactory compaction shall not be used as backfill material.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 128)
§ 21-124.   Dry Material.
   Material containing insufficient moisture to obtain satisfactory compaction
shall be moistened before compaction.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 129)
§ 21-125.   Opening of a Street.
   Power-driven concrete saws or air hammers shall be used on all cuts in
portland cement base pavements. The cuts must be of sufficient depth to provide
a smooth edge. Opening in brick or Belgian block cased streets shall be of
sufficient width to expose one-half row of undisturbed interlocking stone. No
pavement busters, such as drop hammers, hoe rams and the like shall be used
without the written permission of the Township Engineer.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 130)
§ 21-126.   Special Type Pavements.
   The removed riding surface of brick, Belgian block or cobblestone, tiles or
other special surface shall be preserved at the worksite for restoration after
the opening has been backfilled.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 131)
§ 21-127.   Responsibility for Damages.
   In the event a cut is made, and upon inspection, damage to another utility’s
underground facilities is discovered, it shall be the responsibility of the
party making the cut to contact the Township Engineer, and all concerned
pertinent utilities to instruct them (it) to have representatives inspect the
condition before any backfilling is begun.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 132)
§ 21-128.   Backfilling.
   The Municipal Engineer must be notified in advance of all backfilling. In
backfilling, four-inch layers shall be placed in the deepest portion of the
backfill, and, as placement progresses, each four-inch layer shall be
horizontally constructed. Compaction operations shall be continued using
mechanical tampers until each layer of fill is compacted to a dry density at
least equal to 95 percent of the maximum dry density attained by the Modified
Proctor Test, ASTM D1557, latest revision, Method C or Method D, as designated
by the Municipal Engineer. Specifications for sidewalk restoration are covered
under a separate municipal ordinance.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 133; as amended by Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, § 133)
§ 21-129.   Temporary Restoration.
   All restoration made with cold patch shall be considered temporary. The
permittee is responsible for all costs and expenses of making and maintaining
temporary and permanent restorations of disturbed arose. Temporary restoration
consists of a minimum of three inches of bituminous material and is maintained
in place until permanent restoration can be made.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 134)
§ 21-130.   Permanent Restoration.
   Only utilities or their contractors will be permitted to make permanent
restorations of openings in pavements. The restored pavements shall be
guaranteed from failure from the date of completion until such time as the
street is resurfaced by the Township. Permanent restoration must be completed
within 30 days of the initial cut. Any cuts made in the month of November
through March shall be permanently restored within 30 days after hot asphalt
becomes available. Any failure of restoration will be reported to the pertinent
utility, and repairs by the utility will begin 24 hours after notification.
Upon failure of the utility to repair the cut in a satisfactory manner, the
Township shall have the option to do the work or to contract to complete the
work and bill the utility for the cost plus 20 percent. In addition, penalties
for noncompliance shall be levied against the utility or contractor.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 135; as amended by Ord. 2000-5, 7/13/2000; as amended by
Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, § 135)
§ 21-131.   Restoration.
   1.   Prior to the placement of the base course, the existing base and
surface must be cut back to a minimum of 12 inches on each side of any pave cut
or such greater amount as deemed necessary by the Municipal Engineer. The
concrete base course shall be replaced with high early strength concrete when
temperatures are below 40°F, for temperatures above 40°F, 3,000 pounds per
square inch concrete shall be used for the full depth of the adjacent base or a
minimum of eight inches to the bottom elevation of the existing asphalt wear
course. After placement, the concrete shall be cured in accordance with Penn
Dot Form 408. Following the concrete curing a tack coat of bituminous material
Type E-l will be applied. Restoration of flexible base pavements shall consist
of BCBC for the full depth of the adjacent permanent base. The wearing course
shall be placed at a minimum depth of two inches and rolled to conform with the
existing road, and the edges sealed. Surface treatments, such as sand or chip
seals, are prohibited. On long cuts, surface finishing must be rolled with not
less than a six-ton roller. Small cuts may be finished with a mechanical tamper
or vibrator. All openings, regardless of size, must be permanently restored.
   2.   Any pave cut which exceeds 100 feet in length shall require complete
restoration of the entire road for the entire length of the pavement cut.
Restoration shall include replacing pavement markings, milling and returning of
the road to its original pitch and crown.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 136; as amended by Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, § 136)
§ 21-132.   Restoration-Special.
   The permanent restoration of special type pavements, such as concrete,
brick, Belgian block, cobblestone gutters or tiles, shall consist of relaying
the original wearing course in accordance with the original installation
specifications in such a manner as to prevent settlement or other
deterioration.
(Ord. 8/24/1988)
§ 21-133.   Testing and Inspection.
   1.   The Township Street Inspector may inspect all cuts having an area of
five square yards or more, and an inspection fee shall be charged. Such
inspection fees shall constitute acceptance and approval of work performed by
the utility or its contractor, but it is understood that such acceptance and
approval does not relieve the utility of any responsibility under this Part
throughout the guarantee period.
   2.   Inspection of small cuts having an area of five square yards or less
shall not require visual observation when the work is in progress, but may be
approved or rejected through subsequent examinations and/or testing.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 137)
§ 21-134.   Repaving and Reconstruction.
   Upon notification from the office of the Township Engineer of a planned
street resurface or reconstruction, all utilities will be required to test
their lines and services and to schedule necessary capital improvements and
service connections prior to resurfacing or reconstruction. Thereafter, cuts
will be permitted in the new pavement only in an emergency. Pave cuts made in
new pavement shall be subject to a penalty. (See Fee Schedule.) Essential
services for new building construction will be exempt from this penalty. New
construction shall not include the addition of an alternate or secondary source
of fuel, water, heat or other service not included in the original construction
or regarded as essential to the original construction. Pavement shall be
considered new for a period of five years, from the date of plan.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 138)
§ 21-135.   Limestone and Monuments.
   No linestone or monument in the Township of Plains may be removed, altered
or buried at any time. When pave cuts or road construction, require the
temporary removal of a linestone or monument, it must be preserved at the site
and reset at the direction of the Engineer. All costs incident thereto,
including surveys, shall be charged to the utility or contractor. A penalty
shall be imposed for failure to report the removal or alteration of a linestone
or monument. Burial or paving over a limestone or monument shall carry a
penalty for each stone or monument covered. In addition, all cost incidental to
exposing and/or resetting a limestone or monument shall be charged to the
utility or contractor, and a 20 percent penalty shall be added to their costs.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 139; as amended by Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, § 139)
§ 21-136.   Parking Meters.
   When street work renders metered parking unavailable, the applicant shall be
charged in an amount as established, from time to time, by resolution of the
Board of Commissioners per day per metered space.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 140; as amended by A.O.)
§ 21-137.   Test Borings.
   All test holes and borings shall require restoration. Restoration of bore
holes shall follow immediately after testing with the application of asphalt or
other water resistant plugs. A penalty will be charged for each test hole found
unplugged. (See Fee Schedule.)
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 141)
§ 21-138.   Replacement of Pavement Markings.
   The utility and/or its contractor must replace, in kind, all pavement
markings damaged or removed by pave cuts and work incident thereto. All
markings must be replaced within five days after permanent restoration. Should
the contractor fail to replace the same, the municipality shall contract to
have the necessary repairs made and bill the utility for the cost of the work
plus 20 percent penalty.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 142; as amended by Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, § 142)
§ 21-139.   Replacement of Electronic Traffic Control Devices and Ancillary
Equipment.
   Electronic traffic control devices and ancillary equipment damaged or
removed because of pavement excavations or work incident thereto must be
replaced by the utility or its contractor, in kind, in whole or in part, as
required by the Township Engineer or his or her agent. The Towhship shall
contract to have the necessary repairs made and bill the utility.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 143)
C.   Preparation of Streets for Pavings, Repair or Reconstruction
§ 21-141.   Purpose.
   The Township Board of Commissioners provides by this Part 1C, for the
laying, renewing and repairing of all gas, water, steam or other pipes, or
conduits, in any street, before the paving, repaving or repairing of the same,
and for making the necessary house connections with said pipes, and also for
the necessary house connections and branches with and leading into main or
lateral sewers; provided, that in no case, except as a sanitary measure, of
which the Board of Commissioners shall be the judge, shall the Board of
Commissioners require such house connections to be extended further from such
sewers, or from such gas, water, steam or other pipes, or conduits, than to the
inner line of the curbstone of such street. The Board of Commissioners may,
after notice to all companies, corporations, persons and owners affected, and
in default of compliance therewith, cause said pipes to be laid, renewed or
repaired, and said connections made, and collect the cost of paving, and
repairing all pipes and pipe from the companies, corporations or persons owning
or operating the said gas, water, steam and other pipes or conduits, with
interest and the cost of the sewer connections shall be a first lien against
the land for whose benefit such connections are made. A separate lien may be
filed therefor, or such sewer connection cost may be included in any lien filed
for the cost of such street improvement, and the lien and the other proceedings
thereon shall be as in the case of other municipal liens. Municipal Claims and
Liens Act, 53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq.
(Ord. 8/24/1988)
§ 21-142.   Determination of Lines and Grades by the Township Engineer.
   The Township Engineer shall have the final decision for the determination of
lines and grades for street construction. This decision shall be based on good
engineering practices and Township standards.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 301)
§ 21-143.   Utility Corridor; Vertical Assignments for New Street Construction.
   The following depths for pipes and conduits are assigned to the utilities
operating under this Part:
   A.   Gas lines shall be a minimum of 30 inches below subgrade.
   B.   Water lines shall be a minimum of 36 inches below subgrade, a water
main shall be a minimum of five feet below subgrade.
   C.   Electric lines and conduits shall be a minimum of 24 inches below
subgrade.
   D.   Steam lines shall be a minimum of 30 inches below subgrade.
   E.   Telecommunication lines and conduits shall be a minimum of 36 inches
below subgrade.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 302)
§ 21-144.   Horizontal and Aerial Utility Corridors.
   Aerial installations of electric power transmissions and telecommunications
lines suspended from supporting poles having their base and/or support wires
within the public right-of-way and interfering with a roadway construction
reconstruction or repair project shall be relocated upon written order from the
Township Engineer to a point specified therein. The Township Engineer may
require the utility to place its aerial facilities underground where it is
deemed necessary or desirable. Hereafter, aerial installations shall be placed
subject to approval by the Township Engineer. The Township Engineer shall
assign horizontal corridors on a case by case basis for all new construction.
All gate box shut-off valves and other regulating devices underground for
individual customers for gas, water, steam, electric and telecommunications
lines shall be located inside the inner line of the curbstone or, in the case
where no curb exists, to a point specified by the Township Engineer.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 303)
§ 21-145.   Determination of Reimbursement.
   The Township may participate in the actual costs less betterments of utility
relocation when:
   A.   An existing utility right-of-way is owned buy the utility and
interferes with a Township construction project.
   B.   Utility relocation may be necessary for the installation, maintenance
or repair of municipally owned or operated utility systems such as the
municipal sewer systems where the installation or modification of Township
owned or operated utility is a part of a roadway construction project,
participation in the reimbursement for utility relocation is expected.
(Ord. 8/24/1988; as amended by Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, § 304)
§ 21-146.   Commencement of Utility Relocation Activities.
   1.   Upon receipt of a letter from the Township Engineer authorizing the
start of physical work, the utility shall commence work within 30 days unless
otherwise stated by the Engineer with reasonable cause shown in order to clear
the construction area. The utility shall perform the relocation work in
accordance with the approved plan of the Township Engineer.
   2.   Utility relocation shall be accomplished by the utility to assure its
completion prior to the commencement of roadway construction. Areas of utility
relocation work which cannot be accomplished simultaneously without restricting
the roadway project contractor may be done concurrently with the contractors
operations when approved by the Township Engineer and the contractor.
   3.   It is acknowledged that field conditions occasionally necessitate
revision of the utility relocation plan. It shall be the responsibility of the
utility to report and justify such revisions, to correct any data on the file
with the Township Engineer. The utilities are required to obtain the
contractors concurrence prior to such revisions within the right-of-way of the
project under construction. Minor modifications of the relocation plan may be
made without prior approval of the Township Engineer. All such changes shall be
brought to the attention of the project engineer and shall be noted in the
daily inspection report.
(Ord. 8/24/1988; as amended by Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, § 305)
D.   Enforcement
§ 21-151.   Delegation of Authority to the Township Zoning Officer.
   The Board of Commissioners provides by this Part that the responsibility and
authority for the administration and enforcement of the Act shall rest in the
Township Zoning Officer.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 401)
§ 21-152.   Street Inspectors.
   The Township Zoning Officer may appoint as representatives persons to
enforce this Part. These shall have the authority and responsibility for the
enforcement of this Part as vested in the Township Zoning Officer.
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 402)
§ 21-153.   Noncompliance.
   When work performed by a utility or contractor under this Part is found in
violation of same the contractor or utility may be given the opportunity to
make corrections as required by the Township. If the corrections are not
completed in the specified time or not completed as specified, the Township may
suspend all work whether completed or in progress in noncompliance with this
Part, and take appropriate safety precautions. All work performed or contracted
for by Plains Township to attain compliance in this regard shall be billed to
the utility or contractor. In addition, a penalty for noncompliance shall be
imposed. (See Fee Schedule.)
(Ord. 8/24/1988, § 403)
§ 21-154.   Resumption of Suspended Work.
   The utility shall actively resume work upon order from the Township after a
suspension.
(Ord. 8/24/1988; as amended by Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, § 404)
§ 21-155.   Penalties for Noncompliance.
   If the utility or contractor fails to make adequate corrections to work
found in noncompliance with this Part in the time specified, a penalty shall be
imposed until said corrections are complied to specifications. (See Fee
Schedule.)
(Ord. 8/24/1988; as amended by Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, § 405)
§ 21-156.   Nonissuance.
   1.   The Township reserves the right to bar any contractor or his or her
employees from working within the Township limits whose work is found in
noncompliance with this Part. The Township reserves the right to refuse
issuance of a permit to any applicant who fails to maintain pave cuts in
accordance with this Part, or who fails to pay the sum due the Township within
30 days from the date of billing.
   2.   The Township reserves the right to refuse issuance of a permit to cut
new pavement.
(Ord. 8/24/1988; as amended by Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, § 406)
§ 21-157.   Designation of Statutory Agent.
   Every public utility shall file with the Township Zoning Officer, a
designation in writing of the name and the post office address of a person
within the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania upon whom service of any notice, order
or process may be made under this Part. Such designation may, from time to
time, be changed by like writing similarly filed.
(Ord. 8/24/1988; as amended by Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, § 407)
§ 21-158.   Pertaining to General Contractors.
   At the discretion of the Township, licensed contractors, other than those
under the contract to a utility, may be permitted to make an opening cut or
excavation in the Township’s public streets. Sections pertaining to public
utilities shall be applicable to licensed contractors. (See Fee Schedule.)
(Ord. 8/24/1988; as amended by Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, § 408)
E.   Repealer
§ 21-161.   Effect on Existing Proceedings, Regulations and Contracts.
   All litigation, hearings, investigations and other proceedings whatsoever
pending under any Act repealed by the Act shall continue and remain in full
provisions of the Act. All orders, rules, regulations issued or filed under the
Act repealed by this Part and in full force and affect for the term issued or
until revoked vacated or modified under the provisions of this Part. All
existing contracts and obligations entered into or created under any Act
repealed by this Part and in force and effect upon the effective date of this
Part shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 8/24/1988; as amended by Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, § 502)
§ 21-162.   Repealed Laws Not Revived and the Like.
   The repeal by this Part of any other Act shall revive any heretofore
repealed or suspended and shall not impair or affect any act, offense committed
or liability, penalty, judgment or punishment incurred prior to the time this
Part takes effect but the same may be enforced, prosecuted or inflicted as
fully and to the same extent as if this Part had not been passed. The
provisions of this Part, as far as they are the same as those of existing laws
shall be continued as a continuation of such laws and not as new enactments.
(Ord. 8/24/1988; as amended by Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, § 503)
§ 21-163.   Penalty for Violation.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Part shall, upon summary
conviction thereof in a summary proceeding before a magistrate of the
appropriate jurisdiction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than
$100 and not more than $1,000 and costs. In default of the payment of such fine
and costs, such person shall be imprisoned in the county jail for a period not
exceeding 90 days. Each and every day upon which any person violates or
continues to violate the provisions this Part, shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 8/24/1988; as amended by A.O.; as amended by Ord. 2015-2, 5/14/2015, §
504)
§ 21-164.   Acknowledgment of Guilt.
   Any person charged with violating any provisions of this Part may sign an
acknowledgment of the offense committed, either before or after the beginning
of suit, and pay to any duly authorized agent of the Township, the maximum fine
provided by this Part, together with costs accruing to that date. Such person
shall receive a printed receipt therefor, which shall bear the imprint of the
seal of the Township and the signature of its Secretary, which shall be
evidence of full satisfaction of the offense committed.
(Ord. 8/24/1988)
Part 2
Snow and Ice Removal From Sidewalks
§ 21-201.   Responsibility.
   The owner, occupant or tenant of every property abutting upon or alongside
any street or alley in the Township of Plains is hereby required to remove or
cause to be removed from the sidewalks in front of, alongside or abutting upon
the property all snow or ice thereon fallen or formed, within 24 hours after
the same shall have ceased to fall or to form. The owner of a property shall be
responsible for complying with the requirements of this Section where such
property is occupied by such owner, shall be vacant or unoccupied or be a
multiple-unit property having more than one live in a tenantable unit; the
tenant or occupier of a property shall be responsible where such property is a
single-unit property occupied by such tenant or occupier only.
(Ord. 5/8/1986, § 101)
§ 21-202.   Removal by Township; Recovery of Costs.
   In any case where the owner, occupant or tenant, as the case may be, shall
fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the provisions of §
21-201 of this Part within the time limit prescribed therein, the Township
authorities may proceed immediately to clear all snow and/or ice from the
sidewalk of such delinquent and to collect the expenses thereof, with an
additional amount of ten percent of said cost from such owner, occupant or
tenant, as the case may be which may in addition to any fine or penalty imposed
under §
21-203 of this Part.
(Ord. 5/8/1986, § 102)
§ 21-203.   Violations and Penalties.
   Any owner, occupant or tenant who shall fail to remove snow or ice from any
sidewalk as required by §
21-201 of this Part shall, on conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 5/8/1986, § 103; as amended by A.O.)
§ 21-204.   Definition.
   Sidewalk–that portion of property fronting, on the side of, or abutting
private property, which is located between the trafficway and the front, side
or abutting yard, and is open to the public for purposes of pedestrian travel
as a matter of right or custom.
(Ord. 5/8/1986, § 104)
Part 3
Railroad Crossings
§ 21-301.   Repairs and Improvements.
   All railroad companies having railroad crossings that traverse the streets
of the Township of Plains shall make any and all necessary repairs and
improvements to said crossings so as to ensure the safe crossing of pedestrians
and motorists using the streets of the Township of Plains, and shall from the
effective date of this Part keep said crossings for pedestrians and motorists
in good repair and condition at all times.
(Ord. 11/13/1975B, § 1)
§ 21-302.   Penalty.
   Any railroad company that shall continue to violate the provisions of this
Part, after receipt of a copy of this Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of
payment of said fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30
days. Each day that a violation of this Part continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 11/13/1975B, § 3; as amended by A.O.)
Chapter 22
Subdivision and Land Development
Part 1
General Provisions
§
22-101.   Title
§
22-102.   Authority
§
22-103.   Objectives
§
22-104.   Application of Chapter
§
22-105.   Status of Pending Subdivision and Land Development Applications
§
22-106.   Status of Approved Subdivision or Land Development Applications
§
22-107.   Phased Development Exceeding Five Years
§
22-108.   Resubdivision of Land
§
22-109.   Interpretation
§
22-110.   Modification of Required Standards
§
22-111.   Fees
§
22-112.   Penalties
§
22-113.   Amendment Procedure
§
22-114.   Appeals to Court
§
22-115.   Conflict with Other Ordinances
Part 2
Definitions
§
22-201.   General Interpretation
§
22-202.   Definition of Terms
Part 3
Procedural Requirements
§
22-301.   Review and Approval Process
§
22-302.   Sketch Plan Review
§
22-303.   Submission of Plans and Applications
§
22-304.   Distribution of Plans
§
22-305.   Luzerne County Review
§
22-306.   Public Hearing
§
22-307.   Installation or Guarantee of Required Improvements
§
22-308.   Procedural Methods in Rendering Decisions
§
22-309.   Revised Plans
§
22-310.   Recording of Final Plan
§
22-311.   Phasing Major Subdivision Plans
Part 4
Preliminary Plan
§
22-401.   Initial Review
§
22-402.   Review by Luzerne County Planning Commission
§
22-403.   Review and Approval/Disapproval of Plan
§
22-404.   Preliminary Plan Drafting Standards
§
22-405.   Preliminary Plan-Existing Conditions
§
22-406.   Preliminary Plans-Proposed Development
§
22-407.   Additional Materials Submitted with Preliminary Plan
Part 5
Final Plan
§
22-501.   Submission and Review Procedure
§
22-502.   Review and Approval/Disapproval of Plan
§
22-503.   Final Plan Drafting Standards
§
22-504.   Final Plan Requirements
§
22-505.   Additional Material-Submitted with Final Plan
§
22-506.   Recording of Plan
Part 6
Minor Subdivision/Land Development
§
22-601.   Only Final Plan Required
§
22-602.   Submission Procedure
§
22-603.   Distribution of Plan
§
22-604.   Drafting Standards for Minor Plans
§
22-605.   Requirements for Minor Plans
§
22-606.   Information to Be Submitted with Plan
§
22-607.   Recording of Plan
Part 7
Assurances for Completion of Improvements
§
22-701.   Installation or Guarantee of Improvements
§
22-702.   Types of Financial Guarantee
§
22-703.   Review by Solicitor
§
22-704.   Amount of Financial Security
§
22-705.   Required Time Period for Completion
§
22-706.   Phasing of Development
§
22-707.   Start of Work Notice
§
22-708.   Periodic Inspections During Construction
§
22-709.   Release of Portions of Financial Security
§
22-710.   Financial Security for Maintenance of Improvements
§
22-711.   Financial Security for Improvements under Jurisdiction of a Public
Utility or Municipal Authority
§
22-712.   Issuance of Permits When Financial Security Has Been Posted
§
22-713.   Completion of Required Improvements
§
22-714.   Responsibility of Applicant upon Disapproval of Improvements
§
22-715.   Applicant’s Right to Contest Action
§
22-716.   Remedies to Effect Completion of Improvements
§
22-717.   Engineering and Consulting Fees
§
22-718.   Procedure for Disputes over Consulting Fees
Part 8
Design Standards
§
22-801.   Application
§
22-802.   General Requirements
§
22-803.   Site Suitability for Development
§
22-804.   Natural Features
§
22-805.   Monuments and Markers
§
22-806.   Residential Blocks
§
22-807.   Residential Lots
§
22-808.   Streets-General Requirements
§
22-809.   Street Names
§
22-810.   Street Signs
§
22-811.   Traffic Control Signs
§
22-812.   Dead-End Streets Prohibited
§
22-813.   Cul-de-sac Streets
§
22-814.   Access to Arterial Streets
§
22-815.   Intersections
§
22-816.   Driveway Entrances
§
22-817.   Street Right-of-Way Widths
§
22-818.   Street Cartway Widths
§
22-819.   Horizontal Visibility
§
22-820.   Street Grades
§
22-821.   Vertical Curves
§
22-822.   Road Design, Construction and Paving Standards
§
22-823.   Curbs
§
22-824.   Sidewalks
§
22-825.   Tree Lawn and Street Trees
§
22-826.   Street Lighting
§
22-827.   Bridges and Stream Crossings
§
22-828.   Erosion and Sedimentation Control
§
22-829.   Stormwater Management Plan
§
22-830.   Water Supply Facilities
§
22-831.   Centralized Water System
§
22-832.   On-Lot Water System
§
22-833.   Sewage Disposal Facilities
§
22-834.   Centralized Sewers
§
22-835.   On-Lot Sewage Disposal System
§
22-836.   Utility Easements
§
22-837.   Nonresidential Subdivision and Land Development
Part 9
Mobile Home Parks
§
22-901.   General Requirements
§
22-902.   Site Location Standards
Appendix   Design Standards; Development Agreement
Part 1
General Provisions
§ 22-101.   Title.
   This Chapter shall be known and cited as the “Plains Township Subdivision
and Land Development Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 100)
§ 22-102.   Authority.
   1.   Plains Township is empowered to regulate subdivisions and land
developments within its Township limits as provided for under the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., as amended.
   2.   Major subdivision/major land development. The Plains Township Board of
Commissioners shall retain and exercise the authority for the approval or
disapproval of all major subdivisions and major land developments as set forth
in this Part. The Plains Township Planning Commission shall act in an official
advisory capacity to the Board of Commissioners for the review and
recommendation of the approval or disapproval of all major subdivisions and
major land developments set forth in this Part.
   3.   Minor subdivision/minor land development. The Plains Township Board of
Commissioners hereby confers the exercise the authority for the approval or
disapproval of all minor subdivisions and minor land developments as set forth
in this Part to the Plains Township Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 101)
§ 22-103.   Objectives.
   Through the adoption, administration and enforcement of this Chapter, Plains
Township proposes to create conditions favorable to promote the health, safety
and general welfare of the Township with regulations aimed at achieving the
following objectives:
   A.   To guide the future growth and development of the Township in
accordance with sound planning practices.
   B.   To provide a standard set of minimum regulations to guide applicants in
the design and development of subdivisions and land developments.
   C.   To provide for adequate light, air and privacy, to secure safety from
fire, flood and other danger, and to prevent overcrowding of the land and undue
congestion of population.
   D.   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the Township and
the value of buildings and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the
conflicts among the uses of land and buildings.
   E.   To ensure that public facilities are available and will have a
sufficient capacity to serve a proposed subdivision or land development.
   F.   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivision in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumentation of proposed
subdivisions.
   G.   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, electrical service and other
utilities, sewage, schools, parks, playgrounds, recreation and other public
requirements and facilities.
   H.   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land
and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the Township having
particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways,
and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land
and buildings, and to provide for the proper location and width of streets and
building lines.
   I.   To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and layout
of the land, including the use of average density in providing for minimum
width and area of lots, while preserving the density of land as established in
the Zoning Ordinance.
   J.   To prevent the pollution of air, streams and ponds; to assure the
adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table; and to encourage
the prudent use and management of natural resources throughout the Township in
order to preserve the integrity and stability of the community and the natural
environmental characteristic of the land.
   K.   To protect and regulate land in critical areas which may be unsuitable
for development.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 102)
§ 22-104.   Application of Chapter.
   1.   No subdivision or land development of any lot, tract or parcel of land
shall be made, and no street, sanitary sewer, water main gas, oil or electric
transmission line, or other facilities in connection therewith shall be laid
out, constructed, opened or dedicated for public use or travel or for the
common use of occupants of buildings abutting thereon, except in accordance
with this Chapter.
   2.   No lot in a proposed subdivision or land development may be sold, and
no zoning permit to erect any building upon land in a subdivision or land
development may be issued unless and until the following conditions are met:
   A.   The plans and application have been granted final approval by the
Planning Commission.
   B.   All required improvements as set forth in the grant of approval have
been constructed or until the applicant posts a form of financial security,
acceptable to Plains Township, which guarantees that all required improvements
shall be subsequently constructed within a defined period of time.
   C.   The final plan, as approved, is filed with the Luzerne County Recorder
of Deeds.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 103)
§ 22-105.   Status of Pending Subdivision and Land Development Applications.
   From the time an application for approval of a subdivision or land
development, whether preliminary or final, is duly filed in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter and while such application is pending approval or
disapproval, an amendment to this Chapter, the Zoning Ordinance [
Chapter 27] or any other applicable ordinance, shall not affect the decision on
such application adversely to the applicant and the applicant shall be entitled
to a decision in accordance with the provisions of all applicable ordinances as
they stood at the time the application was duly filed. When an application is,
however, properly and finally denied, any subsequent application shall be
subject to any amendments to this Chapter, the Zoning Ordinance [
Chapter 27] and any other applicable ordinance and/or regulations.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 104)
§ 22-106.   Status of Approved Subdivision or Land Development Applications.
   1.   When an application for approval of a subdivision or land development,
whether preliminary or final, has been approved, no subsequent amendment to
this Chapter, the Zoning Ordinance, [
Chapter 27] or any other applicable ordinance, shall be applied to adversely
affect the right of the applicant to commence and to complete any aspect of the
approved development in accordance with the terms of such approval within five
years from such approval. If final approval is preceded by preliminary
approval, the five-year period shall be counted from the date of the
preliminary approval. In the case of any doubt as to the terms of a preliminary
approval, the terms shall be construed in the light of the provisions of the
governing ordinances or plans as they stood at the time when the application
for such approval was duly filed.
   2.   Where the applicant has substantially completed the required
improvements as depicted upon the final plat within the aforesaid five-year
limit, or any extension thereof as may be granted by the Board of
Commissioners, no change of Township ordinance or plan enacted subsequent to
the date of filing of the preliminary plat shall modify or revoke any aspect of
the approved final plat pertaining to zoning classification or density, lot,
building, street or utility location.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 105)
§ 22-107.   Phased Development Exceeding Five Years.
   1.   In the case of a preliminary plat calling for the installation of
improvements beyond the five-year period, a schedule shall be filed by the
landowner with the preliminary plat delineating all proposed sections as well
as deadlines within which applications for final plat approval of each section
are intended to be filed. Such schedule shall be updated annually by the
applicant on or before the anniversary of the preliminary plat approval, until
final plat approval of the final section has been granted and any modification
in the aforesaid schedule shall be subject to approval of the Planning
Commission in its discretion.
   2.   Each section in any residential subdivision or land development, except
for the last section, shall contain a minimum of 25 percent of the total number
of dwelling units as depicted on the preliminary plan, unless a lesser
percentage is approved by the Planning Commission in its discretion; provided
the landowner has not defaulted with regard to or violated any of the
conditions of the preliminary plat approval, including compliance with
landowner’s aforesaid schedule of submission of final plats for the various
sections, then the protections afforded by substantially completing the
improvements depicted upon the final plat within five years, as contained in §
22-106, shall apply and for any section or sections, beyond the initial
section, in which the required improvements have not been substantially
completed within said five-year period the aforesaid protections shall apply
for an additional term or terms of three years from the date of final plat
approval for each section.
   3.   Failure of landowner to adhere to the aforesaid schedule of final plats
for the various sections shall subject any such section to any and all changes
in zoning, subdivision and other governing ordinance enacted by the Township
subsequent to the date of the initial preliminary plan submission.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 106)
§ 22-108.   Resubdivision of Land.
   A revision or resubdivision of a plan of record shall be considered as a new
subdivision and shall come under the jurisdiction of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 107)
§ 22-109.   Interpretation.
   1.   In the interpretation and application, the provisions of this
Chapter 22 shall be held to the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety and general welfare. When provisions, standards and
specifications of this Chapter differ from those of any other ordinance,
statute or regulation, the more restrictive or higher standards shall apply.
   2.   The provisions of this Chapter are not intended to abrogate any private
easement, covenant or any other restriction of record, provided that where the
provisions of this Chapter are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
regulations than such easement, covenant or other restriction, the applicable
provisions of this Chapter shall govern.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 108)
§ 22-110.   Modification of Required Standards.
   1.   The Planning Commission may grant a modification of requirements of one
or more provisions if the literal enforcement will exact undue hardship because
of peculiar conditions pertaining to the land in question; provided, that such
modification will not be contrary to the public interest and that the purpose
and intent of this Chapter is observed.
   2.   Any request for a modification shall be submitted in writing and shall
accompany and be a part of the application for development. The request shall
state in full the grounds and facts of unreasonableness or hardship on which
the request is based, the provisions or requirements of this Chapter in
question, and the minimum modification or modifications necessary.
   3.   All proposals for modification of provisions or requirements of this
Chapter shall require approval by the Planning Commission.
   4.   Upon rendering a final decision for any proposed modification, the
Planning Commission shall provide a record of their action within the minutes
of their meeting.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 109)
§ 22-111.   Fees.
   1.   Township fees. The Plains Township Board of Commissioners shall
establish by resolution a fee schedule for subdivision and land development
applications.
   2.   County fees. The applicant shall also be required to submit all
required fees for review and comment by the Luzerne County Planning Commission.
   3.   Filing date and payment of fees. A completed application and plans for
any proposed subdivision or land development shall not be considered as filed
until all fees are paid and all applications are properly signed.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 110)
§ 22-112.   Penalties.
   1.   Preventive remedies.
   A.   In addition to other remedies, the Township may institute and maintain
appropriate actions by law or equity to restrain, correct or abate violations,
to prevent unlawful construction, to recover damages and to prevent illegal
occupancy of a building, structure or premises. The description by metes and
bounds to the instrument of transfer or other documents used in the process of
selling or transferring shall not exempt the seller or transferor from such
penalties or from the remedies herein provided.
   B.   The Township may refuse to issue any permit or grant any approval
necessary to further improve or develop any real property which has been
developed or which has resulted from a subdivision of real property in
violation of this Chapter. The authority to deny such a permit or approval
shall apply to any of the following applicants:
   (1)   The owner of record at the time of such violation.
   (2)   The vendee or lessee of the owner of record at the time of such
violation without regard as to whether such vendee or lessee had actual or
constructive knowledge of the violation.
   (3)   The current owner of record who acquired the property subsequent to
the time of violation without regard as to whether the current owner had actual
or constructive knowledge of the violation.
   (4)   The vendee or lessee of the current owner of record who acquired the
property subsequent to the time of violation without regard as to whether such
vendee or lessee had actual or constructive knowledge of the violation.
   C.   As an additional condition for the issuance of a permit or granting of
an approval to any such owner, current owner, vendee or lessee for the
development of any such real property, the Township may require compliance with
the conditions that would have been applicable to the property at the time the
applicant acquired an interest in such real property.
   2.   Jurisdiction. Magisterial district judges shall have initial
jurisdiction in proceedings brought under Subsection 3. of this Section. [A.O.]
   3.   Enforcement remedies.
   A.   Any person, partnership or corporation who or which has violated the
provisions of this Chapter, shall upon being found liable therefore under civil
enforcement proceedings, commenced by the Township, pay a judgment of not more
than $500 plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney’s fees incurred
by the Township as a result of such proceedings. No judgment shall be commenced
or be imposed, levied or payable until the date of the determination of a
violation by the magisterial district judge. If the defendant neither pays nor
timely appeals the judgment, the Township may enforce the judgment pursuant to
the applicable rules of civil procedure. Each day that a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation, unless the magisterial district judge
determining that there has been a violation further determines that there was a
good faith basis for the person, partnership or corporation violating this
Chapter to have believed that there was no such violation. Under such
circumstances, there shall be deemed to have been only one such violation until
the fifth day following the date of the termination of a violation by the
magisterial district judge and thereafter each day that a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation. [A.O.]
   B.   The Court of Common Pleas, upon petition, may grant an order of stay,
upon cause shown, tolling the per diem judgment pending a final adjudication of
the violation and judgment.
   C.   Nothing contained within this Section shall be construed or interpreted
to grant any person or entity other than the Township the right to commence
action for enforcement pursuant to this Section.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 111; as amended by A.O.)
§ 22-113.   Amendment Procedure.
   The regulations set forth in this Chapter may, from time to time, be amended
by the Plains Township Board of Commissioners. The following requirements shall
be observed prior to enacting any amendments to this Chapter.
   A.   A public hearing on the proposed amendment shall be held by the Board
of Commissioners pursuant to public notice.
   B.   In the case of an amendment other than that prepared by the Planning
Commission, the Board of Commissioners shall submit such amendment to the
Planning Commission not less than 30 days prior to the public hearing
   C.   The proposed amendment shall be submitted to the Luzerne County
Planning Commission not less than 30 days prior to the public hearing.
   D.   The proposed amendment shall not be enacted unless public notice is
given which shall include the time and place of the meeting at which passage
will be considered and a reference to a place within the Township where copies
of the proposed amendment may be examined without charge or obtained for a
charge not greater than the cost of reproduction.
   E.   Public notice of the proposed amendment shall include the full text
thereof or the title and a brief summary, prepared by the Township Solicitor,
setting forth all the provisions in reasonable detail. If the full text is not
provided, a copy shall be supplied to the newspaper in which the public notice
is placed and an attested copy shall be placed on file at the Luzerne County
Law Library.
   F.   Within 30 days following the adoption of an amendment to this Chapter,
the Board of Commissioners shall forward a certified copy of the amendment to
the Luzerne County Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 112)
§ 22-114.   Appeals to Court.
   Decisions rendered by the Planning Commission may be appealed to a court of
proper jurisdiction in accordance with the procedures, provisions and time
limitations as contained in Article X-A of the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, Act 247, 53 P.S. § 11001-A, as amended.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 113)
§ 22-115.   Conflict with Other Ordinances.
   All ordinances, or any parts thereof, which are inconsistent or in conflict
with this Chapter, including, but not limited to, the Plains Township
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance of November 13, 1997, and any
amendments thereto are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 114)
Part 2
Definitions
§ 22-201.   General Interpretation.
   Words used in the present tense include the future. Words in the masculine
gender include the feminine and the neuter. The singular includes the plural,
and the plural the singular. The word “may” is permissive. When used in this
Chapter, the following words, terms and phrases shall have the following
meanings, unless expressly stated otherwise, or unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 200)
§ 22-202.   Definition of Terms.
   When terms, phrases or words are not defined, they shall have the meaning as
defined in “The Latest Illustrated Book of Development Definitions” (H. S.
Moskowitz and C. G. Lindbloom, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey,
2004) or if not defined therein, they shall have their ordinarily accepted
meanings or such as the context may imply.
   Abut–next to or adjacent to, and includes the words “directly across from
streets, natural features and rights-of-way”.
   Access drive–a private road or roads connecting a development such as a
school, hospital, commercial, industrial or housing complex with a public
street.
   Acre–43,560 square feet.
   Adjacent–a state of being side by side, next to, adjoining, contiguous or
abutting one to another, and includes the words “directly across from streets,
natural features and rights-of-way”.
   Administrator–the person designated by the Plains Township Board of
Commissioners who is authorized to accept and receive subdivision and land
development plans and applications for and on behalf of the Township.
   Alley–a public or private right-of-way affording secondary means of access
to abutting property.
   Applicant–a landowner or developer who has filed an application for a
subdivision or land development, including his or her heirs, successors and
assigns.
   As-built drawings–construction plans prepared after the completion of
construction, by the engineer of record, in such a manner as to accurately
identify and depict the location and design of all on-site improvements, which
includes, but is not limited to, streets, structures, parking facilities,
stormwater detention/retention areas, curbs, sidewalks and any other facilities
approved for the subject development. As-built drawings shall be sealed by the
engineer of record.
   Base flood elevation–the highest elevation, expressed in feet above mean sea
level, of the floodwaters of a 100-year flood, as projected and delineated upon
the most recent official Flood Insurance Rate Map, published by the Federal
Insurance Administration.
   Block–a unit of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets and
public land, railroad rights-of-way, waterways or any other barrier to the
continuity to development.
   Board of Commissioners–the Board of Commissioners of Plains Township,
Luzerne County, Pennsylvania.
   Building–any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animal or property of any kind.
   Building setback line–the minimum distance as required in the Zoning
Ordinance [
Chapter 27] between any building or structure, to the front, rear or side
property line.
   Cartway–the paved portion of a street or alley designated, intended or
capable of being used for vehicular travel.
   Catch basin–an inlet designated to intercept and redirect surface
stormwater.
   Clear sight triangle–an area of unobstructed vision at street intersections
defined by lines of sight between points at a given distance from the
intersection of the street centerlines.
   Common facilities–all the real property and improvements, including, without
limitation, landscaped areas, buffers, open space not included within title
lines of any privately owned lot, street rights-of-way not dedicated to Plains
Township, owned in common by residents within the development which is served
by the facilities.
   Community association–a non-profit organization comprised of homeowners or
property owners, the function of which is to maintain and administer property
owned in common by members of the association or by the association, to protect
and enhance the value of the property owned individually by each of the
members. Homeowners associations and condominium associations are types of
community associations.
   Comprehensive Plan–the most recent Comprehensive Plan, and any amendments
thereto, as adopted by Plains Township.
   Condominium–real estate, portions of which is designated for separate
ownership and the remainder of which is designated for common ownership solely
by the owners of those separate portions, in accordance with the Pennsylvania
Uniform Condominium Act, Act No. 1980-82, 68 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 3101 et seq., as
amended.
   Construction plans–the maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision or land
development plan and showing the specific location and design of improvements
to be installed in accordance with the requirements of this Chapter and in
accordance with any terms or conditions as set forth by the Planning
Commission.
   County–Luzerne County, Pennsylvania.
   County Planning Commission–the Luzerne County Planning Commission.
   Covenant–a restriction on the use of land usually set forth in the deed. A
covenant usually runs with the land and the restrictions thereunder are binding
upon subsequent owners.
   Critical area–an area with one or more of the following characteristics: (1)
slopes in excess of 20 percent; (2) floodplain and/or wetlands; soils
classified as having a high water table; (3) soils classified as highly
erodible, subject to erosion or highly acidic; (4) land incapable of meeting
percolation requirements.
   Culvert–a drain, ditch or conduit not incorporated in a closed system that
carries storm drainage water under a driveway, roadway or railroad.
   Dedication–the deliberate appropriation of land by its owner for any general
and public use, reserving to himself or herself no other rights than those that
are compatible with the full exercise and enjoyment of the public uses to which
the property has been devoted.
   Department of Environmental Protection (DEP)–the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection, its bureaus, divisions, departments and/or agencies,
as may from time to time be established, or such department or departments as
may in the future succeed it. [A.O.]
   Detention basin/pond–an area in which surface water runoff is temporarily
stored pending its release at a controlled rate.
   Developer–any landowner, agent of such landowner or tenant with the
permission of such landowner, who makes or caused to be made, a subdivision of
land or a land development.
   Development–any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   Development plan–the provisions for development included within an
application for a subdivision and/or land development, including all covenants
relating to use, location and bulk of buildings and other structure intensity
of use or density of development, streets, ways and parking facilities, common
open space, easements and public facilities. The phrase “development plan”
shall mean the written and graphic materials referred to in this definition.
   District or zoning district–a portion of the territory of the Township
within which certain uniform regulations and requirements or various
combinations thereof apply under the provisions of this Chapter.
   Disturbance of land–any action which results in the cutting or removal of
vegetation on any land, and/or which results in the turning, displacement,
grading or removal of any soil.
   Drainage–
   (1)   Surface water runoff;
   (2)   The removal of surface water or groundwater from land by drains,
grading or other means which include runoff controls to minimize erosion and
sedimentation during and after construction or development.
   Drainage easement–an easement required for the installation of stormwater
sewers or drainage ditches, and/or required for the preservation or maintenance
of a natural stream or watercourse or other drainage facility.
   Drainage facility–any ditch, gutter, pipe, culvert, storm sewer or other
structure designed, intended or constructed for the purpose of diverting
surface waters from or carrying surface waters off streets, public rights-of-
way, parks, recreational areas or any part of any subdivision, land development
or contiguous land areas.
   Driveway–a privately owned and constructed vehicular access from an approved
private or public road into a lot or parcel having a frontage on the road.
   Dwelling–one or more rooms, designed, occupied or intended for occupancy as
separated living quarters, with cooking, sleeping and sanitary facilities
provided within the dwelling unit for the exclusive use of a single family
maintaining a household.
   (1)   Dwelling, multiple–a building containing three or more dwelling units
entirely separated by vertical walls or horizontal floors, unpierced except by
access to the outside or to a common cellar.
   (2)   Dwelling, single-family–a detached building arranged or used for
occupancy by one family.
   (3)   Dwelling, two-family–a detached or semidetached building where not
more than two individual family or dwelling units are entirely separated by
vertical walls or horizontal floors, unpierced except by access to the outside
or to a common cellar.
   Earth disturbance activity–any construction or other activity which disturbs
the surface of the land including, but not limited to, excavations,
embankments, land development, subdivision development, mineral extraction and
the moving, depositing or storing of soil, rock or earth.
   Easement–a grant of one or more of the property rights by the property owner
to and/or for the use by the public, a corporation or another person or entity.
   Engineer–a registered professional engineer licensed and registered as such
by standards established by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   Erosion–the removal of surface material by the action of natural elements.
   Excavation–any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material
is dug into, cut, quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated or
bulldozed. It shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
   Fill–any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is
placed, pushed, dumped or moved to a new location above the natural surface or
on top of the stripped surface. It shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom The difference in elevation between the point on the original ground
and a designated point of the higher elevation of the final grade.
   Final approval–last official action of the Plains Township Planning
Commission granting approval of a subdivision or land development which has
been granted preliminary approval, after all conditions and requirements have
been met, including as applicable, the installation of all required
improvements or the posting of an acceptable form of a financial security to
guarantee the installation of such.
   Financial security–a form of security, including an irrevocable letter of
credit, a cash deposit, an escrow agreement or other similar collateral or
surety agreements, from federal or Commonwealth chartered lending institutions
in an amount and form acceptable to the Township to be used in accordance with
applicable provisions of this Chapter to guarantee completion of public and/or
required improvements.
   Flood–a temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
dry land areas occurring from the overflow of inland waters and/or the unusual
and rapid accumulation of runoff and surface waters from any source.
   Flood fringe–the portion of a 100-year floodplain outside of the floodway,
as delineated upon the most recent Flood Hazard Boundary Maps as published by
the Federal Insurance Administration.
   Flood Hazard Boundary Map–the most recent map, as published by the Federal
Insurance Administration, which delineates the boundaries of the floodway and
flood fringe of a 100-year floodplain.
   Flood Insurance Rate Maps–the most recent map, as published by the Federal
Insurance Administration, which delineates areas of special flood hazards, base
flood elevations and applicable risk premium zones of a 100-year floodplain.
   Floodplain (100-year floodplain)–areas of land which are subject to
inundation by waters of a 100-year flood. The source of delineating the
boundaries of a 100-year floodplain shall be based upon the most recent maps of
the Flood Insurance Administration.
   Floodproofing–a combination of structural provisions, changes or adjustments
to properties and structures subject to flooding for the reduction or
elimination of flood damage to properties, water and sanitary facilities and
other utilities, structures and the contents of buildings.
   Floodway–the portion of a 100-year floodplain, as delineated upon the most
recent Flood Hazard Boundary Maps as published by the Federal Insurance
Administration, which is designated to carry and discharge water and flow of a
100-year flood without increasing the water surface elevation by more than one
foot at any given point.
   Governing body–the Plains Township Board of Commissioners.
   Grade–the slope of a road, street or other public or private way, specified
in percentage terms.
   Grading–any stripping, gutting, filling, stockpiling of earth or land,
including the land in its cut or filled condition.
   Highway occupancy permit–a permit, issued by the Pennsylvania Department of
Transportation, Luzerne County or Plains Township which authorizes access from
a parcel of land onto a street or highway which is under its jurisdiction.
   Homeowners association–a non-profit organization comprised of homeowners or
property owners, planned and operated under negotiated and approved rules and
regulations, for the purpose of administering the needs of residents through
the maintenance of community owned property. This term is synonymous with
“property owners association”.
   Impact analysis–a study, which may be required by the Plains Township
Planning Commission prior to preliminary or conditional approval of a
subdivision or land development, to determine the potential impact of a
proposed development on activities, utilities, traffic generation and
circulation, surrounding land uses, community facilities, environmental
features, critical areas, the health, safety and welfare of residents and other
factors directly, indirectly or potentially affected. The developer and/or
applicant shall be responsible for all costs related to the any and all reports
and/or studies required by the Plains Township Planning Commission under or
within the context of the term “impact analysis”. The developer and/or
applicant shall also be responsible to fully reimburse the Township for all
engineering and/or other consulting fees which are incurred for the review of
any required studies or reports.
   Improvements–human-made physical additions, alterations and/or changes which
becomes part of, placed upon or is affixed to real estate.
   Land development–the improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots,
tracts or parcels of land for any purpose involving:
   (1)   A group of two or more residential or nonresidential buildings,
whether proposed initially or cumulatively.
   (2)   A single nonresidential building on a lot or lots with two or more
occupants regardless of their tenure.
   (3)   A single nonresidential building, designed or intended for a single
occupant, with a minimum gross floor area of not less than 5,000 square feet,
excluding agricultural buildings and/or structures.
   (4)   Any nonresidential use of land, with or without structures, which
encompasses two or more acres of land, including grading and/or the backfilling
of land, earth moving activities, and/or removal of vegetative cover.
Agricultural uses of land and/or related agricultural activities shall be
specifically excluded.
   (5)   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially or
cumulatively, between or among two or more existing or prospective occupants by
means of, or for the purpose of streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups or other features.
   (6)   The conversion of an existing single-family detached dwelling or
single-family semi-detached dwelling into more than three residential units.
Any conversion, described above, which results in not more than three
residential units shall be deemed as a land development if the units are
intended to be a condominium.
   (7)   The development of a mobile home park or the expansion of an existing
mobile home park.
   (8)   A single residential structure containing more than five residential
units.
   The development of any accessory building, including farm buildings, on a
lot or lots which are subordinate to an existing principal building shall not
be classified as a “land development”.
   Land development, major–a land development which does not qualify or
classify as a minor land development.
   Land development, minor–a development of a parcel of land which contains not
more than two detached single-family residential structures, whether developed
initially or cumulatively.
   Land surveyor–a person who is licensed and registered by the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, which qualifies said person to perform accurate field
measurements including the description and definition of land boundaries.
   Landowner–the legal or beneficial owner or owners of land including the
holder of an option or contract to purchase (whether or not such option or
contract is subject to any condition), a lessee if he or she is authorized
under the lease to exercise the rights of the landowner, or other persons
having a proprietary interest in land, shall be deemed to be a landowner for
the purpose of this Chapter.
   Lot–a designated parcel, tract or area of land established by plat,
subdivision or as otherwise permitted by law, to be used, developed or built
upon as a unit.
   Lot area–the total area within the lot lines of a lot, excluding any street
rights-of-way.
   Lot, corner–a lot or parcel of land abutting upon two or more streets at
their intersection, or upon two parts of the same street forming an interior
angle of less than 135 degrees.
   Lot coverage–that portion of the lot that is covered by buildings and
structures.
   Lot depth–the distance measured from the front lot line to the rear lot
line.
   Lot frontage–the length of the front lot line measured at the street right-
of-way line.
   Lot interior–a lot other than a corner lot.
   Lot line–a line of record bounding a lot which divides one lot from another
lot or from a public or private street or any other public space.
   Lot line adjustment–a minor subdivision involving the revision or deletion
of one or more lot lines in such a way that all of the following are true:
   (1)   No new lots will be created beyond what was previously approved.
   (2)    No additional street segments or significant changes in alignment are
proposed other than what was previously approved.
   (3)   No additional nonconformities will be created under the Township
Zoning Ordinance [
Chapter 27].
   (4)   No new land development will occur other than a land development that
was previously approved.
   Lot line, front–the lot line separating a lot from a street right-of-way.
   Lot line, rear–the lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot
line, or in the case of triangular or otherwise irregularly shaped lots, a line
ten feet in length entirely within the lot, parallel to and at a maximum
distance from the front lot.
   Lot line, side–any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
   Lot, minimum area of–the smallest lot area established by the Zoning
Ordinance [
Chapter 27 ] on which a use or structure may be located in a particular zoning
district.
   Lot, through–a lot which fronts upon two parallel streets, or which fronts
upon two streets which do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot.
   Lot width–the horizontal distance between the side lines of a lot measured
at right angles to its depth along a straight line parallel to the front lot
line at the minimum required building setback line.
   Mobile home–a transportable, single-family dwelling intended for permanent
occupancy, and contained in one unit, or two units designed to be joined into
one integral unit, which arrives at a site complete and ready for occupancy
except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations and
constructed so that it may be used with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to required utilities.
   Mobile home lot–a parcel of land in a mobile home park, improved with the
necessary utility connection and other appurtenances necessary for the erection
thereon of a single mobile home, which is leased or rented by the park owner to
the occupants of the mobile home erected on the lot.
   Mobile home park–a site with required improvements and utilities for the
long term placement of mobile homes which may include services and facilities
for the residents.
   Multiphase development–a development project that is to be constructed in
stages, each stage being capable of existing independently of the others.
   Municipality–Plains Township, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania.
   Natural drainage flow–the pattern of surface and stormwater drainage from a
particular site before the construction or installation of improvements or
prior to any regrading and/or any earth disturbance activity.
   Nonconforming lot–a lot, the area, dimensions or location of which was
lawful prior to the adoption, revision or amendment of the Zoning Ordinance [
Chapter 27 ], but which fails by reason of such adoption, revision or amendment
to conform to the present requirements of the zoning district.
   Nonconforming structure or building–a structure or building the size,
dimensions or location of which was lawful prior to the adoption, revision or
amendment to the Zoning Ordinance [
Chapter 27 ], but which fails by reason of such adoption, revision or
amendment, to conform to the present requirements of the zoning district.
   Nonconforming use–a use or activity which was lawful prior to the adoption,
revision or amendment of the Zoning Ordinance, but which fails, by reason of
such adoption, revision or amendment, to conform to the present requirements of
the zoning district.
   Official Map–a Township map adopted by ordinance conclusively showing the
location of the lines of existing and proposed public streets, watercourses and
public grounds including the widening, narrowing, extension, diminution,
opening or closing of the same, for the entire Township.
   Official soil map–soil survey maps of Luzerne County as provided by the
Luzerne County Conservation District.
   Official soils interpretation–the written description of soil types and
their characteristics and accompanying maps based upon soil survey maps of
Luzerne County as provided by the Luzerne County Conservation District.
   One-hundred year flood–a flood that, on the average, is likely to occur once
every 100 years and has a one percent chance of occurring each year.
   One-hundred year floodplain–the areas within the Township that have a one
percent chance of being flooded in any given year based upon the most recent
data and maps as provided by the Federal Insurance Administration.
   Ordinance–the Plains Township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance
[this Chapter], and any amendments thereto.
   Owner of record–the person(s) or entity to whom any applicable property tax
is assessed and/or is indicated to be a tax-exempt property as shown on the
latest assessment records of Luzerne County.
   Performance guarantee–a written instrument which may be accepted by the
Board of Commissioners in lieu of a requirement that certain improvements be
made by a developer before the final plan is granted final approval and
released for recording, which shall provide for the deposit with the Township
of financial security in an amount sufficient to cover the costs of any
improvements or common amenities including, but not limited to, roads, sanitary
sewage facilities, water supply and distribution facilities, stormwater
detention and/or retention basins and other related drainage facilities,
recreational facilities, open space improvements and buffer or screen planting
which may be required. [A.O.]
   Person–an individual, partnership, organization association, trust or
corporation. When used in a provision, “person” shall include the members of
such partnership, the trustees of such trust and the officers of such
organization association or corporation.
   Plan or plat–the map or plan of a subdivision or land development:
   Final plan–a complete and exact plan prepared for official recording with
the Luzerne County Recorder of Deeds, as required by this Chapter with said
plan being properly indicated in title as “final plan”.
   Preliminary plan–the preliminary drawings and any accompanying data, which
accurately shows the proposed layout of lots, streets, improvements and other
information a required by this Chapter, with all such material being properly
indicated in title as “preliminary plan”.
   Record plan–the copy of the final plan which contains the original
endorsements of the Township and which is intended to be recorded with the
County Recorder of Deeds.
   Sketch plan–an informal plan, identified as such with the title sketch plan
on the map, indicating salient existing features of a tract and its
surroundings and the general layout of the proposal to be used as a basis for
consideration by the Township.
   Planned residential development–an area of land controlled by a landowner,
to be developed as a single entity for a number of dwelling units, with a
development plan which does not correspond in lot size, bulk or type of
dwelling, or use, density, or intensity, lot coverage and required open space
to the regulations established in any one zoning district created, from time to
time, under the provisions of the Plains Township Zoning Ordinance [
Chapter 27 ].
   Planning Commission–the Planning Commission of Plains Township.
   Professional consultant(s)–a person or persons who provide expert or
professional advice, including, but not limited to, architects, attorneys,
certified public accountants, engineers, geologists, land surveyors, landscape
architects or planners.
   Public hearing–a formal meeting held pursuant to public notice by the
Township Board of Commissioners or the Planning Commission, intended to inform
and obtain public comment, prior to taking action on a particular subject.
   Public improvements–any street, roadway, sidewalk, pedestrian right-of-way,
drainage facility, recreation area, off-street parking area, lot improvement or
other facility for which Plains Township may ultimately assume the
responsibility of maintenance and operation or which may affect an improvement
for which Plains Township’s responsibility is established.
   Public notice–a notice published once each week for two successive weeks in
a newspaper of general circulation in Township. Such notice shall state the
time and place of the hearing and the particular nature of the matter to be
considered at the hearing. The first publication shall not be more than 30 days
and the second publication shall not be less than seven days from the date of
the hearing.
   Qualified professional–an individual authorized to prepare plans pursuant to
§ 503(1) of the MPC, 53 P.S. § 10503(1), which states that plats and surveys
shall be prepared in accordance with the Act of May 23, 1945 (P.L. 913, No.
367), 63 P.S. §§ 148 et seq., known as the “Engineer, Land Surveyor and
Geologist Registration Law”, except that this requirement shall not preclude
the preparation of a plat in accordance with the Act of January 24, 1966 (P.L.
1527, No. 535), 63 P.S. §§ 901 et seq., known as the “Landscape Architects
Registration Law”, when it is appropriate to prepare the plat using
professional services set forth in the definition of the “practice of landscape
architecture” under § 2 of that Act, 63 P.S. § 902.
   Resubdivision–a change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat
affecting any street layout on such map, any area reserved therein for public
use or any lot line.
   Right-of-way–a defined and designated area for vehicular or pedestrian
traffic, whether designated as a street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road,
avenue, boulevard, lane or alley, and including both cartway and shoulders.
   Runoff–the surface water discharge or rate of discharge of a given watershed
after a fall of rain or snow that does not enter the soil but runs off the
surface of the land.
   Sanitary sewer–pipes that carry only domestic or commercial sewage and into
which storm, surface and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   Sedimentation–the depositing of earth or soil that has been transported from
its site of origin by water, ice, wind, gravity or other natural means as a
product of erosion.
   Septic system–an underground system with a septic tank used for the
decomposition of domestic wastes, in which bacteria in the wastes decompose the
organic matter, and the sludge settles to the bottom. The effluent flows
through drains into the ground. Sludge is pumped out at regular intervals.
   Septic tank–a watertight receptacle that receives the discharge of sewage
from a building, sewer or part thereof, and is designed and constructed so as
to permit settling of solids from this liquid, digestion of the organic matter,
and discharge of the liquid portion into a disposal area.
   Sewage disposal system, central–a means of collecting sanitary sewage from
individual lots by a system of pipes which transports the sewage to a central
treatment and disposal system, with all aspects of the system being constructed
and operated in compliance with all governing federal, state and Township
regulations.
   Sewage disposal system, on-lot–a structure designed to biochemically treat
sewage within the boundaries of an individual lot.
   Site–an plot or parcel of land or combination of contiguous lots or parcels
of land.
   Soil erosion and sedimentation control plan–a plan that indicates necessary
land treatment measures, as approved by the Luzerne County Conversation
District, designed to effectively minimize soil erosion and sedimentation.
   Soil percolation test–a field test conducted to determine the suitability of
the soil and site conditions for an on-lot sewage disposal system by measuring
the absorption capacity of the soil at a given depth and location.
   Storm sewer–a pipe that collects and transports rainwater, surface water and
other liquid waste exclusive of sewage.
   Street–a public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means of
access to abutting property, including avenue, place, way, parkway, drive,
lane, boulevard, highway, road and alley.
   Arterial–arterials are designed primarily to carry traffic and generally
should not provide access to land which would interfere with their primary
traffic functions. They are also designed for medium to heavy volumes at
moderately high speeds with restricted vehicular access to abutting properties.
   Collector street–collector streets are designed to carry a moderate volume
of traffic between local streets and arterials, and provide only limited
vehicular access to the abutting properties.
   Cul-de-sac–a minor or local street with a single common ingress and egress
and with a turnaround located at its end.
   Dead end street–a street with a single common ingress and egress.
   Limited access–a street designed to carry a high volume of traffic and
usually designated as an expressway, freeway, highway or boulevard. Owners or
occupants of abutting property normally have no expressed or legal right to
access to or from the same.
   Local street–local streets provide direct access to abutting properties and
provide routes to collector streets.
   Structure–any human-made object having an ascertainable stationary located
on or in land or water, whether or not affixed to the land.
   Subdivision–the division or redividing of a lot, tract or parcel of land by
any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided, however, that
the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into parcels of more
than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of access or any
residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   Subdivision, major–any subdivision which does not qualify or classify as a
minor subdivision.
   Subdivision, minor–a subdivision of a parcel of land into not more than six
lots, which, has access, direct or indirect, to an existing public street or
road and does not require any expenditures for the extension of any street or
the extension or creation of any public improvements, does not adversely affect
the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property and does not conflict with
the Comprehensive Plan. Any proposed subdivision of a lot of record, which
resulted from a minor subdivision shall be classified as a major subdivision,
when the cumulative number of lots, from the original lot of record and/or any
resulting lot, exceed six lots within five years from the date of its approval
under a minor subdivision classification. Information stating the above
requirement shall be included upon all deeds for lots created under a minor
subdivision. See also “lot line adjustment”.
   Subdivision, reverse–the removal of lot lines between contiguous lots of
record held in single ownership for the purpose of forming a single tract of
land. A reverse subdivision shall be classified as a minor subdivision.
[Ord. 2009-4]
   Substantially completed–the point at which, in the judgment of the Township
Engineer, at least 90 percent of those improvements required as a condition for
final approval, based upon the cost of the posted financial security, have been
completed in accordance with the approved plan, so that the project will be
able to be used, occupied or operated for its intended use.
   Surveyor–a licensed surveyor registered by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   Water supply and distribution system, central–a system for supplying and
distributing water from a common source to two or more dwelling units and/or
other buildings within a subdivision or land development, with the total system
being publicly or privately owned.
   Water supply and distribution system, on-lot–a system for supplying and
distributing water to a single dwelling or other type of principal building
from a source located upon the same lot.
   Water table–the upper surface of groundwater, or that level below which the
soil is seasonally saturated with water.
   Watercourse–a permanent or intermittent stream, river, brook, creek or
channel or ditch for collection and conveyance of water, whether natural or
human-made.
   Wetlands–those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs and
similar areas. The term includes, but is not limited to, wetlands areas listed
in the State Water Plan, the United States Forest Service Inventory of
Pennsylvania, the Pennsylvania Coastal Management Plan and any wetland area
designated by a river basin commission.
   Yard–an open space that lies between the principal or accessory building or
buildings and the nearest lot line. Such yard is unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground upward except as may be specifically provided in the Zoning
Ordinance [
Chapter 27 ].
   Front yard–a space extending the full width of the lot between any building
and the front lot line, and measured perpendicular to the building at the
closest point to the front lot line.
   Rear yard–a space extending across the full width of the lot between the
principal building and the rear lot line, and measured perpendicular to the
building to the closest point of the rear lot line.
   Side yard–a space extending from the front yard to the rear yard between the
principal building and the side lot line measured perpendicular from the side
lot line to the closest point of the principal building.
   Zoning Officer–an administrative officer authorized to administer the
literal terms and provisions of the Zoning Ordinance [
Chapter 27 ].
   Zoning Ordinance–the governing Zoning Ordinance of Plains Township [
Chapter 27 ], and any subsequent amendments.
   Zoning permit–a permit requiring approval by the Zoning Officer as a
condition prior to the commencement of a use of property, with or without
improvements.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 201; as amended by Ord. 2009-4, 5/14/2009, § 1;
and by A.O.)
Part 3
Procedural Requirements
§ 22-301.   Review and Approval Process.
   1.   The submission and review process for subdivision and land development
applications shall be in accordance with the following:
   A.   Major subdivision shall require the submission and approval of a
preliminary plan and a final plan. The submission of a sketch plan prior to the
formal submission of preliminary plan shall be optional.
   B.   Minor subdivision shall require the submission and approval of only a
final plan, in accordance with the provisions as set forth in Part 6 of this
Chapter.
   C.   Major land development shall require the submission and approval of a
preliminary plan and a final plan. The submission of a sketch plan prior to the
formal submission of a preliminary plan shall be optional.
   D.   Minor land development shall require the submission and approval of
only a final plan, in accordance with the provisions as set forth in Part 4 of
this Chapter.
   2.   The owner of record and the applicant must attend the Planning
Commission meeting for the purpose of presenting the plans and to respond to
questions.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 301)
§ 22-302.   Sketch Plan Review.
   1.   Prior to submitting a major subdivision application or a land
development application, the applicant is advised, but not required, to submit
a sketch plan to the Planning Commission. The submission and review of a sketch
plan shall not constitute the filing of an application for plan review and
approval of a subdivision or land development. The Planning Commission shall
provide advice and comment on the necessary requirements to achieve conformity
to the standards and provisions of this Chapter and other related regulations.
   2.   The applicant shall submit an application and ten copies of a sketch
plan to the Administrator not less than 14 days prior to the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission, unless waived by the discretion
of the Planning Commission.
   3.   The sketch plan shall be drawn to a scale of not greater than one inch
equals 50 feet and shall address:
   A.   All land which the applicant proposes to subdivide and/or develop.
   B.   All land within 200 feet of site’s boundaries and the names of the
subject property owners based upon the records of the Luzerne County Assessor’s
Office.
   C.   All existing and proposed streets, proposed lot sizes, natural features
including topographic contours, sewage disposal, drainage, water supply and
related utilities.
   4.   Upon reviewing a sketch plan, the Planning Commission shall advise the
applicant of any initial changes, modifications and/or additions, if any, which
should be addressed relative to the proposed design, layout and character of
the site.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 302)
§ 22-303.   Submission of Plans and Applications.
   1.   The applicant shall provide the following information to the
Administrator not less than 14 days prior to the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Planning Commission:
   A.   Fourteen prefolded copies of the plan (preliminary or final).
   B.   Fourteen prefolded copies of construction plans (if applicable).
   C.   A completed subdivision or land development application with original
signatures and 14 copies of the same.
   D.   A completed planning module, if applicable, as required by the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and two copies of the same.
   2.   The submission of plans and/or applications that fail to comply with
the above requirements shall be deemed to be an incomplete submission shall not
be accepted or shall be returned to the applicant along with any fees which
have been submitted.
   3.   The Planning Commission shall have the discretion to waive the 14-day
requirement for the submission of the above information for a minor subdivision
or minor land development.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 303)
§ 22-304.   Distribution of Plans.
   1.   The Administrator shall provide each member of the Planning Commission
with a copy of the complete set of plans (sketch, preliminary or final), a copy
of the subdivision application and a copy of the DEP planning module.
   2.   The Administrator shall provide or direct, as applicable, that a copy
of the complete set of plans (preliminary or final), a copy of the application
and a copy the DEP planning module, be forwarded to the following agencies and
officials for review, comment and/or approval, as applicable:
   A.   The Plains Township Board of Commissioners.
   B.   The Luzerne County Planning Commission (submitted by applicant with
documentation, including date of submission, to the Planning Commission
verifying the same).
   C.   The Township Zoning Officer.
   D.   The Township Engineer and/or Planning Consultant.
   E.   The Solicitor to the Township Planning Commission.
   F.   The Township Solicitor.
   G.   The Township Sewage Enforcement Officer.
   H.   The Luzerne County Conservation District (submitted by applicant with
documentation, including date of submission, to the Planning Commission
verifying the same).
   I.   The Municipal Sanitary Authority (submitted by applicant with
documentation, including date of submission, to the Planning Commission
verifying the same).
   J.   The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, Luzerne County and/or
Plains Township Road Department in cases where a proposed subdivision or land
development fronts upon or is to have access to have access to a road under
their respective jurisdictions (submitted by applicant with documentation
including date of submission, to the Planning Commission verifying the same).
   K.   The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (submitted by
applicant with documentation, including date of submission, to the Planning
Commission verifying the same).
   L.   Adjoining municipalities that have a common border with the proposed
subdivision and/or land development.
   M.   To any other agency as so directed by the Planning Commission.
   3.   The applicant shall be responsible to ensure that copies of the plan
and supporting material are provided to all applicable utility companies
intended to service the site.
   4.   The applicant shall pay any applicable fees related to the review and
inspection of other agencies and parties provided under Subsection 3. above.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 304)
§ 22-305.   Luzerne County Review.
   The Plains Township Planning Commission shall not approve any subdivision or
land development plans or application until a report, containing the comments
and recommendation of the Luzerne County Planning Commission is received or
until the expiration of 30 days from the date said plans and application were
forwarded to the Luzerne County Planning Commission. The applicant shall pay
all review fees required by the Luzerne County Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 305)
§ 22-306.   Public Hearing.
   The Planning Commission, at its discretion, may hold a public hearing prior
to rendering a decision on any plan (preliminary or final).
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 306)
§ 22-307.   Installation or Guarantee of Required Improvements.
   Prior to approving the final plan of a major subdivision or a major land
development, in which the approval was conditioned upon specific improvements,
the Planning Commission shall require the following of the applicant:
   A.   The installation of all required improvements in accordance with the
design standards and specifications of this Chapter and all applicable terms
and conditions in granting approval.
   B.   Provision of a form of financial security, acceptable by Plains
Township, which assures and guarantees the subsequent installation of all
required improvements in accordance with the design standards and
specifications of this Chapter and all applicable terms and conditions in
granting approval.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 307)
§ 22-308.   Procedural Methods in Rendering Decisions.
   1.   The Planning Commission shall approve or reject a submitted plan
(preliminary or final) within 90 days following the date of the Planning
Commission’s regular meeting at which said plan is first reviewed. Should the
regular meeting date occur more than 30 days following the date of submission
of said plan, the 90-day period shall be measured from the thirtieth day
following the date on which the plan was properly submitted to the Township.
   2.   The Planning Commission shall communicate its decision to the applicant
in writing either by delivery in person or by mail to applicant’s last known
address not later than 15 days following the decision.
   3.   When an application and plan (preliminary or final) is not approved as
submitted, the Planning Commission’s decision shall specify the defects found
in such, and describe the requirements which have not been met and shall, in
each case, cite the provisions of the statute or ordinance relied upon.
   4.   In granting approval to a plan, preliminary or final, which is subject
to specific conditions, the Planning Commission shall include in their
notification that the applicant, may notify the Planning Commission of his or
her refusal to accept all said conditions in writing. In such cases, the
Planning Commission’s conditional approval shall be deemed rescinded upon
receipt of the applicant’s written notification. In the event the applicant
fails to notify the Planning Commission of his or her refusal to accept all
said conditions within the 30-day time period, all conditions shall stand
granted and deemed accepted by the applicant.
   5.   As prescribed by the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act
247, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., as amended, failure of the Planning Commission
to render a decision and communicate said decision to the applicant as set
forth in this Section shall be deemed approval of the plan as submitted, unless
the applicant has agreed in writing to an extension of time or change in the
prescribed manner of communication of the decision.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 308)
§ 22-309.   Revised Plans.
   1.   Any revisions to a preliminary plan or final plan which are
independently initiated by the applicant or developer that alters or changes
the character, density, design, layout and/or location of any proposed
structures and/or improvements on the plans as originally submitted shall be
deemed to be a new submission. Such will require the applicant or developer to
submit a new application, plans, supporting documentation and applicable fees.
In such cases, the Planning Commission shall provide the applicant or developer
with written notice of the need to submit a new plan and require the applicant
to formally withdraw the revised plan in writing. If the applicant or developer
fails to do so, the Planning Commission shall act to formally disapprove the
revised plan and communicate the same to the applicant or developer in
accordance with §
22-308 of this Chapter.
   2.   Any revisions to a preliminary plan or final plan which are clearly
undertaken by the applicant or developer for the purpose of complying with any
conditions and/or additional requirements established by the Planning
Commission or agency or entity which holds jurisdiction over any aspect of the
plan shall be accepted as a revised plan. A revised plan, which meets such
conditions, shall not be subject to the submission of a new application or the
payment of a new application fee to Plains Township.
   3.   All revised plans shall be accompanied by an itemized listing of
revisions to the plans and the basis for such revisions. Such information shall
be prepared and certified by a professional engineer.
   4.   Any revised plan may be resubmitted to the Luzerne County Planning
Commission or to any other party noted within §
22-304 Subsection 2. of this Chapter if the Planning Commission renders a
determination that the scope of the revisions are substantial in nature to
warrant any additional review. If such a determination is rendered, the
applicant shall be responsible for the applicable required fees.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 309)
§ 22-310.   Recording of Final Plan.
   1.   The applicant shall record the final plan as approved by the Planning
Commission in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Luzerne County within 90
days of such final approval, unless an extension has been granted in writing by
the Planning Commission. Failure by the applicant to record the final plat
within the 30 days, or an approved extension of the time period, will result in
the Planning Commission’s approval becoming null and void. The final plan for
recording shall comprise all plans submitted for final approval.
   2.   A final plan shall not be submitted for recording within the Recorder
of Deeds Office unless it bears the signature of the Planning Commission’s
Chairperson and Secretary and bears appropriate signature and/or seal that it
has been reviewed by the Luzerne County Planning Commission.
   3.   Within 14 days from the date on which the final plan is recorded, the
applicant shall furnish to the Administrator a copy of a certificate or receipt
attesting to the recording of the final plan in the Recorder of Deeds Office.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 310)
§ 22-311.   Phasing Major Subdivision Plans.
   Prior to granting final approval of a major subdivision plan, the Planning
Commission may permit the plan to be divided into two or more sections or
phases and may impose such conditions upon the filing of the sections as it may
deem necessary to assure the orderly development of the plan. The Planning
Commission may require that the financial security be in such amount as is
commensurate with the section or sections of the plan to be filed and may defer
the remaining required financial security principal amount until the remaining
sections of the plan are offered for filing. The developer may also file in
writing irrevocable offers to dedicate streets and public improvements in the
sections offered to be filed and defer filing offers of dedication for the
remaining sections until such sections, subject to any conditions imposed by
the Planning Commission shall be granted concurrently with final approval of
the plan.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 311)
Part 4
Preliminary Plan
§ 22-401.   Initial Review.
   The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plan to determine its
completeness with regard to the standards, provisions and requirements of this
Chapter. Any submission which is found to be incomplete shall be deemed to be
invalid. The Planning Commission shall notify the applicant in writing as to
the nature and type of additional information which the applicant must submit.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 401)
§ 22-402.   Review by Luzerne County Planning Commission.
   The Planning Commission shall not approve a preliminary plan until a report
is received from the Luzerne County Planning Commission or until the expiration
of 30 days from the date it was forwarded to the Luzerne County Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 402)
§ 22-403.   Review and Approval/Disapproval of Plan.
   The Planning Commission shall consider all official reports, comments and
recommendations as provided in §
24-304 of this Chapter. The Planning Commission shall render a decision in
conformance with §
22-308 of this Chapter. The following constitutes the type of action the
Planning Commission may take:
   A.   The Planning Commission may disapprove the preliminary plan, in which
case it shall specify the defects found in the application and describe the
requirements which have not been met and shall, in each case, cite the
provisions of this Chapter relied upon.
   B.   Approval of the preliminary plan by the Planning Commission shall
constitute approval of the subdivision or land development as to the character
and intensity of development, the arrangement and approximate dimensions of
streets, lots and other planned features. The approval binds the applicant to
proceed with the installation of the required improvements and/or to arrange
for a form of financial security to cover installation of improvements and to
prepare the final plan. Approval of the preliminary plan does not authorize the
sale of lots, property or the recording of the preliminary plan. The Planning
Commission shall provide written notification to the applicant, in conformance
to §
22-308 of this Chapter.
   C.   No tree clearing, grading and/or earth disturbance (except for soil
analysis for proposed sewage disposal systems) shall be permitted on a site
prior to preliminary plan approval.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 403)
§ 22-404.   Preliminary Plan Drafting Standards.
   1.   The preliminary plan of a proposed subdivision or land development
shall be clearly and legibly drawn to a scale not greater than:
   A.   One inch equals 50 feet for a property in excess of two acres.
   B.   One inch equals 20 feet for a property equal to or less than two acres.
   2.   The original drawing and all submitted prints thereof shall be made on
a sheet size of 24 inches by 36 inches.
   3.   All dimensions shall be set in feet and decimal parts thereof, and
bearings in degrees, minutes and seconds.
   4.   If the preliminary plan requires more than one sheet, a key diagram
showing relative location of the several sections shall be drawn on each sheet,
and appropriately labeled with match lines.
   5.   Preliminary plans shall be so prepared and shall bear an adequate
legend to indicate clearly which features are existing and those which are
proposed.
   6.   The survey shall not have an error of closure greater than one foot in
10,000 feet.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 404)
§ 22-405.   Preliminary Plan-Existing Conditions.
   The preliminary plan shall contain the following information:
   A.   Certification of ownership, including:
   (1)   The name and address of record owner, with source of title by deed
book and page number and affidavit of ownership that carries a notarial seal.
If the owner of record is a corporation or similar legal entity, the names and
titles of all corporate officers, directors and stockholders owning more than
five percent of any class of stock shall be provided within the affidavit of
ownership.
   (2)   Name and address of applicant if different from owner. If the
applicant is a corporation, provide name and titles of all corporate officers,
directors and stockholders owning more than five percent of any class of stock.
   B.   Name of proposed subdivision or land development, labeled as the
“preliminary plan”.
   C.   Name and address of registered engineer, or registered land surveyor,
responsible for the subdivision plan or land development plan, including
certification of the accuracy of the plan and its conformance to the provisions
of this Chapter.
   D.   North point, graphic scale and date including the month, day and year
that the original drawing was completed and the month, day and year that the
original drawing was revised for each revision.
   E.   Total tract boundaries of the property being subdivided, showing
bearings and distances, with bearings not less than the nearest ten seconds and
distances to the nearest one-hundredths of a foot. The total size of the
property shall be listed in both acreage and square feet.
   F.   The names of all adjoining landowners, including block and lot numbers
from the Luzerne County Assessor’s Office.
   G.   All existing streets, including streets of record (recorded but not
constructed) on or abutting the tract, including names, right-of-way widths,
cartway (pavement) widths and approximate grades.
   H.   All existing sewer lines, water lines, fire hydrants, utility
transmission lines, utility easements or utility rights-of-way, culverts, storm
drains, bridges, railroad rights-of-way and other significant human-made
features within the proposed subdivision or land development.
   I.   All existing building or structures within the boundaries of the
proposed subdivision or land development.
   J.   The zoning district or districts, delineated upon the plan, along with
the required building setback line and/or the proposed placement of each
building shall be shown, and where corner lots are involved, the required
setback lines on both streets shall be shown.
   K.   (1)   Original topography providing the contour lines at vertical
intervals of:
   (a)   Not more than five feet for land with an average natural slope of five
percent or less.
   (b)   Not more than ten feet for land with an average natural slope
exceeding five percent.
   (c)   Not more than 20 feet for land with an average natural slope exceeding
15 percent.
   (1)   Topography for major subdivisions or land development shall be
prepared by a professional land surveyor or professional engineer from an
actual field survey of the site or from stereoscopic aerial photography and
shall be coordinated with official U.S.G.S. benchmarks.
   L.   Existing watercourses, streams, ponds, wetlands, floodplain and/or
flood prone areas, wooded areas, tree masses and rock outcrops within the
proposed subdivision or land development.
   M.   (1)   With regard to wetlands, all plans must specifically address the
subject of as to whether any wetlands are located upon the site. If no wetlands
are located within the site, a certification of the absence of wetlands shall
be so noted upon the plan, which is certified by a person with appropriate
training and experience in the identification of wetlands. If wetlands are
located within the site, a delineation of all wetlands boundaries, upon the
site shall be provided by a person with appropriate training and experience in
the identification of wetlands. The inclusion of wetlands upon the site shall
require a complete survey, delineation and total acreage of said wetlands
boundaries included upon the plans.
   (2)   Any parcels or portions thereof, which are not intended and/or
proposed to be developed to be in any manner including, but not limited to, new
structures may, at the discretion of the Planning Commission, be temporarily
exempt from providing the information required under Subparagraph (1) of this
Paragraph M. subject to clearly indicating such areas upon the plan and:
   (a)   Including written notification of the upon the plan with a legend that
outlines the boundaries of areas not to be developed.
   (b)   The inclusion deed restrictions upon parcels which prohibits
development on such areas until compliance with Subparagraph (1) of this
Paragraph M. is met.
   N.   A location map at a scale of not greater than one inch equals 2,000
feet, indicating the relation of the site to its geographic proximity within
the Township.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 405)
§ 22-406.   Preliminary Plans-Proposed Development.
   The preliminary plans shall contain and include the following information:
   A.   Lot layout and related features which shall indicate and provide:
   (1)   The total number of lots proposed for the site, with identification
numbers.
   (2)   The dimensions and area of all lots, expressed in either square feet
or acres.
   (3)   The building setbacks for all lots along each street, or in the case
of a land development, the proposed placement of each building along each
street, and the proposed use of each building.
   (4)   Proposed open space, parks, playgrounds or recreational facilities,
with any governing conditions thereof.
   (5)   Copies of proposed deed restrictions, easements and protective
covenants referenced on the plan.
   (6)   Proposed contour lines at vertical intervals of five feet of the
entire site.
   (7)   Location, width and purpose of proposed easements and utility right-
of-way.
   (8)   In the case of wetlands, total acreage of any such area proposed to be
disturbed.
   B.   Street and right-of-way layout which shall indicate and/or provide:
   (1)   The location of all proposed streets and existing streets (public and
private) within the site and abutting or adjoining the site.
   (2)   The location, right-of-way and cartway of all proposed streets, with a
statement of any condition governing their use and the right-of-way and cartway
of any existing streets (public or private) to which the proposed street will
intersect.
   (3)   Suggested street names, in accordance with §
22-809 of this Chapter, the location of street signs in accordance with §
22-810 of this Chapter and the location of traffic control signs in accordance
with §
22-811 of this Chapter.
   (4)   The beginning and end point of proposed street construction.
   (5)   Location, width and purpose of proposed easement and utility right-of-
way.
   (6)   The location of sidewalks.
   C.   (1)   A subdivision and/or land development, when being serviced by
sanitary sewers, shall be connected to public sewers. The developer shall
provide a letter of commitment from the Plains Township Sewer Authority
providing notice that said Authority can adequately serve the proposed
subdivision or land development and accept the conveyance of sewage for
treatment and disposal, including any conditions required for the provision of
service. If applicable, written approval from any adjoining municipality
regarding the conveyance of sewage into their system to access intended
conveyance of sewage to facilities of the subject Township Sanitary Authority
shall also be required. The following information shall be provided upon the
plan.
   (a)   The layout, size and material of sanitary sewers within the site.
   (b)   Location of manholes with invert elevation of flow line and grade at
the top of each manhole.
   (c)   Location of laterals.
   (2)   When serviced by on-lot sewage disposal, a test pit shall be required
for each lot within a proposed subdivision and/or land development. The
following information shall be provided upon the plan:
   (a)   Location of test pits sites for each lot.
   (b)   Location of soil percolation test sites.
   (c)   Location and extent of various soil types within the site with DEP
definitions for each.
   (d)   Proposed or typical location of building and/or structure with
proposed location of wells, if applicable.
   (e)   Copy of the applicable report and findings of the Township’s Sewage
Enforcement Officer.
   D.   (1)   A subdivision and/or land development, when being serviced by a
centralized water system shall indicate and/or provide the following:
   (a)   If to be served by an existing water company or authority, a letter
from the same indicating said company or authority can adequately serve the
proposed subdivision or land development, including any conditions required for
the provision of service.
   (b)   Location and size of all waterlines.
   (c)   Location of fire hydrants.
   (2)   A subdivision and/or land development, when individual lots are
serviced by individual wells shall indicate the proposed location of the
subject wells upon the plans.
   E.   Storm drainage shall indicate and/or provide:
   (1)   The location, size and material of all storm drainage facilities.
   (2)   Watershed areas for each drainage facility or swale.
   F.   (1)   A letter from the applicable public utility company which
provides electrical service and/or gas service to the Township, indicating said
company can and shall adequately serve the proposed subdivision or land
development, including any conditions required for the provision of service.
   (2)   All plans shall contain the following notice in compliance with PA.
Act 287:
   Call Before You Dig!
   Before You Dig Anywhere in Pennsylvania
   Call 1-800-242-1776
   PA Act 287 of 1974 Requires 3
   Working Days Notice to Utilities
   Before You Excavate, Drill or Blast
   Pennsylvania One Call System Inc.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 406)
§ 22-407.   Additional Materials Submitted with Preliminary Plan.
   The following material and information shall be submitted with the
preliminary plan:
   A.   Proof of ownership including a copy of the existing deed.
   B.   Preliminary plan application and required fee.
   C.   The required fee for Luzerne County Planning Commission review.
   D.   If applicable, a copy of the application for a highway occupancy
permit, as required by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, Luzerne
County and/or Plains Township.
   E.   Construction plans which include, where applicable, preliminary design,
preliminary profiles, typical cross-sections and specifications for the
construction or installation of streets, sidewalks, sanitary sewers, sewage
treatment facilities, storm drainage facilities, water lines, bridges or
culverts.
   (1)   Cross-sections for proposed streets and sidewalks shall be provided at
intervals of 50 feet and at intersections and the limits of work.
   (2)   Engineering design of proposed bridges or culverts shall be prepared
in conformance with the latest Pennsylvania Department of Transportation design
manuals.
   (3)   Engineering design of a proposed central sewage system and/or central
water supply and distribution system shall be accompanied by all permit
applications for all respective utilities.
   F.   Any offers of dedication of proposed improvements, signed by the owner
of the property and properly notarized.
   G.   A sewage planning module and all accompanying data as required by the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
   H.   A copy of the soil erosion and sedimentation control plan, application
and related information as required by the Luzerne County Conservation
District.
   I.   Stormwater management plans, including drawings of present and proposed
contours, stormwater runoff data and facilities for stormwater drainage.
   J.   In the case of delineation of wetlands, the wetland boundaries, as
provided by the developer, must be verified by either the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers or the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection based upon
a jurisdictional determination of said agencies.
   K.   Estimated costs by item for required improvements in accordance with §
22-703 of this Chapter.
   L.   A community association document, also known as a homeowners
association document or a condominium association document, shall be provided
for all subdivision and land development applications which propose lands or
facilities to be used or owned in common by all the residents of that
subdivision or land development and not deeded to the Plains Township. The
elements of the community association document shall include, but shall not
necessarily be limited to the following:
   (1)   A description of all lands and facilities to be owned by the community
association. This description shall include a map of the proposal highlighting
the precise location of those lands and facilities.
   (2)   Statements setting forth the powers, duties and responsibilities of
the community association, including the services to be provided.
   (3)   A declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions, giving
perpetual easement to the lands and facilities owned by the community
association. The declaration shall be a legal document which also provides for
automatic association membership for all owners in the subdivision or land
development and shall describe the mechanism by which owners participate in the
association, including voting, elections and meetings. Furthermore, it shall
give power to the association to own and maintain the common property and to
make and enforce rules.
   (4)   Statements prescribing the process by which community association
decisions are reached and setting forth the authority to act.
   (5)   Statements requiring each owner within the subdivision or land
development to become a member of the community association.
   (6)   Statements setting cross covenants or contractual terms binding each
owner to all other owners for mutual benefit and enforcement.
   (7)   Requirements for all owners to provide a pro rata share of the cost of
the operations of the community association.
   (8)   A process of collection and enforcement to obtain funds from owners
who fail to comply.
   (9)   A process for transition of control of the community association from
the developer to the unit owners.
   (10)   Statements describing how the lands and facilities of the community
association will be insured, including limit of liability.
   (11)   Provisions for the dissolution of the community association, in the
event the association should become unviable.
   M.   Any other information deemed necessary by the Planning Commission,
including, but not limited to, any impact analysis, as defined in Part 2 of
this Chapter.
   N.   An executed written agreement under which the applicant agrees to fully
reimburse Plains Township for any and all consulting fees incurred resulting
from the review of plans, applications and supporting information, data and/or
reports or studies. In providing for such an agreement, the Planning
Commission, at its discretion, may require the applicant to establish an escrow
account in a manner arranged for the Township’s withdrawal of funds for the
payment of consulting fees incurred by the Township.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 407)
Part 5
Final Plan
§ 22-501.   Submission and Review Procedure.
   1. The Planning Commission shall review the final plan to determine its
completeness including, but not limited to, conformance with the standards and
data as set forth in Part 4 and any changes or modifications required by the
Planning Commission as a condition of granting approval of the preliminary
plan.
   2.   The applicant shall submit the final plan within one year from the date
of the approval of the preliminary plan by the Planning Commission, unless an
extension in writing has been approved by the Planning Commission. Failure to
comply with the one-year time requirement, shall render the preliminary plan
and any accompanying approval as null and void, thus requiring a new submission
of the preliminary plan.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 501)
§ 22-502.   Review and Approval/Disapproval of Plan.
   The Planning Commission shall consider the reports, comments and
recommendations as provided in §
22-304 Subsection 2 of this Chapter. The Planning Commission shall render a
decision in conformance with §
22-308 of this Chapter. The following constitutes the type of action the
Planning Commission may take:
   A.   The Planning Commission may disapprove the final plan, in which case it
shall specify the defects found in the application and describe the
requirements which have not been met and shall, in each case, cite the
provisions of this Chapter relied upon. The Planning Commission shall provide
written notification to the applicant, in conformance to §
22-308 of this Chapter.
   B.   The Planning Commission may approve the final plan as submitted. Such
approval by the Planning Commission shall allow the applicant to file said
final plan with the Luzerne County Recorder of Deeds Office. The Planning
Commission shall provide written notification to the applicant in conformance
to §
22-308 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 502)
§ 22-503.   Final Plan Drafting Standards.
   1.   The final plan of a proposed subdivision or land development shall be
at a scale not greater than:
   A.   One inch equals 50 feet for a property in excess of two acres.
   B.   One inch equals 20 feet for a property equal to or less than two acres.
   2.   The original drawing, and all submitted prints thereof shall be made on
a sheet size of 24 inches by 36 inches.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 503)
§ 22-504.   Final Plan Requirements.
   The final plan shall include all additional information and any changes
required by the Planning Commission in granting approval of the preliminary
plan. It shall not be necessary to resubmit all supporting data, required under
the preliminary plan, provided there have been no changes. In the event of any
changes, the procedures and requirements outlined in §
22-309 of this Chapter shall apply. The following additional information shall
be included on the final plan:
   A.   Drawings and/or plans shall be titled “final plan”.
   B.   An accurate field boundary survey of the entire site which shall be
balanced and close with an error of closure not to exceed one foot in 10,000
feet.
   C.   The location and material of all permanent monuments and lot markers.
   D.   Written certification by the responsible land surveyor, which attests
to the accuracy of the survey and compliance with the applicable provisions of
this Chapter.
   E.   (1)   A three-inch by five-inch blocked space shall be provided on the
final plan for the signatures of the Chairperson and Secretary of the Township
Planning Commission indicating approval of the final plan and date of the same.
   (2)   A separate three-inch by five-inch blocked space shall also be
provided on the final plan for the appropriate signature and/or seal which
indicates compliance with required review procedure by the Luzerne County
Planning Commission.
   F.   The latest source of title to the property as shown by deed, page
number and book of the Luzerne County Recorder of Deeds Office.
   G.   The exact dimensions of all streets, including right-of-way and
cartway; lot lines, areas and distances; utility and other easements; and all
land to be dedicated to public use.
   H.   All lot lines shall be completely dimensioned in feet if straight, and
if curved, by designating length of arc and radius (in feet) and central angle
(in degrees, minutes and seconds). All internal angles within the lots shall be
designated to the closest second.
   I.   Typical final street cross-section drawings for all proposed streets
and/or roads showing the following:
   (1)   Typical cut sections.
   (2)   Typical fill sections.
   (3)   Typical superelevated sections.
   (4)   Typical parallel drainage.
   J.   Final profiles along the top of the cartway (pavement) centerline
showing existing and final grade lines and printed elevations of the final
grade line at 50-foot intervals, unless otherwise required by this Chapter.
   K.   The zoning district or districts, delineated upon the plan, along with
the required building setback line and/or the proposed placement of each
building shall be shown, and where corner lots are involved, the setback lines
on both streets shall be shown.
   L.   If applicable, the number of the approved highway occupancy permit
issued by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation or the notation that
deed restrictions prohibit development or improvements to the site or parcels
to be created thereunder until the subject highway occupancy permit is secured.
   M.   A space shall be provided on the lower edge of the final plan for
acknowledge of receipt and recording of the plan by the Luzerne County Recorder
of Deeds Office.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 504)
§ 22-505.   Additional Material-Submitted with Final Plan.
   The following material and information shall be submitted with and/or upon
the final plan:
   A.   Certification of ownership, including:
   (1)   The name and address of record owner, with source of title by deed
book and page number and affidavit of ownership that carries a notarial seal.
If the owner of record is a corporation or similar legal entity, the names and
titles of all corporate officers, directors and stockholders owning more than
five percent of any class of stock shall be provided within the affidavit of
ownership.
   (2)   Name and address of applicant if different from owner. If the
applicant is a corporation, provide name and titles of all corporate officers,
directors and stockholders owning more than five percent of any class of stock.
   B.   Certification of plan’s compliance with all applicable terms and
conditions required by this Chapter and/or the Planning Commission and any
offer of dedication, if applicable, signed by the owner of the property and
notarized.
   C.   (1)   If applicable approved highway occupancy permits, as required by
the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, Luzerne County and/or Plains
Township.
   (2)   If the location of any driveways and/or any proposed points of access
have not yet been determined, a deed restriction shall be required for the
subject parcels that prohibits development or improvements to the site and/or
any lots or parcels until the appropriate highway occupancy permit is secured.
Said restriction shall also be included upon the plan.
   D.   Copies of final deed restrictions, those existing and those to be
included upon recording, if any.
   E.   All final covenants running with the land governing the reservation and
maintenance of dedicated or undedicated land, open space and/or common
facilities.
   F.   Written certification from the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection approving the required planning module and any supporting data.
   G.   Soil erosion and sedimentation control plan approved by the Luzerne
County Conservation District, and if applicable an approved NPDES permit.
   H.   Final drainage/stormwater management plans.
   I.   Final construction plans and subsequent “as built” drawings of all
sanitary sewer, water distribution and storm drainage systems, showing their
exact location, size and invert elevations; the location of all manholes,
inlets and culverts; and final profiles, cross-sections and specifications for
proposed streets, sidewalks, sanitary sewers, water distribution systems and
storm drainage systems, with written certification from the applicant’s
engineer which notes that the above plans and/or drawings are in compliance
with the applicable governing design standards and/or have been installed in
compliance with said plans or drawings. The submission of the above referenced
“as built” drawings shall precede the release of any remaining funds placed as
a financial security by the developer.
   J.   If any streets are not offered for dedication to public use, the
applicant shall submit and record with the plan a copy of the agreement made
and executed on behalf of the applicant, including his or her heirs or assigns,
subject to review by the Planning Commission’s Solicitor and approval by
Planning Commission, establishing the conditions under which the streets may be
later offered for dedication. Said conditions shall include, although not
limited to, that the subject streets shall conform to the Township’s design
specifications at such time the offer of dedication is made or that the owners
of the lots within the subject subdivision shall include with their offer of
dedication sufficient funds, as estimated by the Township Engineer, to provide
the needed improvements required for conformance to the Township’s design
specifications at the time of such dedication.
   K.   A final community association document in accordance with the
provisions of §
22-407 Paragraph L. of this Chapter.
   L.   An agreement as part of the community association document, homeowners
association document or a condominium association document, for any streets not
offered for dedication, stating who shall be responsible for the improvements
and maintenance of such streets. If such an association is deemed to be
responsible, the association must be legally organized prior to approval of the
final plan.
   M.   A statement setting forth any zoning variances or subdivision waivers/
modification obtained.
   N.   A financial security, in accordance with §
22-704 of this Chapter, subject to the approval by the Planning Commission, for
the installation of required improvements, unless all such improvements are
installed and completed to design specifications prior to final plan approval.
   O.   A financial security for the maintenance of improvements, in accordance
with §
22-710 of this Chapter.
   Q.   If applicable, written certification from the Township Sanitary
Authority granting final approval for the acceptance of the conveyance of
sewage for treatment and disposal from the proposed subdivision and/or land
development.
   R.   Written certification from the appropriate public utility company which
authorizes and approves the provision of water, gas and electrical service for
the proposed subdivision and/or land development.
   S.   All required state or federal environmental permits.
   T.   All required permits and/or approvals from either the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers or the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection for
site development activities which affects delineated wetlands.
   U.   The cost of all consulting fees and costs incurred by the Township for
the review of the application, plan and supporting information, data and/or
reports or studies including, but not limited to, any required impact analysis
and site inspections to ensure compliance with the terms of approval and
required improvements.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 505)
§ 22-506.   Recording of Plan.
   The applicant shall record the final plan in accordance with the
requirements as set forth in §
22-310 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 506)
Part 6
Minor Subdivision/Land Development
§ 22-601.   Only Final Plan Required.
   The classification of a proposed subdivision as a “minor subdivision” shall
only require the submission, review and approval of only a final plan. A land
development classified as a “minor land development” shall only require the
submission, review and approval of only a final plan. The classification shall
be based upon the definitions of terms “minor subdivision” and “minor land
development” as provided for under Part 2 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 601)
§ 22-602.   Submission Procedure.
   The submission procedure for a minor subdivision or minor land development
shall be in accordance with §
22-303 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 602)
§ 22-603.   Distribution of Plan.
   The distribution of a minor subdivision plan or minor land development plan
shall be in accordance with §
22-304 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 603)
§ 22-604.   Drafting Standards for Minor Plans.
   1.   The final plan for a proposed minor subdivision or minor land
development shall be clearly and legibly drawn to a scale not greater than:
   A.   One inch equals 50 feet for a property in excess of two acres.
   B   One inch equals 20 feet for a property equal to or less than two acres.
   2.   The original drawing, and all submitted prints thereof shall be made on
a sheet size of 24 inches by 36 inches.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 604)
§ 22-605.   Requirements for Minor Plans.
   The final plan shall be noted as “minor subdivision final plan” or “minor
land development final plan” and contain the following information:
   A.   Certification of ownership, including:
   (1)   The name and address of record owner, with source of title by deed
book and page number and affidavit of ownership that carries a notarial seal.
If the owner of record is a corporation or similar legal entity, the names and
titles of all corporate officers, directors and stockholders owning more than
five percent of any class of stock shall be provided within the affidavit of
ownership.
   (2)   Name and address of applicant if different from owner. If the
applicant is a corporation, provide name and titles of all corporate officers,
directors and stockholders owning more than five percent of any class of stock.
   B.   Name of proposed subdivision or land development.
   C.   Name and address of registered engineer and/or registered land
surveyor, responsible for the subdivision plan or land development plan,
including certification of the accuracy of the plan for an error of closure not
to exceed one foot in 10,000 feet and its conformance to the applicable
provisions of this Chapter.
   D.   North point, graphic scale and date, including the month, day and year
that the original drawing was completed and the month, day and year that the
original drawing was revised for each revision.
   E.   Total tract boundaries of the property being subdivided and/or
developed, showing bearings and distances, and total size of the property,
expressed in acreage and square feet.
   F.   The total number of proposed lots, within a subdivision, with
identification numbers for each or for a land development, the location of
buildings upon the lot with identification numbers for each. Markers shall be
provided for all proposed lots. Markers shall consist of either iron or steel
bars at least 36 inches long and not less than five-eighths inch in diameter
placed flush with the surrounding grade.
   G.   The dimensions and area of all lots, expressed in both square feet and
acres.
   H.   The zoning district or districts, delineated upon the plan, along with
the required building setback line and/or the proposed placement of each
building shall be shown, and where corner lots are involved, the setback lines
on both streets shall be shown.
   I.   The required yard setbacks, as provided in the Zoning Ordinance [
Chapter 27], for all lots along each street or in the case of a land
development, the proposed placement of each building along each street and the
proposed use of each building.
   J.   The location and dimensions of all existing structures, including
accessory structures and off-street parking areas upon the subject property.
   K.   The distance of all existing structures to lot lines, front, rear and
side, which will result upon approval of the plan.
   L.   The names of all adjoining property owners, including block and lot
numbers from the Luzerne County Assessors Office.
   M.   All existing streets, public or private, including streets of record
(recorded but not constructed) on or abutting the subject tract, including
their names and right-of-way widths.
   N.   All existing sewer lines, water lines, fire hydrants, utility
transmission lines, utility easements or rights-of-way, culverts, storm drains,
bridges, railroad rights-of-way, and other significant human-made features
located within the boundaries of the proposed subdivision or land development.
   O.   Existing watercourses, streams, ponds, wetlands, floodplain and/or
flood prone areas, wooded areas, tree masses and rock outcrops within the
proposed subdivision or land development.
   (1)   With regard to wetlands, all plans must specifically address the
subject of as to whether any wetlands are located upon the site. If no wetlands
are located within the site, a certification of the absence of wetlands shall
be so noted upon the plan, which is certified by a person with appropriate
training and experience in the identification of wetlands. If wetlands are
located within the site, a delineation of all wetlands boundaries, upon the
site shall be provided by a person with appropriate training and experience in
the identification of wetlands. The inclusion of wetlands upon the site shall
require a complete survey, delineation and total acreage of said wetlands
boundaries included upon the plans. The total acreage of any wetlands area
proposed to be disturbed shall also be indicated upon the plans.
   (2)   Any parcels or portions thereof, which are not intended and/or
proposed to be developed to be in any manner, including, but not limited to,
new structures, may, at the discretion of the Planning Commission, be
temporally exempt from providing the information required under Subparagraph
(1) of this Paragraph O. subject to clearly indicating such areas upon the plan
and:
   (a)   Including written notification of the upon the plan with a legend that
outlines the boundaries of areas not to be developed.
   (b)   The inclusion deed of restrictions upon parcels which prohibits
development on such areas until compliance with Subparagraph (1) of this
Paragraph O. is met.
   P.   Existing contour lines at vertical intervals of:
   (1)   Not more than five feet for land with an average natural slope of five
percent or less.
   (2)   Not more than ten feet for land with an average natural slope
exceeding five percent.
   (3)   Not more than 20 feet for land with an average natural slope exceeding
15 percent.
   Q.   If the lots or development are to be serviced by individual on-lot
sewage disposal:
   (1)   The location of soil percolation test sites.
   (2)   Location and extent of various soil types within the site with DEP
definitions for each.
   (3)   Proposed or typical location of building and/or structure with
proposed location of wells, if applicable.
   (4)   Copy of the applicable report and findings of the Township’s Sewage
Enforcement Officer.
   R.   All easements, existing and/or proposed, including their location,
dimensions and purpose.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 605)
§ 22-606.   Information to Be Submitted with Plan.
   The following information, as applicable, shall be submitted with the final
plan of a minor subdivision or minor land development.
   A.   Proof of ownership including a copy of the existing deed.
   B.   Application for minor subdivision plan or minor land development plan,
and the required fee.
   C.   Required fee for Luzerne County Planning Commission review.
   D.   If applicable, an approved highway occupancy permit, as required by the
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation or a deed restriction that prohibits
development or improvements to the site or parcels to be created thereunder
until the subject highway occupancy permit is secured.
   E.   If applicable, a letter of commitment from the Plains Sewer Authority
that said Authority can and shall adequately serve the proposed subdivision or
land development and accept the conveyance of sewage for treatment and
disposal, including any conditions required for the provision of service.
   F.   (1)   Written certification from the appropriate public utility company
which authorizes and approves the provision of water, gas and electrical
service for the proposed subdivision and/or land development, including any
conditions required for the provision of service.
   (2)   All plans shall contain the following notice in compliance with PA Act
287:
   Call Before You Dig!
   Before You Dig Anywhere in Pennsylvania
   Call 1-800-242-1776
   Pa Act 287 of 1974 Requires 3
   Working Days Notice to Utilities
   Before You Excavate, Drill or Blast
   Pennsylvania One Call System Inc.
   G.   If applicable, the Sewage Enforcement Officer’s report and findings
regarding percolation testing of the site for suitability of the site for any
proposed on-lot sewage system as required by DEP.
   H.   Copies of deed restrictions, those existing, and those to be included
upon recording of plan.
   I.   Copies of description of easements, existing easements of record and
any proposed easements to be included upon recording of plan.
   J.   In the case of delineation of wetlands, the wetland boundaries, as
provided by the developer, must be verified by either the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers or the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection based upon
a jurisdictional determination of said agencies and all required permits and/or
approvals from either the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection for site development activities which
affects delineated wetlands.
   K.   A statement setting forth any zoning variances or subdivision waivers/
modification obtained.
   L.   If applicable a soil erosion and sedimentation control plan approved by
the Luzerne County Conservation District, and if applicable an approved NPDES
permit.
   M.   An appropriate planning module for land development, approved by DEP.
   N.   Any other information as required by the Planning Commission.
   O.   The cost of all consulting fees incurred by the Township for the review
of the application, plans and supporting formation, data and/or reports or
studies, including but not limited to, any required impact analysis and site
inspections of the property to ensure compliance with the terms of approval and
required improvements.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 606)
§ 22-607.   Recording of Plan.
   The applicant shall record the final plan in accordance with the
requirements as set forth in §
22-310 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 607)
Part 7
Assurances for Completion of Improvements
§ 22-701.   Installation or Guarantee of Improvements.
   No plan shall be granted final approval until the applicant either:
   A.   Installs all required improvements in accordance with the terms of
approval and the applicable design standards of said improvements.
   B.   Posts a form of financial security, acceptable to the Township, which
shall be of sufficient amount to fully cover the costs of all required
improvements in accordance with the terms of approval and the applicable design
standards of said improvements.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 701)
§ 22-702.   Types of Financial Guarantee.
   1.   A financial guarantee which shall be deemed as acceptable financial
security for the purposes of this Chapter shall include:
   A.   An unconditional and irrevocable letter of credit with authorization
for drawing upon by the Township in the event of default or failure by the
developer or applicant to complete the installation of required improvements.
   B.   A restrictive escrow account.
   C.   Other types of financial security which the Township may approve, which
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   2.   Such financial security shall be with a lending institution which is
chartered by the federal government or the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or with
a bonding company which is legally authorized to conduct such business within
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 702)
§ 22-703.   Review by Solicitor.
   1.   When an applicant proposes to provide a financial security, said
financial security shall be submitted to the Board of Commissioners and their
Solicitor for review not less than 14 days prior to the public meeting of the
Board of Commissioners at which the acceptance and/or approval of proposed
financial security will be considered by the Board of Commissioners.
   2.   At the discretion of the Board of Commissioners, and when requested by
the developer, in order to facilitate financing, the Board of Commissioners may
furnish the developer with a signed copy of a letter indicating approval of the
final plan contingent upon the developer obtaining a satisfactory financial
security. The final plan or record plan shall not be signed nor recorded until
the financial security agreement is executed.
   3.   The letter of conditional approval shall expire and be deemed to be
revoked if the financial security agreement is not executed within 90 days
unless a written extension is granted by the Board of Commissioners, such
extension shall not be unreasonably withheld and shall be placed in writing at
the request of the developer.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 703)
§ 22-704.   Amount of Financial Security.
   The amount of financial security to be posted for the completion of required
improvements shall be equal to 110 percent of the cost of completion, estimated
as of 90 days following the scheduled completion date. Said financial security
shall be of sufficient amount to fully cover the costs of all required
improvements in accordance with the terms of approval and the applicable design
standards of said improvements or common amenities which may be required,
including, but not limited to, roads, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, fire hydrants,
stormwater detention and/or retention basins and other related drainage
facilitates, traffic control signs, street lights, street signs, recreational
facilities, open space improvements, or buffer areas or screen plantings. The
amount of the required financial security shall be based upon a written
estimated cost of completion of required improvements, submitted by the
developer or applicant, and prepared by a professional engineer, licensed as
such by the Commonwealth. Said engineer shall certify in writing that his or
her estimated cost for the completion of the required improvements is a fair
and reasonable estimate. The Planning Commission, upon the recommendation of
the Township Engineer, may for good cause shown, refuse to accept the
developer’s estimated cost. In cases where the Township and the developer or
applicant are unable to agree on an estimate, then the estimate shall be
recalculated and recertified by another licensed professional engineer,
mutually accepted by the Township and the developer or applicant. The estimate
certified by the third party engineer, being presumed fair and reasonable,
shall be deemed the final estimate. In the event that the third party engineer
is chosen, the cost of his or her services shall be paid equally by the
Township and the developer or applicant.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 704)
§ 22-705.   Required Time Period for Completion.
   1.   The financial security shall provide for, and secure to the public the
completion of the required improvements within one year of the date fixed on
the final plan for the completion of such improvements.
   2.   If the applicant in posting the financial security requires more than
one year from the date of posting the financial security to complete the
required improvements, the amount of financial security may be increased by an
additional ten percent for each one-year period beyond the anniversary date
from posting of the financial security or to an amount not exceeding 110
percent of the cost of completing the required improvements as reestablished on
or before the expiration of the preceding one-year period.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 705)
§ 22-706.   Phasing of Development.
   In the case where development is projected over a period of years, the
Planning Commission may authorize the submission of final plans by sections or
phases of development subject to such requirements or guarantees as to
improvements in future sections or phases of development as it finds essential
for the protection of any finally approved section of the development.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 706)
§ 22-707.   Start of Work Notice.
   The applicant and/or developer shall provide the Township and the Township
Engineer with not less than a 72-hour notice prior to the commencement of work
at the site.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 707)
§ 22-708.   Periodic Inspections During Construction.
   The Township Engineer shall make periodic inspections to the site during the
construction of improvements to ensure the work is in conformance with the
approved plans. The Township Engineer shall promptly provide the Planning
Commission and the developer with a written report after any such inspection.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 708)
§ 22-709.   Release of Portions of Financial Security.
   1.   As the work of installing the required improvements proceeds, the party
posting financial security may request the Board of Commissioners to release or
authorize the release, from time to time, of such portions of the financial
security necessary for payment to the contractor or contractors performing the
work.
   2.   Any such request shall be in writing addressed to the Board of
Commissioners. The Board of Commissioners shall have 45 days from receipt of
such request within which to allow the Township Engineer to certify in writing
that such portion of the work upon the improvements has been completed in
accordance with the approved plan.
   3.   Upon such certification the Board of Commissioners shall authorize
release by the bonding company or lending institution of an amount as estimated
by the Township Engineer as fair in representing the value of the completed
improvements. Failure of the Board of Commissioners to act within the said 45-
day period shall be deemed an approval of the release of the funds requested.
   4.   The Board of Commissioners may, prior to final release at the time of
completion and certification by its Engineer, require retention of ten percent
of the estimated cost of the aforesaid improvements.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 709)
§ 22-710.   Financial Security for Maintenance of Improvements.
   1.   Where the Plains Township Board of Commissioners accepts dedication of
all or some of the required improvements following completion, it shall require
the posting of financial security to secure the structural integrity of said
improvements as well as the functioning of said improvements in accordance with
the design and specifications as shown on the final plan for a term not to
exceed 18 months from the date of acceptance of dedication.
   2.   Said financial security shall be of the same type as otherwise required
in §
22-702 of this Chapter with regard to installation of such improvements, and
the amount of the financial security shall not exceed 15 percent of the actual
cost of installation of said improvements.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 710)
§ 22-711.   Financial Security for Improvements under Jurisdiction of a Public
Utility or Municipal Authority.
   If water mains or sanitary sewer lines or both, along with apparatus or
facilities related thereto, are to be installed under the jurisdiction and
pursuant to the rules and regulations of a public utility or Township Authority
separate and distinct from the Township, financial security to assure proper
completion and maintenance thereof shall be posted in accordance with the
regulations of the controlling public utility or municipal authority and shall
not be included within the financial security as otherwise required by this
Chapter. A copy of any such executed financial security shall be provided to
the Planning Commission not less than 14 days prior to its next regularly
scheduled meeting at which the final plan shall be considered.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 711)
§ 22-712.   Issuance of Permits When Financial Security Has Been Posted.
   1.   If financial security has been provided in lieu of the completion of
improvements required as a condition for final approval as set forth in this
Part, the Township shall not condition the issuance of zoning, building,
grading or other permits relating to the erection or placement of improvements,
including buildings, upon the lots or land as shown on the final plan upon
actual completion of the improvements shown on the approved final plan.
   2.   If a financial security has been provided certificates of zoning
compliance or occupancy permits for any building or buildings to be erected
shall not be withheld following:
   A.   The improvement of the streets providing access to and from existing
public roads to such building or buildings to a mud-free or otherwise
permanently passable condition.
   B.   The completion of all other improvements as shown on the approved final
plan, either upon the lot or lots or beyond the lot or lots in question, if
such improvements are deemed necessary for the reasonable use of or occupancy
of the building or buildings.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 712)
§ 22-713.   Completion of Required Improvements.
   1.   When the applicant has completed all of the necessary and required
improvements, the applicant shall notify the Board of Commissioners in writing,
by certified or registered mail, of the completion of the aforesaid
improvements and shall send a copy thereof to the Township Engineer.
   2.   The Board of Commissioners shall, within ten days after receipt of such
notice, direct and authorize the Township Engineer to inspect all the aforesaid
improvements. The Township Engineer shall thereupon file a report, in writing
with the Board of Commissioners, and shall promptly mail a copy of the same to
the developer. The report by the Township Engineer shall be made and mailed
within 30 days from the aforesaid authorization from the Board of
Commissioners.
   3.   The report shall be detailed and shall indicate approval or rejection
of said improvements, either in whole or in part. If said improvements, or any
portion thereof be rejected, said report shall contain a statement of the
reasons for such rejection.
   4.   The Board of Commissioners shall notify the developer, in writing,
within 15 days of receipt of the Township’s Engineer’s report, by certified or
registered mail of the action of the Board of Commissioners with relation
thereto.
   5.   If the Board of Commissioners or the Township Engineer fails to comply
with the time limitation provisions contained herein, all improvements will be
deemed to have been approved, and the applicant shall be released from all
liability, pursuant to its performance guarantee bond or other security
agreement.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 714)
§ 22-714.   Responsibility of Applicant upon Disapproval of Improvements.
   If any portion of the said improvements shall not be approved or shall be
rejected by the Board of Commissioners, the applicant shall proceed to complete
the same and, upon completion, the same procedure of notification, as outlined
in §
22-713, shall be followed.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 714)
§ 22-715.   Applicant’s Right to Contest Action.
   Nothing herein, however shall be construed in limitation of the applicant’s
right to contest or question by legal proceedings or otherwise any
determination of the Board of Commissioners or Township Engineer.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 715)
§ 22-716.   Remedies to Effect Completion of Improvements.
   1.   In the event that any improvements which may be required have not been
installed as provided in this Chapter or in accordance with the approved final
plan, or after having been installed such work has been damaged prior to final
acceptance of the improvements due to natural causes, lack of maintenance,
vandalism, work of others or other causes, the Township can enforce any
corporate bond or other security by appropriate legal and equitable remedies.
   2.   If the proceeds of such bond or other security are insufficient to pay
the cost of installing or making repairs or corrections to all the improvements
covered by said security, the Township may, at its option, install part of such
improvements in all or part of the subdivision or land development, may
institute appropriate legal or equitable action to recover the moneys necessary
to complete the remainder of the improvements.
   3.   All of the proceeds, whether resulting from the security or from any
legal or equitable action or from both brought against the applicant shall be
used solely for the installation of the improvements covered by such security,
and not for any other Township purpose.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 716)
§ 22-717.   Engineering and Consulting Fees.
   In addition to the fees noted in §
22-111 of this Chapter, the developer shall be responsible for payment of all
engineering fees or other consulting fees related to the review and inspection
of plans and subsequent improvements, including but not limited to costs
incurred by the Township as related to §§
22-704,
22-705,
22-708,
22-709,
22-710 and
22-713 of this Chapter. The developer shall also be required to fully reimburse
the Township for any engineering and/or other consulting fees which the
Township may incur for the review of any required studies and/or reports within
the context of an “impact analysis” as so defined in Part 2 of this Chapter.
Such expenses shall be reasonable and in accordance with the ordinary and
customary fees charged by the engineer or consultant for work performed for
similar services in the community, but in no event shall the fees exceed the
rate or cost charged by the engineer or consultant to the Township when the
fees are not reimbursed or otherwise imposed on the applicants. Upon
notification by the Township of such costs, the developer shall provide a
certified check or money order to the Township to fully reimburse the Township
for said engineering fees, within 30 days from the billing date from Plains
Township.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 717)
§ 22-718.   Procedure for Disputes over Consulting Fees.
   1.   An applicant may contest the amount to be reimbursed to the Township
for consulting fees. The applicant shall notify the Township, in writing,
within ten working days of the billing date, as to which consulting fees are
disputed as being unreasonable and/or unnecessary. The applicant shall forfeit
any right to contest the amount to be reimbursed to the Township for consulting
fees, if written notification is not submitted within the prescribed ten
working days of the date of the billing.
   2.   In such cases, the Planning Commission shall not delay or disapprove a
subdivision or land development application or any permit related to
development due to the applicants written request to contest certain consulting
expenses.
   3.   If, within 20 days from the date of billing, the Township and the
applicant cannot agree on the amount of consulting expenses which are
reasonable and necessary, then the applicant and the Planning Commission shall
jointly, by mutual agreement, appoint another professional engineer, licensed
as such in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, to review the said expenses and
make a determination as to the amount thereof which is reasonable and
necessary.
   4.   The professional engineer so appointed shall hear such evidence and
review such documentation as the professional engineer in his or her sole
opinion deems necessary and render a decision within 50 days of the billing
date. The applicant shall be required to pay the entire amount determined in
the decision immediately.
   5.   In the event that the Planning Commission and applicant cannot agree
upon a professional engineer to be appointed within 20 days of the billing
date, then upon application of either party, the President Judge of the Luzerne
County Court of Common Pleas (or if at the time there be no President Judge,
then the senior active judge then sitting) shall appoint such engineer, who
shall be neither the Township Engineer nor any professional engineer who has
been retained by, or performed services for, the Township or the applicant
within the preceding five years.
   6.   The fee of the appointed professional engineer for determining the
reasonable and necessary consulting expenses shall be paid by the applicant if
the amount of the payment required in the decision is equal to or greater than
the original bill. If the amount of payment required in the decision is less
than the original bill by $1,000 or more, the Township shall pay the fee of the
professional engineer. If neither of the afar mentioned cases apply, the
Township and the applicant shall each pay one-half of the fee of the appointed
professional engineer.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 718)
Part 8
Design Standards
§ 22-801.   Application.
   1.   The design standards and requirements as outlined in this Part 8 shall
be utilized by the Planning Commission in evaluating the plans for all proposed
subdivisions and land developments.
   2.   Any request to modify the design standards and requirements of this
Part shall be in accordance with §
22-110 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 800)
§ 22-802.   General Requirements.
   1.   Planning. The development shall generally conform to policies, goals
and objectives of the Plains Township Comprehensive Plan. The streets,
drainage, rights-of-way, school sites, public parks and playgrounds as shown
upon the officially adopted Comprehensive Plan shall be considered in the
approval of all plans. The applicant shall submit a narrative outlining how the
proposed development conforms to the above referenced plan.
   2.   Contiguous lands. Where the owner of a site under consideration for
development owns contiguous land that may be suitable for development, the
subdivision plan shall include all contiguous lands. This provision, however,
may be waived in full or in part by the Planning Commission, if it is not
considered essential to the evaluation of the plans for the current development
tract.
   3.   Remnants; development design; neighboring development. All portions of
a tract being subdivided shall be taken up in lots, streets, open lands or
other proposed uses so that remnants and landlocked areas shall not be created.
The layout of a subdivision shall also be planned with consideration for
existing nearby developments or neighborhoods so that they are coordinated in
terms of interconnection of open space, traffic movement, drainage and other
reasonable considerations.
   4.   Improvement specifications. The design standards and requirements as
outlined in this Part 8 shall be utilized by the Planning Commission in
evaluating the plans for all proposed subdivisions and land developments.
Altered design standards, including more stringent specifications may be
required, in cases where the Planning Commission finds that such specifications
are essential to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the
residents of Plain Township and/or the environment of the Township.
   5.   Other ordinances. Whenever a Township, county, state or federal statute
and/or regulation imposes a higher or more restrictive standard than those
contained in this Chapter, the higher or more restrictive standard shall apply.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 801)
§ 22-803.   Site Suitability for Development.
   1.   The land for any proposed subdivision or land development shall be
suited for the purpose of intended use.
   2.   Land which the Planning Commission deems unsuitable for subdivision or
development due to flooding, improper drainage, rock formations, adverse earth
formations or topography, steep slopes, utility easements or other features
which may reasonably be harmful to the safety, health and general welfare of
the present or future inhabitants of the subdivision and/or its surrounding
areas, shall not be subdivided or developed unless adequate mitigation methods
are formulated by the applicant and approved by the Planning Commission upon
the recommendation of the Township Engineer.
   3.   The approval of a plan for any proposed subdivision or land development
shall not constitute a representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind by the
Township, any official, any employee or agent thereof of the practicability or
safety of the use of such land or development, and shall create no liability
upon the Township, its officials, employees or agents.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 802)
§ 22-804.   Natural Features.
   Care shall be taken to preserve natural features such as agricultural land,
woodlands, wetlands, watercourses, bodies of water, riparian lands, scenic
views and historical and cultural features and/or resources, such as buildings
and stone walls, which maintains the attractiveness and value of the land.
Damming, filling, relocating or otherwise interfering with the natural flow of
surface water along any surface water drainage channel or natural watercourse
shall not be permitted except with the approval of the Township and, where
appropriate, the PA DEP and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
   A.   Groundwater resources. Proposed subdivisions and land developments
shall to the greatest practical extent be designed in a manner to cause the
least practicable disturbance to natural infiltration and percolation of
precipitation to the groundwater table, through careful consideration of
vegetation and land disturbance activities. The placement of streets, buildings
and other impervious surfaces shall to the greatest practical extent attempt to
maximize permeability where precipitation is most likely to infiltrate and
recharge the groundwater.
   B.   Streams, swales, springs and other lowland areas.
   (1)   Stream channels, swales, springs and other lowland areas are resources
that warrant restrictive land use controls because of flooding hazards to human
life and property, their groundwater recharge functions, their importance to
water quality and the health of aquatic communities, and their wildlife
habitats. They are generally poorly suited for on-site subsurface sewage
disposal systems.
   (2)   To the greatest practical extent the following activities shall be
minimized:
   (a)   Disturbance to streams and drainage swales.
   (b)   Disturbance to year-round wetlands, areas with seasonally high water
tables and areas of surface water concentration.
   C.   Woodlands.
   (1)   Woodlands occur throughout the Township, often in association with
stream and wet areas, poor and erodible agricultural soils, and moderate to
steep slopes. Woodlands serve as a valuable resource in its ecological
functions, i.e., in protecting steep slopes, erodible soils, maintaining stream
quality and providing for wildlife habitats. Any proposed subdivision and/or
land development in which the original lot of record which exceeds ten acres
shall require an evaluation of the tract’s woodlands undertaken by a forester,
landscape architect, horticulturist or another qualified professional
acceptable to the Township. The findings of the evaluation shall be provided in
narrative form and shall be depicted upon the plans as an existing condition
with supporting photographs of the property.
   (2)   All subdivisions and land developments shall be designed and
constructed in a manner which shall to the greatest practical extent:
   (a)   Minimize the loss or degradation of woodland areas.
   (b)   Preserve woodlands along roadways, property lines and lines occurring
within a site such as streams, swales, stone fences and hedgerows shall be
considered in the proposed design of the site.
   (c)   Minimize disturbance or removal of woodlands occupying environmentally
sensitive areas. This shall include, but not necessarily be limited to,
vegetation performing important soil stabilizing functions on wet soils, stream
banks and sloping lands.
   (3)   No tree clearing or earth disturbance (except for soil analysis for
proposed sewage disposal systems) shall be permitted on a site prior to
preliminary plan approval.
   D.   Slopes. Moderately sloping lands (15 to 25 percent) and steeply sloping
lands (over 25 percent) are prone to severe erosion if disturbed. Erosion and
the resulting overland flow of soil sediments into streams, ponds and public
roads, are detrimental to water quality and aquatic life, and a potential
hazard to public safety. Areas of steep slope shall be preserved in accordance
with the following:
   (1)   All grading and earthmoving on slopes exceeding 15 percent shall be
minimized.
   (2)   No site disturbance shall be allowed on slopes exceeding 25 percent
except grading for a portion of a driveway accessing a single-family dwelling
when it can be demonstrated that no other routing which avoids slopes exceeding
25 percent is feasible.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 803)
§ 22-805.   Monuments and Markers.
   The applicant shall place permanent reference monuments and markers by a
registered land surveyor.
   A.   Monuments shall be placed so that the center of a scored or marked
point shall coincide exactly with the intersection of the lines to be marked.
   B.   Monuments shall be of concrete or stone, with a flat top having a
minimum width or diameter of four inches and a minimum length of 30 inches.
Concrete monuments shall be marked with a three-fourths-inch copper or brass
dowel; stone or precast monuments shall be marked on the top with a proper
inscription and a drill hole. Monuments shall be set so that the top of the
monument or marker is level with the surface of the surrounding ground.
   C.   Markers shall consist of either iron or steel bars at least 36 inches
long and not less than five-eighths inch in diameter. Markers normally shall be
flush with the surrounding grade.
   D.   Monuments shall be set as follows:
   (1)   One at each single angle of the perimeter of the property at all major
subdivisions and land developments.
   (2)   One at the beginning and end of all curves along street right-of-way
lines along one side of the street.
   (3)   A minimum of one at each street intersection along the street right-
of-way line.
   E.   Markers normally shall be flush with the surrounding grade.
   F.   Markers shall be set as follows:
   (1)   At all points where lot lines intersect street right-of-way lines,
except for monument locations.
   (2)   At all other lot corners.
   (3)   At all points where lot lines intersect curves.
   (4)   At all angles in property lines of lots.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 804)
§ 22-806.   Residential Blocks.
   1.   For blocks, the following standards shall apply:
   A.   Maximum length not to exceed 1,200 feet.
   B.   Be of sufficient width to permit two tiers of lots.
   2.   Exceptions to this prescribed block width shall be permitted in blocks
adjacent to major streets, railroads or waterways.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 805)
§ 22-807.   Residential Lots.
   1.   All subdivisions and land development for residential use shall be in
conformance with the applicable minimum lot sizes, lot widths in yard
requirements as set forth in the Plains Township Zoning Ordinance [
Chapter 27].
   2.   Each lot or area platted for residential use shall be accessible from
an existing or proposed street.
   3.   The lot depth shall not be greater than three times its width.
   4.   Side lines of lots shall be at right angles to straight streets and on
radius lines on curved streets. Some variation may be permitted at the
discretion of the Planning Commission, but pointed or very irregular shaped
lots shall be avoided.
   5.   In the case of lots utilizing an on-site sewage disposal system, there
shall be sufficient area for the disposal field in accordance to DEP
regulations.
   6.   Double frontage lots shall be avoided; however, if deemed necessary,
the rear lot lines of each property shall contain a buffer area, comprised of a
row of evergreen trees with the spacing distance between the trees not less
than eight feet or greater than ten feet. Said trees shall be not less than
eight feet in height at the time of planting.
   7.   Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from all
buildings and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general
storm drainage pattern for the area drainage shall be designed so as to avoid
concentration of storm drainage water from each lot onto adjacent lots.
   8.   Flag lots shall be avoided when alternate development layouts would
yield the same number of lots otherwise permitted with the elimination of flag
lots. The approval of flag lots shall subject to the following standards:
   A.   Not more than five percent of the lots within a major subdivision may
be approved as flag lots.
   B.   The access corridor portion of the lot shall not exceed 300 feet as
measured from its intersection with the street right-of-way.
   C.   The applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of the Planning
Commission that proposed driveway would provide adequate access for emergency
vehicles.
   D.   The lot width measurement shall be made on the main portion of the lot
and shall not include the access corridor portion of the lot.
   E.   Approval of a flag lot shall be conditioned upon the existence or
provision of a recorded a deed restriction prohibiting any further subdivision
of the flag lot.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 806)
§ 22-808.   Streets-General Requirements.
   1.   Any proposed subdivision or land development shall have frontage upon
or access to an existing state, county or Township road.
   2.   Streets shall be designed to provide adequate vehicular access to all
lots or parcels within any proposed subdivision or land development.
   3.   Streets shall be designed and appropriately related to the topographic
conditions of the site, with the grade of streets conforming as closely as
possible to the original topography.
   4.   Streets shall be graded and improved in accordance with the appropriate
design standards and specifications of this Chapter.
   5.   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and proposed
system of streets and dedicated right-of-way as established in the
Comprehensive Plan.
   6.   All streets shall be properly related to specific traffic generators
such as residential developments, industries, business districts, schools,
churches and shopping centers; to population densities; and to the pattern of
existing and proposed land uses.
   7.   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the tract
to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions,
or unless in the opinion of the Planning Commission such extension is not
necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the subdivision
with the existing layout or the most advantageous future development on
adjacent tracts.
   8.   Any residential subdivision and/or land development containing 13 or
more lots which do not front upon an existing off-site public street, shall
provide within the overall traffic design of the site, not less than two
separate points within the site where an interior road as part of the proposed
subdivision and/or land development shall intersect with and provide access to
an existing off-site public street.
   9.   All proposed streets shall be planned with regard to the existing
street system, public convenience in terms of fire protection and pedestrian
traffic, and probable volumes of traffic.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 807)
§ 22-809.   Street Names.
   The applicant may propose names for all streets within a subdivision or land
development prior to final approval. A proposed street name shall not include
the name of any existing street in the Township, except that a street when
planned as a continuation of an existing street shall bear the same name. Final
approval of street names for streets subject to public dedication to the
Township and/or private streets to remain under private ownership shall be
vested with the Plains Township Planning Commission based upon the prior
approval of the same by the Luzerne County 911 Communication Center for
Emergency Services and the United States Postal Service.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 808)
§ 22-810.   Street Signs.
   Street signs, which provide the legal name of each street shall be erected
at the intersection of each street within a subdivision or land development
prior to final approval. The size, color and construction materials of said
signs shall be subject to approval by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 809)
§ 22-811.   Traffic Control Signs.
   1.   Traffic control signs, designed to regulate the speed of traffic or to
convey any other pertinent traffic or physical characteristic of the mad to
motorists shall be installed at appropriate locations by the applicant as
determined by PennDOT, Luzerne County, the Planning Commission and/or the
Township Engineer.
   2.   The applicant shall be responsible for line painting on all new
streets, including the extension of existing streets, in accordance with the
following standards:
   A.   Centerlines. Four-inch wide double yellow centerlines shall be painted
along the centerline of the travelway of each street.
   B.   Edge lines. Four-inch wide white edge lines shall be painted four
inches inside the edge of pavement shoulder.
   C.   Stop lines. Twenty-four inches wide white stop lines shall be painted
that completely traverse all traffic lanes on each approach to a stop sign and/
or crosswalk.
   3.   All pavement markings shall be inlaid hot applied thermoplastic unless
a higher standard is provided for in accordance with the latest edition of the
latest edition of the latest edition of PennDOT Publication 408.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 810)
§ 22-812.   Dead-End Streets Prohibited.
   Permanent dead-end streets shall be prohibited. When such is provided on a
temporary basis, to permit future street extension onto adjoining tracts, the
street shall have an adequate turning capability or be designed as cul-de-sacs.
The arrangement of streets shall provide for the continuation of principal
streets between adjacent properties when such continuation is for convenient
movement of traffic, effective fire protection and/or for efficient provision
of utilities.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 811)
§ 22-813.   Cul-de-sac Streets. (See Appendix for Illustration)
   1.   A cul-de-sac street shall not be approved when a through street is more
advantageous.
   2.   Cul-de-sac streets shall not exceed 600 feet in length and furnish
access to not more than 13 dwelling units. All lots fronting upon the arc of a
cul-de-sac street shall have a frontage, as measured along the length of the
arc, which results in a chord length of 75 feet. Said requirement shall apply
to all lots along the arc a cul-de-sac regardless of the zoning district in
which the subdivision is located.
   3.   No physical obstructions shall be located within six feet of the edge
of the cartway within a cul-de-sac, including, but not limited to, mailboxes,
utility poles, utility transformer boxes and/or similar above grade
obstructions.
   4.   Any street which is terminated, with planned future access to an
adjoining property or because of authorized stage development, shall be
provided with a temporary, all-weather turning circle. The turning circle shall
be completely within the boundaries of the subdivision and/or land development,
and the use of the turn around shall be guaranteed to the public until such
time as the street is extended.
   5.   An easement for the purpose of snow removal, having a size of not less
than 35 feet in length and 15 feet in depth, shall be provided upon the front
yard areas of lot or lots located at the end of a cul-de-sac.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 812)
§ 22-814.   Access to Arterial Streets.
   Where a subdivision or land development borders on or contains an existing
or proposed arterial street, the Planning Commission may require that access to
such street be limited by one of the following methods:
   A.   The subdivision of lots in a manner in which the lots front onto a
parallel local street with no access provided to or from the arterial street
which shall contain a strip of screening along the rear property line of such
lots.
   B.   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets or short loops entered from
and designed generally at right angles to such a parallel street, with the rear
lines of their terminal lots backing onto the arterial.
   C.   A marginal access or service road, separated from the arterial street
by a planting or grass strip and having access thereto at suitable points.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 813)
§ 22-815.   Intersections.
   1.   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, but in
no instance shall two streets intersect with an angle of intersection of less
than 80 degrees as measured from their centerlines.
   2.   Multiple intersections involving the junction of more than two streets
shall be prohibited.
   3.   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever practical.
In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a leveling area
shall be provided having not greater than a four percent grade at a distance of
75 feet, measured from the nearest right-of-way of the intersecting street.
   4.   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or existing
vegetation inside any corner lot that would create a traffic hazard by limiting
visibility, the applicant shall cut such ground and/or vegetation (including
trees) in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to the extent
deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
   5.   A.   Clear sight triangles shall be provided at all street
intersections. Within such triangles, no object between two and one-half feet
and 12 feet in height, and no other object including, but not necessarily
limited to, earth embankment and/or vegetation that would obscure the vision of
the motorist, shall be permitted. The following standards shall apply unless
site conditions warrant a greater distance based upon the recommendation of the
Township Engineer. Such triangles shall be established from a distance of:
   (1)   Seventy-five feet from the point of intersection of the centerlines of
two streets where both are local streets.
   (2)   One hundred feet from the point of intersection of the centerlines of
two streets where one is a collector street.
   (3)   One hundred fifty feet from the point of intersection of the
centerlines of two streets where one is an arterial street.
   B.   Wherever a portion of the line of such triangles occur within the
proposed right-of-way line, such portion shall be shown on the final plan of
the subdivision, and shall be considered a right-of-way line, subject to the
above standards.
   6.   Two streets intersecting a third street from opposite sides shall
either intersect with a common centerline or their centerlines shall be offset
according to the following distances:
   A.   The two streets shall be separated by a distance of not less than 150
feet between centerlines measured along the centerline of the street being
intersected when all three streets involved are local streets.
   B.   The two streets shall be separated by a distance of not less than 400
feet between centerlines measured along the centerline of the street being
intersected when one or more of the streets involved is a collector street.
   C.   The two streets shall be separated by a distance of not less than 800
feet between centerlines measured along the centerline of the street being
intersected when one or more of the streets involved is an arterial sheet.
   7.   Minimum curb radii at street intersections shall be 20 feet for
intersections involving only local streets; 30 feet for intersections involving
any other type of street, or a greater radius may be provided that is suited
for the specific intersection based upon the recommendation of the Township
Engineer. A property line corner shall be rounded to the same radius as the
curb which it adjoins.
   8.   The cross-slopes on all streets, including intersections, shall not
exceed two percent.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 814)
§ 22-816.   Driveway Entrances.
   1.   Adequate provisions to maintain uninterrupted parallel drainage along a
public street at the point of driveway entry shall be required. The adequacy of
each proposed driveway shall be made based upon the recommendation of the
Township Engineer in relationship to existing site conditions.
   2.   Driveway entrances or aprons within the street right-of-way shall be
surfaced their full width of entrance, with material compatible to the cartway.
   3.   Driveway entrances or aprons shall be stabilized and maintained by the
property owner in a manner to prevent erosion of driveway material onto any
adjoining public right-of-way.
   4.   All driveway entrances with access onto a State Legislative Route shall
be required to secure a highway occupancy permit from PennDOT prior to
construction and the establishment of the same. A deed restriction requiring
the owner or developer of a property as the responsible party to secure the
required highway occupancy permit shall be contained in all deeds.
   5.   A.   Driveways to individual lots or to a land development shall be
located in accordance with the following minimum distances as measured from the
centerline of a driveway to the centerline of the nearest intersecting street
by street classification.
 
Type           Arterial Collector Local
Residential    150      75        50
Nonresidential 200      150       100
 
   B.   Access shall be provided to the street of lesser classification when
there is more than one street classification involved. Driveways shall not
interfere with the normal traffic movement or be inconsistent with the design,
maintenance and drainage of the street. Driveway location shall be delineated
on all land development plans; however, subdivision plans may delineate
locations or include a notice of conformity to this specification.
   6.   Driveway entrances shall be rounded at a minimum radius of five feet,
or should have a flare constructed that is equivalent to this radius, at the
point of intersection with the cartway edge (curb line) or outside shoulder
edge as applicable. For residential lots the entrance of the driveway shall
have a minimum angle of 60 degrees, and for all other lots, 90 degrees. The
maximum driveway width at the edge of the cartway shall be 30 feet.
   7.   The number of driveways shall not exceed one per lot or, on lots with
street frontages in excess of 100 feet, one per 100 feet of street frontage.
Such driveway may be of loop design. No part of a driveway shall be located
closer than ten feet from a side property line.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 815)
§ 22-817.   Street Right-of-Way Widths.
   Street right-of-way widths in a proposed subdivision or land development
shall conform to the following minimum standards:
 
Type                            Minimum Standard
Arterial Highway                PennDOT specifications based upon projected
                                average daily traffic and speed limit
Collector Street                60 feet
Local Street                    50 feet
Turnaround of Cul-de-sac Street 120 feet
 
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 816)
§ 22-818.   Street Cartway Widths.
   Street cartway widths, measured from curb to curb, shall conform to the
following minimum standards.
   A.   Limited access highway. PennDOT specifications based upon projected
average daily traffic and speed limit.
   B.   Collector street. Forty feet, with a minimum lane width of 12 feet and
a minimum shoulder width of eight feet; if curbs are provided, the minimum lane
width shall be 12 feet with a minimum width of eight feet for a parking lane,
if there is no parking lane on one side, add two feet for water table along the
curb.
   C.   Local street. Thirty-four feet, with a minimum lane width of 11 feet
and a minimum shoulder width of six feet; if curbs are provided, the minimum
lane width shall be 11 feet with a minimum width of seven feet for a parking
lane, if there is no parking lane on one side, add two feet for water table
along the curb.
   D.   Diameter of turnaround of cul-de-sac. One hundred feet.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 817)
§ 22-819.   Horizontal Visibility.
   1.   When street centerlines are deflected more than five degrees over a
linear distance of 500 feet or less, connection shall be made by horizontal
curves. Streets shall be so laid out that there will be unobstructed sight
distances along centerlines thereof measured from a point three and one-half
above the proposed grade line, to permit horizontal visibility as follows:
 
Street Classification Horizontal Visibility
Arterial Street       PennDOT Specifications
Collector Streets     300 feet
Local Streets         200 feet
 
   2.   A minimum tangent of 100 feet shall be required between curves on all
classifications of streets.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 818)
§ 22-820.   Street Grades.
   The centerline grade shall be not less than one percent nor greater than the
following based upon the classification of the street:
 
Street Classification Maximum Percent Grade
Arterial Street       PennDot Specifications
Collector Streets     7 percent
Local Streets         11 percent
 
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 819)
§ 22-821.   Vertical Curves.
   Vertical curves shall be used at changes of grade exceeding one percent.
Vertical curves shall be designed to produce the following minimum sight
distances:
 
Street Classification Minimum Site Distance
Arterial Street       PennDot Specifications
Collector Streets     PennDot Specifications
Local Streets         300 feet
 
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 820)
§ 22-822.   Road Design, Construction and Paving Standards.
   In order to provide for streets of suitable location, width and improvement
to accommodate prospective traffic and afford satisfactory access to police,
firefighting, snow removal, sanitation and street maintenance equipment, and to
coordinate streets so as to compose a convenient system and avoid undue
hardship to adjoining properties, the design standards for streets as set forth
in the
Appendix of this Chapter shall apply.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 821)
§ 22-823.   Curbs.
   1.   Granite curbs. Granite curbs shall be provided along all streets
intended to be offered for public dedication to the Township. Drainage swales
shall not be located within the public right-of-way or upon any property
intended to be offered for public dedication. Any drainage swales that are
intended for private dedication, including, but not limited to, a homeowners
association, shall provide a maintenance plan and required funding of the same
for approval by the Planning Commission. Drainage swales which are part of the
stormwater management plan that have slopes of eight percent or more shall be
paved, and the Planning Commission may require the paving of drainage swales on
less than eight percent slopes.
   2.   Granite curb design standards.
   A.   Type “A” or equal, four inches by 16 inches as produced by North
Carolina Granite Corp., Mt. Airy, N.C. or an approved equal, as solely
determined by the Planning Commission. Provide a sawed top to a true plane with
no projection or depression greater than one-eighth inch. Back arris line shall
pitch straight and true with no variation from a straight line greater than
one-fourth inch. Back shall have no projection to exceed four inches in a 12-
inch batter for a distance of three inches down from the top. Ends shall be
square with the plane and face of top. Joints shall back over eight inches from
the plane of the joint. Curb bottom shall have a tolerance of one inch less, or
two inches more than the required width. Front face shall have a three-fourths
inch in ten-inch batter down and shall be smooth quarry split. No projection
shall exceed three-fourths inch or depression to exceed one-half inch for eight
inches down. Front arris line to be true and straight. Curb shall not contain
any marble seams which are irregular to the section. Mortar for joints shall be
one part cement, one part fine aggregate and shall be mixed with sufficient
water to form a plastic composition.
   B.   Excavate to the base of the curb allowing sufficient width and depth
for the dry mix concrete. Tamp the subgrade and prepare to form a smooth and
uniform surface so that the top elevation of the curb is to the desired grade.
Set the curb for a max joint width no greater than one-half inch. Verify the
curbs alignment, grade and plumbness and place Cl. B Conc. in a continuous pour
in front, back and under curb. Provide the required curb reveal at drives and
normal sections as specified. Use drive transition pieces of the size indicated
on the detail drawings, and at locations where handicap ramps are to be
installed. Drill holes in new granite curbs at factory where rainleader holes
are required.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 822)
§ 22-824.   Sidewalks.
   Sidewalks shall be required in all residential developments. Each property
owner shall be responsible for the maintenance of sidewalks which border his or
her property. Said responsibility for sidewalk maintenance shall be contained
within each deed of a proposed subdivision, in other subdivisions or land
developments, sidewalks or pedestrian interior walkways may also be required by
the Planning Commission based upon features of the site and the proposed use
and/or development of the property.
   A.   Location. Sidewalks, where required or provided, shall be located
within the street right-of-way and no closer than one foot from the right-of-
way line, no closer than three feet from the curb line. A grass planting strip
shall be planted between the curb and sidewalk.
   B.   Width. Sidewalks shall have a minimum width of four feet.
   C.   Required construction. Sidewalks shall be constructed with class. “AA”
concrete having a minimum strength of 3,750 PSI at 28 days. Minimum depth of
sidewalks shall be five inches with a subbase of four inches. Where crossed by
driveways sidewalks shall be six inches minimum depth with a subbase of four
inches. False joints shall be provided at maximum intervals of five feet and
shall be at least one-quarter the depth of the concrete. Expansion joints shall
be provided at all walls, poles, curbs and other obstructions. All concrete
shall be cured in accordance with the latest edition of PennDOT Publication
408. Forms shall be removed no sooner than seven days after sidewalk concrete
is poured. Sidewalks shall be sprayed with anti-spalling compound within 28
days after being poured.
   D.   Transition apron. The developer shall provide sufficient curb
depressions at the time of original curb construction to permit driveway access
to each lot. Where sidewalks are also required the developer shall install a
concrete transition apron between curb and sidewalk at each such depression
concurrently with curb and sidewalk construction.
   E.   Requirements for physically handicapped persons. Where sidewalks are
provided, all curbs shall be designed and constructed with barrier-free ramps
at intersections. Said ramps shall not outlet onto a catch basin, be located
and designed in accordance with the most recent governing accessibility
standards in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42
U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., as amended. Expansion joints shall be constructed with
three-fourths inch premolded expansion joint material. Expansion joints shall
be required at all obstructions. All concrete shall be cured in accordance with
the latest edition of PennDOT Publication 408.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 823)
§ 22-825.   Tree Lawn and Street Trees.
   The applicant or developer shall seed or sod a planting strip not less than
three feet wide between the curb and sidewalk, and, shall in addition, provide
street trees. Such trees shall be two inches to two and one-half inches in
diameter, measured at not less than five feet in height, when planted, and
shall be spaced at intervals no greater than 40 feet. The type of trees shall
be subject to approval by the Planning Commission. Species shall be selected
according to the following criteria:
   A.   Cast moderate shade to dense shade in summer.
   B.   Long-lived (over 60 years).
   C.   Mature height of at least 50 feet.
   D.   Be tolerant of pollution and direct or reflected heat.
   E.   Require little maintenance, by being mechanically strong (not brittle)
and insect and disease-resistant.
   F.   Be able to survive two years with no irrigation after establishment.
   G.   Be of native origin, provided they meet the above criteria.
   H.   Among the species that are recommended are sycamore or London plane,
sweet gum, red maple, green ash, shademaster golden locust, littleleaf linden
and village green zelkova.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 824)
§ 22-826.   Street Lighting.
   Street lights shall be installed at the intersection of all streets, at the
middle point of the terminus of a cul-de-sac and at other locations deemed
necessary based upon field conditions or required by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 825)
§ 22-827.   Bridges and Stream Crossings.
   Bridges and other stream crossing structures which are part of the proposed
street system shall be designed and constructed in accordance with current
PennDOT standards and specifications. Evidence of compliance with and approval
of the Division of Dams and Encroachments, Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection, shall be provided by the developer, if applicable.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 826)
§ 22-828.   Erosion and Sedimentation Control.
   No construction, including, but not limited to, grading, excavation and/or
any forms of earth moving activities, shall be undertaken until written
approval of an erosion and sedimentation control plan is approved by the
Luzerne County Conservation District.
   A.   All earth moving activities shall be conducted in such a way as to
prevent accelerated erosion and the resulting sedimentation.
   B.   No changes shall be made in the contour of the land; no grading,
excavating, removal or destruction to the topsoil, trees or other vegetative
cover of the land shall be commenced until such time that a plan for minimizing
erosion and sedimentation has been reviewed and approved by the Luzerne County
Conservation District, or there has been a written determination by the Luzerne
County Conservation District that such a plan is not necessary.
   C.   The soil erosion and sedimentation control plan and measures used to
control erosion and sedimentation shall meet the standards and specifications
set forth in the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection Soil
Erosion and Sedimentation Control Manual and 25 Pa.Code, Chapter 102, of the
rules and regulations of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection. [A.O.]
   D.   The following measures are deemed effective in minimizing erosion and
sedimentation, and shall be included in control plans as applicable:
   (1)   Stripping. Stripping of vegetation for development shall be done in
such a way that will prevent all but minor erosion.
   (2)   Natural features. Development plans shall preserve salient natural
features, keep cut-fill operations to a minimum and ensure conformity with
topography so as to create the least erosion potential and adequately handle
the volume and velocity of surface water runoff.
   (3)   Natural vegetation. Whenever feasible, natural vegetation shall be
retained, protected and supplemented.
   (4)   Disturbed areas. The disturbed area and the duration of exposure shall
be kept to a practical minimum.
   (5)   Stabilization. Disturbed soils shall be stabilized as quickly as
practicable.
   (6)   Temporary vegetation and mulching. Temporary vegetation and/or
mulching shall be used to protect exposed critical areas during development.
   (7)   Permanent vegetation and measures. The permanent final vegetation and
structural erosion control and drainage measures shall be installed as soon as
practical in the development.
   (8)   Accommodation of increased runoff. Provisions shall be made to
effectively accommodate the increased runoff caused by changed soil and surface
conditions during and after development. Where necessary, the rate of surface
water runoff shall be structurally retarded.
   (9)   Containment of sedimentation. Sediment in the runoff water shall be
trapped until the disturbed area is stabilized by the use of debris basins,
sediment basins, silt traps or similar measures.
   E.   Any construction activity which will disturb more than five acres of
land, requires a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit,
administered by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. The
developer or owner shall be required to contact the Luzerne County Conservation
District for information on the required permit. Where the earth moving
activity affects 25 acres or more, the soil erosion and sedimentation control
plan must be submitted to the County Conservation District, together with an
application for an earth moving permit. An earth moving permit must be granted
by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection prior to preliminary
approval of a subdivision or land development. [A.O.]
   F.   The Planning Commission in its consideration of all proposed
subdivisions and land developments shall condition its approval upon the
execution and implementation of an erosion and sedimentation control plan which
meets the governing standards of the Luzerne County Conservation District,
based upon written verification by said agency in approval of a submitted plan.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 827; as amended by A.O.)
§ 22-829.   Stormwater Management Plan.
   A stormwater management plan shall be required for any major subdivision or
major land development and shall be prepared in coordination with the soils
erosion and sedimentation control plan. Stormwater management plans shall be
designed in accordance with the governing provisions of this Chapter and the
Act 167 Stormwater Management Plan for Mill Creek. The stormwater management
plan shall provide the means and methods of control by which there shall be no
increase in the rate stormwater discharge and runoff from the site than that
prior to the proposed subdivision or land development and/or that which would
have occurred from the land prior to the activity, using a grassland condition
for cleared agricultural land and a good woodland condition for forested land.
For land previously developed, the prior condition shall reflect the actual
developed condition.
   A.   Calculating stormwater runoff. The general criteria for calculating
stormwater runoff shall be based upon methods as set forth in the DEP document
titled “PA Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual”, Document #363-0300-
0002/ December 30, 2006, as approved by the Township Engineer and shall include
the following:
   (1)   Point of evaluation. The point of evaluation shall be the point or
points at which the stormwater leaves the development site. The Township
Engineer may require additional points of evaluation beyond the development
site as he or she deems necessary.
   (2)   Method of computation. The acceptable methods of computation shall be
those that are contained in the publication “Recommended Hydraulic Procedures
for Computing Urban Runoff from Small Watersheds in Pennsylvania”. The
limitations of each method are defined in this publication. The same method of
computation shall be used for both predevelopment and post development
calculations as well as subsequent revisions unless specifically approved by
the Township Engineer.
   (3)   Rainfall frequency data. Rainfall frequency data are available from
the U.S. Department of Commerce, Weather Bureau and from the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection, Research Publication Number 70.
   (4)   Design storms.
   (a)   All stormwater retention/detention facilities shall be designed on the
basis of providing adequate control for all storms of a 24-hour duration and
for frequencies of two, ten, 25, 50 and 100 years.
   (b)   Emergency spillways shall be designed to pass the expected post
development flows for a 100-year storm frequency, assuming the principal
spillway is 100 percent blocked.
   (c)   1)   Storm sewer systems shall be designed to handle the peak rate of
runoff from a storm of 25-year frequency. This design shall be used for:
   a)   Building drains; and
   b)   Local streets.
   2)   Culverts shall be sized for the following classes of roads and storm
frequencies:
   a)   Collector streets for storms of 25-year frequency;
   b)   Arterial highways for storm of 25-year frequency; and
   c)   Expressways for storms of 50-year frequency.
   (d)   Greater design frequencies may be imposed on individual projects if
deemed necessary for particular uses of land by the Township Engineer.
   (e)   Where state or federal laws impose a greater design frequency, they
shall prevail.
   (5)   Release rate. The release rate of stormwater from retention/detention
facilities shall comply with the Act 167 Stormwater Management Plan for Mill
Creek and/or shall not exceed the predevelopment peak discharge for each storm
frequency, for that particular point of discharge.
   B.   Methods of stormwater runoff detention and control.
   (1)   The following represents a listing of detention and control methods
which may be utilized in stormwater management systems, based upon site
conditions. All state and federal regulations must be followed in the use of
any control method.
   (a)   On-lot retention of roof water.
   (b)   Seepage pits, seepage trenches or other infiltration structures.
   (c)   Cisterns and underground reservoirs.
   (d)   Roof-top storage.
   (e)   Parking lot ponding.
   (f)   Porous pavement and concrete lattice-block surfaces.
   (g)   Grassed channels and vegetative strips.
   (h)   Routing flow over grass.
   (i)   Decreased impervious area coverage.
   (j)   Detention basins.
   (k)   Retention basins.
   (2)   Lots which do not drain into other approved control facilities must
have on-lot stormwater retention systems to retain roof water.
   (3)   The use of other control methods which meet the criteria in this
Section shall be permitted if approved by the Township Engineer. Various
combinations of methods should be tailored to suit the particular requirements
of the type of development and topographic features of the project area.
   C.   Design of control methods. The following publications should be
consulted as an aid in designing control facilities:
   (1)   Chapter 105, “Water Obstructions and Encroachments”, Title 25,
Pa.Code, Rules and Regulations of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection.
   (2)    “Guidelines for Stormwater Management”, Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection, Bureau of Dams and Waterways Management.
   (3)   Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds, Technical Release No. 55, U.S.
Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service, January 1975.
   D.   Stormwater management plan required. Prior to the preliminary and final
approval of subdivision, land development or the issuance of any permit, or the
commencement of any land disturbance activity, the owner, subdivider, developer
or his or her agent shall submit a stormwater management plan to the Township
Planning Commission for approval.
   E.   Plan requirements.
   (1)   The stormwater management plan for any subdivision or land development
shall be prepared and sealed by a licensed professional engineer. The plan
shall meet the requirements set forth herein, shall also meet all requirements
of applicable state and federal regulations.
   (2)   The following items, where appropriate, shall be included in the plan:
   (a)   General.
   1)   General description of project.
   2)   General description of stormwater controls both during and after
development.
   3)   Expected project time schedule, including anticipated start and
completion dates.
   4)   Training and experience of person(s) preparing plan.
   5)   An executed signature block by a registered professional engineer as
follows: “I,________________, have prepared and hereby certify that the
stormwater management plan meets all design standards and criteria of Plain’s
Township’s Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.”
   (b)   Map(s) of the project area showing:
   1) The location of the project relative to highways, municipalities or other
identifiable landmarks.
   2)   Existing contours at intervals of two feet.
   3)   Streams, lakes, ponds or other bodies of water within the project area
or adjacent to the site which will be affected by runoff from the project.
   4)   Other physical features including existing drainage swales and areas of
natural vegetation to be preserved.
   5)   Location of existing overhead and underground utilities, sewers and
water lines.
   6)   Location of proposed underground utilities, sewers and water lines.
   7)   Soil types and boundaries.
   8)   Proposed changes to land surface and vegetative cover.
   9)   Areas to be cut or filled.
   10)   Proposed structures, roads, paved areas and buildings.
   11)   Proposed final contours at intervals of two feet.
   12)   Location(s) of where water will exit the site and the means for
discharging.
   13)   The location of where stormwater runoff exits the site based upon
predeveloped conditions.
   14)   Boundaries of the drainage area contributing to each point of
discharge based upon predeveloped and post developed conditions including areas
beyond.
   15)   Show the runoff flowlines used in the time-of-concentration
calculations for both the predeveloped and post developed conditions.
   16)   Provide two separate maps; one for the predeveloped conditions and one
for post developed conditions.
   17)   Provide detailed drawings of all proposed stormwater management
facilities.
   18)   Show all existing and proposed easements on the plan drawings.
Identify each by use and width, along with identification legend of existing
versus proposed. Indicate to whom the easement is being granted.
   F.   Stormwater management controls. The plan shall show the location and
description of permanent control measures and facilities to be provided at the
site, including:
   (1)   Permanent vegetation or other soil stabilization measures.
   (2)   Infiltration facilities such as seepage pits, beds or trenches
including on-lot retention systems for groundwater recharge; when such
structures are used, the location of septic tank infiltration areas and wells
relative to these facilities; cross-sections of proposed infiltration
facilities must be provided upon the plan.
   (3)   Other control devices or methods such as roof-top storage, semi-
pervious paving materials, grass swales, parking lot ponding, vegetated strips,
detention or retention ponds, drainage easements, storm sewers, culverts and
the like.
   (4)   All calculations, assumptions and criteria used in the design of the
control device or method must be included upon the plan.
   (5)   Details on the types, locations and dimensions of facilities for
stormwater detention and conveyance and for groundwater recharge.
   (6)   Schedule for installation of the control measures and devices.
   (7)   A 25-foot right-of-way around all stormwater management structures and
from such structures to a public right-of-way wherever the Township is to
accept the dedication of such structures.
   G.   Hydrologic/hydraulic calculations. Stormwater control system design
calculations shall be based on methods as set forth in the DEP document titled
“PA Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual” Document #363-0300-0002,
December 30, 2006, as approved by the Township Engineer. As an attachment to
the plan, hydrologic/hydraulic calculations shall be provided for stormwater
flows from the site and from the entire area tributary and watershed to the
site under conditions existing prior to development and resulting from the
proposed development. Hydrologic/hydraulic calculations, assumptions and
criteria used in the design of stormwater control devices or methods shall also
be provided. Measurements shall be in cubic feet per second for the design
storms. A written narrative which fully describes the stormwater management
plan shall be submitted with the required hydrologic/hydraulic calculations.
   H.   Plan submission. Four copies of the completed plan and all related
calculations shall be submitted with the preliminary.
   I.   Maintenance program. A maintenance program for all stormwater
management control facilities must be included. This program must include the
proposed ownership of the control facilities and detail the financial
responsibility for any required maintenance. The establishment and/or use of a
homeowners’ association shall not be included within the scope of a maintenance
program.
   J.   Maintenance guarantees. If any stormwater management facilities are
accepted as public improvements by Plains Township, the developer shall provide
a financial security, in a form approved by the Township Solicitor for a
maintenance guarantee, equal to 15 percent of the total cost of the
installation of said facility, used as financial security to guarantee the
stability of the newly constructed facility and revegetation for a period of 18
months.
   K.   Stormwater drainage.
   (1)   Storm sewers, culverts, drainage easements and related measures shall
be provided so as to control drainage and shall be included where applicable in
the stormwater management plan.
   (2)   (a)   General. All required storm drainage facilities within the
public right-of-way shall be designed as underground piping system. Open swales
shall be expressly prohibited as a design element of any required storm
drainage facilities within the public right-of-way.
   (b)   On-lot retention systems. The owner of the individual lot shall be
required to observe the following guidelines:
   1)   When required, a sub-surface stormwater retention area shall be
constructed on each lot prior to issuance of an occupancy permit.
   2)   Stormwater runoff from impervious areas must be collected and conveyed
underground to subsurface retention areas.
   3)   Retention system, including conveyance and collection lines, are to be
owned and maintained by the lot owner. Repair/replacement and maintenance of
the system is the responsibility of the lot owner.
   4)   The system shall be designed to accommodate anticipated peak flow from
ten-year, 24-hour rainfall.
   5)   All retention basins shall be designed and constructed with silt post
detectors.
   6)   The system shall be designed by a professional engineer in Pennsylvania
and shall be approved by the Township Engineer and Township Planning Commission
prior to its construction.
   7)   The system shall be constructed concurrently with or immediately after
the house is framed.
   8)   The system design shall be based on the seasonal high groundwater
table, subsurface soil permeability and slope. Proper tests shall be conducted
to substantiate design considerations and test results are to be provided to
proper officials along with design details. At a minimum, the following tests
are to be conducted on each lot, in the area where the system will be
constructed:
   a)   Test pit. To determine the groundwater table elevation in accordance
with accepted standards for on-lot sanitary disposal systems.
   b)   Percolation test. To determine soil permeability in accordance with
accepted standards for on-lot sanitary disposal systems.
   9)   The system design shall include the following:
   a)   Filter fabric or other acceptable devices shall be utilized to prevent
clogging or siltation of the storage areas.
   b)   Cleanouts and traps are to be provided for maintenance purposes.
   c)   Collection pipes are to be a minimum four-inch PVC, perforated pipe.
   d)   Storage area is to include all necessary tanks, large diameter pipes,
and stone, 2-B or equivalent.
   e)   Outlet pipes are to be solid wall PVC pipe, directed to adjacent swales
and ditches, or to any adjacent streams that traverse the lot.
   f)   Outlet pipes shall not discharge any runoff onto any adjacent lot.
   g)    Large diameter pipes utilized for storage areas are to be either solid
wall PVC or galvanized corrugated metal pipe, or other approved substitutes.
   10)   Township officials, as designated by the Township Planning Commission,
shall inspect the system during and prior to backfilling. If the system is
covered over prior to inspection, the lot owner will be required to re-excavate
the backfill so proper inspection can be conducted.
   11)   An occupancy permit shall not be issued until the Township confirms
the system has been constructed in accordance with the approved design plans.
   L.   Storm drainage systems. Storm drainage systems shall be required when
the stormwater runoff cannot be satisfactorily handled within the street
cartway in the determination of the Township Engineer. Where existing storm
sewers are accessible, proposed subdivisions and land developments shall be
required to connect to them. Where storm sewers are to be located in
undedicated land, they shall be placed in an easement at least 20 feet wide.
The minimum allowable velocity in storm sewers (pipes) shall be three feet zero
inches per second. The maximum allowable spacing between structures to be used
for inspecting and cleaning storm sewers shall be based upon the following
table:
 
Pipe Diameter (inches) Maximum Allowable Spacing
15                     400 feet
18-36                  500 feet
42-60                  700 feet
66 or larger           unlimited
 
   M.   Street drainage at intersections. Stormwater shall not be permitted to
cross intersections or the crown of a street. Inlet spacing shall be designed
in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, Design Manual,
Part 2. Inlets shall be placed at all changes in grade or direction of storm
sewers and at a maximum spacing of 600 feet. Inlets shall be designed to the
latest edition PennDOT Publication 408. Type C or M. Inlet tops shall be cast-
in-place reinforced concrete or precast concrete. Culvert ends shall be
provided with either reinforced concrete headwalls or pipe end sections.
Headwalls or end sections are required where flow enters inlets from natural or
human-made swales or channels. Minimum pipe size shall be 15 inches in diameter
and shall be made of reinforced concrete or aluminized steel or smooth bore
corrugated polyethylene (PE) as approved by the Township Engineer. When
material for storm drain systems is not specified, the specifications of the
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation shall govern. Drainage structures
that are located on or discharging onto state highway rights-of-way shall be
approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation. A letter from that
office indicating such approval shall be directed to the Township Planning
Commission.
   N.   Natural drainageways.
   (1)   Where a subdivision or land development is traversed by a natural
watercourse, a drainage easement shall be provided conforming substantially
with the line of such watercourse. The width of such easement shall be at least
100 feet, measuring on 50 feet each side, or of such additional width as will
be adequate to preserve the unimpeded flow of natural drainage and to provide
adequate access along the watercourse for maintenance purposes.
   (2)   No person, corporation or other entity shall block, impede the flow
of, alter, construct any structure or deposit any material or thing, or commit
any act which will affect normal or flood flow in any communal stream or
watercourse without having obtained prior approval from the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection or the Township.
   O.   Roof Drains, Sump Pumps, Downspouts and the Like. Stabilized outlets
shall be provided for stormwater roof drains, springs and sump pumps, footer
drains, floor drains and downspouts. No stormwater shall be discharged directly
onto streets and sidewalks from these sources. All piping systems from roofs,
basement pumps and the like discharging to rights-of-way must discharge via
buried drainage pipe into adjacent roadway at the ditch invert, if allowed and
accommodated for per the stormwater management plan as approved by the Township
Planning Commission.
   P.   Lot drainage. Lots shall be laid out and graded to provide positive
drainage away from new and existing buildings.
   Q.   Detention basin requirements.
   (1)   The design of any detention basin intended to meet the requirements of
this Chapter shall be verified by routing the design storm hydrograph through
the proposed basin. For basins designed using the modified rational method
technique, the detention volume shall, at minimum, equal the volume derived
from the approximate routing process as contained in SCS Technical Release
Number 55 (TR55, 1986), Chapter 6, (Figure 6-1).
   (2)   All stormwater detention facilities shall be designed based upon the
following criteria. Due to the uniqueness of each stormwater detention basin
and the variability of soil and other site conditions, the following criteria
may be modified or deleted at the discretion of the Township Engineer if
warranted.
   (a)   The basin is to be sodded or topsoiled and seeded including the
bottom, side slopes and all earthen dams and embankments.
   (b)   Suitable lining shall be required at all points of inflow to the basin
where erosion and scour mat occur.
   (c)   An easement to allow maintenance crews access to the basin and outlet
areas shall be established around all basins to be maintained. The limits of
such easements shall be 25 feet from the outside toe of all dams and
embankments and the top of all pond side slopes, with said easement being
connected to a public right-of-way.
   (d)   The design dimensions of the detention basin shall be maintained
throughout construction, unless it is to used as a sedimentation basin during
construction in the watershed. If so, it shall be immediately returned to
design dimensions following the completion of such construction. If used as
temporary sedimentation basin, it shall be designed based upon the most recent
standards of DEP for sedimentation basins.
   (e)   Runoff from areas uphill or upstream from the development site may be
passed across the development site without detention or storage. If it is more
convenient, part or all of such water may be passed through the detention means
described above, and an equal amount of water that originates on site may be
passed downhill or downstream. If any such upstream water enters the detention
structure, the amount of detention shall be increased accordingly.
   (f)   The inlet shall enter at the opposite end of the basin if possible.
The basin shall have a minimum bottom slope of one percent towards the primary
outlet to assure positive drainage. Low flow channels may be required to convey
small inflows to the basin outlet.
   (g)   Side slopes shall be a maximum of three feet horizontal to one foot
vertical (3:1), unless the design slopes are less than three feet, in which
case 4:1 side slopes are required. The design engineer may propose steeper side
slopes if justifiable evidence is submitted.
   (h)   Basins with a minimum depth of three feet or greater shall be enclosed
by a fence not less than six feet in height around the entire perimeter to keep
out children and all other unauthorized access to the basin area. A basin less
than three feet in depth may have 3:1 side slopes if fencing is provided. A
gate shall be installed to allow access into the basin for required
maintenance. With the exception of the location of the gate, a vegetative
screen of trees, with the variety subject to the approval of the Planning
Commission, shall be planted in front of the fence with the spacing distance
not greater than eight feet between trees. Said trees shall be not less than
six feet in height at the time of planting.
   (i)   The runoff entering the basin will result in the accumulation of
considerable amounts of sedimentation. Provision shall be made within the
maintenance schedule for periodic removal of accumulated solid materials.
   (j)   Responsibility for operation and maintenance of detention facilities,
including periodic removal of accumulated materials, shall remain with the
owner who is granted subdivision or land development approval of a given
development, unless the detention facilities are dedicated and accepted by
Plains Township.
   (k)   In some instances, the provision of separate detention facilities for
a number of single sites may be more difficult to maintain than the provision
of joint facilities for number of sites. In such cases, the Township may
consider the provision of joint detention facilities which would the meet all
requirements of stormwater management. In such cases, a properly planned staged
program of detention facilities may be approved by the Township in which
compliance with certain specified requirements may be postponed at early
stages, while preliminary phases are undertaken. This shall however pertain to
stormwater management only and not erosion and sedimentation pollution control.
   (l)   Safety ledges shall be constructed on the side slopes of all detention
basins designed to have a permanent pool of water. The ledges shall be four to
six feet in width and located approximately two and one-half to three feet
below and one to one and one-half feet above the permanent water surface. Side
slopes shall conform to Clauses (g) and (h) above of this Paragraph Q.,
Subparagraph (2).
   (m)   Where the project consists of more than one phase, the stormwater
controls shall be designed so that the rate of runoff for the maximum built out
condition of the site is consistent with release rate specified in the plan.
The outlet structure may have to be modified for the first phase. The
stormwater detention basin shall be constructed prior to the first phase.
   (n)   All basins shall have, at minimum, a primary outlet to control the
design storm(s) with a one-foot freeboard above the maximum pool elevation
associated the design storm(s). All basins shall also provide an emergency
spillway to safely convey the 100-year design storm with one-half foot of
freeboard.
   (o)   If the flow from the basin is proposed to be concentrated and
discharged onto adjacent property, the developer must provide documentation
that there are adequate downstream conveyance facilities to safely transport
the concentrated discharge or otherwise provide documentation that no adverse
affects will result from the concentrated discharge. An easement from the
adjacent property owner must be obtained which fully explains the proposed
discharge to allow for consideration of such discharge. Ultimate approval of
the feasibility of such discharges shall require the approval by the Township
Engineer.
   (p)   Maximum velocities in emergency spillways shall be determined based on
the velocity of the peak flow in the spillway resulting from the routed
emergency spillway hydrograph. Where maximum velocities exceed those contained
in the most recent DEP Sedimentation and Erosion Control Manual suitable lining
shall be provided.
   (q)   The minimum top width of all basins shall be as follows:
 
Height        Top Width
0-10 feet     6 feet
11-14 feet    8 feet
15 or greater As per DEP regulations
 
   (r)   All detention basin routing will be performed using acceptable routing
methods. Selected time increments will be of a short enough duration to allow
reasonable approximation of the inflow hydrograph.
   (s)   Any detention basin intended to meet the requirements of this Chapter
which requires a Dam Safety Permit from DEP shall be designed consistent with
the provisions of the Dam Safety and Encroachment Act, 32 P.S. §§ 693.1 et
seq., and DEP 25 Pa.Code, Chapter 105, rules and regulations.
   (t)   The applicant shall comply with any additional design requirements
which may be recommended by the Township Engineer based upon site conditions.
   (u)   All detention basins shall be designed and constructed with silt post
detectors.
   R.   Compliance a condition of preliminary plan approval. The Township, in
its consideration of all preliminary plans of subdivision and land development,
shall condition its approval upon the execution of stormwater management
control measures as contained in §
22-827 and regulations thereunder.
   S.   As-built drawings required. Following the completion of construction,
the developer shall submit drawing(s) of all improvements included within the
scope of the approved stormwater management plan to the Plains Township
Planning Commission. Said drawings shall bear the seal of a Pennsylvania
registered professional engineer indicating the “as-built” of all required
improvements shown upon the drawings. No approved dedication of improvements
shall be accepted by the Township without the submission of “as-built”
drawings.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 828)
§ 22-830.   Water Supply Facilities.
   Within any proposed major subdivision or major land development, if the
water is to be provided by means other than by private wells, owned and
maintained by the individual owners of the lots within the subdivision or land
development, the developer shall present evidence to the Planning Commission
that the subdivision or land development is to be supplied by a certified
public utility, a bona fide cooperative association of lot owners; or by a
municipal corporation, authority or utility. A copy of a certificate of public
convenience from the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission or an application
for such certificate, a cooperative agreement or a commitment or agreement to
serve the area in question, whichever is appropriate, shall be acceptable as
evidence.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 829)
§ 22-831.   Centralized Water System.
   1.   All subdivisions and land developments shall utilize an approved public
distribution system for water supply when such a system is accessible to the
site and connection to such is feasible.
   2.   The plans for the installation of water lines of a public water supply
shall be prepared by the developer with the cooperation of the applicable
public water company or authority and submitted with the preliminary plans.
   3.   When a subdivision or land development is to be serviced by a
centralized water supply system, fire hydrants shall be required. The location
and number of fire hydrants shall be determined on a case-by-case basis. Fire
hydrants along any approved street shall not be more than 500 feet apart and
connected to a water main not less than eight inches in diameter.
   4.   All suppliers of water to any proposed subdivision or land development
shall be organized in such a fashion as to fall within the jurisdiction of the
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission. One copy of all correspondence,
supporting documentation, application for permits and certificates for
operation submitted to the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection
and the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission for the right to provide such
services shall be forwarded to the Township as part of the public record. One
copy of the permit and certificate of convenience issued by the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection and the Pennsylvania Public Utility
Commission authorizing such services shall be forwarded upon receipt to the
Planning Commission as part of the public record.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 830)
§ 22-832.   On-Lot Water System.
   Where it is not feasible to connect a proposed subdivision or land
development to a centralized water system, on-lot systems shall be permitted
subject to their construction in accordance with applicable criteria as set
forth by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and/or any
other governmental agency with jurisdiction over such systems.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 831; as amended by A.O.)
§ 22-833.   Sewage Disposal Facilities.
   All subdivisions and land developments shall be served with a sewage system
centralized which meet or exceed the applicable minimum design standards as set
forth by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. All proposed
subdivisions and/or land developments shall require the preparation and
submission of an appropriate sewage planning module to DEP in accordance with
25 Pa.Code.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 832)
§ 22-834.   Centralized Sewers.
   1.   All subdivisions and land developments shall be served by centralized
sewage disposal systems, which is compatible with the Township’s Official 537
Sewage Plan.
   2.   All sanitary sewers shall be designed and constructed to provide
adequate capacity for the ultimate flow of the subject development plus
additional flow as may be projected to be generated by adjacent properties.
   3.   All individual lateral connection shall be installed to the curb right-
of-way line at the time of initial installation of the system.
   4.   Design standards, materials and specifications shall conform with the
most current Sewage Manual of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection, including any supplements or amendments thereto and all other
applicable requirements, federal, state and/or Township.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 833)
§ 22-835.   On-Lot Sewage Disposal System.
   1.   On-lot sewage shall only be permitted when it is not feasible to
connect to a centralized sewage system.
   2.   On-lot sewage systems, both individual and community sewage systems,
shall be designed and constructed in accordance with Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection requirements under 25 Pa.Code, Chapter 73, and any
amendments thereto.
   3.   Prior to approval of preliminary plan, the Township Sewage Enforcement
Officer shall submit a favorable report to the Planning Commission regarding
the site and soils investigation and analysis.
   4.   An adequate number of test pits and soil percolation tests, as
determined by the Sewage Enforcement Officer, shall be undertaken to determine
the general suitability of soils throughout the subdivision or land development
for on-lot subsurface sewage disposal.
   5.   All systems utilizing subsurface disposal of sewage effluent
(“community sewage systems” as defined by 25 Pa.Code, Chapter 73, of the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection Regulations) shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with requirements of the aforesaid
Chapter 73. A registered professional engineer employed by the applicant shall
provide written certification that the existing or proposed facility has
adequate capacity to satisfactorily treat the total projected sewage flow.
   6.   A sewage permit must be approved and issued by the Township Sewage
Enforcement Officer prior to the start of any construction or development upon
any lot within an approved subdivision or land development.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 834)
§ 22-836.   Utility Easements.
   Easements shall be provided for all utilities, including but not limited to
poles, wires, conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, water and heat mains, gas,
electric power, telephone, cable TV and roadway embankments.
   A.   Location and width. With the exception of on-lot sewer laterals,
utilities shall be located either within the public right-of-way or in
easements centered on or adjacent to front, rear or side lot lines. No
structures or trees shall be placed within such easements. Such easements shall
be minimum of 20 feet in width.
   B.   Underground installation. In developments of ten or more lots or
residential developments of ten or more dwelling units electric, telephone and
all other utility facilities shall be installed underground. All existing and
proposed utilities shall be shown on the preliminary plan. Prior to final plan
approval the developer shall be required to obtain a letter from each utility
company providing service to the subdivision stating that it has entered into
an agreement with the developer to provide for such a system. All underground
utilities including laterals, service connections and the like or provisions
for the same shall be installed prior to the placing of the subbase material in
areas where the utilities underlie the cartway.
   C.   Petroleum, gas and electric transmission lines.
   (1)   Where any petroleum, petroleum products, natural gas or electric
transmission line traverses a subdivision or land development the developer
shall confer with the applicable transmission or distribution company to
determine the minimum distance which the company requires between each
structure and the centerline of such transmission line. Prior to preliminary
plan approval the developer shall be required to obtain a letter from the
transmission or distribution company stating that it has entered into an
agreement with the developer establishing an easement through the tract and
stating any conditions on the use of the tract and the easement width.
   (2)   Any company intending to install a petroleum, petroleum products or
natural gas transmission line shall be required to construct such line on an
easement at least 50 feet wide, and the line shall be located at the center of
such easement.
   (3)   The installation shall comply with all applicable standards of the
Pennsylvania Utilities Commission.
   (4)   A minimum distance of 25 feet, measured from the edge of the easement,
shall be required between any proposed dwelling unit and any petroleum,
petroleum products or natural gas transmission line which traverses a
subdivision.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 835)
§ 22-837.   Nonresidential Subdivision and Land Development.
   1.   General. If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for
commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision or land
development with respect to such land shall make such provisions as the
Planning Commission require.
   2.   Required. A nonresidential subdivision or land development shall also
be subject to all the requirements of site plan approval set forth in the
Zoning Ordinance [
Chapter 27]. Site plan approval and nonresidential subdivision plan approval
may proceed simultaneously at the discretion of the Planning Commission. A
nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the requirements of these
regulations as well as such additional standards required by the Planning
Commission and shall conform to the proposed land use and standards established
in the Comprehensive Plan, Official Map and Zoning Ordinance [
Chapter 27].
   3.   Standards. In addition to the requirements and standards in these
regulations, which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission that
the street, parcel and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the
uses anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The
following principles and standards shall be observed.
   A.   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in the types of
industrial or commercial development anticipated.
   B.   Street right-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate the
type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereon.
   C.   Special requirements may be imposed by the Planning Commission with
respect to street, curb, gutter and sidewalk design and construction.
   D.   Special requirements may be imposed by the Planning Commission with
respect to the installation of public utilities, including water, sewer and
storm drainage.
   E.   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas from
potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing on existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip when necessary.
   F.   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing and
potential residential areas.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 836)
Part 9
Mobile Home Parks
§ 22-901.   General Requirements.
   In accordance with § 501 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code,
Act 247, 53 P.S. § 10501, as amended, provisions regulating mobile home parks
shall be separate and distinct. The standards and regulations provided herein
shall apply to both the development and expansion of mobile home parks. The
development and/or expansion of a mobile home park shall be deemed as a
subdivision or land development and shall be subject to design standards within
Part 8 and regulations provided within this Part.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 901)
§ 22-902.   Site Location Standards.
   1.   Unless stated otherwise, a mobile home park shall be subject to the
design standards requirements as set forth in Part 8 of this Chapter.
   2.   All mobile home parks shall be serviced by a centralized sewage
disposal system and a central water supply and distribution system.
   3.   All mobile home parks shall have a total land area of not less than ten
acres.
   4.   All mobile home parks shall be located on well drained land with the
average natural slope not exceeding ten percent. The development and/or
expansion of a mobile home park on land within a 100-year floodplain shall be
prohibited.
   5.   All mobile home parks shall have access to public streets or roads.
   6.   Mobile homes shall not be located on sites so that any portion of any
mobile home is closer than 35 feet to any portion of any other mobile home or
permanent building within the mobile home park.
   7.   Access to mobile home sites shall be from interior driveways, access
drives or private streets and shall not be from public street or roads.
Entrance roads shall have a paved cartway width of at least 24 feet.
   8.   Every mobile home site shall be provided with a minimum of two off-
street parking spaces.
   9.   The minimum area of land per mobile home site shall be not less than
7,200 square feet, with the dimensions being 60 feet by 120 feet. There shall
be an interior spacing distance of not less than 30 feet from the defined site
on which the mobile home is located to the next defined site for a mobile home.
   10.   A buffer area shall be provided around the mobile home park. No mobile
home lot shall be located closer than 50 feet to any public road right-of-way
or closer than 75 feet to any other exterior property line.
   11.   A vegetative screening of evergreen trees shall be required along the
property boundary line separating the park and any adjacent use. The variety of
evergreen trees shall subject to approval by the Planning Commission. Said
trees shall be minimum height of six feet at the time of planting and shall be
planted not more than six feet apart. The applicant and/or operator of the
mobile home park shall be responsible to maintain such screening, including the
replacement of any trees which are damaged, die or otherwise fail to grow.
   12.   Every mobile home park shall provide a defined recreational site or
sites which shall contain an area of land not less than five percent of the
total gross land area within the boundaries of the mobile home park. All
recreational sites shall be located in areas which are readily accessible to
all residents of the mobile home park. A recreational development plan shall be
provided which identifies passive and active recreational features to be
provided upon the site, including recreational equipment, play apparatus,
benches and all other features and facilities to be incorporated into the
design of the recreational site. The location of the recreational site and the
recreational development plan shall be subject to the review and approval of
the Planning Commission. The recreational site must be identified and approved
by the Planning Commission prior to final approval of the development or
expansion of a mobile home park. To guarantee the installation of all
improvements to the site, the applicant shall be required to complete the
installation of all such improvements prior to receiving an unconditional final
approval or to post an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of 110
percent of the estimated cost of improvements. The procedures and standards
contained within § 509 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act
247, 53 P.S. § 10509, as amended, shall apply to posting the aforementioned
irrevocable letter of credit. The procedures and standards within § 510 of Act
247, 53 P.S. § 11001, as amended, shall apply to the release of the irrevocable
letter of credit upon the completion of the required improvements. The
applicant shall be required to reimburse the Township for any consulting and
engineering fees associated with the inspection of improvements to the site.
Said reimbursement must be paid at the same meeting of the Planning Commission
at which the applicant seeks final and unconditional approval of said
improvements.
   13.   Each mobile home lot shall be improved to provide a permanent poured
concrete foundation for the placement and tiedown of the mobile home, thereby
securing the structure against uplift, sliding, rotation and overturning. The
foundation and utility connections shall be constructed in accordance with
governing standards contained in the Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code, 34
Pa.Code §§ 401 et seq.
   14.   Every mobile home shall be securely anchored or tied-down governing
standards contained in the Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code, 34 Pa.Code
§§ 401 et seq. All mobile homes shall be enclosed from the bottom of the mobile
home to the ground or paving using industry approved fire resistant skirting
material with sufficient ventilation to inhibit decay and deterioration of the
mobile home.
   15.   The owner/operator of each mobile home park shall provide a refuse
disposal plan.
   16.   An approved soils erosion and sedimentation plan and a stormwater
management plan shall be required prior to the unconditional approval for the
development or expansion of a mobile home park.
   17.   An approved Department of Environmental Protection planning module
shall be required prior to the unconditional approval for the development or
expansion of a mobile home park.
   18.   A letter of commitment for the provision of required utilities from
all applicable utility companies.
   19.   Street identification signs and traffic control signs shall be
provided for all streets at every intersection in the mobile home park. Such
signs shall be purchased and installed by the developer.
(Ord. 2009-____, –/–/2009, § 902)
Appendix
Design Standards; Development Agreement
DESIGN STANDARDS
FOR
CUL-DE-SAC STREET
 
All cul-de-sac streets, whether permanently or temporarily designed as such,
shall terminate in a circular turnaround and shall be designed in accordance
with the following standards:
1.   A circular right-of-way with a minimum diameter of 100 feet, with a
minimum radius of 40 feet, as measured to the outer pavement edge or curb line,
and improved to the required construction specifications.
2.   For all lots fronting upon the arc of a cul-de-sac, there shall be a
minimum cord distance of not less than 75 feet as measured from the side yard
lot lines for each lot. (See Design Standard Illustration on following page.)
3.   The entire area within a cul-de-sac shall be paved. No physical
obstructions shall be permitted within the cul-de-sac including, but not
limited to, islands, vegetative cover, trees and/or any other types of
decorative features.
 
PLAINS TOWNSHIP
CUL-DE-SAC DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2151.png]
 
 
PLAINS TOWNSHIP
PAVING STANDARDS
 
The paving standards for Plains Township shall reflect the following PennDOT
Superpave Standards, or any subsequent revision which may be adopted by
PennDOT.
   PennDOT - SUPERPAVE STANDARDS
Procedures/Specification. Design of all streets constructed shall be in
accordance with the guidelines and requirements for Design of Local Roads and
Streets contained in Design Manual, Part II, Highway Design, latest revision
and the latest edition of PennDOT Publication No. 408. The following procedures
shall be followed for construction.
   Local Street
      1.   If at the time of construction, local, unstable subgrade conditions
are encountered, the Township Engineer may require that all areas of unstable
subgrade may be excavated to sufficient depth, replaced with approved material,
and compacted to a density and stability equal to, or greater than the
surrounding subgrade. The Township Engineer may require PennDOT No. 408
Specifications to be installed for the entire subgrade of the proposed cartway.
Pavement base drain may be required by Township Engineer.
      2.   Fine grade and roll subgrade.
      3.   Cut out all soft and yielding areas to a maximum depth of two feet
and backfill with 2A modified or 3A modified aggregate compacted in six-inch
lifts. If the soil is still soft at the two-foot depth, place geotextile fabric
in the bottom prior to backfilling with 2A or 3A aggregate.
      4.   Place and compact a minimum six-inch depth of 2A modified aggregate.
      5.   Place and compact a minimum four and one half-inches depth of
Superpave asphalt design, 25.0 mm, PG 64-22 base course.
      6.   Place and compact a minimum one and one half inches of Superpave
asphalt design, 9.5 mm, PG 64-22 wearing course. The appropriate skid
resistance level shall be used in accordance with PennDOT Publication No. 408
and 242. Design mix shall be submitted to Township for review to include
appropriate ESAL.
 
PLAINS TOWNSHIP
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
 
Development Agreement Required
   All applicants proposing any subdivision or land development which provides
for the installation of improvements required by this
Chapter 22 or any improvements or amenities which appear on the plan shall be
required to enter into a legally binding development agreement with the
Township prior to final plan approval. The development agreement shall
guarantee the installation of said improvements in accordance with all Township
requirements. The final plan shall not be approved by the Commission prior to
the execution of this agreement and the delivery of the Performance Guarantee.
Terms of Development Agreement
   The development agreement shall be in the manner and form approved by the
Solicitor to the Planning Commission, and it shall consist of the following
terms, where applicable:
   (1)   The construction depicted upon the approved plans in itemized format.
   (2)   Construction of streets with related curbs, street signs, drainage
facilities and related improvements.
   (3)   Installation of utility lines.
   (4)   Dedication of streets, transfer of water and sewer lines and
easements.
   (5)   Prevention of erosion, sedimentation and water damage to the subject
and adjacent properties.
   (6)   Developer’s responsibilities for damage to other property.
   (7)   A work schedule setting forth the beginning and ending dates and such
other details as the Township deems fit and appropriate for the improvements
covered by the development agreement, together with an inspection schedule
approved by the Township Engineer.
   (8)   The estimated cost of the improvements not yet completed, including a
detailed breakdown in a form acceptable to the Township, per the Financial
Security required under Part 7 of this
Chapter 22.
   (9)   The provision of a Financial Security for completion of required
improvements which complies with the applicable requirements of Part 7 of this
Chapter 22.
   (10)   The developer shall provide the Planning Commission with a set of
reproducible “AS BUILT” plans prepared by and certified to by a professional
land surveyor/professional engineer of all streets, storm and sanitary sewers
and water distribution facilities.
   (11)   Provisions for violation of the development agreement.
   (12)   Developer shall secure or maintain public liability insurance for the
duration of improvements construction. A copy of other evidence of coverage
shall be submitted to the Township.
   (13)   A save harmless clause to protect the Township from liability.
   (14)   All improvements subject to the development agreement shall be
approved according to the approved inspection schedule and the governing
provisions under Part 7 of this
Chapter 22.
   (15)   The developer shall be responsible for all reasonable engineering and
legal costs and expenses for review, inspection, consultations, and preparation
of agreements.
   (16)   Any other lawful terms which the Planning Commission may require to
carry out the provisions of this
Chapter 22.
Chapter 23
Stormwater Management
Part 1
General Provisions
§
23-101.   Short Title
§
23-102.   Statement of Findings
§
23-103.   Purpose
§
23-104.   Statutory Authority
§
23-105.   Applicability
§
23-106.   Repealer
§
23-107.   Severability
§
23-108.   Compatibility with Other Requirements
§
23-109.   Permit Based on False Information Is Void
§
23-110.   Waivers
Part 2
Definitions
§
23-201.   Definitions
Part 3
Stormwater Management Standards
§
23-301.   General Requirements
§
23-302.   Exemptions
§
23-303.   Volume Controls
§
23-304.   Rate Controls
§
23-305.   Riparian Buffers
Part 4
Stormwater Management (SWM) Site Plan Requirements
§
23-401.   Plan Requirements
§
23-402.   Plan Submission
§
23-403.   Plan Review
§
23-404.   Modification of Plans
§
23-405.   Resubmission of Disapproved SWM Site Plans
§
23-406.   Authorization to Construct and Term of Validity
§
23-407.   As-Built Plans, Completion Certificate and Final Inspection
Part 5
Operation and Maintenance
§
23-501.   Responsibilities of Developers and Landowners
§
23-502.   O&M Agreements
Part 6
Fees and Expenses
§
23-601.   General
Part 7
Prohibitions
§
23-701.   Prohibited Discharges and Connections
§
23-702.   Roof Drains
§
23-703.   Alteration of SWM BMPs
Part 8
Enforcement and Penalties
§
23-801.   Right-of-Entry
§
23-802.   Inspection
§
23-803.   Enforcement
§
23-804.   Suspension and Revocation
§
23-805.   Penalties
§
23-806.   Appeals
Part 9
References
§
23-901.   References
Appendices
Appendix 23-A.1   Stormwater Management and Maintenance Agreement
Appendix 23-A.2   Easement Agreement
Appendix 23-B   Stormwater Management Permit Application
Appendix 23-C.1   Disconnected Impervious Area (DIA) and Worksheet
Appendix 23-C.2   Rainspout Disconnection from Sanitary Sewer Systems
Requirement for Municipalities
Appendix 23-D   Projects Meeting Requirements in Section 303, Paragraph B.
Appendix 23-E   Stormwater Management for Small Projects
Appendix 23-F.1   Stormwater Management District Maps
Appendix 23-F.2   Hydrological Soil Group (HSG) Map
Part 1
General Provisions
§ 23-101.   Short Title.
   This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Plains Township
Stormwater Management Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §101; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-102.   Statement of Findings.
   The Board of Commissioners of the Township finds that:
      A.   Inadequate management of accelerated runoff of stormwater resulting
from development throughout a watershed increases runoff volumes, flows and
velocities, contributes to erosion and sedimentation, overtaxes the carrying
capacity of streams and storm sewers, greatly increases the cost of public
facilities to cany and control stormwater, undermines floodplain management and
flood control efforts in downstream communities, reduces groundwater recharge,
threatens public health and safety, and increases nonpoint source pollution of
water resources.
      B.   A comprehensive program of stormwater management (SWM), including
reasonable regulation of development and activities causing accelerated runoff,
is fundamental to the public health, safety and welfare and the protection of
people of the Commonwealth, their resources and the environment.
      C.   Stormwater is an important water resource, which provides
groundwater recharge for water supplies and base flow of streams, which also
protects and maintains surface water quality.
      D.   The use of green infrastructure and low impact development (LID) are
intended to address the root cause of water quality impairment by using systems
and practices which use or mimic natural processes to:
         1)   infiltrate and recharge,
         2)   evapotranspire, and/or
         3)   harvest and use precipitation near where it falls to earth. Green
infrastructure practices and LID contribute to the restoration or maintenance
of predevelopment hydrology.
      E.   Federal and state regulations require certain municipalities to
implement a program of stormwater controls. These municipalities are required
to obtain a permit for stormwater discharges from their separate storm sewer
systems under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES).
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §102; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-103.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Chapter is to promote health, safety and welfare within
the Township and its watershed by minimizing the harms and maximizing the
benefits described in §
23-102 of this Chapter through provisions designed to:
      A.   Meet legal water quality requirements under state law, including
regulations at 25 Pa. Code Chapter 93, to protect, maintain, reclaim and
restore the existing and designated uses of the waters of this Commonwealth.
      B.   Preserve the natural drainage systems as much as possible.
      C.   Manage stormwater runoff close to the source, reduce runoff volumes,
and mimic predevelopment hydrology.
      D.   Provide procedures and performance standards for stormwater planning
and management.
      E.   Maintain groundwater recharge to prevent degradation of surface and
groundwater quality and to otherwise protect water resources.
      F.   Prevent scour and erosion of stream banks and streambeds.
      G.   Provide proper operation and maintenance of all permanent stormwater
best management practices (BMPs) that are implemented within the Township.
      H.   Provide standards to meet NPDES permit requirements.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §103; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-104.   Statutory Authority.
   1.   Primary authority. The Township is empowered to regulate these
activities by the authority of the Act of October 4, 1978, P.L. 864 (Act 167),
32 P.S. §§680.1 et seq., as amended, the “Stormwater Management Act” and the
First Class Township Code, 53 P.S. §§55101 et seq.
   2.   Secondary authority. The Township also is empowered to regulate land
use activities that affect runoff by the authority of the Act of July 31,1968,
P.L. 805, No. 247, the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S.
§§10101 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §104; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-105.   Applicability.
   1.   All regulated activities and all activities that may affect stormwater
runoff, including land development and earth disturbance activity, are subject
to regulation by this Chapter.
   2.   Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (PennDOT) roadway projects
will perform stormwater management consistent with Publication 13M (Design
Manual 2) Chapter 13.6, Antidegradation and Post Construction Stormwater
Management Policy.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §105; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-106.   Repealer.
   Any other ordinance provision(s) or regulation of the municipality
inconsistent with any of the provisions of this Chapter is hereby repealed to
the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-107.   Severability.
   In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction declares any section or
provision of this Chapter invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity
of any of the remaining provisions of this Chapter.
Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-108.   Compatibility with Other Requirements.
   1.   Approvals issued and actions taken under this Chapter do not relieve
the applicant of the responsibility to secure required permits or approvals for
activities regulated by any other code, law, regulation or ordinance.
   2.   If the Township administers its own Subdivision and Land Development
Ordinance [
Chapter 22], the Township shall be responsible for administering this Chapter.
   3.   If the Township falls under the authority of the Luzerne County
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance, the county shall be responsible for
administering this Chapter.
   4.   The standards and criteria in this Chapter supersede the standards and
criteria in the previously enacted Luzerne County Stormwater Management
Ordinance.
(Ord 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §108; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-109.   Permit Based on False Information Is Void.
   Any permit or authorization issued or approved based on false, misleading or
erroneous information provided by an applicant is void without the necessity of
any proceedings for revocation. Any work undertaken or use established pursuant
to such permit or other authorization is unlawful. No action may be taken by a
board, agency or employee of the Municipality purporting to validate such a
violation.
(Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-110.   Waivers.
   1.   If the Municipality determines that any requirement under this Chapter
cannot be achieved for a particular regulated activity, the Municipality may,
after an evaluation of alternatives, approve measures other than those in this
Chapter subject to Subsections 2. and 3. below.
   2.   Waivers or modifications of the requirements of this Chapter by the
Municipality if enforcement will exact undue hardship because of peculiar
conditions pertaining to the land in question, provided that the modifications
will not be contrary to the public interest and that the purpose of the Chapter
is preserved. Cost or financial burden shall not be considered a hardship.
Modification may be considered if an alternative standard or approach will
provide equal or better achievement of the purpose of the Chapter. A request
for modifications shall be in writing and accompany the Stormwater Management
Site Plan submission. The request shall provide the facts on which the request
is based, the provision(s) of the ordinance involved and the proposed
modification.
   3.   No waiver or modification of any regulated stormwater activity
involving earth disturbance greater than or equal to one acre may be granted by
the Municipality unless that action is approved in advance by the Department of
Environmental Protection (DEP) or the delegated county conservation district.
(Ord 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §108; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
Part 2
Definitions
§ 23-201.   Definitions.
   For the purposes of this Chapter, certain terms and words used herein shall
be interpreted as follows:
      A.   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; the
singular number includes the plural, and the plural number includes the
singular; words of masculine gender include feminine gender; and words of
feminine gender include masculine gender.
      B.   The word “includes” or “including” shall not limit the term to the
specific example but is intended to extend its meaning to all other instances
of like kind and character.
      C.   The words “shall” and “must” are mandatory; the words “may” and
“should” are permissive.
      D.   These definitions do not necessarily reflect the definitions
contained in pertinent regulations or statutes, and are intended for this
Chapter only.
      Agricultural activity-activities associated with agriculture such as
agricultural cultivation, agricultural operation and animal heavy use areas.
This includes the work of producing crops including tillage, land clearing,
plowing, disking, harrowing, planting, haivesting crops or pasturing and
raising of livestock and installation of conservation measures. Construction of
new buildings or impervious area is not considered an agricultural activity.
      Applicant-a landowner, developer or other person who has filed an
application to the Township for approval to engage in any regulated activity at
a project site in the Township.
      Best management practice (BMP)-activities, facilities, designs, measures
or procedures used to manage stormwater impacts from regulated activities, to
meet state water quality requirements, to promote groundwater recharge, and to
otherwise meet the purposes of this Chapter. Stormwater BMPs are commonly
grouped into one of two broad categories or measures: “structural” or
“nonstructural”. In this Chapter, nonstructural BMPs or measures refer to
operational and/or behavior-related practices that attempt to minimize the
contact of pollutants with stormwater runoff whereas structural BMPs or
measures are those that consist of a physical device or practice that is
installed to capture and treat stormwater runoff. Structural BMPs include, but
are not limited to, many practices and devices, from large-scale retention
ponds and constructed wetlands, to small-scale underground treatment systems,
infiltration facilities, filter strips, low impact design, bioretention, wet
ponds, permeable paving, grassed swales, riparian or forested buffers, sand
filters, detention basins and manufactured devices. Structural stormwater BMPs
are permanent appurtenances to the project site.
      Capture-the process of collecting runoff to be managed by a stormwater
BMP.
      Conservation District-a Conservation District, as defined in §3(c) of the
Conservation District Law, 3 P.S. §851(c), that has the authority under a
delegation agreement executed with DEP to administer and enforce all or a
portion of the regulations promulgated under 25 Pa. Code, Chapter 102; refers
to the Luzerne Conservation District unless otherwise noted.
      DEP-the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
      Design storm-the magnitude and temporal distribution of precipitation
from a storm event measured in probability of occurrence (e.g., a five-year
storm) and duration (e.g., 24 hours) used in the design and evaluation of
stormwater management systems. Also see “return period”.
      Detention volume-the volume of runoff that is captured and released into
the waters of this Commonwealth at a controlled rate.
      Development, land-see “land development”.
      Development, site-any human-induced change to improved or unimproved real
estate, whether public or private, including, but not limited to, land
development, construction, installation or expansion of a building or other
structure, land division, street construction, drilling and site alteration
such as embankments, dredging, grubbing, grading, paving, parking or storage
facilities, excavation, filling, stockpiling or clearing.
      Disconnected impervious area (DIA)-an impervious or impermeable surface
that is disconnected from any stormwater drainage or conveyance system and is
redirected or directed to a pervious area, which allows for infiltration,
filtration and increased time of concentration as specified in Appendix C. 1,
“Disconnected Impervious Area”.
      Disturbed area-an unstabilized land area where an earth disturbance
activity is occurring or has occurred.
      Earth disturbance activity-a construction or other human activity which
disturbs the surface of the land, including, but not limited to: clearing and
grubbing; grading; excavations; embankments; road maintenance; building
construction; and the moving, depositing, stockpiling or storing of soil, rock
or earth materials.
      Erosion-the natural process by which the surface of the land is worn away
by water, wind or chemical action.
      Existing condition-the dominant land cover during the five-year period
immediately preceding a proposed regulated activity.
      FEMA-Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      Floodplain-any land area susceptible to inundation by water from any
natural source or delineated by applicable FEMA maps and studies as being a
special flood hazard area. Also includes areas that comprise Group 13 Soils, as
listed in Appendix A of the Pennsylvania DEP Technical Manual for Sewage
Enforcement Officers (as amended or replaced from time to time by DEP).
      Floodway-the channel of the watercourse and those portions of the
adjoining floodplains that are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
100-year flood. Unless otherwise specified, the boundary of the floodway is as
indicated on maps and flood insurance studies provided by FEMA. In an area
where no FEMA maps or studies have defined the boundary of the 100-year
floodway, it is assumed, absent evidence to the contrary, that the floodway
extends from the stream to 50 feet from the top of the bank of the stream.
      Forest management/timber operations-planning and activities necessary for
the management of forestland. These include conducting a timber inventory,
preparation of forest management plans, silvicultural treatment, cutting
budgets, logging road design and construction, timber harvesting, site
preparation and reforestation.
      Geotextile-a porous fabric manufactured from synthetic fiber that is used
to provide separation between different types of media (i.e., between soil and
stone).
      Gravel (crushed stone)-considered to be impervious when the intended use
of the stone is for transportation purposes, parking areas, construction areas,
trails or if the gravel is compacted at any time during or after its placement;
landscaping stone is not considered as impervious area.
      Green infrastructure-systems and practices that use or mimic natural
processes to infiltrate, evapotranspire, or reuse stormwater on the site where
it is generated.
      Hotspot-areas where land use or activities generate highly contaminated
runoff, with concentrations of pollutants that are higher than those that are
typically found in stormwater (e.g., vehicle salvage yards and recycling
facilities, vehicle fueling stations, fleet storage areas, vehicle equipment
and cleaning facilities, and vehicle service and maintenance facilities).
      Hydrologic soil group (HSG)-infiltration rates of soils vary widely and
are affected by subsurface permeability as well as surface intake rates. Soils
are classified into four HSGs (A, B, C and D) according to their minimum
infiltration rate, which is obtained for bare soil after prolonged wetting. The
NRCS defines the four groups and provides a list of most of the soils in the
United States and their group classification. The soils in the area of the
development site may be identified from a soil survey report that can be
obtained from local NRCS offices or Conservation District offices. Soils become
less pervious as the HSG varies from A to D (NRCS3,4).
      Impervious surface (impervious area)-a surface that prevents the
infiltration of water into the ground. Impervious surfaces (or areas) include,
but are not limited to: roofs; additional indoor living spaces, patios,
garages, storage sheds and similar structures; and any new streets or
sidewalks. Decks, parking areas, and driveway areas are not counted as
impervious areas if they do not prevent infiltration. See definition of “gravel
(crushed stone)” for when gravel classifies as impervious area.
      Infiltration-movement of surface water into the soil, where it is
absorbed by plant roots, evaporated into the atmosphere or percolated downward
to recharge groundwater.
      Karst-a type of topography or landscape characterized by surface
depressions, sinkholes, rock pinnacles/uneven bedrock surface, underground
drainage and caves. Karst is formed on carbonate rocks, such as limestone or
dolomite.
      Land development (development)-inclusive of any or all of the following
meanings:
         (1)   The improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots,
tracts or parcels of land for any purpose involving:
            (a)   A group of two or more buildings; or
            (b)   The division or allocation of land or space between or among
two ormore existing or prospective occupants by means of or for the purpose of
streets, common areas, leaseholds, condominiums, building groups or other
features.
         (2)   Any subdivision of land;
         (3)   Development in accordance with §503(1.1) of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §10503(1.1).
      Low impact development-Site design approaches and small-scale stormwater
management practices that promote the use of natural systems for infiltration,
evapotranspiration, and reuse of rainwater. LID can be applied to new
development, urban retrofits, and revitalization projects. LID utilizes design
techniques that infiltrate, filter, evaporate, and store runoff close to its
source. Rather than rely on costly large-scale conveyance and treatment
systems, LID addresses stormwater through a variety of small, cost-effective
landscape features located on-site.
      Municipality-Plains Township, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania.
      NRCS-USDA. Natural Resources Conservation Service (previously SCS).
      Peak discharge-the maximum rate of stormwater runoff from a specific
storm event.
      Pervious area-any area not defined as impervious.
      Project site-One specific area of land where any regulated activities in
the Township are planned, conducted or maintained.
      Qualified professional-any person licensed by the Pennsylvania Department
of State or otherwise qualified by law to perform the work required by the
Chapter.
      Redevelopment-any development that requires demolition or removal of
existing structures or impervious surfaces at a site and replacement with new
impervious surfaces. Maintenance activities such as top-layer grinding and re-
paving are not considered to be redevelopment. Interior remodeling projects and
tenant improvements are also not considered to be redevelopment.
      Regulated activities-any earth disturbance activities or any activities
that involve the alteration or development of land in a manner that may affect
stormwater runoff.
      Regulated earth disturbance activity-activity involving earth disturbance
subject to regulation under 25 Pa. Code, Chapters 92, 102 or the Clean Streams
Law, 35 P.S. §§691.1 et seq.
      Retention volume/removed runoff-the volume of runoff that is captured and
not released directly into the surface waters of this Commonwealth during or
after a storm event.
      Return period-the average interval, in years, within which a storm event
of a given magnitude can be expected to occur one time. For example, the 25-
year return period rainfall would be expected to occur on average once every 25
years; or stated in another way, the probability of a 25-year storm occurring
in any one year is 0.04 (i.e., a four percent chance).
      Runoff-any part of precipitation that flows over the land.
      Sediment-soils or other materials transported by surface water as a
product of erosion.
      State water quality requirements-the regulatory requirements to protect,
maintain, reclaim and restore water quality under 25 Pa. Code and the Clean
Streams Law, 35 P.S. §§691.1 et seq.
      Stormwater-drainage runoff from the surface of the land resulting from
precipitation or snow or ice melt.
      Stormwater management best management practices-is abbreviated as BMPs
orSWM BMPs throughout this Chapter.
      Stormwater management facility-any structure, natural or human-made,
that, due to its condition, design or construction, conveys, stores or
otherwise affects stormwater runoff. Typical stormwater management facilities
include, but are not limited to: detention and retention basins; open channels;
storm sewers; pipes; French drains; underground on-lot seepage pits; and
infiltration facilities.
      Stormwater management plan-the Luzerne County Stormwater Management Plan
for managing stormwater runoff adopted by the County of Luzerne as required by
the Act of October 4, 1978, P.L. 864, (Act 167), as amended, and known as the
“Stormwater Management Act”.
      Stormwater management site plan-the plan prepared by the developer or his
or her representative indicating how stormwater runoff will be managed at the
development site in accordance with this Chapter. Stormwater management site
plan will be designated as “SWM site plan” throughout this Chapter.
      Subdivision-as defined in the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code,
Act of July 31, 1968, P.L. 805, No. 247.
      USDA-United States Department of Agriculture.
      Void ratio-the ratio of the volume of void space to the total volume of
the BMP material (void space plus solid material/media providing structural
support to create the storage area).
      Waters of this Commonwealth-any and all rivers, streams, creeks,
rivulets, impoundments, ditches, watercourses, storm sewers, lakes, dammed
water, wetlands, ponds, springs and all other bodies or channels of conveyance
of surface and underground water, or parts thereof, whether natural or
artificial, within or on the boundaries of this Commonwealth.
      Watershed-region or area drained by a river, watercourse or other surface
water of this Commonwealth.
      Wetland-areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater
at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs and similar
areas.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §201; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
Part 3
Stormwater Management Standards
§ 23-301.   General Requirements.
   1.   For all regulated activities, submission of the stormwater management
permit application provided in
Appendix 23-B is required.
   2.   For all regulated activities, unless preparation of a SWM site plan is
specifically exempted in §
23-302:
      A.   Preparation and implementation of an approved SWM site plan is
required.
      B.   No regulated activities shall commence until the Township issues
written approval of a SWM site plan, which demonstrates compliance with the
requirements of this Chapter.
   3.   SWM site plans approved by the Township, in accordance with §
23-406, shall be on site throughout the duration of the regulated activity.
   4.   The Township may, after consultation with DEP, approve measures for
meeting the state water quality requirements other than those in this Chapter,
provided that they meet the minimum requirements of, and do not conflict with,
state law including, but not limited to, the Clean Streams Law, 35 P.S. §§691.1
et seq.
   5.   For all regulated earth disturbance activities, erosion and sediment
control BMPs shall be designed, implemented, operated and maintained during the
regulated earth disturbance activities (e.g., during construction) to meet the
purposes and requirements of this Chapter and to meet all requirements under 25
Pa. Code and the Clean Streams Law, 35 P.S. §§691.1 et seq. Various BMPs and
their design standards are listed in the Erosion and Sediment Pollution Control
Program Manual (E&S Manual 2), No. 363-2134-008 (April 15, 2012), as amended
and updated.
   6.   For all regulated activities, implementation of the volume controls in
§
23-303 is required, unless otherwise exempted by §
23-302.
   7.   Impervious areas:
      A.   The measurement of impervious areas shall include all of the
impervious areas in the total proposed development even if development is to
take place in stages.
      B.   For development taking place in stages, the entire development plan
must be used in determining conformance with this Chapter.
      C.   For projects that add impervious area to a parcel, the total
impervious area on the parcel is subject to the requirements of this Chapter;
except that the volume controls in Section
23-303 and the peak rate controls of Section
23-304 do not need to be retrofitted to existing impervious areas that are not
being altered by the proposed regulated activity.
      D.   For redevelopment projects in which the existing site is disturbed,
the entire proposed site is subject to the plan preparation and approval
requirements of this Chapter. Existing conditions are considered to be the
existing site prior to disturbance, and 20 percent of the existing impervious
area must be considered as meadow in good condition for all stormwater
calculations. For redevelopment projects in which the existing site is already
controlled by a stormwater management facility, the requirement to consider 20
percent of existing impervious area as meadow is waived, provided the existing
facility meets the water quality, volume and peak rate standards and criteria
of this Chapter.
   8.   Stormwater flows onto adjacent property shall not be created,
increased, decreased, relocated or otherwise altered without written
notification of the adjacent property owner(s). Such stormwater flows shall be
subject to the requirements of this Chapter.
   9.   All regulated activities shall include measures to:
      A.   Protect health, safety and property.
      B.   Meet the water quality goals of this Chapter by implementing
measures outlined in the Pennsylvania Stormwater Best Management Practices
Manual (BMP Manual) to:
         (1)   Minimize disturbance to floodplains, wetlands and wooded areas.
         (2)   Maintain or extend riparian buffers.
         (3)   Avoid erosive flow conditions in natural flow pathways.
         (4)   Minimize thermal impacts to waters of this Commonwealth.
         (5)   Disconnect impervious surfaces by directing runoff to pervious
areas, wherever possible.
      C.   Incorporate methods described in the Pennsylvania Stormwater Best
Management Practices (BMP) Manual. If methods other than green infrastructure
and LID methods are proposed to achieve the volume and rate controls required
under this Chapter, the SWM Site Plan must include a detailed justification
demonstrating that the use of LID and green infrastructure is not practicable.
   10.   The design of all facilities over karst and mined areas shall include
an evaluation of measures to minimize adverse effects.
   11.   Infiltration BMPs should be spread out, made as shallow as
practicable, and located to maximize use of natural on-site infiltration
features while still meeting the other requirements of this Chapter.
   12.   Storage facilities, to the greatest extent possible and at the
discretion of the Township Engineer, shall completely drain both the volume
control and rate control capacities over a period of time not less than 24
hours and not more than 72 hours from the end of the design storm.
   13.   Storage facilities shall incorporate features to maximize the length
of the flow path and increase the travel time through the facility.
   14.   The design storm volumes to be used in the analysis of peak rates of
discharge should be obtained from the latest version of the Precipitation-
Frequency Atlas of the United States, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA), National Weather Service, Hydrometeorological Design
Studies Center, Silver Spring, Maryland5.
   15.   For all regulated activities, SWM BMPs shall be designed, implemented,
operated and maintained to meet the purposes and requirements of this Chapter
and to meet all requirements under 25 Pa. Code, the Clean Streams Law, 35 P.S.
§§691.1 el seq., and the Stormwater Management Act, 32 P.S. §§680.1 el seq.
   16.   Various BMPs and their design standards are listed in the BMP Manual.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §301; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-302.   Exemptions.
   1.   Regulated activities that create impervious areas or earth disturbance
shall adhere to Table 23-3-1 to meet the requirements of this Chapter. The
larger of the two areas determines the applicable requirements of this Chapter
(i.e., if only 500 square feet of impervious area is proposed, but 15,000
square feet of earth disturbance, the requirements follow row 3 of Table 23-3-
1).
Table 23-3-1. Stormwater Management Requirements and Exemptions
Proposed         Proposed Total Ordinance  Stormwater   What is required to
Impervious Area  Earth Disturb- Exemptions Management   submit to
(sq. ft.)        ance (sq. ft.)            Requirements Township?*
           Proposed
Proposed   Total                                                   What is
Impervious Earth     Ordinance  Stormwater Management Requirements required to
Area (sq.  Disturb-  Exemptions                                    submit to
ft.)       ance (sq.                                               Township?*
           ft.)
                     §
                     23-303, § Ensure §
<1,000     <5,000    23-304 and 23-301, general requirements are   N/A
                     Part 4 of  met
                     this
                     Chapter
                     §                                            Chapter
                     23-303, §                                    Appendix
1,000 to   5,000 to  23-304 and Disconnected Impervious Area (DIA) 23-C.l
5,000      10,000    Part 4 of  as in Chapter                      Worksheet
                     this       Appendix 23-C.1                    and Sketch
                     Chapter                                       (or
                                                                   equivalent)
                             OR                                 OR
                                                                   Chapter
                                Capture and control first 1 inch   Appendix
                                of runoff over proposed impervious 23-
                             areas as in Chapter                E Worksheet
                                Appendix 23-E                      and Sketch
                                                                   (or
                                                                   equivalent)
                                                                   Chapter
                     §         Capture and permanently remove the Appendix
5,000 to   10,000 to 23-304 and first 2 inches of runoff over      23-
10,000     20,000    Part 4 of  proposed impervious areas as in § D Worksheet
                     this       23-303, Paragraph B                and Sketch
                     Chapter                                       (or
                                                                   equivalent)
>10,000    >20,000   None       All requirements of this Chapter   SWM site
                                                                   plan
*In addition to the stormwater management permit application provided in
Chapter
Appendix 23-B.
 
   2.   Agricultural activity is exempt from the rate control and SWM site plan
preparation requirements of this Chapter provided the activities are performed
according to the requirements of 25 Pa. Code Chapter 102.
   3.   Forest management and timber operations are exempt from the rate
control and SWM site plan preparation requirements of this Chapter provided the
activities are performed according to the requirements of 25 Pa. Code Chapter
102.
   4.   Exemptions from any provisions of this Chapter shall not relieve the
applicant from the requirements in §§
23-301 Paragraphs 1. through .16.
   5.   The Municipality may deny or revoke any exemption pursuant to this
Section at any time for any project that the Municipality believes may pose a
threat to public health and safety or the environment.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §302; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-303.   Volume Controls.
   The green infrastructure and low impact development practices provided in
the BMP Manual shall be utilized for all regulated activities to the maximum
extent practicable. Water volume controls shall be implemented using the design
storm method in Paragraph A. below or the simplified method in Paragraph B
below. For all regulated activities that require submission of a formal SWM
site plan, both the design storm method and the simplified method shall be
calculated; the larger control volume based on the two calculations shall be
controlled. Paragraph C. below provides requirements for mined, karst or other
geologically limiting areas where infiltration shall not occur.
      A.   The design storm method (CG-1 in the BMP Manual1) is applicable to
any size of regulated activity. This method requires detailed modeling based on
site conditions.
         (1)   Do not increase the post-development total runoff volume for all
storms equal to or less than the two-year 24-hour duration precipitation.
         (2)   For modeling purposes:
            (a)   Existing (predevelopment) non-forested pervious areas must be
considered meadow or its equivalent.
            (b)   Twenty percent of existing impervious area, when present,
shall be considered meadow in the model for existing conditions.
      B.   When Simplified Method (CG-2 in the BMP Manual4) provided below is
independent of site conditions and should be used if the Design Storm Method is
not followed. This method is not applicable to regulated activities greater
than one acre or for projects that require design of stormwater storage
facilities. For new impervious surfaces:
         (1)   Stormwater facilities shall capture at least the first two (2)
inches of runoff from all new impervious surfaces.
         (2)   At least the first one inch of runoff from new impervious
surfaces shall be permanently removed from the runoff flow, i.e., it shall not
be released into the surface waters of this Commonwealth. Removal options
include reuse, evaporation, transpiration, and infiltration.
         (3)   Wherever possible, infiltration facilities should be designed to
accommodate infiltration of the entire permanently removed runoff; however, in
all cases at least the first 0.5 inch of the permanently removed runoff should
be infiltrated.
         (4)   This method is exempt from the requirements of Section
23-304, Rate Controls.
      C.   Before infiltration is proposed on a site, site conditions shall be
evaluated by a qualified design professional through subsurface investigation
and testing to determine if site conditions are suitable to support proposed
infiltration facilities to manage runoff. If it is determined that infiltration
is not feasible due to physical constraints of the site, or will adversely
impact the environment as demonstrated by the presence of acid mine drainage,
sinkhole formation or other serious environmental issues, then the above volume
controls must be achieved through surface BMP mitigation. Reference the BMP
Manual for alternative mitigation measures that do not require infiltration.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §303; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-304.   Rate Controls.
   1.   Areas not covered by a Stormwater Management District Map contained in
Appendix 23-F.l of the Chapter. Post-development discharge rates shall not
exceed the predevelopment discharge rates for the one through 100-year, 24-hour
storms. If it is shown that the peak rates of discharge indicated by the post-
development analysis are less than or equal to the peak rates of discharge
indicated by the predevelopment analysis for one through 100-year, 24-hour
storms, then the requirements of this Section have been met. Otherwise, the
applicant shall provide additional controls as necessary to satisfy the peak
rate of discharge requirement. The maps referenced in this section are on file
in the township offices and available for review.
   2.   Areas covered by a Stormwater Management District Map contained in
Appendix 23-F.1 of the Chapter. For the one through 100-year storms, the post-
development peak discharge rates will follow the applicable approved Stormwater
Management District Maps. For any areas not shown on the Stormwater Management
District Maps, the post-development discharge rates shall not exceed the
predevelopment discharge rates. The maps referenced in this section are on file
in the township offices and available for review.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §304; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-305. Riparian Buffers.
   1.   In order to protect and improve water quality, a riparian buffer
easement shall be created and recorded as part of any subdivision or land
development that encompasses a riparian buffer.
   2.   Except as required by Section
23-102, the riparian buffer easement shall be measured to be the greater of the
limit of the 100-year floodplain or a minimum of 35 feet from the top of the
streambank (on each side).
   3.   Minimum Management Requirements for Riparian Buffers.
      A.   Existing native vegetation shall be protected and maintained within
the riparian buffer easement.
      B.   Whenever practicable invasive vegetation shall be actively removed
and the riparian buffer easement shall be planted with native trees, shrubs and
other vegetation to create a diverse native plant community appropriate to the
intended ecological context of the site.
   4.   The riparian buffer easement shall be enforceable by the municipality
and shall be recorded in the appropriate County Recorder of Deeds Office, so
that it shall run with the land and shall limit the use of the property located
therein. The easement shall allow for the continued private ownership and shall
count toward the minimum lot area a required by zoning, unless otherwise
specified in the municipal Zoning Ordinance.
   5.   Any permitted use within the riparian buffer easement shall be
conducted in a manner that will maintain the extent of the existing 100-year
floodplain, improve or maintain the stream stability, and preserve and protect
the ecological function of the floodplain.
   6.   The following conditions shall apply when public and/or private
recreation trails are permitted within riparian buffers:
      A.   Trails shall be for non-motorized use only.
      B.   Trails shall be designed to have the least impact on native plant
species and other sensitive environmental features.
   7.   Septic drainfields and sewage disposal systems shall not be permitted
within the riparian buffer easement and shall comply with setback requirements
established under 25 Pa. Code Chapter 73.
(Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
Part 4
Stormwater Management (SWM) Site Plan Requirements
§ 23-401.   Plan Requirements.
   The following items shall be included in the SWM site plan:
      A.   Appropriate Sections from the Township's Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22] and other applicable local ordinances, shall be followed in
preparing the SWM site plans. In instances where the Township lacks subdivision
and land development regulations, the content of SWM site plans shall follow
the county's Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
      B.   The Township or county shall not approve any SWM site plan that is
deficient in meeting the requirements of this Chapter. At its sole discretion
and in accordance with this Part, when a SWM site plan is found to be
deficient, the Township may either disapprove the submission and require a
resubmission, or in the case of minor deficiencies, the Township may accept
submission of modifications.
      C.   Provisions for permanent access or maintenance easements for all
physical SWM BMPs, such as ponds and infiltration structures, as necessary to
implement the operation and maintenance (O&M) plan discussed in Paragraph E.,
Subparagraph (9) below.
      D.   The following signature block for the Township:
         “(Municipal official or designee), on this date (date of signature),
has reviewed and hereby certifies that the SWM site plan is in compliance with
the Municipal Ordinance No. 3-2022.”
      E.   The SWM site plan shall provide the following information:
         (1)   The overall stormwater management concept for the project.
         (2)   A determination of site conditions in accordance with the BMP
Manual. A detailed site evaluation shall be completed for projects proposed in
areas of carbonate geology or karst topography, mined areas and other
environmentally sensitive areas, such as brownfields; depending on site
conditions, more stringent standards than those in this Chapter may be imposed
at the discretion of the Township Engineer.
         (3)   Stormwater runoff design computations, and documentation as
specified in this Chapter, or as otherwise necessary to demonstrate that the
maximum practicable measures have been taken to meet the requirements of this
Chapter, including the recommendations and general requirements in §
23-301; computations are required for all proposed stormwater management
facilities.
         (4)   Expected project time schedule.
         (5)   A soil erosion and sediment control plan, where applicable, as
prepared for and submitted to the approval authority, and in conformance with
25 Pa. Code Chapter 102.
         (6)   The effect of the project (in terms of runoff volumes, water
quality and peak flows) on surrounding properties and aquatic features and on
any existing stormwater conveyance system that may be affected by the project.
         (7)   Plan and provide drawings of all SWM BMPs, including drainage
structures, pipes, open channels and swales.
         (8)   SWM site plan shall show the locations of existing and proposed
on-lot wastewater facilities and water supply wells.
         (9)   The SWM site plan shall include an O&M Plan for all existing and
proposed physical stormwater management facilities. This plan shall address
long-term ownership and responsibilities for O&M as well as schedules and costs
for O&M activities.
         (10)   The SWM site plan shall include the following additional
elements:
            (a)   Construction details of all proposed stormwater management
facilities.
            (b)   A stormwater facility design narrative.
            (c)   A signature block containing the name, address and phone
number of the individual responsible for the operation and maintenance plan.
            (d)   A drainage area map with time of concentration paths shown.
            (e)   Existing contour intervals of two feet.
            (f)   All existing features on the property and within 50 feet of
property.
            (g)   Floodplain and floodway limits.
            (h)   Proposed structures and proposed grades.
            (i)   Soil boundary lines and descriptions.
            (j)   Date of submission, north arrow, graphic scale, call before
you dig note and reference number, location map, name of development, name and
address of property owner and individual preparing the SWM site plan.
            (k)   Existing and proposed easements.
            (l)   Statement signed by landowner stating that they cannot alter
any stormwater management facility without prior permission of the Township.
         (11)   A justification must be included in the SWM Site Plan if BMPs
other than green infrastructure methods and LID practices are proposed to
achieve the volume, rate, and water quality controls under this Chapter.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §401; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-402.   Plan Submission.
   1.   Ten copies of the SWM site plan shall be submitted as follows:
      A.   Five copies to the Plains Township Planning Commission.
      B.   One copy to the Planning Commission Secretary (see Subsection 3.
below).
      C.   One copy to the Planning Commission Solicitor.
      D.   One copy to the Township Engineer (see Subsection 3. below).
      E.   One copy to the Plains Township Zoning Officer.
      F.   One copy to the Plains Township Sewer Authority.
   2.   Additional copies shall be submitted as requested by the Township or
DEP or as stated in the Plains Township Subdivision and Land Development
Ordinance [
Chapter 22].
   3.   Digital copies of the plan and supporting documents or calculations may
be submitted to the Planning Commission Secretary and Township Engineer in
Adobe Portable Document File (PDF) in lieu of paper copies to reduce the number
of required paper copies for submittal to eight.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §402; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-403.   Plan Review.
   1.   The SWM site plan shall be reviewed by a qualified professional for the
Township for consistency with the provisions of this Chapter. After review, the
qualified professional shall provide a written recommendation for the Township
to approve or disapprove the SWM site plan. If it is recommended to disapprove
the SWM site plan, the qualified professional shall state the reasons for the
disapproval in writing. The qualified professional also may recommend approval
of the SWM site plan with conditions and, if so, shall provide the acceptable
conditions for approval in writing. The SWM site plan review and
recommendations shall be completed within the time allowed by the
Municipalities Planning Code, 53 P.S. §§10101 et seq., for reviewing
subdivision plans.
   2.   The Township shall notify the applicant in writing within 45 days
whether the SWM site is approved or disapproved.
   3.   For any SWM site plan that proposes to use any BMPs other than green
infrastructure and LID practices to achieve the volume and rate controls
required under this Chapter, the Municipality will not approve the SWM site
plan unless it determines that green infrastructure and LID practices are not
practicable plan is approved or disapproved. If the SWM site plan involves a
subdivision and land development plan, the notification period is 90 days. If a
longer notification period is provided by other statute, regulation or
ordinance, the applicant will be so notified by the Township. If the Township
disapproves the SWM site plan, the Township shall cite the reasons for
disapproval in writing.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §403; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-404.   Modification of Plans.
   A modification to a submitted SWM site plan that involves a change in SWM
BMPs or techniques, or that involves the relocation or redesign of SWM BMPs, or
that is necessary because soil or other conditions are not as stated on the SWM
site plan as determined by the Township shall require a resubmission of the
modified SWM site plan in accordance with this Part.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §404; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-405.   Resubmission of Disapproved SWM Site Plans.
   A disapproved SWM site plan may be resubmitted, with the revisions
addressing the Township's concerns, to the Township in accordance with this
Part. The applicable review fee must accompany a resubmission of a disapproved
SWM site plan.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §405; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-406.   Authorization to Construct and Term of Validity.
   The Township's approval of an SWM site plan authorizes the regulated
activities contained in the SWM site plan for a maximum term of validity of
five years following the date of approval. The Township may specify a term of
validity shorter than five years in the approval for any specific SWM site
plan. Terms of validity shall commence on the date the Township signs the
approval for an SWM site plan. If an approved SWM site plan is not completed
according to §
23-407 within the term of validity, then the Township may consider the SWM site
plan disapproved and may revoke any and all permits. SWM site plans that are
considered disapproved by the Township shall be resubmitted in accordance with
§
23-405 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §406; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-407.   As-Built Plans, Completion Certificate and Final Inspection.
   1.   The developer shall be responsible for providing as-built plans of all
SWM BMPs included in the approved SWM site plan. The as-built plans and an
explanation of any discrepancies with the construction plans shall be submitted
to the Township.
   2.   The as-built submission shall include a certification of completion
signed by a qualified professional verifying that all permanent SWM BMPs have
been constructed according to the approved plans and specifications. The
latitude and longitude coordinates for all permanent SWM BMPs must also be
submitted, at the central location of the BMPs. If any licensed qualified
professionals contributed to the construction plans, then a licensed qualified
professional must sign the completion certificate.
   3.   After receipt of the completion certification by the Township, the
Township or official designee may conduct a final inspection.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §407; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
Part 5
Operation and Maintenance
§ 23-501.   Responsibilities of Developers and Landowners.
   1.   The Township shall make the final determination on the continuing
maintenance responsibilities prior to final approval of the SWM site plan. The
Township may require a dedication of such facilities as part of the
requirements for approval of the SWM site plan. Such a requirement is not an
indication that the Township will accept the facilities. The Township reserves
the right to accept or reject the ownership and operating responsibility for
any portion of the stormwater management controls. If the facility is rejected
by the Township, provisions shall be made to identify the legal owner.
   2.   Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plains Township Subdivision
and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22] to the contrary, three options exist for perpetual ownership and
responsibility of stormwater management facilities:
      A.   The developer retains ownership.
      B.   A homeowners association assumes ownership and responsibility,
including any management companies engaged by the developer and/or homeowners
association to handle the care and maintenance of the stormwater management
facilities.
      C.   The facility is dedicated to, and accepted by, the Township.
   3.   Facilities, areas or structures used as stormwater management BMPs
shall be enumerated as permanent real estate appurtenances and recorded as deed
restrictions or conservation easements that run with the land.
   4.   The O&M Plan shall be recorded as a restrictive deed covenant that runs
with the land.
   5.   The Township may take enforcement actions against an owner for any
failure to satisfy the provisions of this Part.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §501; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-502.   O&M Agreements.
   1.   Prior to final approval of the SWM site plan, the property owner shall
sign and record an Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Agreement (see Appendix A.l)
covering all stormwater control facilities which are to be privately owned.
      A.   The owner, successor and assigns shall maintain all facilities in
accordance with the approved maintenance schedule in the O&M agreement.
      B.   The owner shall convey to the Municipality conservation easements to
assure access for periodic inspections by the Municipality and maintenance, as
necessary.
      C.   The owner shall keep on file with the Municipality the name,
address, and telephone number of the person or company responsible for
maintenance activities; in the event of a change, new information shall be
submitted by the owner to the Municipality within ten (10) working days of the
change.
   2.   The owner is responsible for operation and maintenance of the SWM BMPs.
If the owner fails to adhere to the O&M agreement, the Township may perform the
services required and charge the owner appropriate fees. Nonpayment of fees may
result in a lien against the property.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §502; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
Part 6
Fees and Expenses
§ 23-601.   General.
   The Township may include all costs incurred in the review fee charged to an
applicant. The review fee may include, but not be limited to, costs for the
following:
      A.   Administrative/clerical processing.
      B.   Review of the SWM site plan.
      C.   Attendance at meetings.
      D.   Inspections.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §601; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
Part 7
Prohibitions
§ 23-701.   Prohibited Discharges and Connections.
   1.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, that
allows any non-stormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater and
wash water to enter a regulated small MS4 or the waters of this Commonwealth is
prohibited.
   2.   No person shall allow, or cause to allow, discharges into a regulated
small MS4 or surface waters of this Commonwealth which are not composed
entirely of stormwater, except:
      (A)   As provided in Subsection 3. below; and
      (B)   Discharges allowed under a state or federal permit.
   3.   The following discharges are authorized unless they are determined to
be significant contributors to pollution to the waters of this Commonwealth:
      A.   Discharges from firefighting.
      B.   Discharges from potable water sources including water line flushing
and fire hydrant flushing, if such discharges do not contain detectable
concentrations of Total Residual Chlorine (TRC).
      C.   Non-contaminated irrigation water, water from lawn maintenance,
landscape drainage and flows from riparian habitats and wetlands.
      D.   Diverted stream flows and springs.
      E.   Non-contaminated pumped ground water and water from foundation and
footing drains and crawl space pumps.
      F.   Non-contaminated HVAC condensation and water from geothermal
systems.
      G.   Residential (i.e., not commercial) vehicle wash water where cleaning
agents are not utilized.
      H.   Non-contaminated hydrostatic test water discharges, if such
discharges do not contain detectable concentrations of TRC.
   4.   In the event that the Township or DEP determines that any of the
discharges identified in Subsection 3. above significantly contribute to
pollution of the waters of this Commonwealth, the Township or DEP will notify
the responsible person(s) to cease the discharge.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §701; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-702.   Roof Drains.
   Roof drains and sump pumps shall discharge to infiltration or vegetative
BMPs and to the maximum extent practicable satisfy the criteria for DIAs
consistent with
Appendix 23-C.l. of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §702 ; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-703.   Alteration of SWM BMPs.
   No person shall modify, remove, fill, landscape or alter any SWM BMPs,
facilities, areas or structures without the written approval of the Chapter.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §703; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
Part 8
Enforcement and Penalties
§ 23-801.   Right-of-Entry.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Township may enter at
reasonable times upon any property within the Township to inspect the condition
of the stormwater structures and facilities in regard to any aspect regulated
by this Chapter.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §801; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-802.   Inspection.
   1.   The landowner or the owner's designee (including the Municipality for
dedicated and owned facilities) shall inspect SWM BMPs, facilities and/or
structures installed under this Ordinance according to the following
frequencies, at a minimum, to ensure the BMPs, facilities and/or structures
continue to function as intended:
      A.   Annually for the first 5 years.
      B.   Once every 3 years thereafter.
      C.   During or immediately after the cessation of a 10-year or greater
storm.
   2.   Inspections should be conducted during or immediately following
precipitation events. A written inspection report shall be created to document
each inspection. The inspection report shall contain the date and time of the
inspection, the individual(s) who completed the inspection, the location of the
BMP, facility or structure inspected, observations on performance, and
recommendations for improving performance, if applicable. Inspection reports
shall be submitted to the Municipality within 30 days following completion of
the inspection.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §802; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-803.   Enforcement.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for a person to undertake any regulated activity
except as provided in an approved SWM site plan, unless specifically exempted
in §
23-302 of this Chapter.
   2.   It shall be unlawful to violate §
23-703 of this Chapter.
   3.   Inspections regarding compliance with the SWM site plan are a
responsibility of the Township.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §803; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-804.   Penalties.
   1.   Any approval or permit issued by the Municipality pursuant to this
Chapter may be suspended or revoked for:
      A.   Non-compliance with or failure to implement any provision of the
approved SWM site plan or O&M agreement.
      B.   A violation of any provision of this Chapter or any other applicable
law, ordinance, rule, or regulation relating to the regulated activity.
      C.   The creation of any condition or the commission of any act during
the regulated activity which constitutes or creates a hazard, nuisance,
pollution, or endangers the life or property of others.
   2.   A suspended approval may be reinstated by the Municipality when:
      A.   The Municipality has inspected and approved the collections to the
violations that caused the suspension.
      B.   The Municipality is satisfied that the violation has been corrected.
   3.   An approval that has been revoked by the Municipality cannot be
reinstated. The applicant may apply for a new approval under the provisions of
this Chapter.
   4.   If a violation causes no immediate danger to life, public health, or
property, at its sole discretion, the Municipality may provide a limited time
period for the owner to correct the violation. In these cases, the Municipality
will provide the owner, or the owner's designee, with a written notice of the
violation and the time period allowed for the owner to correct the violation.
If the owner does not correct the violation within the allowed time period, the
municipality may revoke or suspend any, or all, applicable approvals and
permits pertaining to any provision of this Chapter.
(Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
§ 23-805.   Penalties.
   1.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this
Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   2.   In addition, the Township may institute injunctive, mandamus or any
other appropriate action or proceeding at law or in equity for the enforcement
of this Chapter. Any court of competent jurisdiction shall have the right to
issue restraining orders, temporary or permanent injunctions, mandamus or other
appropriate forms of remedy or relief.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §804; as amended by A.O.; and as amended by Ord. 3-
2022, 9/22/2022)
§23-806.   Appeals.
   1.   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Township, its
representative or designee, relevant to the provisions of this Chapter, may
appeal to the county court of common pleas in the county where the activity has
taken place within 30 days of the Township's decision.
   2.   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Municipality, relevant to
the provisions of this Chapter, may appeal to the County Court of Common Pleas
in the county where the activity has taken place within 30 days of the
Municipality's decision
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §805; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
Part 9
References
§ 23-901.   References.
   As referenced throughout this Chapter:
   1   Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. No. 363-0300-002
(December 2006), as amended and updated. Pennsylvania Stormwater Best
Management Practices Manual. Harrisburg, PA.
   2   Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. No. 363-2134-008
(April 15, 2000), as amended and updated. Erosion and Sediment Pollution
Control Program Manual, Harrisburg, PA.
   3   U.S. Department of Agriculture, National Resources Conservation Service
(NRCS). National Engineering Handbook. Part 630: Hydrology, 1969-2001.
Originally published as the National Engineering Handbook, §4: Hydrology.
Available from the NRCS online at: http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/.
   4   U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service.
1986. Technical Release 55: Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds, Second
Edition. Washington, D.C.
   5   U.S. Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, National Weather Service, Hydrometeorological Design Studies
Center. 2004-2006. Precipitation-Frequency Atlas of the United States, Atlas
14, Volume 2, Version 3.0, Silver Spring, Maryland. Internet address: http://
hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/.
   6   Stormwater Management and Maintenance Agreement, Angelo C. Terrana, Jr.,
Esquire, Terrana Law, P.C., 400 Third Avenue, Suite 117, Kingston, PA 18704.
   7   Easement Agreement, Angelo C. Terrana, Jr., Esquire, Terrana Law, P.C.,
400 Third Avenue, Suite 117, Kingston, PA 18704.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, §901; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
APPENDIX A.1
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT
   THIS AGREEMENT is entered into and made this ________ day of ______, 20  ,
by and between ______________, a Pennsylvania ________________, having its
principal office located in _____________, ______________, hereinafter referred
to as “OWNER” AND THE TOWNSHIP OF PLAINS, a Municipal Subdivision of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, having its municipal office located in Plains
Township, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, hereinafter referred to as “TOWNSHIP”.
RECITALS
   WHEREAS, the Owner represents and warrants that it owns and has fee simple,
absolute title to all that certain parcel of real estate located in the
Township of Plains, County of Luzerne and Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, more
particularly described in Luzerne County Record Book ________, at page _____. A
copy of which is hereto attached and marked Exhibit “A”;
   WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms and requirements of the Plains Township
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance, as amended, hereinafter referred to
as the “SALDO”, prior to the granting of any final approval of any subdivision
or land development which requires the installation of certain stormwater
management controls as prescribed by the SALDO, an agreement of this nature
must be entered into by any such Owner and the Township and recorded in the
Office of the Recorder of Deeds of and for Luzerne County;
   WHEREAS, the Owner is desirous to create this Agreement in order to comply
with the terms of the SALDO.
   WITNESSETH
   NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of Ten dollars ($10.00), other valuable
consideration and mutual promises contained herein, receipt of which is hereby
acknowledged, the parties agreeing to be legally bound hereby agree as follows:
   1.   The Owner agrees to install the stormwater management controls and
improvements as outlined and described in its Application for Major Land
Development.
   2.   The Owner shall bear the exclusive responsibility for any and all
damages to the adjoining property owners’ lands during the installation of the
items contemplated herein.
   3.   The Owner, its transferees, successors and assigns, shall maintain the
stormwater management facilities in good working condition, acceptable to the
Township so that they are performing their designed functions.
   4.   The Township, by and through its Consulting Engineer, shall inspect the
installed stormwater measures no less than ____ a year for a period of seven
(7) years from the date of this Agreement. Provided, however, that the
Consulting Engineer shall be required to provide the Developer with a ten (10)
day notice prior to the planned inspection. Upon completion of the inspection,
the Consulting Engineer shall be required to supply the Developer with a copy
of the inspection report. At time of execution, the Owner shall be required to
deposit with the Township a sum certain as designated by the Township for the
cost of the inspections to be performed by the Township’s Consulting Engineer
over the seven (7) year period. The Township shall be required to hold these
funds in escrow and shall be disbursed to the Consulting Engineer upon receipt
of a billing statement by the Consulting Engineer for the cost of each
inspection.
   5.   In the event that any improvements that were required to be constructed
have not been installed as provided for by this Agreement, the SALDO or in
accordance with approved final Land Development Plan or in the event that any
inspection performed by the Township’s Consulting Engineer as contemplated
herein revealed any defect or defects to the stormwater management controls,
the Township or its Planning Commission may institute appropriate legal or
equitable action to cover the cost necessary to complete the remainder of the
improvements. All of the proceeds, whether resulting from any legal or
equitable action against the Owner, shall be used solely for the installation
of the improvements required herein, the repairing, maintaining or replacing
any and all defective stormwater management controls, and not for any other
municipal purpose. Prior to the Township being able to enforce any of its
rights and remedies contained herein, the Owner shall be entitled to a sixty
(60) day notice to cure. The Notice shall specifically address the items which
the Owner is in default or breach of and shall be sent by registered mail,
return receipt requested to the Owner, at ____________ with a copy to the
Engineer of the Owner, at ____________.
   6.   The Owner grants the Township, its Consulting Engineer, the right of
access to its lands.
   7.   The Owner shall indemnify and hold the Township, its officers,
employees, and agents harmless for any and all claims, suits, injuries,
including death, judgments and awards that arise as a result of the Township,
its Consulting Engineer, inspecting the stormwater management controls. This
Indemnification shall include but not be limited to actual damages, attorney’s
fees and court costs. Promptly after any service of process by any third person
in any litigation in respect of which indemnity may be sought from Owner, the
Township shall notify the Owner of the commencement of such litigation, and the
Owner shall be entitled to assume the defense thereof at its expense with
counsel of its own choosing.
   8.   The Owner acknowledges and agrees to execute an Easement Agreement
between the Owner and the Township granting to the Township a Perpetual
Easement for the purposes of allowing the Township the right to inspect,
operate, maintain, repair and otherwise improve the stormwater management
controls and devices which the Owner shall be installing as part of the planned
infrastructure improvements required by the Township in the event that the
Owner fails to do such maintenance and the like. The Owner shall cause to have
recorded the Easement Agreement, which further illustrates and elaborates the
parties’ respective rights and obligations.
   9.   This Agreement shall be binding and inure to the benefit of all the
parties hereto, their respective personal representatives, heirs, successors
and assigns.
   10.   This Agreement shall be construed under and in accordance with the
laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and sets forth the entire
understanding of the parties hereto and may not be changed except in writing
and signed by all parties hereto.
   11.   This Agreement may be simultaneously executed in two or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which
together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
   12.   This Agreement shall be filed in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds
of Luzerne County or in any other municipal, county or state office by either
party to this Agreement. The Owner shall bear any filing fees.
   13.   The stormwater management systems referenced in the final land
development plan shall be maintained in perpetuity by the Owner and/or whom
title to such systems shall be conveyed and transferred. The stormwater
management systems will be completed and conform with the construction and
improvement plans under the direction of the Township Engineer. The primary
responsibility for the maintenance and servicing of the same shall be that of
the Owner and/or Owner’s successor(s) in title.
   14.   Nothing contained herein shall operate in any fashion or be
constructed to impose upon Township any obligation of maintenance/ correction/
replacement and/or repair of any of the aforesaid stormwater management
systems.
   15.   Confession of Judgment. IN ORDER TO EXPEDITE THE TOWNSHIP’S COLLECTION
OF ANY FUNDS BEING DUE AND OWING HEREUNDER, THE OWNER OR ITS SUCCESSOR IN TITLE
SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE APPOINTED A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE TOWNSHIP THE
ATTORNEY-IN-FACT FOR SUCH DEVELOPER OR ITS SUCCESSOR IN TITLE TO CONFESS
JUDGMENT AGAINST SUCH DEVELOPER OR ITS SUCCESSOR IN TITLE IN ANY COURT OF
COMPETENT JURISDICTION IN PENNSYLVANIA, FOR ANY SUCH FUNDS UNPAID TO THE
TOWNSHIP. THE SAME SHALL BE IRREVOCABLE; AND UPON ACCOMPANIED BY A VERIFIED
AFFIDAVIT, SHALL BE A SUFFICIENT WARRANT TO FILE SUCH CONFESSION OF JUDGMENT.
THE AUTHORITY GRANTED HEREIN TO CONFESS JUDGMENT SHALL NOT BE EXHAUSTED BY ANY
EXERCISE THEREOF BUT SHALL CONTINUE FROM TIME TO TIME AND AT ALL TIMES.
   Initials of Owner’s representative: ____________________________
   16.   Authority to bind. The parties signing on behalf of the Owner hereby
represents and warrants that he has the authority to bind the Owner to the
obligations and performances set forth herein.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have set their hands and seals on the day
and year first written above.
ATTEST:                           NAME OF OWNER
______________________                  ______________________
Witness                           (Name)
ATTEST:                           BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
OF                                  THE TOWNSHIP OF PLAINS
______________________                  ______________________
Witness                           Chairman
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania            :
                                 :   ss.
County of Luzerne                     :
   ON THIS, the___________________ day of ___________________, 20_____, before
me the undersigned officer, personally appeared ___________________, known to
me (or satisfactorily proven) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the
within instrument and acknowledged that he executed the same for the purpose
therein contained.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set my hand and notarial seal.
                                 ________________________________
                                 Notary Public
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania            :
                                 :   ss.
County of Luzerne                     :
   ON THIS, the ___________________ day of ___________________, 20_____, before
me the undersigned officer, personally appeared ___________________, known to
me, who acknowledged himself to be the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners
of the Township of Plains, and that he executed the foregoing instrument, under
a resolution adopted in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, and that he signed his name hereto by like resolution.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set my hand and notarial seal.
                                 ________________________________
                                 Notary Public
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, App. A.1; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
APPENDIX A.2
   EASEMENT AGREEMENT
   THIS AGREEMENT is made this _______________ day of _______________, 20___,
by and between _________________, a duly filed and organized in accordance with
the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, hereinafter referred to as
“GRANTOR” AND TOWNSHIP OF PLAINS, a municipal entity, operating and governing
under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, hereinafter referred to as
“GRANTEE”.
RECITALS
   WHEREAS, the Grantor, its transferees, successors and assigns, represent and
warrant that the Grantor own and have fee simple title to all that certain
parcel of real estate located in the Township of Plains, County of Luzerne and
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, more fully shown in Luzerne County Record Book
_______, at page ___; and
   WHEREAS, the Grantor had planned to erect a ____________ in accordance with
laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the Ordinances and Codes of the
Grantee. The Subdivision/Land Development contemplated by the Grantor is known
as “___________________”; and
   WHEREAS, as part of the improvements planned to be constructed at the
subject lands, the Grantor shall erect storm detention basin(s) on the plot of
lots in order to restrict and manage the stormwater which will drain from the
lands of the Grantor onto public roadways and/or adjacent properties; and
   WHEREAS, the Grantee had requested and the Grantor had consented to grant to
the Grantee a perpetual easement in order for the Grantee to come onto the
lands of the Grantor from time to time for purposes of inspecting, maintaining
and repairing the storm detention basin(s) and related facilities. Moreover,
the legal description denoting the location of the Easement Area is attached
hereto, made a part hereof and marked Exhibit “A”; and
   WHEREAS, the parties hereto are desirous of entering into this Agreement in
order to memorialize the terms and conditions for the granting of the Easement
to the Grantee.
WITNESSETH
   NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of One dollar ($1.00), other valuable
consideration and mutual promises contained herein, receipt of which is hereby
acknowledged, the parties agreeing to be legally bound hereby agree as follows:
   1.   The Grantor, its transferees, successors and assigns, do hereby grant
the right of ingress, egress and regress to Grantee, its agents, employees,
successors and assigns, over the Easement Area as denoted on Subdivision/Land
Development Map of ___________, which shall be recorded in the Office of the
Recorder of and for Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, in order to inspect,
maintain, repair and otherwise improve the detention basin(s) and related
facilities erected in accordance with the standards and regulations established
by the Grantee.
   2.   In addition to those rights granted above, the following rights are
also granted: to allow any other person or company the ability to access the
storm detention basin(s) and related facilities which shall be installed and
constructed; and to clear the land and keep the same clear of all trees,
undergrowth or other obstructions within the Easement Area.
   3.   The Grantor, its transferees, successors and assigns reserve the right
and privilege to use the above described Easement Area for any purpose or
purposes except as herein granted or as might interfere with the Grantee’s,
successors’ and assigns’ use or occupation of the Easement Area, or as might
cause a hazardous condition; and provided further by way of illustration and
not of limitation to the grant herein made, no building, structure or
obstruction shall be located or constructed on said Easement Area, by the
Grantor, its transferees, successors and assigns unless approved in writing by
the Grantee, its successors and assigns.
   4.   Except as herein granted, the Grantor, his heirs, personal
representatives, transferees, successors and assigns, shall continue to have
the full and complete use and enjoyment of his property.
   5.   The Grantor, its transferees, successors and assigns, shall bear full
responsibility for the use and enjoyment of the Easement Area and shall hold
the Grantee, its successors and assigns, harmless from any and all claims or
damages to person or premises resulting from the Grantees, its successors and
assigns, use, and possession of the Easement Area. Furthermore, the Grantors,
its transferees, successors and assigns, shall bear all costs necessary to
maintain the Easement Area in the same or similar condition that it was in at
the time that the installation and/or maintenance shall be done in the Easement
Area.
   6.   Should the Grantor convey its property in multiple sections to any
third parties, each lot owner shall be obligated to contribute on a
proportional basis each lot owner’s share of the costs required to inspect,
operate, maintain, repair or otherwise improve the storm detention basin(s)
area. Any costs incurred by the Grantee in connection with the grant of
easement by the Grantor herein shall be apportioned accordingly. Any payments
due to the Grantee hereunder shall be paid in full no later than thirty (30)
days from the date which the Grantee provides notice to each lot owner that
such a payment is due and owing. In the event that any such lot owner does not
tender payment to the Grantee within the specified time, the Grantee shall be
entitled to file a lien attaching against the lot owner’s property who either
failed to make the requested payment or refused to make the required payment.
   7.   This Agreement shall run with the land and shall inure not only to the
benefit of the parties hereto, but also the respective successors, and assigns
of the parties hereto.
   8.   This Agreement shall be caused to be recorded in the Office of the
Recorder of and for Luzerne County and shall be governed by the laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The Grantor shall be responsible for tendering
the moneys necessary to have this Agreement recorded.
   9.   This Agreement may not be altered, modified or terminated without the
complete written agreement of all the parties hereto, their transferees,
successors and assigns and only may be accomplished hereunder by executing and
delivering to any party hereto, their respective transferees, successors and
assigns, an instrument which shall be in recordable form, and upon the
recording of the same, this Agreement shall be altered, modified or terminated
whatever the case may be.
   10.   The Grantee shall be under no obligation to maintain, improve, or
otherwise provide labor, materials or other services or work in connection with
the operation, maintenance, repair, or improvement of the Premises included
herein. It is the understanding and agreement between the Grantor herein and
the Grantee herein that the purpose of this Easement Agreement is to secure to
the Grantee the right to access the lands included (as the same has been
previously been set forth) in case of emergency or necessity and to provide the
Grantee with the ability to perform the above-stated activities should there be
a failure or default in performing the same on the part of the Grantor, or his
personal representatives, heirs, successors and assigns, and to provide to the
Grantee a method of obtaining reimbursement for the performance of such
activities.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have set their hands and seals on the day
and year first written above.
ATTEST:                           NAME OF GRANTOR
______________________                  ______________________
Witness                           (Name)
                                 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
ATTEST:                           THE TOWNSHIP OF PLAINS
______________________                  ______________________
Witness                           Chairman
                                 Commonwealth of Pennsylvania             :
                                 :   ss.
County of Luzerne                     :
   On this, the___________________ day of ___________________, 20_____, before
me the undersigned officer, personally appeared ___________________,
                         , known to me (or satisfactorily proven) to be the
person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged that
he executed the same for the purpose therein contained.
   In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and notarial seal.
                                 ________________________________
                                       Notary Public
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
                                    ss.
County of Luzerne
   On this, the ___________________ day of ___________________, 20_____, before
me the undersigned officer, personally appeared ___________________, known to
me, who acknowledged himself to be the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners
of the Township of Plains, and that he executed the foregoing instrument, under
a resolution adopted in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, and that he signed his name hereto by like resolution.
   In Witness Whereof, I hereunto set my hand and notarial seal.
                                 ________________________________
                                       Notary Public
 
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, App. A.2; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
APPENDIX B
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT APPLICATION
   Anyone performing a regulated activity must complete the accompanying
Stormwater Management Permit Application, and submit to the Municipality. A
regulated activity is defined by this Chapter as:
   Regulated Activity - Any earth disturbance activities or any activities that
involve the alteration or development of land in a manner that may affect
stormwater runoff.
   This includes but is not limited to: the clearing of wooded areas, grading
and excavating, placement of pavement (driveways, parking areas, roads),
construction of buildings and other structures (homes, sheds, garages,
commercial and industrial buildings), and other activities which alter the way
stormwater runs off.
   Impervious Surface (Impervious Area) - A surface that prevents the
infiltration of water into the ground. Impervious surfaces include, but are not
limited to, streets, sidewalks, pavements, parking lots, driveways, roofs,
stone patios. See definition of “Gravel (Crushed Stone)” for when gravel
classifies as impervious area.
   Gravel (Crushed Stone) - Considered to be impervious when the intended use
of the stone is for transportation purposes, parking areas, construction areas,
trails, or if the gravel is compacted at any time during or after its
placement; landscaping stone is not considered as impervious area.
   Depending on the amount of impervious area placed and the amount of earth
disturbance to the project site, this Chapter requires different levels of
stormwater management, and correspondingly different levels of design and
review.
   Level 1: Proposed impervious area is less than 1,000 sq. ft. and total earth
disturbance is less than 5,000 sq. ft.
   Stormwater Management Controls: Ensure that adverse downstream impacts do
not occur due to redirecting stormwater flows towards nearby structures.
   Submission: Submit the Stormwater Management Permit Application and Project
Sketch; the easiest mechanism is to include the application with Building
Permits.
   Review: Reviewing the application will not likely require a qualified
professional.
   Level 2: Proposed impervious area is between 1,000 sq. ft. and 5,000 sq. ft.
or total earth disturbance is between 5,000 sq. ft. and 10,000 sq. ft.
   Stormwater Management Controls: Utilize Disconnected Impervious Area (DIA)
for stormwater controls as outlined in this
Chapter 23,
Appendix C.1.; if DIA cannot be achieved, utilize stormwater management
controls for small projects as outlined in Ordinance
Appendix E.
   Submission: Submit the Stormwater Management Permit Application and
computations for DIA; the worksheet in this
Chapter 23,
Appendix C.1 may be used and submitted as is, or may be modified as the
Municipality sees fit. If DIA cannot be achieved, submit computations for
Stormwater Management for Small Projects; the worksheet in this
Chapter 23,
Appendix E may be used and submitted as is, or may be modified as the
Municipality sees fit; the easiest mechanism is to include the application with
Building Permits.
   Review: Reviewing the application and computations may require a qualified
professional if the person responsible for issuing Building Permits is not
comfortable with performing the review.
   Level 3: Proposed impervious area is between 5,000 sq. ft. and 10,000 sq.
ft. or total earth disturbance is between 10,000 sq. ft. and 20,000 sq. ft.
   Stormwater Management Controls: Capture and permanently remove the first 2
inches of runoff over all proposed impervious areas; infiltrate at least the
first 0.5 inches.
   Submission: Submit the Stormwater Management Permit Application and
computations for permanently removing the first 2 inches of runoff over all
proposed impervious areas; the worksheet in this
Chapter 23,
Appendix D may be used and submitted as is, or may be modified as the
Municipality sees fit.
   Review: Reviewing the application and computations will most likely require
a qualified professional.
   Level 4: Proposed impervious area is greater than 10,000 sq. ft. or total
earth disturbance is greater than 20,000 sq. ft.
   Stormwater Management Controls: All requirements of this Chapter are
applicable, including water quality and volume controls as found in §
23-303 and peak rate controls as found in §
23-304.
   Submission: Submit the Stormwater Management Permit Application and
Stormwater
Management (SWM) Site Plan as in Part IV of this Chapter.
   Review: Reviewing the application and SWM Site Plan requires a qualified
professional.
   The following the Stormwater Management Permit Application and accompanying
sketch sheet are examples of common smaller projects which do not require the
review by a qualified professional (review by a qualified professional is
optional). An Alternative Stormwater Management Permit Application is also
provided following the examples. Both forms may be modified by the Municipality
before one is selected.
 
All requirements of the Ordinance have been met.
 
Applicant Signature: ____________________________   Date: ____________________
 
 
FOR REVIEWER ONLY
 
This stormwater management permit application has been   APPROVED   DENIED (circle
one)
 
Reviewed by (print): ____________________________    Reason for Denial:
___________________
 
Signature: ______________________________________   Date: _____________________
 
PROJECT SKETCH
 
- Show direction of proposed stormwater discharges
- Show all structures within 50 feet of site
- If storm sewers are present, show approximate location of inlet
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT APPLICATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2155.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2157.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2159.png]
EXAMPLE 2 PROJECT SKETCH - Homeowner opted to utilize the worksheet provided in
Appendix C.1 to show stormwater management for DIA.
Applicant
Address:
Joe          Brief Description of Project: Construction of 2,000 sq. ft. (40
Homeowner    ft. x 50 ft.) single-family home with 500 sq. ft. driveway (10 ft.
123 Site     x 50 ft.) and 800 sq. ft. stone patio (20 ft. x 40 ft.). The back
Street       half of the house discharges to rainspouts underground.
Anytown, PA
12345
Nearest      No more than 1,000 sq. ft. can discharge to one point on the
waterbody:   surface.
Tributary to Number of surface discharge points required: 3
Mill Creek
Total        Discharge  Discharge Point 2:  Discharge   Discharge  Discharge
Proposed     Point 1:                       Point 3:    Point 4:   Point 5:
Impervious   Front of   Driveway                                   
Area (A):    Home                            Patio       N/A        N/A
3,300 sq.
ft.          Area:
Total Earth  1,000 sq.  Area:                Area:       Area:      Area:
Disturbance: ft.        500 sq. ft.          800 sq. ft. N/A        N/A
6,000 sq.
ft.
Are          Impervious Impervious Path      Impervious  Impervious Impervious
rainspouts   Path       Length:              Path        Path       Path
discharged   Length:    10ft.                Length:     Length:    Length:
underground? 20 ft.                          20 ft.      N/A        N/A
(Y/N)
Yes
If yes,      Pervious   Pervious Path        Pervious    Pervious   Pervious
contributing Path       Length:              Path        Path       Path
impervious   Length:    50 ft.               Length:     Length:    Length:
area (B):    30 ft.                          40 ft.      N/A        N/A
1,000 sq.
ft.
Total
Impervious
Area         Pervious                        Pervious    Pervious   Pervious
Discharged   Path Slope Pervious Path Slope  Path Slope  Path Slope Path Slope
on Surface   <10%? (Y/  <10%? (Y/N)          <10%? (Y/N) < 10%? (Y/ < 10%? (Y/
(A)-(B):     N)                                        N)         N)
3,300 -                Yes                  Yes                    
1,000 =      Yes                                         N/A        N/A
2,300 sq.
ft.
HSG Soil Group from
Appendix F.2 Hydrologic Soils Group Map (Cannot be “D” Soils): HSG “C”
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2161.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2163.png]
EXAMPLE 3 PROJECT SKETCH - Homeowner opted to utilize the worksheet provided in
Appendix C.1 to show stormwater management for DIA.
Applicant
Address:
Joe          Brief Description of Project: Construction of 2,000 sq. ft. (40
Homeowner    ft. x 50 ft.) single-family home with 500 sq. ft. driveway (10 ft.
123 Site     x 50 ft.) and 800 sq. ft. stone patio (20 ft. x 40 ft.). The back
Street       half of the house discharges to rainspouts underground.
Anytown, PA
12345
Nearest      No more than 1,000 sq. ft. can discharge to one point on the
waterbody:   surface.
Tributary to Number of surface discharge points required: 3
Mill Creek
Total        Discharge  Discharge Point 2:  Discharge   Discharge  Discharge
Proposed     Point 1:                       Point 3:    Point 4:   Point 5:
Impervious   Front of   Driveway                                   
Area (A):    Home                            Patio       N/A        N/A
3,300 sq.
ft.          Area:
Total Earth  1,000 sq.  Area:                Area:       Area:      Area:
Disturbance: ft.        500 sq. ft.          800 sq. ft. N/A        N/A
6,000 sq.
ft.
Are          Impervious Impervious Path      Impervious  Impervious Impervious
rainspouts   Path       Length:              Path        Path       Path
discharged   Length:    50ft.                Length:     Length:    Length:
underground? 20 ft.                          20 ft.      N/A        N/A
(Y/N)
Yes
If yes,      Pervious   Pervious Path        Pervious    Pervious   Pervious
contributing Path       Length:              Path        Path       Path
impervious   Length:    N/A                  Length:     Length:    Length:
area (B):    N/A                             40 ft.      N/A        N/A
1,000 sq.
ft.
Total
Impervious
Area         Pervious                        Pervious    Pervious   Pervious
Discharged   Path Slope Pervious Path Slope  Path Slope  Path Slope Path Slope
on Surface   <10%? (Y/  <10%? (Y/N)          <10%? (Y/N) < 10%? (Y/ < 10%? (Y/
(A)-(B):     N)                                        N)         N)
3,300 -                N/A                  Yes                    
1,000 =      N/A                                         N/A        N/A
2,300 sq.
ft.
HSG Soil Group from
Appendix F.2 Hydrologic Soils Group Map (Cannot be “D” Soils): HSG “C”
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2165.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2167.png]
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, App. B; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
APPENDIX C.1
   DISCONNECTED IMPERVIOUS AREA (DIA) AND WORKSHEET
   When a regulated activity creates impervious areas between 1,000 sq. ft. and
5,000 sq. ft., or total earth disturbance between 5,000 and 10,000 sq. ft., the
stormwater management requirements follow
Appendix C.1 - Disconnected Impervious Areas (DIAs), of this Chapter. If site
conditions prevent the requirements of
Appendix C.1 from being met, then the first 1 inch of runoff shall be captured
and controlled in a manner consistent with
Appendix E - Stormwater Management for Small Projects, of this Chapter.
   When rooftop or pavement runoff is directed to a pervious area that allows
for infiltration, filtration, and increased time of concentration, the
contributing rooftop or pavement area may qualify as a Disconnected Impervious
Area (DIA). A rooftop or pavement area is considered to be a DIA if it meets
the requirements listed below:
   •   The soil, in proximity of the discharge area, is not designated as
hydrologic soil group “D” or equivalent (see
Appendix F.2. Hydrologic Soil Group Map);
   •   The overland flow path (pervious area serving as BMP) from discharge
area has a positive slope of ten percent or less;
   •   The length of overland flow path (pervious area serving as BMP) is
greater than or equal to the contributing rooftop or pavement length;
   •   The length of overland flow path (pervious area serving as BMP) is
greater than 25 feet.
   If the discharge is concentrated at one or more discrete points, no more
than 1,000 square feet of impervious area may discharge to any one point. In
addition, a gravel strip or other spreading device is required for concentrated
discharges. For non-concentrated discharges along the edge of the pavement,
this requirement is waived; however, there must be a provision for the
establishment of vegetation along the pavement edge and temporary stabilization
of the area until vegetation becomes stabilized.
   If rainspouts are discharged underground to provide infiltration, the
portion of the impervious area draining to those rainspouts is waived from the
DIA discharge requirements. Rainspouts discharged underground which are
directly connected to a storm sewer system are not waived from the DIA
requirements.
Computations for DIA as a BMP must be submitted to the municipality. This
worksheet is provided as an example, or may be used for the computations.
Applicant    Brief Description of Project:
Address:
Nearest      No more than 1,000 sq. ft. can discharge to one point on the
waterbody:   surface.
             Number of discharge points required:
Total        Discharge    Discharge
Proposed     Point 1      Point 2      Discharge    Discharge     Discharge
Impervious                           Point 3      Point 4       Point 5
Area (A):
Total Earth  Area:        Area:        Area:        Area:         Area:
Disturbance:
Are
rainspouts   Impervious   Impervious   Impervious   Impervious    Impervious
discharged   Path Length: Path Length: Path Length: Path Length:  Path Length:
underground?
(Y/N)
If yes,
contributing Pervious     Pervious     Pervious     Pervious Path Pervious Path
impervious   Path Length: Path Length: Path Length: Length:       Length:
area (B):
Total
Impervious   Pervious     Pervious     Pervious     Pervious Path Pervious Path
Area         Path Slope   Path Slope   Path Slope   Slope <10%?   Slope <10%?
Discharged   <10%? (Y/N)  <10%? (Y/N)  <10%? (Y/N)  (Y/N)         (Y/N)
on Surface    
(A)-(B):
HSG Soil Group from
Appendix F.2 Hydrologic Soils Group Map (Cannot be “D” Soils):
Project                                                        
sketch:
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
 
Example: Joe Homeowner would like to build a single-family home, with a
driveway and backyard stone patio. The home is 2,000 sq. ft., the stone patio
is 800 sq. ft., and the asphalt driveway is 500 square feet.
Applicant
Address:     Brief Description of Project:
Joe          Construction of 2,000 sq. ft. (40 ft. x 50 ft.) single-family home
Homeowner    with 500 sq. ft. driveway (10 ft. x 50 ft.) and 800 sq. ft. stone
123 Site     patio (20 ft. x 40 ft.). The back half of the house discharges to
Street       rainspouts underground.
Anytown, PA
12345
Nearest      No more than 1,000 sq. ft. can discharge to one point on the
waterbody:   surface.
Tributary to Number of discharge points required: 3
Mill Creek
Total        Discharge    Discharge    Discharge    Discharge     Discharge
Proposed     Point 1      Point 2      Point 3      Point 4       Point 5
Impervious   Front of     Driveway     Patio        N/A           N/A
Area (A):    Home          
3,300 sq.
ft.          Area:
Total Earth  1,000 sq.    Area:        Area:        Area:         Area:
Disturbance: ft.          500 sq. ft.  800 sq. ft.  N/A           N/A
6,000 sq.
ft.
Are          Impervious   Impervious   Impervious   Impervious    Impervious
rainspouts   Path Length: Path Length: Path Length: Path Length:  Path Length:
discharged   20 ft.       10 ft.       20 ft.       N/A           N/A
underground?
(Y/N)
Yes
If yes,      Pervious     Pervious     Pervious     Pervious Path Pervious Path
contributing Path Length: Path Length: Path Length: Length:       Length:
impervious   30 ft.       50 ft.       40 ft.       N/A           N/A
area (B):
1,000 sq.
ft.
Total
Impervious
Area
Discharged   Pervious     Pervious     Pervious     Pervious Path Pervious Path
on Surface   Path Slope   Path Slope   Path Slope   Slope <10%?   Slope <10%?
(A)-(B):     <10%? (Y/N)  <10%? (Y/N)  <10%? (Y/N)  (Y/N)         (Y/N)
3,300 -      Yes          Yes          Yes          N/A           N/A
1,000 =
2,300 sq.
ft.
HSG Soil Group from
Appendix F.2 Hydrologic Soils Group Map (Cannot be “D” Soils): HSG “C”
Project Sketch:
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, App. C.1; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
APPENDIX C.2
   RAINSPOUT DISCONNECTION FROM SANITARY SEWER SYSTEMS REQUIREMENT FOR
MUNICIPALITIES
   When roofs are being replaced, the municipality may require that rainspouts
must be disconnected from sanitary sewer systems. The following guidance is
provided should a municipali ty choose to enforce this requireme nt as part of
this
Chapter 23, and is subject to the municipal engineer’s discretion. When
rainspouts are disconnect ed from sanitary sewer systems, it must be shown that
adverse stormwate r impacts are not created downstream. If the municipality
opts to enforce this requirement, delete what is highlighted in gray on this
page
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2173.png]
   Source of image: www.muncicsanitary.org/stormwater-managment
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2175.png]
 
   Source of image: rainwise.seattle.gov/solution_brochures
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, App. C.2; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
APPENDIX D
   PROJECTS MEETING REQUIREMENTS IN §
23-303, PARAGRAPH B.
   When a regulated activity creates impervious areas between 5,000 sq. ft. and
10,000 sq. ft., or total earth disturbance between 10,000 and 20,000 sq. ft.,
the stormwater management requirements follow §
23-303, Paragraph B. of this Chapter.
   Section
23-303, Paragraph B. is duplicated below:
      B.   When Simplified Method (CG-2 in the BMP Manual4) provided below is
independent of site conditions and should be used if the Design Storm Method is
not followed. This method is not applicable to regulated activities greater
than one acre or for projects that require design of stormwater storage
facilities. For new impervious surfaces:
         (1)   Stormwater facilities shall capture at least the first two (2)
inches of runoff from all new impervious surfaces.
         (2)   At least the first one inch of runoff from new impervious
surfaces shall be permanently removed from the runoff flow, i.e., it shall not
be released into the surface waters of this Commonwealth. Removal options
include reuse, evaporation, transpiration, and infiltration.
         (3)   Wherever possible, infiltration facilities should be designed to
accommodate infiltration of the entire permanently removed runoff; however, in
all cases at least the first 0.5 inch of the permanently removed runoff should
be infiltrated.
         (4)   This method is exempt from the requirements of Section
23-304, Rate Controls.
Computations for all stormwater facilities must be submitted to the
municipality. This worksheet is provided as an example, or may be used for the
computations.
Applicant Address:
                   Brief Description of Project:
 
 
Nearest waterbody:  Permanently Removed Volume = (2 inches/12) x (Impervious
                   Area)
Total Proposed      A Factor of Safety of 2 is applied to the Tested
Impervious Area:    Infiltration Rate.
                   Design Infiltration Rate = Tested Infiltration Rate/2
Total Earth         Components of the project may be directed to multiple
Disturbance:        facilities.
                    Number of facilities used:
                    Facility #1         Facility #2         Facility #3
                    Component of        Component of        Component of
Soil Testing        Project:            Project:            Project:
Method:              
                    Volume Collected:   Volume Collected:   Volume Collected:
                     
                    Type of Facility:   Type of Facility:   Type of Facility:
                     
                    Volume of           Volume of           Volume of
Tested Infiltration Facility*:          Facility*:          Facility*:
Rate (in/hr):        
                    Area of Facility:   Area of Facility:   Area of Facility:
                     
                    Depth of Facility:  Depth of Facility:  Depth of Facility:
                     
                    Drawdown Time =     Drawdown Time =     Drawdown Time =
                    Depth of Facility / Depth of Facility / Depth of Facility /
                    Design Infiltration Design Infiltration Design Infiltration
                    Rate =              Rate =              Rate =
                     
                    Loading Ratio =     Loading Ratio =     Loading Ratio =
                    Impervious Area     Impervious Area     Impervious Area
                    Controlled : Area   Controlled : Area   Controlled : Area
                    of Facility =       of Facility =       of Facility =
Additional Calcs/    
Notes:              Existing Discharge  Existing Discharge  Existing Discharge
                    Point (Inlet/Sewer/ Point (Inlet/Sewer/ Point (Inlet/Sewer/
                    Stream):            Stream):            Stream):
                     
                    Discharge Method    Discharge Method    Discharge Method
                    for Runoff in       for Runoff in       for Runoff in
                    Excess of 2 in.:    Excess of 2 in.:    Excess of 2 in.:
                     
                    Capacity**:         Capacity**:         Capacity**:
                     
*Infiltration facilities with stone beds: 40% void space, multiply volume in
stone portion by 0.4. Calculations:
**lf a grass spillway is used: Capacity (cfs) = 2.5 x Length x Freeboard1.5
**If an orifice structure is used: Capacity (cfs) = 0.6 x Orifice Area x (2 x
32.2 x Flow Depth Above Orifice)0.5 Capacity Calculations:
 
Example: A doctor’s office is proposed for a site. The building is 5,000 sq.
ft. and the parking lot is 3,000 sq. ft.
                       Brief Description of Project: A proposed doctor’s office
Applicant Address:     consisting of 5,000 sq. ft. building (50 ft. x 100 ft.)
Dr. Office             and 3,000 sq. ft. parking lot (30 ft. x 100 ft.). The
123 Site Street        building drains to the back of the property to an
Anytown, PA 12345      infiltration facility, and the parking lot drains to an
                       infiltration facility adjacent the parking lot.
Nearest waterbody:     Permanently Removed Volume   = (2 inches /12) x
                      (Impervious Area)
Trib. to Mill Creek                   = (2 inches / 12) x (8,000 sq. ft.)
                                      = 1,333 cu. ft.
                       A Factor of Safety of 2 is applied to the Tested
Total Proposed         Infiltration Rate.
Impervious Area:       Design Infiltration Rate = Tested Infiltration Rate/2
8,000 sq. ft.                         = 1 in/hr/2
                                      = 0.5 in/hr
Total Earth            Components of the project may be directed to multiple
Disturbance:           facilities.
12,000 sq. ft.          
                       Number of facilities used: 2
                       Facility #1    Facility #2    Facility #3
                       Component of   Component of
Soil Testing Method:  Project:       Project:       Component of Project:
                      Building       Parking Lot    N/A
Percolation Test       Volume         Volume         Volume Collected:
                       Collected:     Collected:     N/A
                       5,000 x 2/12 = 3,000 x 2/12 =
                       833 cu. ft.    500 cu. ft.
                       Type of        Type of
                       Facility:      Facility:
                       Infiltration   Infiltration
                       Volume of      Volume of
                       Facility*:     Facility*:     Type of Facility:
Tested Infiltration    1,133 cu. ft.  590 cu. ft.    N/A
Rate (in/hr):          Area of        Area of        Volume of Facility*:
                      Facility:      Facility:      N/A
                      50 ft. x 10    30 ft. x 10    Area of Facility:
1 in/hr                ft. = 500 sq.  ft. = 300 sq.  N/A
                       ft.            ft.            Depth of Facility:
                       Depth of       Depth of       N/A
                       Facility:      Facility:
                       1 ft. stone +  1/2 ft. stone
                       1.3 ft. = 2.3  + 1.3 ft. =
                       ft.            1.8 ft.
                       Drawdown Time  Drawdown Time
                       = Depth of     = Depth of
                       Facility /     Facility /     Drawdown Time = Depth of
                       Design         Design         Facility / Design
                       Infiltration   Infiltration   Infiltration Rate =
                       Rate =         Rate =         N/A
                       2.3 ft. x 12   1.8 ft. x 12
Additional Calcs/      in. / 0.5 in/  in./0.5 in/hr
Notes:                 hr = 55.2 hrs  = 43.2 hrs
                      Loading Ratio  Loading Ratio
Facilities have 2:     = Impervious   = Impervious
1 horizontal: vertical Area           Area           Loading Ratio = Impervious
side slopes.           Controlled :   Controlled :   Area Controlled : Area of
Therefore, actual      Area of        Area of        Facility =
volumes are greater    Facility =     Facility =     N/A
which provides some    5,000 sq. ft.  3,000 sq. ft.
additional storage for : 500 sq. ft.  : 300 sq. ft.
larger events.         = 10:1         = 10:1
                      Existing       Existing
Both facilities have 1 Discharge      Discharge      Existing Discharge Point
foot of freeboard.     Point (Inlet/  Point (Inlet/  (Inlet/Sewer/Stream):
This volume is         Sewer/Stream): Sewer/Stream): N/A
additional to the      Stream         Inlet/Sewer
volume provided in the                System
calculations.          Discharge      Discharge
                       Method for     Method for     Discharge Method for
                       Runoff in      Runoff in      Runoff in Excess of 2 in.:
                       Excess of 2    Excess of 2    N/A
                       in.:           in.:           Capacity**:
                       Spillway       Orifice Outlet N/A
                       Capacity**:    Capacity**:
                       50cfs          77 cfs
* Infiltration facilities with stone beds: 40% void space, multiply volume in
stone portion by 0.4. Calculations:
Facility # 1 has 1 ft. of stone: 500 sq. ft. x 1 ft. stone x 0.4 = 200 cu. ft.
in stone portion; Volume = 500 cu. ft. stone + (833 - 200) = 1,133 cu. ft.
Depth = 1 ft. stone + (833 - 200)/500 sq. ft. = 1 ft. + 1.3 ft = 2.3 ft.
Facility #2 has 1/2 ft. of stone: 300 sq. ft. x 1/2 ft. stone x 0.4 = 60 cu.
ft. in stone portion; Volume = 150 cu. ft. stone + (500 - 60) = 590 cu. ft.
Depth = 1/2 ft. stone + (500 - 60)/300 sq. ft. = 1/2 ft. + 1.3 ft. = 1.8 ft.
**lf a grass spillway is used: Capacity (cfs) = 2.5 x Length x Freeboard1.5
**If an orifice structure is used: Capacity (cfs) = 0.6 x Orifice Area x (2 x
32.2 x Flow Depth Above Orifice)0.5
Capacity Calculations:
Facility # 1 spillway: Capacity = 2.5 x (20 ft.) x (1 ft.)1.5 = 50 cfs
Facility #2 orifice outlet: Use 1 ft. high by 2 ft. wide orifice; Capacity =
0.6 x (2 sq. ft.) x (2 x 32.2 X 1)0.5 = 77 cfs
 
   Project Sketch
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2177.png]
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, App. D; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
APPENDIX E
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FOR SMALL PROJECTS
   Applicability: Stormwater management procedures for projects between 1,000
sq. ft. and 5,000 sq. ft. of proposed impervious area or total earth
disturbance between 5,000 sq. ft. and 10,000 sq. ft. for which site conditions
prevent the use of
Chapter 23,
Appendix C.1 - Disconnected Impervious Area (DIA) as a BMP.
   Note: This small projects document is not to be used to plan for multiple
lots without obtaining prior written approval from the Municipality. Approvals
and actions associated with this document do not relieve the applicant of the
responsibility to secure required permits or approvals for activities regulated
by any other code, law or ordinance.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, App. E; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
   E.1 Introduction
These methods have been developed to allow homeowners to comply with stormwater
management criteria for new projects to meet the requirements of the Act 167
Stormwater Management Ordinance of the Municipality including sizing,
designing, locating, and installing on-lot measures, referred to herein as
“Best Management Practices” (BMPs). Pennsylvania Act 167 was authorized on
October 4, 1978 (32 P.S., P.L. 864) and gave Pennsylvania municipalities the
power to regulate activities that affect stormwater runoff and surface and
groundwater quantity and quality.
Individual home construction projects on single-family lots which result in
1,000 sq. ft. to 5,000 sq. ft. of proposed impervious area (including the
building footprint, driveway, sidewalks, and parking areas) are not required to
submit formal stormwater management (SWM) site plans to the Township or county;
however, they must address water quality and infiltration goals, and submit the
worksheet as outlined in this small projects document. If the guidelines
presented in this brochure are followed, the individual homeowner will not
require professional services to comply with these water quality and
infiltration goals.
Appendix E.2 presents options of BMPs that can be considered for on-lot
stormwater management. Appendix E.3 describes requirements and outlines the
method for designing a suitable BMP, and a description of what needs to be
included on the simple sketch plan, and the Small Projects Worksheet in Table
E.4. Appendix E.4 contains an example of how to obtain the size and dimensions
of the BMPs, complete the site sketch, and prepare the Small Project Worksheet.
The stormwater management method for small projects requires:
   •   The first one inch of rainfall runoff from proposed impervious surfaces
to be captured (see definition of captured in Part 2 of
Chapter 23).
The purpose of this small projects document is to help reduce stormwater runoff
in the community, to maintain groundwater recharge, to prevent degradation of
surface and groundwater quality, and to otherwise protect water resources and
public safety.
What needs to be sent to the Municipality?
Stormwater computations and a sketch plan must be submitted to the
Municipality. The small projects worksheet found in Table E.4 and a simple
sketch plan containing the features described in Step 5 of Appendix E.3 is
provided as an example, or may be used for submission to the Municipality, and
if applicable, the contractor prior to construction.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, App. E.1; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
   E.2 Description of BMPs
The following is a description of several types of BMPs that could be
implemented. Refer to Chapter 6 of the PA BMP Manual which can be found on the
PA Department of Environmental Protection’s website for specifications and
steps for construction for the following BMPs. A list of routine maintenance
for each of the BMPs described below is also included at the end of this
Section.
Rain Barrels/Cisterns
   •   Rain barrels and cisterns are large containers that collect drainage
from roof leaders and temporarily store water to be released to lawns, gardens,
and other landscaped areas; rain barrels are typically less than 50 gallons in
size, and cisterns typically have volumes of up to 1,000 gallons or more, and
can be placed on the surface or underground.
   Figure E.1. Rain Barrels.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2179.png]
   Source (left): http://www.rfcity.org/Eng/Stormwater/YourProperty/
YourProperty.htm
   Source (right): http://www.floridata.com/tracks/transplantedgardener/
Rainbarr.cfm
   Figure E.2. Cisterns.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2181.png]
   Source: Pennsylvania Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual.
Rain Garden/Bioretention Area
   •   A rain garden/bioretention area is an excavated depression area on the
surface of the land in which native vegetation is planted to filter and use
stormwater runoff; depths of 1.0 foot or less are recommended. Planting species
should be native to Pennsylvania.
   Figure E.3. Typical Rain Garden/Bioretention Area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2183.png]
   Table E.1. Sample Plant List for Use in a Rain Garden/Bioretention Area.
Common Name            Scientific Name                            Plant Type
Red Maple              Acer rubrum                                Tree
Grey Birch             Betula populifolia                         Tree
Shadbush Serviceberry  Amelanchier canadensis                     Tree
Eastern Cottonwood     Populus grandidentata                      Tree
Virginia Sweetspire    Itea virginica                             Shrub
Red-Twig Dogwood       Cornus sericea (stolonifera) “Arctic FireShrub
Southern Arrowwood     Viburnum dentatum                          Shrub
Black Choke Berry      Aronia melanocarpa                         Shrub
Great Blue Lobelia     Lobelia siphilitica                        Perennial
Dwarf Pink false aster Boltonia asteroides “Nana”             Perennial
White false aster      Boltonia asteroides “Snowbank”         Perennial
Switchgrass            Panicum virgatum                           Grass
 
   Source: Pennsylvania Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual.
Dry Wells
•   A dry well, also referred to as a seepage pit is a subsurface storage
facility that temporarily stores and infiltrates runoff from the roofs of
buildings or other impervious surfaces; recommended depth of dry well is
between 1.0 and 4.0 feet.
•   Dry Well #1 - structural prefabricated chamber; no stone fill.
•   Dry Well #2 - excavated pit filled with stone fill.
   Figure E.4. Dry Well #1 - Structural Prefabricated Chamber.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2185.png]
   Source: http://www.copelandconcreteinc.net/1800652.html
   Figure E.5. Dry Well #2 - Excavated Pit Filled with Stone Fill.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2187.png]
   Source: http://www.seagrant.sunysb.edu/pages/BMPsForMarinas.htm
Infiltration Trench
   •   An infiltration trench is a long, narrow, rock-filled trench with or
without a perforated pipe that receives stormwater runoff and has no outlet.
   •   Runoff is stored in the void space between the stones and in the pipe
and infiltrates through the bottom and into the underlying soil matrix.
   •   The width is limited to between three and eight feet, and the depth
ranges from two to five feet.
   Figure E.6. Infiltration Trench.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2189.png]
   Source: Pennsylvania Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual.
Routine Maintenance for BMPs
   •   Vegetation along the surface of an infiltration trench should be
maintained in good condition, and any bare spots should be revegetated as soon
as possible.
   •   Vehicles shouldn’t be parked or driven on an infiltration trench, and
care should be taken to avoid excessive compaction by mowers.
   •   Any debris such as leaves blocking flow from reaching an infiltration
trench or bioretention/rain garden should be routinely removed.
   •   While vegetation is being established, pruning and weeding may be
required for a bioretention/rain garden.
   •   Mulch in a bioretention/rain garden needs to be re-spread when erosion
is evident. Once every two to three years or after major storms the entire area
may require mulch replacement.
   •   At least twice a year the landowner needs to inspect the bioretention/
rain garden for sediment buildup and vegetative conditions.
   •   During periods of extended drought, the bioretention/rain garden
requires watering.
   •   Trees and shrubs in a bioretention/rain garden need to be inspected at
least twice per year by the landowner to evaluate their health. If they are in
poor health, they need to be replaced.
   •   Dry wells need to be inspected by the landowner at least four times a
year and after significant rainfalls, and debris/trash, sediment, and any other
waste material need to be removed and disposed of at suitable disposal/
recycling sites and in compliance with local, state, and federal waste
regulations.
   •   For dry wells, gutters need to be regularly cleaned out, and proper
connections must be maintained to facilitate the effectiveness of the dry well.
   •   The filter screen for the dry well that intercepts roof runoff must be
replaced as necessary.
   •   Dry wells that are damaged need to be fixed or replaced immediately.
   •   If an intermediate sump box exists in conjunction with a dry well, it
must be cleaned out at least once per year.
   •   Rain barrels and cisterns need to be cleared of debris routinely at
least every three months and after significant storms to allow stormwater from
gutters to enter them.
   •   Gutters that directly convey rain water to dry wells, rain barrels, and
cisterns need to be routinely cleared of trash and debris at least every three
months and after significant storms.
   •   Rain barrels and cisterns must be kept covered.
   •   Rain barrels and cisterns should be routinely emptied so that they are
only one-fourth of the way full to allow for storage of additional rainwater.
   •   Overflow outlets from rain barrels and cisterns must be kept free and
clear of debris.
   •   Rain barrels and cisterns that are damaged need to be fixed or replaced
immediately.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, App. E.2; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
E.3. Determination of BMPs and Volume Requirements
All proposed impervious areas must be included in the determination of the
amount of new impervious areas and the size of proposed BMPs needed to control
stormwater.
Proposed impervious areas on an individual residential lot include:
   • Roof area
   • Pavement
   • Sidewalks
   • Driveways
   • Patios
   • Porches
   • Permanent pools
   • Parking areas
Sidewalks, driveways, or patios that are constructed with gravel or pervious
pavers that will not be converted to an impervious surface in the future need
not be included in this calculation. Therefore, the amount of proposed
impervious area can be reduced for proposed driveways, patios, and sidewalks
through the use of gravel, pervious pavement, and turf pavers. All proposed
impervious areas must be constructed so that runoff is conveyed to a BMP; no
runoff can be directed to storm sewers, inlets, or other impervious areas
(i.e., street).
All new construction should incorporate design techniques that include:
minimizing the amount of land disturbance, reducing impervious cover,
disconnecting gutters and directing runoff to vegetated areas to infiltrate,
and redirecting the flow of runoff from impervious driveways to vegetated areas
instead of to the street or gutter.
Below are the steps that must be undertaken to meet the Chapter requirements.
The results obtained for each step must be included in the Small Projects
Worksheet found in Table E-4:
STEP 1 - Determine the total area of all proposed impervious surfaces (square
feet) that will need to drain to one or more BMPs.
STEP 2 - Determine locations where BMPs need to be placed, and the contributing
impervious area “1" (square feet) to each.
STEP 3 - Select the BMPs to be used and determine the requirements of each from
Section E.3.
STEP 4 - Obtain the required storage volume “V” (cubic feet) and surface area
“A” (square feet) needed for each of the proposed BMPs from the appropriate
heading below.
Note: all calculations are based on 1 inch of rainfall.
For Rain Barrels/Cisterns
   •   The typical volume of a rain barrel is less than 50 gallons; if a
greater volume is required, more than one rain barrel will be needed or a
cistern may be used.
   •   For calculations, assume the rain barrel is already 25 percent full.
   •   Calculate volume in Cubic Feet:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2191.png]
   •   Convert to Gallons:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2193.png]
For Rain Gardens/Bioretention or Dry Well #1:
   •   Rain gardens and bioretention areas are only used for depths less than
or equal to 1.0 feet; a dry well #1 is used for depths between 1.0 and 4.0
feet.
   •   Select the depth “D” (feet) for the facility.
   •   For calculations, assume the facility is empty (zero percent full).
   •   Calculate volume in Cubic Feet:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2195.png]
   •   Calculate surface area of the facility in Square Feet:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2197.png]
For Dry Well #2 or Infiltration Trench:
   •   A dry well #2 is used for depths between 1.5 feet and 4.0 feet; an
infiltration trench is used for depths between 2.0 and 5.0 feet.
   •   Select the depth “D” (feet) for the facility.
   •   For calculations, assume the void ratio of the stone is 40 percent.
   •   Calculate volume in Cubic Feet:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2199.png]
   •   Calculate surface area of the facility in Square Feet:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2201.png]
   •   Determine the dimensions of the facility based on “A” calculated.
STEP 5 - Sketch a simple site plan that includes:
   •   Name and address of the owner of the property, and or name and address
of the individual preparing the plan, along with the date of submission.
   •   Location of proposed structures, driveways, or other paved areas with
approximate size in square feet.
   •   Location, orientation, and dimensions of all proposed BMPs. For all rain
gardens/bioretention, infiltration trenches, and dry wells, the length, width,
and depth must be included on the plan. For rain barrels or cisterns the volume
must be included.
   •   Location of any existing or proposed on-site septic system and/or
potable water wells showing rough proximity to infiltration facilities.
   •   Location of any existing waterbodies such as; streams, lakes, ponds,
wetlands, or other waters of the Commonwealth within 100 feet of the project
site, and the distance to the project site and/or BMPs. It is recommended that
the project or BMPs be located at least than fifty (50) feet away from a
perennial or intermittent stream. If an existing buffer is legally prescribed
(i.e., deed, covenant, easement and the like), the existing buffer shall be
maintained.
   •   Location of all existing structures including buildings, driveways, and
roads within fifty (50) feet of the project site.
Fill in the small projects worksheet found in Table E.4, then submit the
worksheet and the simple site sketch (or equivalent) to the Municipality.
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, App. E.3; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
   Table E.4. Small Projects Worksheet.
   Small Projects Worksheet
   STEP 1
Component #1 Impervious   Component #2 Impervious   Component #3 Impervious
of Project   Area from    of Project   Area from    of Project   Area from
             Component #1              Component #2              Component #3
   Small Projects Worksheet
   STEP 1
Component #1 Impervious   Component #2   Impervious   Component #3 Impervious
of Project   Area from    of Project     Area from    of Project   Area from
             Component #1                Component #2              Component #3
                sq. ft.                  sq. ft.                sq. ft.
Total Impervious Area =          sq. ft.
   STEP 2
BMP#1                     BMP #2                      BMP #3
Captures:                 Captures:                   Captures:
Impervious      sq. ft.Impervious        sq. ft.Impervious      sq. ft.
Area I1:                  Area I2:                    Area I3:
   STEP 3
BMP#1                     BMP #2                      BMP #3
Type:                     Type:                       Type:
   STEP 4
BMP#1                     BMP #2                      BMP #3
Volume:                   Volume:                     Volume:
Dimensions:               Dimensions:                 Dimensions:
Note: For additional BMPs, use additional sheets
 
   E.4. Example
Joe Homeowner wants to build an 800 sq. ft. two car garage, and a 700 sq. ft.
impervious driveway. Site conditions in the urban setting prevent the use of
Disconnected Impervious Area (DIA) as a BMP.
STEP 1 - Determine the total area of all proposed impervious surfaces that will
need to drain to one or more BMPs.
   •   Garage roof: 20 ft. x 40 ft. = 800 sq. ft.
   •   Driveway: 50 ft. x 14 ft. = 700 sq. ft.
   •   Total proposed impervious surface = 800 + 700 = 1,500 sq. ft.
STEP 2 - Determine locations where BMPs need to be placed, and the contributing
impervious area “I” to each.
   •   Use BMP #1 to capture runoff from the garage (I1 = 800 sq. ft.)
   •   Use BMP #2 to capture runoff from the driveway (I2 = 700 sq. ft.).
STEP 3 - Select the BMPs to be used and determine the requirements of each from
Section E.3.
   •   BMP #1 - rain barrel/cistern
   •   BMP #2 - infiltration trench
STEP 4 - Obtain the required storage volume “V” and surface area “A” needed for
each of the proposed BMPs from the appropriate heading below.
For Rain Barrel/Cistern (BMP #1)
   •   Calculate volume in cubic feet:
         Vcf   = (1 inch x 1/12 x I1/0.75
            = (1 inch x 1/12 x 800)/0.75
            = 88.89 cubic feet
   •   Convert to gallons:
         Vgal   = Vcf x 7.48
            = 88.89 x 7.48
            = 664.8 gallons round up to 665 gallons
For Infiltration Trench (BMP #2)
   •   Select depth “D” for the facility of 2 feet (between 2.0 feet and 5.0
feet).
   •   Calculate volume in cubic feet:
         Vcf   = (1 inch x 1/12 x I2) / 0.4
            = (1 inch x 1/12 x 700)/0.4
            = 145.8 cubic feet round up to 150 cubic feet
   •   Calculate surface area of the facility in square feet:
         Asf    = Vcf/D
            = 150/2
            = 75 square feet
   •   The driveway is 50 feet long, so using the upper 30 feet of the driveway
as length of the infiltration trench, the width of the trench =
         75 square feet/30 feet = 2.5 feet
   •   Use a 2.5 ft. wide x 30 ft. long x 2 ft. deep infiltration trench.
STEP 5 - Prepare a simple site sketch (Figure E.7) and complete Small Projects
Worksheet (Table E.4) to send to Municipality.
   Figure E.4. Simple Site Sketch of Proposed Project and Proposed BMPs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2203.png]
   Table E.4. Small Projects Worksheet.
Small Projects Worksheet
STEP1
Component #1 Impervious    Component #2 Impervious   Component #3 Impervious
of Project   Area from     of Project   Area from    of Project   Area from
             Component #1               Component #2              Component #3
Garage Roof  800 sq. ft.   Driveway     700 sq. ft.  N/A          N/A
Total Impervious Area =   1,500 sq. ft.
STEP 2
   BMP#1                BMP #2                    BMP #3
Captures:    Garage Roof   Captures:    Driveway     Captures:    N/A
Impervious   800 sq. ft.   Impervious   700 sq. ft.  Impervious   N/A
Area I1:                   Area I2:                  Area I3:
   STEP 3
BMP#1                      BMP #2                    BMP #3
Type:        Cistern       Type:        Infiltration Type:        N/A
                                        Trench
   STEP 4
BMP#1                      BMP #2                    BMP #3
Volume:      88.89 cu. ft. Volume:      150 cubic    Volume:      N/A
                                        feet
                                        2.5 ft. W x
Dimensions:  665 gallons   Dimensions:  30 ft. L x 2 Dimensions:  N/A
                                        ft. D
Note: For additional BMPs, use additional sheets
 
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, App. E.4; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
APPENDIX F.1 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT DISTRICT MAPS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2284.jpg]
(Ord. 2012-2, 5/10/2012, App. F.1; as amended by Ord. 3-2022, 9/22/2022)
APPENDIX F.2 HYDROLOGIC SOIL GROUP (HSG) MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2282.jpg]
Chapter 24
Taxation; Special
Part 1
Amusement Admissions Tax
§
24-101.   Short Title
§
24-102.   Definitions
§
24-103.   Imposition of Tax
§
24-104.   Liability for Collection
§
24-105.   Reports; Bonds; Interest
§
24-106.   Penalty for Unpaid Taxes
§
24-107.   Powers of Tax Collector
§
24-108.   Estimation of Tax
§
24-109.   Disposition of Moneys
§
24-110.   Penalty
Part 2
Earned Income and Net Profits Tax
§
24-201.   Incorporation of Statute
§
24-202.   Imposition of Tax
§
24-203.   Declaration, Return and Payment of Tax
§
24-204.   Collection at Source
§
24-205.   Powers and Duties of the Officer
§
24-206.   Administration
§
24-207.   Applicability
§
24-208.   Enforcement
§
24-209.   Interest and Penalties
§
24-210.   Violations and Penalties
Part 3
Local Services Tax
§
24-301.   Definitions
§
24-302.   Levy of Tax
§
24-303.   Exemption and Refunds
§
24-304.   Duty of Employers to Collect
§
24-305.   Returns
§
24-306.   Date for Determining Tax Liability and Payment
§
24-307.   Self-Employed Individuals
§
24-308.   Individuals Engaged in More than One Occupation or Employed in More
than One Political Subdivision
§
24-309.   Nonresidents Subject to Tax
§
24-310.   Administration of Tax
§
24-311.   Suits for Collection
§
24-312.   Violations and Penalties
§
24-313.   Interpretation
Part 4
Mercantile License Tax
§
24-401.   Definitions and Word Usage
§
24-402.   Levy and Collection of Tax
§
24-403.   License Required
§
24-404.   Imposition and Rate of Tax
§
24-405.   Computation of Volume of Business
§
24-406.   Returns
§
24-407.   Payment
§
24-408.   Powers and Duties of Mercantile Tax Collector
§
24-409.   Confidential Nature of Returns and the Like
§
24-410.   Suit on Collection; Penalty
§
24-411.   Violations and Penalties
§
24-412.   Effect
Part 5
Parking Lot Tax
§
24-501.   Definitions
§
24-502.   Imposition of Tax
§
24-503.   Application for and Issuance of Permit
§
24-504.   Return and Payment
§
24-505.   Duties and Powers of Treasurer
§
24-506.   Penalty for Nonpayment
§
24-507.   Disposition of Moneys
§
24-508.   Violations and Penalties
Part 6
Per Capita Tax
§
24-601.   Definition
§
24-602.   Levy and Amount of Tax
§
24-603.   Notice and Residence Requirements
§
24-604.   Discount and Penalty
§
24-605.   Suits for Collection
§
24-606.   Administration of Tax
§
24-607.   Fine and Penalty
§
24-608.   Savings and Severability Clauses
§
24-609.   Exemptions
Part 7
Realty Transfer Tax
§
24-701.   Imposition of Tax
§
24-702.   Administration
§
24-703.   Interest
Part 8
Tax Penalties
§
24-801.   Penalty for Unpaid Taxes
§
24-802.   Authorization to Add Penalty
§
24-803.   Effective Date
Part 9
Business Privilege Tax
§
24-901.   Short Title
§
24-902.   Definitions
§
24-903.   Imposition of Tax
§
24-904.   Returns
§
24-905.   License
§
24-906.   Posting
§
24-907.   Penalty
§
24-908.   Duties of the Tax Administrator
§
24-909.   Confidential Nature of Returns and the Like
§
24-910.   Suit on Collection and Penalty
§
24-911.   Savings and Severability Clauses
Part 10
Collection of Delinquent Real Estate Taxes
§
24-1001.   Appointment of Alternative Tax Collector
§
24-1002.   Interest
§
24-1003.   Collecting Fees
§
24-1004.   Authority
Part 1
Amusement Admissions Tax
§
24-101.   Short Title.
   This Part shall be known and may be cited as the “Township Admission Tax
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 11/27/1974B, § 1)
§ 24-102.   Definitions.
   1.   The following words or phrases when used in this Part shall have the
meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
   Admissions–the amount which must be paid in order to gain entrance into a
place of amusement.
   Amusement–all manner and forms of entertainment, including among others,
theatrical operatic performances or concerts, all public speaking, including
lectures, readings and speeches, whether it be educational, religious,
political, humorous or civic; however, amounts paid or contributed for the
privilege of attending an exclusively religious service conducted in a regular
place of worship are not considered amounts paid for admission; vaudeville,
circuses, carnivals, rodeos, side shows, including all forms of entertainment
at fair grounds and amusement parts; athletic contests, including football,
baseball, basketball, tennis, golf, hockey, archery, boxing, wrestling,
sparring, swimming, horse racing, bathing, horseback riding, dancing, bowling,
shooting galleries and exhibitions, roller and ice skating, and all other forms
of sports, recreations, pastimes, shows, exhibitions, contests, displays and
games not specifically named herein; where admissions, charges, donations,
contributions or monetary charges of any character, from the general public, or
a limited or selected number thereof, is derived directly or indirectly in
return for attending.
   Person–every natural person, partnership, association or corporation.
Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, or both, the
term person as applied to partnerships or associations shall mean the partners,
or members thereof, and, as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   Place of amusement–any place, indoors, or outdoors, within the limits of the
Township of Plains, where the general public or a limited or selected number
thereof, may, upon payment of an established price, attend any amusement as
herein defined, including among others, theaters, opera houses, amusement parks
or stadiums, arenas, baseball parks, skating rinks, circus or carnival tents,
or circus or carnival grounds, fair grounds, social, sporting, athletic clubs,
dance halls, rifle or shotgun ranges or galleries.
   Producer–any person as herein defined, conducting any place of amusement as
herein defined, where the general public or a limited or selected number
thereof may, upon the payment of an established price, attend any amusement.
   Tax Collector–the Tax Collector of the Township of Plains.
   2.   The singular shall include the plural, and the masculine shall include
the feminine and the neuter.
(Ord. 11/27/1974B, § 2)
§ 24-103.   Imposition of Tax.
   1.   A tax is hereby imposed upon the admission fee to any place of
amusement at the rate of ten percent of the established price charged the
general public, or a limited or selected group thereof, by any producer which
shall be paid by the person acquiring the privilege of attending such place of
amusement. The fact that part or all of the proceeds from an entertainment go
to charitable, religious or educational purposes does not make the admission
nontaxable.
   2.   In the case of persons (except bona fide employees of a producer,
Township or state officers on official business, or totally blind persons) who
are admitted free or at reduced rates to any place of amusement, at a time when
and under circumstances under which an established price is charged to other
persons, the tax imposed by this Part shall be computed on the established
price charged to such other persons of the same class for the same or similar
accommodations, and shall be paid by the person so admitted.
   3.   In the case of persons having permanent use of boxes or seats in any
place of amusement, or a lease for the use of said box or seat in such place of
amusement, the tax imposed by this Part shall be computed on the established
price for which a similar box or seat is sold for each performance or
exhibition at which the box or seat is used or reserved by or for the lessee or
holder, such tax to be paid by the lessee or holder.
(Ord. 11/27/1974B, § 3)
§ 24-104.   Liability for Collection.
   1.   Producers shall collect the tax imposed by this Part and shall be
liable to the Township of Plains, as agents thereof for the payment of the same
into the Township Treasury through the Tax Collector as hereinafter provided in
this Part.
   2.   Where permits are obtained for conducting temporary amusements by
persons who are not the owners, lessees or custodians of the place where the
amusements are to be conducted, or where the temporary amusement is permitted
by the owner, lessee or custodian of any place of amusement, to be conducted
without the procurement of a permit or permits required by ordinance, the tax
imposed by this Part, shall be paid by the owner, lessee or custodian of such
place where the temporary amusement is held or conducted, unless paid by the
producer conducting the amusement.
(Ord. 11/27/1974B, § 4)
§ 24-105.   Reports; Bonds; Interest.
   For the purpose of ascertaining the amount of tax payable by the producers
to the Township of Plains, it shall be the duty of:
   A.   Every producer, except as hereinafter provided, conducting a place of
amusement, on or before the twentieth day of each month shall transmit to the
Tax Collector on a form prescribed and prepared by the Tax Collector, a report
under oath or affirmation, of the amount of tax collected by him or her during
the preceding month unless the Tax Collector shall deem the tax to be in
jeopardy when he or she shall collect the tax after each affair or at any time.
   B.   Every producer, conducting a temporary place of amusement or itinerant
form of amusement shall post a cash or surety bond with the Tax Collector in an
amount equal to the amount of tax estimated by the Tax Collector and shall file
a report with the Tax Collector, or any duly authorized agent thereof, promptly
after each show or performance. The Tax Collector may require any producer who
is not making timely payment of his or her tax obligation to file a cash or
surety bond in a reasonable amount, and failure to post such a bond will
automatically revoke the producer’s license to operate such place of amusement.
   C.   All reports required under this Section shall show such information as
the Tax Collector shall prescribe.
   D.   Every producer, at the time of making every report required by the
Section, shall compute and pay to the Tax Collector the taxes collected by him
or her and due the Township of Plains during the period for which the report is
made: The amount of all taxes, imposed under the provisions of this Part shall
in the case of places of permanent amusement, be due and payable on the first
day of each month, unless the Tax Collector deems the tax to be in jeopardy
when he or she shall collect the tax at any time, and in the case of itinerant
forms of amusement, it shall be due and payable on the day the reports in such
cases are required to be made under this Section, and all such taxes shall bear
interest at the rate of ten percent per month, or fractional part of a month,
from the date they are due and payable until paid.
(Ord. 11/27/1974B, § 5)
§ 24-106.   Penalty for Unpaid Taxes.
   If any producer shall neglect or refuse to make any report and payment as
herein required, an additional ten percent of the amount of the tax due shall
be added by the Tax Collector and collected. All such taxes shall be
recoverable by the Township Solicitor as other debts of like amount are now by
law recoverable.
(Ord. 11/27/1974B, § 6)
§ 24-107.   Powers of Tax Collector.
   If the Tax Collector is not satisfied with the report and payment of tax
made by any producer under the provisions of this Part, he or she is hereby
authorized and empowered to make determination of the tax due by such producer,
based upon the facts contained in the report or upon any information within his
or her possession or that shall come into his or her possession, and for this
purpose the Tax Collector is authorized to examine the books, papers, ticket
stubs and records of any producer, taxable under this Part, to verify the
accuracy of any report or payment made under the provisions thereof to
ascertain whether the taxes imposed by this Part have been paid.
(Ord. 11/27/1974B, § 7)
§ 24-108.   Estimation of Tax.
   If any producer shall refuse or neglect to make any report and payment of
tax required by this Part or if, as a result of an investigation by the Tax
Collector, a report is found to be incorrect, the Tax Collector shall estimate
the tax due by such producer and determine the amount due by him or her for
taxes, penalties and interest thereon.
(Ord. 11/27/1974B, § 8)
§ 24-109.   Disposition of Moneys.
   All taxes, interest and penalties received, collected or received under the
provisions of this Part shall be paid into the Treasury of the Township of
Plains for the use and benefit of the Township of Plains.
(Ord. 11/27/1974B, § 9)
§ 24-110.   Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days for the nonpayment of such fine or
penalty and costs within ten days from the imposition thereof. Such fine or
penalty imposed by this Section shall be in addition to any other penalty
imposed by any other Section of this Part. Each day that a violation of this
Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 11/27/1974B, § 10; as amended by A.O.)
Part 2
Earned Income and Net Profits Tax
§ 24-201.   Incorporation of Statute.
   The provisions of § 13 of the “Local Tax Enabling Act” (Act 511 of 1965) of
December 31, 1965, P.L. 1257, its supplements and amendments, 53 P.S. § 6913,
are incorporated herein by reference, with the exception of where hereinafter
it is specifically provided otherwise.
(Ord. 12/13/1968, §I)
§ 24-202.   Imposition of Tax.
   1.   General. A tax for general revenue purposes in the amount of one
percent is hereby imposed on earned income and net profits earned by residents
of the Township of Plains, and on earned income and net profits earned by
nonresidents of the Township of Plains for work done, or services performed or
rendered in the Township of Plains, during the taxable period beginning on the
first day of January, 1969, or the effective date of this Part and continuing
for each taxable year thereafter.
   2.   Definitions.
   Adult–an individual of the age of 21 years or more.
   Dwelling–any building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively as the
residence or sleeping place of one or more persons. This definition shall be
construed to include mobile homes and rooming houses. This definition shall not
be construed to include hotels, motels, homeless shelters, dormitories,
hospitals, rehabilitation or treatment centers, nursing homes or personal care
homes.
   Landlord–a natural or nonnatural person or entity which offers for
habitation as owner or manager one or more dwellings within the Township of
Plains.
   Rooming house–a building in which rooms for lodging and/or boarding are let
for a fee to three or more individuals not including individuals related by
blood or marriage to the owner or owners of the premises.
[Ord. 2000-2]
(Ord. 12/13/1968, §II; as amended by Ord. 2000-2, 3/9/2000, § 1)
§ 24-203.   Declaration, Return and Payment of Tax.
   1.   Net profits; quarterly payments: Every taxpayer making net profits
shall on or before April 15 of the current year, make and file a declaration of
his or her estimated net profits for the current year and shall pay the tax due
thereon in quarterly installments and shall file a final return and pay to the
officer the balance of the tax due, all as provided in the “Local Tax Enabling
Act”, its supplements and amendments, 53 P.S. § 6913.
   2.   Earned income:
   A.   General. Every taxpayer shall make and file returns and pay the taxes
due, all as provided in § 13, III, B, first paragraph of the “Local Tax
Enabling Act”, its supplements and amendments, 53 P.S. § 6913.
   B.   Quarterly returns. Every taxpayer who is employed for a salary, wage or
other compensation and who received any earned income not subject to the
provisions relating to collection at source, shall make and file with the
officer quarterly returns and shall pay quarter-annually the amount of tax
shown as due on such returns, all as provided in § 13, III, B, (2) of the
“Local Tax Enabling Act”, its supplements and amendments, 53 P.S. § 6913.
   3.   Every nonnatural person or entity which offers for habitation as owner
or manager of one or more dwellings within the Township of Plains shall, for
each such dwelling unit or units, and every natural person who offers for
habitation as owner or manager one or more dwellings within the Township of
Plains shall, for each such dwelling unit or units (other than the dwelling in
which that person resides) on or before April 15, 2000, and on or before March
15 of each subsequent year, provide the following information to the Township
Secretaries:
   A.   The reporting individual or entity’s name and address.
   B.   The full name and address and unit number (if any) of those adults
individuals occupying dwelling units owned or within the management control of
the reporting individual or entity as of March 1 of the reporting year.
[Ord. 2000-2]
   4.   The reporting of the required information by the owner shall excuse the
provision of the required information by a manager for the same premises. The
reporting of the required information by the manager shall excuse reporting by
the owner of the same premises. In the event neither the owner nor the manager
complies, the owner shall be held responsible for such noncompliance. Where
real estate is owned in multiple ownership, observance of the reporting
requirement by one co-owner shall be deemed as fulfilling the requirement as to
all other co-owners. [Ord. 2000-2]
   5.   The duty imposed by this Section shall require each landlord to report
the name and address of all tenants of the age of 21 years or more of which the
landlord has actual knowledge or which the landlord could, with the exercise of
reasonable diligence and care, have actual knowledge. [Ord. 2000-2]
   6.   Individuals required to be reported under Subsection 3., Paragraph B.
shall, upon request of the landlord or landlord’s agent, provide the landlord
or landlord’s agent with the names of all adult individuals residing in the
subject dwelling. Should a landlord be refused the required information,
landlord or landlord’s agent shall identify such individual refusing to provide
the name of an adult individual residing in the subject dwelling on the
required report. [Ord. 2000-2]
   7.   The Board of Commissioners of the Township of Plains is hereby
authorized to require standard reporting forms and documents to accomplish the
foregoing reporting requirements. [Ord. 2000-2]
   8.   A.   The information resulting from the foregoing reporting requirement
is restricted in dissemination to the following:
   (1)   Board of Commissioners.
   (2)   Income Tax Office/Auditor and staff.
   (3)   Township Secretaries.
   (4)   Township Solicitor.
   B.   Violation of the confidentiality of the information obtained by this
reporting requirement shall be subject to the penalties of §
24-210 of this Part.
[Ord. 2000-2]
   9.   Failure of a landlord to comply with the forgoing ordinance will be
subject to the penalties as set forth in §
24-210 of this Part. Failure of an individual required to be reported under
this Section or to comply with this Section will be subject to the penalties as
set forth in §
24-210 of this Part. [Ord. 2000-2]
(Ord. 12/13/1968, §III; as amended by Ord. 2000-2, 3/9/2000, § 2)
§ 24-204.   Collection at Source.
   1.   Every employer having an office, factory, workshop, branch, warehouse
or other place of business within the corporate limits of the Township of
Plains shall deduct the tax imposed by this Part on the earned income due to
his or her employee or employees and shall file quarterly returns and final
returns and pay quarterly to the officer, the amount of taxes deducted, all as
set forth in § 13, IV of the Local Tax Enabling Act, its supplements and
amendments, 53 P.S. § 6913.
   2.   No employer shall be required to register, deduct taxes, file return or
pay taxes in the cases of domestic servants.
(Ord. 12/13/1968, §IV)
§ 24-205.   Powers and Duties of the Officer.
   1.   The Board of Commissioners of the Township of Plains shall designate by
appropriate resolution the Income Tax Officer who shall perform his or her
duties in accord with § 13, V, of the Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6913,
and such rules and regulations relating to administration and enforcement of
this Part as may be approved by Council.
   2.   The Income Tax Officer shall be bonded in accordance with provisions of
§ 13 of the Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6913, and the custodian of said
bond shall be the Treasurer of the Township of Plains.
   3.   The Income Tax Officer shall turn over to the Treasurer of the Township
of Plains at the expiration of each respective quarter those amounts duly
collected by him or her as revenues of the tax promulgated through the
provisions of this Part.
(Ord. 12/13/1968, §V)
§ 24-206.   Administration.
   The Income Tax Officer shall be selected from time to time by resolution of,
and shall receive such compensation for his or her services and expenses as
determined from time to time by the Board of Commissioners of the Township of
Plains. Such officer shall have the powers and duties, and be subject to the
penalties, provided in the Local Tax Enabling Act, its supplements and
amendments, 53 P.S. § 6913.
(Ord. 12/13/1968, §VI)
§ 24-207.   Applicability.
   The tax imposed in §
24-202 of this Part shall not be levied on the net profits of any person,
institution or organization as to whom it is beyond the power of the Board of
Commissioners of the Township of Plains to impose said tax under the
Constitution of the United States of America or the Constitution and laws of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 12/13/1968, §VII)
§ 24-208.   Enforcement.
   1.   Rules and regulations. The Board of Commissioners of the Township of
Plains may, by resolution adopt, promulgate and enforce the rules and
regulations for the purpose of administration and enforcement of the provisions
of this Part, including provisions for the reexamination and corrections of
returns and payments alleged or found to be incorrect or as to which an
overpayment or underpayment, is claimed or found to have occurred.
   2.   Investigate powers. Investigate powers of the Income Tax Officer, the
officer or any agent or employee designated in writing by the Commissioners, is
hereby authorized to examine the books, papers and records of any employer, or
alleged employer, or any taxpayer or alleged taxpayer in order to verify the
accuracy of any return made or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax
imposed by this Part. Every such employer or alleged employer or taxpayer or
alleged taxpayer is hereby directed and required to give to the said officer or
any other person designated by the Commissioners the means, facilities and
opportunity for such examinations and investigations as are hereby authorized.
The officer is hereby authorized to examine any person concerning any income
which was or should have been returned for taxation, and to this end may compel
the production of books, papers and records and the attendance of all persons
before him or her, whether as parties or witnesses, whom he or she believes to
have knowledge of such income.
   3.   Confidential information. Any information gained by the officer or any
other official or agent designated by the Commissioners as a result of any
returns, investigations, hearings or verifications required or authorized by
this Part shall be confidential, except for official purposes, and except in
accordance with proper judicial order, or as otherwise provided by law, and any
person, official or agent divulging such information shall, upon conviction
thereof before any magisterial district judge, be sentenced to pay a fine of
not more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and
costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense. [A.O.]
(Ord. 12/13/1968; as added by Ord. 2000-2, 3/9/2000, § 3; and amended by A.O.)
§ 24-209.   Interest and Penalties.
   All taxes imposed by this Part remaining unpaid after they become due shall
bear interest, in addition to the amount of the unpaid tax, at the rate of one-
half percent per month until such tax is paid, and the persons upon whom said
taxes are imposed shall be further liable to a penalty of one-half of one
percent of the amount of the unpaid tax for each month or fraction of a month
for the first six months of nonpayment. Where suit is brought for the recovery
of any such tax, the person liable thereof shall, in addition, be liable for
the costs of collection and the interest and penalties herein imposed.
(Ord. 12/13/1968; as added by Ord. 2000-2, 3/9/2000, § 4)
§ 24-210.   Violations and Penalties.
   1.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $25 nor more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense. [A.O.]
   2.   In any prosecution against a landlord for failure to comply with the
reporting requirements of this Part, in the absence of the landlord’s actual
knowledge or the landlord’s ability, with reasonable diligence and care, to
have actual knowledge, the refusal of the tenant to provide the name of adult
individuals residing within the subject dwelling to the landlord shall, as to
the landlord or landlord’s manager, be considered to be an affirmative defense
to prosecution under this Part. Failure of a landlord to request the
information required by §
24-203, Subsection 3. shall be considered a per se violation of the reasonable
diligence and care standard of this Part.
   3.   For the purposes of this Section, any violation of §
24-203 relating to the reporting requirements of landlords shall be considered
as a separate offense for each unreported occupied dwelling unit. Each day of
non-reporting by a landlord after the fifteenth day of April, 2000 and the
fifteenth day of March in any other reporting year shall be treated as a
separate offense.
   4.   Enforcement of §
24-203 of this Part may be instituted by the Income Tax Officer, the Township
Police Department and/or the Township Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 12/13/1968; as added by Ord. 2000-2, 3/9/2000, § 5; and as amended by
A.O.)
Part 3
Local Services Tax
§ 24-301.   Definitions.
   The following words and phrases, when used in this Part, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context or language
clearly indicated or requires a different meaning:
   Collector–the person, public employee or private agency designated by the
political subdivision to collect and administer the tax herein imposed.
   DCED–the Department of Community and Economic Development of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   Earned income–compensation as this term is defined in § 13 (relating to
earned income taxes) of the Local Tax Enabling Act, the Act of December 31,
1965, P.L. 1257, § 13, as amended, 53 P.S. § 6913.
   Employer–an individual, partnership, association, limited liability
corporation, limited liability partnership, corporation, governmental body,
agency or other entity employing one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission or other compensation basis, including a self-employed person.
   He, his or him–indicates the singular and plural number, as well as male,
female and neuter genders.
   Individual–any person, male or female, engaged in any occupation, trade or
profession within the corporate limits of the political subdivision.
   Net profits–the net income from the operation of a business, profession or
other activity, as this term is defined in § 13 (relating to earned income
taxes) of the Local Tax Enabling Act, the Act of December 31, 1965 P.L. 1251 §
13, as amended, 53 P.S. § 6913.
   Occupation–any trade profession, business or undertaking of any type, kind
or character, including services, domestic or other, earned on or performed
within the corporate limits of the political subdivision for which compensation
is charged or received, whether by mean of salary, wages, commission or fees
for services rendered.
   Political subdivision–the area within the corporate limits of the Township
of Plains.
   Tax–the local services tax at the rate fixed in §
27-302 of this Part.
   Tax year–the period from January 1 until December 31 in any year, a calender
year.
(Ord. 2007-9, 12/20/2007, § 1)
§ 24-302.   Levy of Tax.
   For specific revenue purposes, an annual tax is hereby levied and assessed,
commencing January 1, 2008, upon the privilege of engaging in an occupation
with a primary place of employment within the Township of Plains during the tax
year. Each natural person who exercises such privilege for any length of time
during any tax year shall pay the tax for that year in the amount of $52,
assessed on a pro rata basis, in accordance with the provisions of this Part.
This tax may be used solely for the following purposes as the same may be
allocated by the Township from time to time (A) emergency services, which shall
include emergency medical services, police services and/or fire services; (B)
road construction and/or maintenance; (C) reduction of property taxes; or (D)
property tax relief through implementation of a homestead and farmstead
exclusion in accordance with 53 Pa.C.S.A., Chapter 85, Subchapter F (relating
to homestead property exclusion). The political subdivision shall use no less
than 25 percent of the funds derived from the tax for emergency services. This
tax is in addition to all other taxes of any kind or nature heretofore levied
by the political subdivision. The tax shall be no more than $52 on each person
for each calender year, irrespective of the number of political subdivisions
within which a person maybe employed.
(Ord. 2007-9, 12/20/2007, § 2)
§ 24-303.   Exemption and Refunds.
   1.   Exemption. Any person whose total earned income and net profits from
all sources within the political subdivision is less than $12,000 for any
calender year in which the tax is levied is exempt from the payment of the tax
for that calender year. In addition, the following persons are exempt from
payment of the tax:
   A.   Any person who has served in any war or armed conflict in which the
United States was engaged and is honorably discharged or released under
honorable circumstances from active service if, as a result of military
service, the person is blind, paraplegic or a double or quadruple amputee or
has a service-connected disability declared by the United States Veterans’
Administration or its successor to be a total 100 percent disability.
   B.   Any person who serves as a member of a reserve component of the Armed
Forces and is called to active duty at any time during the taxable year. For
the purposes of this Paragraph B., “reserve component of the Armed Forces”
shall mean the United States Coast Guard Reserve, United States Air Force
Reserve, the Pennsylvania Army National Guard or the Pennsylvania Air National
Guard.
   2.   Procedure to claim exemption.
   A.   A person seeking to claim an exemption from the local services tax may
annually file an exemption certificate with the political subdivision and with
the person’s employer affirming that the person reasonably expects to receive
earned income and net profits from all sources within the political subdivision
of less than $12,000 in the calender year for which the exemption certificate
is filed. In the event the political subdivision utilizes a tax collection
officer, it shall provide a copy of the exemption certificate to that officer.
The exemption certificate shall have attached to it a copy of all the
employee’s last pay stubs or W-2 forms from employment within the political
subdivision for the year prior to the fiscal year for which the employee is
requesting to be exempted from the tax. Upon receipt of the exemption
certificate and until otherwise instructed by the political subdivision or
except as required by Paragraph B. below, the employer shall not withhold the
tax from the person during the calender year or the remainder of the calender
year for which the exemption certificate applies. Employers shall ensure that
the exemption certificate forms are readily available to employees at all times
and shall furnish each new employee with a form at the time of hiring. The
exemption certificate form shall be the uniform form provided by the political
subdivision.
   B.   With respect to a person who claimed an exemption for a given calender
year from the tax, upon notification to an employer by the person or by the
political subdivision that the person has received earned income and net
profits from all sources within the political subdivision equal to or in excess
of $12,000 in that calender year or that the person is otherwise ineligible for
the tax exemption for that calender year, or upon an employer’s payment to the
person of earned income within the Township in an amount equal to or in excess
of $12,000 in that calender year, an employer shall withhold the local services
tax from the person under Paragraph C. below.
   C.   If a person who claimed an exemption for a given calender year from the
tax becomes subject to the tax for the calender year under Paragraph B. above,
the employer shall withhold the tax for the remainder of that calender year.
The employer shall withhold from the person, for the first payroll period after
receipt of the notification under Paragraph B. above, a lump sum equal to the
amount of tax that was not withheld from the person due to the exemption
claimed by the person under this Subsection 2., plus the per payroll amount due
for that first payroll period. The amount of tax withheld per payroll period
for the remaining payroll periods in that calender year shall be the same
amount withheld for other employees. In the event that employment of a person
subject to withholding of the tax under this Paragraph C. is subsequently
severed in that calender year, the person shall be liable for any outstanding
balance of tax due, and the political subdivision may pursue collection under
this Part.
   D.   Except as provided in Paragraph B., it is the intent of this Subsection
2. that employers shall not be responsible for investigating exemption
certificates, monitoring tax exemption eligibility or exempting any employee
from the local services tax.
   3.   Refunds. The Township of Plains, in consultation with the Collector and
DCED, shall establish procedures for the processing of refund claims for any
tax paid by and person who is eligible for exemption, which procedures shall be
in accord with provisions of the general municipal law relating to refunds of
overpayments and interest on overpayments. Refunds made within 75 days of a
refund request or 75 days after the last day the employer is required to remit
the tax for the last quarter of the calender year, which ever is later, shall
not be subject to interest. No refunds shall be made for amounts overpaid in a
calendar year that do not exceed $1. The Township of Plains or the Collector
shall determine eligibility for exemption and provide refunds to exempt
persons.
(Ord. 2007-9, 12/20/2007, § 3)
§ 24-304.   Duty of Employers to Collect.
   1.   Each employer within the political subdivision, as well as those
employers situated outside the political subdivision but who engage in business
within the political subdivision, is hereby charged with the duty of collecting
the tax from each of his or her employees engaged by him or her or performing
for him or her within the political subdivision and making a return and payment
thereof to the Collector. Further, each employer is hereby authorized to deduct
this tax for each employee in his or her employ, whether said employee is paid
by salary, wage or commission and whether or not all such services are
performed within the political subdivision.
   2.   A person subject to the tax shall be assessed by the employer a pro
rata share of the tax for each payroll period in which the person is engaging
in an occupation. The pro rata share of the tax assessed on the person for a
payroll period shall be determined by dividing the rate of the tax levied for
the calender year by the number of payroll periods establishing by the employer
for the calender year. For purposes of determining the pro rata share, an
employer shall round down the amount of the tax collected each payroll period
basis for each payroll period to the nearest one-one-hundredths of a dollar.
Collection of the tax shall be made on a payroll period basis for each payroll
period in which the person is engaging in an occupation, except as provided in
Subsection 4. of this Section, for purposes of this Subsection 2., combined
rate shall mean the aggregate annual rate of the tax levied by the school
district and the Township.
   3.   No person shall be subject to the payment of the local services tax by
more than one political subdivision during each payroll period.
   4.   In the case of concurrent employment, an employer shall refrain from
withholding the tax if the employee provides a recent pay statement from a
principal employer that includes the name of the employer, the length of the
payroll period and the amount of the tax withheld and a statement from the
employee that the pay statement is from the employee’s principal employer and
the employee will notify other employers of a change in principal place of
employment within two weeks of its occurrence. The employee’s statement shall
be provided on the form approved by DCED.
   5.   The tax shall be no more than $52 on each person for each calendar
year, irrespective of the number of political subdivisions within which a
person maybe employed. The political subdivision shall provide a taxpayer a
receipt of payment upon request by the taxpayer.
   6.   No employer shall be held liable for failure to withhold the tax or for
the payment of the withheld tax money to the political subdivision if the
failure to withhold taxes arises from incorrect information submitted by the
employee as to the employee’s place or places of employment, the employee’s
principal office or where the employee is principally employed. Further, an
employer shall not be liable for payment of the local services tax in an amount
exceeding the amount withheld by the employer if the employer complies with the
provisions of §
24-303, Subsection 2. of this Part and this Section and remits the amount so
withheld in accordance with this Part.
   7.   Employers shall be required to remit the local services taxes 30 days
after the end of each quarter of a calender year.
(Ord. 2007-9, 12/20/2007, § 4)
§ 24-305.   Returns.
   Each employer shall prepare and file a return showing a computation of the
tax on forms to be supplied to the employer by the Collector. If an employer
fails to file the return and pay the tax, whether or not the employer makes
collection thereof from the salary, wages or commissions paid by him or her to
an employee, except as provided hereafter in this Part, the employer shall be
responsible for the payment of the tax in full as though the tax had been
originally levied against the employer.
(Ord. 2007-9, 12/20/2007, § 6)
§ 24-306.   Date for Determining Tax Liability and Payment.
   In each tax year, each employer shall use his or her employment records to
determine the number of employees from whom such tax shall be deducted and paid
over to the Collector on or before the thirtieth day following the end of each
calender quarter of each such taxpayer.
(Ord. 2007-9, 12/20/2007, § 7)
§ 24-307.   Self-Employed Individuals.
   Each self-employed individual who performs services of any type or kind or
engage in any occupation or profession within a primary place of employment
within the political subdivision shall be required to comply with this Part and
pay the pro rata portion of the tax due to the Collector on or before the
thirtieth day following the end of each quarter.
(Ord. 2007-9, 12/20/2007, § 8)
§ 24-308.   Individuals Engaged in More than One Occupation or Employed in More
than One Political Subdivision.
   1.   The situs of the tax shall be the place of employment on the first day
the person becomes subject to the tax during each payroll period. In the event
a person is engaged in more than one occupation, that is, concurrent
employment, or an occupation which requires the person working in more than one
political subdivision during a payroll period, the priority of claim to collect
the local services tax shall be in the following order:
   A.   First, the political subdivision in which a person maintains his or her
principal office or is principally employed.
   B.   Second, the political subdivision in which the person resides and works
if the tax is levied by that political subdivision.
   C.   Third, the political subdivision in which a person is employed and
which imposes the tax nearest in miles to the person’s home.
   2.   In case of dispute, a tax receipt of the taxing authority for that
calendar year declaring that the taxpayer has made prior payment constitutes
prima facie certification of payment to all other political subdivisions.
(Ord. 2007-9, 12/20/2007, § 9)
§ 24-309.   Nonresidents Subject to Tax.
   All employers and self-employed individuals residing or having their places
of business outside of the political subdivision but who perform services of
any type or kind or engage in any occupation or profession within the political
subdivision do, by virtue thereof, agree to be bound by and subject themselves
to the provisions, penalties and regulations promulgated under this Part with
the same force and effects as though they were residents of the political
subdivision. Further, any individual engaged in an occupation within the
political subdivision and an employee of a nonresidential employer may, for the
purpose of this Part, be considered a self-employed person, and in the event
his or her tax is not paid, the political subdivision shall have the option of
proceeding against either the employer or employee for the collection of this
tax as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 2007-9, 12/20/2007, § 10)
§ 24-310.   Administration of Tax.
   1.   The Collector shall be appointed by resolution of the political
subdivision. It shall be the duty of the Collector to accept and receive
payments of this tax and to keep a record thereof showing the amount received
by him or her from each employer of self-employed person, together with the
date the tax was received.
   2.   The Collector is hereby charged with the administration and enforcement
of this Part and is hereby charged and empowered, subject to Township approval,
to proscribe, adopt and promulgate rules and regulations relating to any matter
pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this Part, including
provisions for the examination of payroll records of any employer subject to
this Part, the examination and correction of any return made in compliance with
this Part and any payment alleged or found to be incorrect or as to which
overpayment is claimed or found to have occurred. Any person aggrieved by and
decision of the Collector shall have the right to appeal consistent with the
Local Taxpayers Bill of Rights under Act 50 of 1998 (municipalities may detail
their appeal processes), 53 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 8421 et seq.
   3.   The Collector is hereby authorized to examine the books and payroll
records of any employer in order to verify the accuracy of any return made by
an employer or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax due. Each employer
is hereby directed and required to give the Collector the means, facilities and
opportunities for such examination.
(Ord. 2007-9, 12/20/2007, § 11)
§ 24-311.   Suits for Collection.
   1.   In the event that any tax under this Part remains due or unpaid 30 days
after the due dates above set forth, the Collector may sue for the recovery of
any such tax due or unpaid under this Part, together with interest and penalty.
   2.   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate of
six percent on the amount of such tax shall be calculated beginning with the
due date of the tax and a penalty of five percent shall be added to the flat
rate of such tax for nonpayment thereof. Where suit is brought for the recovery
of this tax or other appropriate remedy undertaken, the individual liable
therefor shall, in addition, be responsible and liable for the costs and
collection.
(Ord. 2007-9, 12/20/2007, § 12)
§ 24-312.   Violations and Penalties.
   Whoever makes any false or untrue statement on any return required by this
Part, or whoever refuses inspection of the books, records or accounts in his or
her custody and control setting forth the number of employees subject to this
tax who are in his or her employment, or whoever fails or refuses to file any
return required by this article shall be guilty of a violation and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $600 plus
costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part
continues shall constitute a separate offense. The action to enforce the
penalty herein prescribed may be instituted against any person in charge of the
business of any employer who shall have failed or who refuses to file a return
required by this Part.
(Ord. 2007-9, 12/20/2007, § 13; as amended by A.O.)
§ 24-313.   Interpretation.
   1.   Nothing contained in this Part shall be constructed to empower the
political subdivision to levy and collect the tax hereby imposed on any
occupation not within the taxing power of the political subdivision under the
Constitution of the United States and the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
   2.   If the tax hereby imposed under the provisions of this Part shall be
held by any court of competent jurisdiction to be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States or of the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania as to any individual, the decision of the court shall not affect
or impair the right to impose or collect said tax or the validity of the tax so
imposed on other persons or individuals as herein provided.
(Ord. 2007-9, 12/20/2007, § 14)
Part 4
Mercantile License Tax
§ 24-401.   Definitions and Word Usage.
   1.   As used in this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated: [Ord. 5/29/1975]
   Gross volume of business–includes both cash and credit transactions, but
shall not include the dollar volume of business derived from the resale of
goods, wares and merchandise taken by any dealer as a trade-in or as part
payment for other goods, wares and merchandise, except to the extent that the
resale price exceeds the trade-in allowance or the dollar value of business
attributable to sales taxes and excise taxes, including liquid fuels taxes, the
amounts of which are shown in the sale price of any article and which are, in
fact, paid by the dealer or manufacture of the article to the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania or the United States of America. [Ord. 5/29/1975]
   License year–that period of time beginning January 1, and ending December
31, of the calendar year for which the tax is levied. [Ord. 5/29/1975]
   Mercantile Tax Collector–the person or agency properly appointed by a
resolution of Plains Township Board of Commissioners to collect the tax imposed
by this Part. [Ord. 5/29/1975]
   Person–any individual, partnership, limited partnership, association or
corporation.
   Retail dealer or retail vendor–any person who is a dealer in or vendor of
goods, wares and merchandise who is not a wholesale dealer or vendor.
   Wholesale dealer or wholesale vendor–any person who sells to dealers in, or
vendors of, goods, wares and merchandise and to no other persons.
   2.   The terms “person”, “wholesale dealer”, “wholesale vendor”, “retail
dealer” and “retail vendor” shall not include nonprofit corporations organized
for religious, charitable or educational purposes, any association organized
for such purposes, clubs, agencies of the government of the United States or of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, or any person vending or disposing of
articles of his or her own growth, production or manufacture for shipment or
delivery from the place of growth, production or manufacture thereof.
(Ord. 2/29/1972, §I; as amended by Ord. 5/29/1975, § 88-16)
§ 24-402.   Levy and Collection of Tax.
   For the calendar year for which the tax is levied, the Township of Plains
hereby imposes an annual mercantile license tax in the manner and at the rates
hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 2/29/1972, §II; as amended by Ord. 5/29/1975, § 88-17)
§ 24-403.   License Required.
   Every person desiring to continue to engage in or hereafter to begin to
engage in the business of a wholesale or retail vendor or dealer in goods,
wares or merchandise and any person conducting a restaurant or other place
where food, drink or refreshments are sold, whether or not the same be
incidental to some other business or occupation, shall, on or before the first
day of January of each license year, procure a mercantile license for his or
her place of business, or if more than one, for each of his or her places of
business in the Township of Plains from the Mercantile Tax Collector as
required by law. Such license shall be conspicuously posted at the place of
business of every person at all times.
(Ord. 2/29/1972, §III; as amended by Ord. 5/29/1975, § 88-18)
§ 24-404.   Imposition and Rate of Tax.
   Every person engaged in any of the following occupations or business in the
Township of Plains shall pay an annual mercantile license tax for each calendar
year at the rates herein set forth. [Ord. 5/29/1975]
   A.   Wholesale vendors or dealers in goods, wares and merchandise, at the
rate of one mill on each dollar of the volume of the annual gross business
transacted by him or her, or at the rate of $1 per $1,000 of “gross volume of
business”.
   B.   Retail vendors, or dealers in goods, wares and merchandise, and all
persons engaged in conducting restaurants or other places where food, drink or
refreshments are sold, at the rate of one and one-half mills on each dollar of
the volume of the annual gross business transacted by him or her, or at the
rate of $1.50 per $1,000 of “gross volume of business”.
   C.   Wholesale and retail vendors or dealers in goods, wares and
merchandise, at the rate of one mill on each dollar of the volume of the annual
gross wholesale business transacted by him or her and one and one-half mills on
each dollar of the volume of the annual gross retail business transacted by him
or her.
   D.   Each person engaged in a business temporary, seasonal or itinerant by
its nature, at the rate of one and one-half mills on each dollar of the gross
volume of business, as that term is herein defined, transacted within the
territorial limits of the Township during each “license year”.
(Ord. 2/29/1972, §IV; as amended by Ord. 5/29/1975, § 88-19)
§ 24-405.   Computation of Volume of Business.
   1.   Every person subject to the payment of the tax hereby imposed who has
commenced his or her business at least one year prior to the beginning of the
license year shall compute his or her annual gross volume of business upon the
actual gross amount of business transacted by him or her during the preceding
calendar year.
   2.   Every person subject to the payment of the tax hereby imposed who has
commenced or who commences his or her business less than one full year prior to
the beginning of the license year, shall compute his or her annual gross volume
of business for such license year upon the gross volume of business transacted
by him or her during the first month he or she engaged in business multiplied
by 12.
   3.   Every person subject to the payment of the tax hereby imposed who
commences his or her business subsequent to the beginning of the license year,
shall compute his or her annual gross volume of business for such license year
upon the gross volume of business transacted by him or her during the first
month of his or her engaging in business multiplied by the number of months he
or she engages in business in such license year.
   4.   Every person subject to the payment of the tax hereby imposed who
engages in a business temporary, seasonal or itinerant by its nature, shall
compute his or her annual gross volume of business upon the actual gross amount
of business transacted by him or her during the license year.
   5.   The Mercantile Tax Collector is hereby authorized to accept payment
under protest of the amount of mercantile tax claimed by the Township in any
case where the taxpayer disputes the validity or amount of the Township’s claim
for tax. If it is thereafter judicially determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction that the Township has been overpaid, the amount of the overpayment
shall be refunded to the taxpayer. The provisions of this Section shall be
applicable to cases in which the facts are similar to those in a case litigated
in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2/29/1972, §V)
§ 24-406.   Returns.
   1.   Every return shall be made upon a form furnished by the Mercantile Tax
Collector. Every person making a return shall certify the correctness thereof
by affidavit.
   2.   Every person subject to the tax imposed by this Part who commenced his
or her business at least one full year prior to the beginning of any license
year shall on or before March 15 following, file with the Mercantile Tax
Collector a return setting forth his or her name, his or her business and
business address, and such other information as may be necessary in arriving at
the actual gross amount of business transacted by him or her during the
preceding calendar year, and the amount of the tax due. [Ord. 5/29/1975]
   3.   Every person subject to the tax imposed by this Part who has commenced
his or her business less than one full year prior to the beginning of any
license year shall on or before March 15 following, file with the Mercantile
Tax Collector a return setting forth his or her name, his or her business,
business address and such other information as may be necessary in arriving at
the actual gross amount of business transacted by him or her during the first
month of business and the amount of the tax due. [Ord. 5/29/1975]
   4.   Every person subject to the tax imposed by this Part who commences
business subsequent to the beginning of any license year shall within 40 days
from date of commencing such business file a return with the Mercantile Tax
Collector setting forth or her name, or her business and business address, and
such information as may be necessary in arriving at the actual gross amount of
business transacted by him or her during or her first month of business and the
amount of the tax due.
   5.   Every person subject to the payment of the tax imposed by this Part who
engages in a business temporary, seasonal or itinerant by its nature, shall
within seven days from the day he or she completes such business file a return
with the Mercantile Tax Collector setting forth his or her name, his or her
business address, and such information as may be necessary in arriving at the
actual gross amount of business transacted by him or her during such period and
the amount of tax due.
(Ord. 2/29/1972, §VI; as amended by Ord. 5/29/1975, § 88-22)
§ 24-407.   Payment.
   At the time of filing the return, the person making the same shall pay the
amount of tax shown as due thereon to the Mercantile Tax Collector.
(Ord. 2/29/1972, §VII)
§ 24-408.   Powers and Duties of Mercantile Tax Collector.
   1.   It shall be the duty of the Mercantile Tax Collector to collect and
receive the taxes, fines and penalties imposed by this Part. It shall also be
his or her duty to keep a record showing the amount received by him or her from
each person paying the tax and the date of each receipt.
   2.   The Mercantile Tax Collector is hereby charged with the administration
and enforcement of the provisions of this Part, and is hereby empowered to
prescribe, adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and regulations relating to any
matter pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this Part, including
provisions for the re-examination and correction of returns, and payments
alleged or found to be incorrect, or as to which an overpayment is claimed, or
found to have occurred. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Mercantile
Tax Collector shall have the right to appeal to a court or courts of competent
jurisdiction as in other cases provided.
   3.   The Mercantile Tax Collector is hereby authorized to examine the books,
papers and records of any taxpayer or supposed taxpayer in order to verify the
accuracy of any return made, or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax
due. Every such taxpayer, or supposed taxpayer, is hereby directed and required
to give to the Mercantile Tax Collector the means, facilities and opportunity
for such examinations and investigations as are hereby authorized.
(Ord. 2/29/1972, §VIII)
§ 24-409.   Confidential Nature of Returns and the Like.
   Any information gained by the Mercantile Tax Collector, or any other
officer, official, agent or employee of the Township as a result of any
returns, investigations, hearings or verifications, required or authorized by
this Part shall be confidential except in accordance with proper judicial order
or as otherwise provided by law, and divulgence of any information so gained is
hereby declared to be a violation of this Part, which may be punished by
dismissal from office or employment.
(Ord. 2/29/1972, §IX)
§ 24-410.   Suit on Collection; Penalty.
   1.   The Mercantile Tax Collector may sue for the recovery of taxes imposed
by this Part whenever any of said taxes remain due and unpaid.
   2.   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due in each year, interest
at the rate of six percent per annum on the amount of said tax, and an
additional penalty of one percent per annum of the amount of the unpaid tax for
each month or fraction thereof during which the tax remains unpaid shall be
added and collected. Where suit is brought for the recovery of any such tax,
the person liable therefor, shall, in addition, be liable for the costs of
collection and interest and penalties herein imposed.
(Ord. 2/29/1972, §X)
§ 24-411.   Violations and Penalties.
   Whoever makes any false or untrue statement on his or her return, whoever
refuses to permit the inspection of the books, records or accounts of any
business in his or her custody or control when the right to make such
inspection by the Mercantile Tax Collector is requested, whoever fails or
refuses to file a return required by this Part, whoever fails or refuses to
procure a mercantile license when so required under this Part or whoever fails
to keep his or her license conspicuously posted at his or her place of business
as herein required, shall, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of
not more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and
costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2/29/1972, §XI; as amended by Ord. 5/29/1975, § 88-27; and by A.O.)
§ 24-412.   Effect.
   1.   Nothing contained in this Part shall be construed to empower the
Township to levy and collect the taxes hereby imposed on any person, or any
business, or any portion of any business not within the taxing power of the
Township under the Constitution of the United States and the laws and
Constitution of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   2.   If the tax, or any portion thereof, imposed upon any person under the
provisions of this Part shall be held by any court of competent jurisdiction to
be in violation of the Constitution of the United States or of the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania, the decision of the court shall not affect or impair the right
to impose the taxes so imposed upon other persons as herein provided.
(Ord. 2/29/1972, §XII; as amended by Ord. 5/29/1975, § 88-28)
Part 5
Parking Lot Tax
§ 24-501.   Definitions.
   Person–any natural person, co-partnership, association, firm or corporation.
Whenever used in any clause prescribing a penalty, the term “person”, as
applied to a co-partnership or association, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to a corporation shall mean the officers thereof.
(Ord. 6/1/1965A, § 1)
§ 24-502.   Imposition of Tax.
   On and after the effective date of this Part, a tax of ten percent of the
gross receipts from all transactions in and for the parking of automobiles or
motor vehicles on parking lots in the Township of Plains is hereby imposed.
Such taxes shall be due to the Township of Plains by any person conducting any
such parking lot.
(Ord. 6/1/1965A, § 2)
§ 24-503.   Application for and Issuance of Permit.
   Any person desiring to conduct, or continue to conduct, any parking lot
which charges a fee for parking shall file with the Township’s Secretary an
application for a permit on forms provided by the Township. Every permit shall
be issued in duplicate. The original, to which the Township seal shall be
affixed, shall be given to the person applying for the permit, and the
duplicate shall be kept on file by the Township’s Secretary.
(Ord. 6/1/1965A, § 3)
§ 24-504.   Return and Payment.
   Every person to whom a permit shall have been issued shall, on or before the
fifteenth day of each month, prepare and file a return with the Township
Treasurer showing a computation of the tax due for the preceding calendar month
on forms to be supplied by the Township; and, at the same time, shall pay over
to the Township Treasurer the entire amount of the tax due.
(Ord. 6/1/1965A, § 4)
§ 24-505.   Duties and Powers of Treasurer.
   The Treasurer is hereby authorized to examine the books and records of any
person filing a return in order to verify the accuracy of any return made or,
if no return was made, to ascertain the tax due.
(Ord. 6/1/1965A, § 5)
§ 24-506.   Penalty for Nonpayment.
   If any tax levied in pursuance of this Part shall not be paid when due, a
penalty of ten percent of the amount of the tax due and unpaid shall be added
thereto.
(Ord. 6/1/1965A, § 6)
§ 24-507.   Disposition of Moneys.
   All taxes, interest and penalties collected or recovered shall be paid into
the Township Treasury as general revenue to be used for general revenue
purposes.
(Ord. 6/1/1965A, § 7)
§ 24-508.   Violations and Penalties.
   Any person violating or failing to carry out any of the provisions and
requirements of this Part; or neglecting, failing or refusing to furnish
complete and correct returns or to pay over any tax levied by this Part at the
time required; or knowingly filing any incomplete, false or fraudulent return;
or doing or attempting to do anything whatever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax imposed under this Part shall, upon conviction,
shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $600 plus costs and, in
default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this Part continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 6/1/1965A, § 8; as amended by Ord. 5/29/1975, § 88-47; and by A.O.)
Part 6
Per Capita Tax
§ 24-601.   Definition.
   1.   The following words and phrases when used in this Part shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context or language
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Person–any natural person.
   Resident–any person domiciled within the Township limits of the Township of
Plains.
   Tax Collector–the person or persons, agency or agencies properly appointed
by resolution of the Township of Plains to collect the tax imposed by this
Part.
   Taxpayer–any person required hereunder to pay a per capita tax.
   2.   The singular shall include the plural and the masculine shall include
the feminine and the neuter.
(Ord. 12/16/1987, § 1)
§ 24-602.   Levy and Amount of Tax.
   The Township of Plains hereby imposes and levies for general revenue
purposes an annual per capita tax of $10 upon every resident within the
municipal limits of the Township of Plains and who shall have attained the age
of 18 years on or before the first day of January, 1988. This tax is in
addition to all other taxes any kind or nature heretofore levied by the
Township of Plains.
(Ord. 12/16/1987, § 2)
§ 24-603.   Notice and Residence Requirements.
   1.   Every resident and inhabitant of the Township of Plains, upon the age
of 18 years and every person 18 years of age upon becoming a resident or
inhabitant of the Township of Plains shall within 12 months of the happening
thereof, notify the Tax Collector of the Township in which he or she resides of
his or her becoming of age or becoming a resident or inhabitant.
   2.   On or before the first day of April, 1988, the Tax Collector shall send
to every resident of the Township of Plains, 18 years of age or older, a notice
of the per capita tax due by such resident for the fiscal year 1988, provided
that the failure or omission of the Tax Collector to send, or of any taxpayer
to receive such notice, shall not relieve such person from the payment of such
tax; provided, further, that any person who shall become a resident of the
Township of Plains after the first day of January, 1988, shall not be liable
for the per capita tax for that fiscal year; but, any person who shall cease to
be a resident at any time after the first day of January, 1988, shall be liable
for the full amount of the per capita tax for said year.
(Ord. 12/16/1987, § 3)
§ 24-604.   Discount and Penalty.
   All taxpayers subject to the payment of the tax under this Part shall be
entitled to a discount of two percent on the amount of such tax upon making
payment of the whole amount thereof within two months after the date of the
notice. All taxpayers who shall fail to make payment of any such tax imposed
against them for four months after the date of the notice shall be charged a
penalty of ten percent, which penalty shall be added to the taxes by the Tax
Collector and collected by him or her. The Tax Collector shall furnish a
receipt to every person paying such tax.
(Ord. 12/16/1987, § 4)
§ 24-605.   Suits for Collection.
   All taxes levied under this Part together with all penalties, together with
costs of collection, shall be recoverable by the Tax Collector in the manner
authorized by law.
(Ord. 12/16/1987, § 5)
§ 24-606.   Administration of Tax.
   1.   It shall be the duty of the Tax Collector to accept and receive payment
of this tax and to keep a record thereof showing the amount received by him or
her from each resident together with the date the tax was received. It shall be
the Tax Collector’s duty to remit collection to the Township of Plains as soon
as practicable, but no later than one month from the date of receipt.
   2.   The Tax Collector is hereby charged with the administration and
enforcement of this Part and is hereby charged and empowered to prescribe,
adopt and promulgate rules and regulations relating to any matter pertaining to
the administration and enforcement of this Part. Any person aggrieved by any
decision of the Tax Collector shall have the right to appeal to the Court of
Common Pleas of Luzerne County as in other cases provided.
(Ord. 12/16/1987, § 6)
§ 24-607.   Fine and Penalty.
   Whoever fails to carry out any of the provisions of this Part or who
attempts to do anything whatsoever to avoid payment of the whole or any part of
the tax imposed under this Part shall, upon conviction before any magisterial
district judge, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $600 for each
and every offense and the cost for prosecution thereof, and in default of
payment of said fine and costs be imprisoned in Luzerne County Prison to a term
of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days for each offense; provided that such fine
and costs or penalties shall be in addition to any other penalty imposed by any
other Section of this Part.
(Ord. 12/16/1987, § 7; as amended by A.O.)
§ 24-608.   Savings and Severability Clauses.
   1.   Nothing contained in this Part shall be construed to empower the
Township of Plains to levy and collect the per capita tax hereby imposed on any
resident not within the taxing power of the Township of Plains, under the
Constitution of the United States and under the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
   2.   If the tax hereby imposed under the provisions of this Part shall be
held by any court of competent jurisdiction to be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States or of the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania as to any person, the decision of the court shall not effect or
impair the right to impose or collect said tax or the validity of the tax so
imposed on other persons as herein provided.
   3.   The provisions of this Part are severable and if any of its provisions
shall be held invalid or unconstitutional, the decision of the court shall not
effect or invalidate any of the remaining provisions. It is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that this Part would have been adopted if such
illegal, invalid or unconstitutional provisions had not been included herein.
(Ord. 12/16/1987, § 8)
§ 24-609.   Exemptions.
   All purposes of this Part and in addition to any other limitations or
restrictions contained herein, all individuals subject to the imposition of
this tax as contained in this Part, and who have personal income equal to or
less than $5,000 or who are 65 years of age or older, are hereby exempted from
the payment of this tax.
(Ord. 12/16/1987, § 10)
Part 7
Realty Transfer Tax
§ 24-701.   Imposition of Tax.
   Plains Township adopts the provisions of Article XI-D of the Tax Reform Code
of 1971 and imposes a realty transfer tax as authorized under that Article
subject to the rate limitations therein. The tax imposed under this Section
shall be at the rate of one percent of the value of the real estate
transferred.
(Ord. 2007-2, 7/19/2007, § 1)
§ 24-702.   Administration.
   The tax imposed under §
24-701 and all applicable interest and penalties shall be administered,
collected and enforced, under the Act of December 31, 1965 (P.L. 1257, No. 511,
as amended, known as the “Local Tax Enabling Act”; provided, that if the
correct amount of the tax is not paid by the last date prescribed for timely
payment, Plains Township, pursuant to § 1102-D of the Tax Reform Code of 1971
(72 P.S. § 8102-D), authorizes and directs the Department of Revenue of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to determine, collect and enforce the tax,
interest and penalties.
(Ord. 2007-2, 7/19/2007, § 2)
§ 24-703.   Interest.
   Any tax imposed under §
24-701 that is not paid by the date the tax is due shall bear interest as
prescribed for interest on delinquent municipal claims under the Act of May 16,
1923 (P.L. 207, No. 153), 53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq., as amended known as the
Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act. The interest rate shall be the lesser of
the interest rate imposed upon delinquent Commonwealth taxes as provided in §
806 of the Act of April 9, 1929 (P.L. 343, No. 176), 72 P.S. § 806, as amended,
known as the “Fiscal Code” or the maximum interest rate permitted under the
Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act for tax claims.
(Ord. 2007-2, 7/19/2007, § 3)
Part 8
Tax Penalties
§ 24-801.   Penalty for Unpaid Taxes.
   A penalty of ten percent shall be assessed against all taxpayers of Plains
Township, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, who fail to make payment of any tax
provided for under the Local Tax Collection Law, 72 P.S. §§ 5511.1 et seq., in
those cases where such taxes are charged against the taxpayer and which remain
unpaid for four months after the date of the tax notice.
(Ord. 5/5/1977B, §I)
§ 24-802.   Authorization to Add Penalty.
   The Tax Collector of the Township is hereby authorized to add such penalty
to the taxes and collect same.
(Ord. 5/5/1977B, §II)
§ 24-803.   Effective Date.
   The new penalty rate of ten percent shall be effective with the collection
of all taxes levied for the year 1978.
(Ord. 5/5/1977B, §III)
Part 9
Business Privilege Tax
§ 24-901.   Short Title.
   This Part shall be known as the “Business Privilege Tax Resolution”.
(Res. 11/–/1986, §I)
§ 24-902.   Definitions.
   The following words and phrases, when used in this Part, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   Business–any activity carried on or exercised for gain or profit in the
Township of Plains, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, which is not subject to the
Mercantile License Tax Resolution of February 29, 1972, including, but not
limited to, the performance of services and the rental of personal property
and/or realty.
   Calendar year–the period January 1 to December 31, inclusive.
   Gross volume of business–shall include all cash, credit and barter
transactions.
   License year–the period beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of the
calendar year for which the tax is levied.
   Person–any individual, partnership, limited partnership, association, firm
or corporation. Whenever used in any clause prescribing or imposing a penalty,
the term “person” as applied to associations shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   Tax Administrator–the person(s) duly appointed by the Commissioners of
Plains Township to administer the within tax.
   Taxpayer–a person subject to the payment of the tax imposed by this Part.
   Township–Plains Township, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania.
(Res. 11/–/1986, §II)
§ 24-903.   Imposition of Tax.
   There is hereby levied for the license year 1987 and annually thereafter a
tax for general revenue purposes of the privilege of doing business as herein
defined in the Township of Plains Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, as follows:
   A.   Licenses. Beginning on the first day of January, 1987, and for the
balance of the calendar year, every person desiring to continue to engage in,
or hereafter to begin to engage in business as herein defined, shall, on or
before the first day of January, 1987, and for the balance of the calendar
year, every person desiring to continue to engage in, or hereafter to begin to
engage in business as herein defined, shall, on or before the first day of
January, 1987, procure a business privilege license for his or her place of
business, or if more than one, for each of his or her places of business in
Plains Township from the Business Privilege Tax Collector as required by law.
Such license shall be conspicuously posted at the place of business of every
person at all times.
   B.   Rate and basis of tax. The rate of the tax on each and every dollar of
the whole or gross volume of business transacted within the territorial limits
of Plains Township shall be three-fourths mills. Three-quarters mills shall
mean $0.75 per $1,000 of gross volume of business.
   C.   Computation of volume of business.
   (1)   Every person subject to the payment of the tax hereby imposed who has
commenced his or her business at least one year prior to the beginning of the
license year shall compute his or her annual gross volume of business upon the
actual gross amount of business transacted by him or her during said
immediately preceding calendar year.
   (2)   Every person subject to the payment of the tax hereby imposed who has
commenced or who commences his or her business less than one full year prior to
the beginning of the license year, shall compute his or her annual gross volume
of business for such license year upon the gross volume of business transacted
by him or her during the first month in business multiplied by 12.
   (3)   Every person subject to the payment of the tax hereby imposed who
commences his or her business subsequent to the beginning of the license year,
shall compute his or her annual gross volume of business for such license year
upon the gross volume of business transacted by him or her during the first
month of his or her engaging in business multiplied by the number of months he
or she engages in business in such license year.
   (4)   Every person subject to the payment of the tax hereby imposed who
engages in a business temporary, seasonal or itinerant by its nature, shall
compute his or her annual gross volume of business upon the actual gross amount
of business transacted by him or her during the license year. The
aforementioned shall be required to make a minimum payment in an amount
determined by the Tax Administrator prior to their engaging in business.
   (5)   The Tax Administrator is hereby authorized to accept payment under
protest of the amount of business privilege tax claimed by the Township in any
case where the taxpayer disputes the validity or amount of the Township’s claim
for tax. If it is thereafter judicially determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction that the Township has been overpaid, the amount of the over
payment shall be refunded to the taxpayer. The provisions of this Section shall
be applicable to cases in which the facts are similar to those in a case
litigated in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (6)   Payments made under the mercantile license tax for business to which
this tax is applicable shall be credited to this tax and vice versa.
   D.   Persons, business and receipts exempted.
   (1)   Persons and businesses. Persons employed for a wage or salary,
nonprofit corporations or associations organized for religious, charitable or
educational purposes, agencies of the government of the United States or of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the business of any political subdivision, or
of any authority created or organized under and pursuant to any act of assembly
are exempt from the provisions of this Part.
   (2)   State tax or license fee. No such tax shall be assessed and collected
on a privilege, transaction, subject or occupation which is subject to a state
tax or license fee, and which tax or license fee has been held by the courts of
Pennsylvania to be the basis for exemption from the imposition of a business
privilege tax by a municipality.
   (3)   Utilities. No such tax shall be assessed and collected on the gross
receipts from utility service of any person or company whose rates of service
are fixed and regulated by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission; or on
any public utility service rendered by any such person or company or on any
privilege or transaction involving the rendering of any such public utility
service.
   (4)   State tax on tangible property. No such tax shall be assessed and
collected on the privilege of employing such tangible property as is subject to
a state tax except on sales of admission to places of amusement or on sales or
other transfers of title or possession of property.
   (5)   Other. Any other person exempt by law from the imposition of this tax.
   E.   Determination of gross or whole volume business. Gross or whole volume
of business upon which the tax hereunder is computed shall include the gross
consideration credited or received for or on account of sales made, rentals
and/or services rendered, subject only to the following allowable deductions
and exemptions:
   (1)   Any commissions paid by a broker to another broker on account of a
purchase or sales contract initiated, executed or cleared with such other
broker.
   (2)   Bad debts, where the deduction is also taken in the same year for
federal income taxation purposes.
   (3)   Taxes collected as agent for the United States of America,
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or the Township of Plains.
   F.   Partial exemptions. Where gross or whole volume of business in its
entirety cannot be subjected to the tax imposed by this Part by reason of the
provisions of the Constitution of the United States or any other provision of
law, the Tax Administrator with the approval of the Plains Township Board of
Commissioners shall establish rule and regulations and methods of allocation
and evaluation so that only that part of the gross or whole volume of business
which is properly attributable and allowable to doing business in the Township
shall be taxed hereunder.
   G.   Rate when same tax is imposed by two taxing bodies. It is the intent of
this Part, pursuant to the sharing provisions of the Local Tax Enabling Act,
and its amendments, 53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq., that this tax is to be in
addition to and not included in the business privilege tax passed by the
Wilkes-Barre School District on June 30, 1986. [Res. 12/10/1987]
   H.   Records. The taxpayer, to obtain the foregoing enumerated exclusions
and deductions, shall keep books and records of his or her business so as to
show clearly, accurately and separately the amount of such sales and services
as are excluded from the tax and the amounts of such sales and services which
he or she is entitled to deduct from the gross volume of business as
hereinbefore provided.
(Res. 11/–/1986, §III; as amended by Res. 12/10/1987, § 7)
§ 24-904.   Returns.
   1.   Every return shall be made upon a form furnished by the Tax
Administrator. Every person making a return shall certify the correctness
thereof by affidavit. Each return shall be documented by appropriate schedule
to verify their accuracy.
   2.   Every person subject to the tax imposed by this Part who commenced his
or her business at least one full year prior to the beginning of any license
year shall on or before the fifteenth day of April, 1987, file with the Tax
Administrator a return setting forth his or her name, his or her business and
business address, and such other information as may be necessary in arriving at
the actual gross amount of business transacted by him or her during the
preceding calendar year, and the amount of the tax due.
   3.   Every person subject to the tax imposed by this Part who has commenced
his or her business less than one full year prior to the beginning of any
license year shall on or before the fifteenth day of April, 1987, file with the
Tax Administrator a return setting forth his or her name, his or her business,
business address and such other information as may be necessary in arriving at
the actual gross amount of business transacted by him or her during the first
month of business and the amount of the tax due.
   4.   Every person subject to the tax imposed by this Part who commences
business subsequent to the beginning of any license year shall within 40 days
from date of commencing such business file a return with the Tax Administrator
setting forth his or her name, his or her business and business address, and
such information as may be necessary in arriving at the actual gross amount of
business transacted by him or her during the first month of business and the
amount of the tax due.
   5.   Every person subject to the payment of the tax imposed by this Part who
engages in a business temporary, seasonal or itinerant by its nature, shall
within seven days from the day he or she completes such business file a return
with the Tax Administrator setting forth his or her name, his or her business
address and such information as may be necessary in arriving at the actual
gross amount of business transacted by him or her during such period and the
amount of tax due.
   6.   Any person going out of or ceasing to do business shall within seven
days from the date of ceasing to do business, file a return showing the actual
gross volume of business conducted and done by such person during that tax year
which said person ceased doing business, and pay the tax due as computed
thereon at the rate herein provided for at the time of filing said return. If
such tax has been previously paid based upon estimated gross receipts, the
taxpayer shall be entitled to a refund, without interest, of any excess tax
paid for the tax year in which business was terminated.
   7.   Payment of tax and penalties for late payment: the business privilege
tax levied pursuant to this Part shall be due and payable on the date on which
the taxpayer is required to file a return as set forth above and if the same is
not paid on said date, a penalty of one percent of tax due for each month or
fractional delinquency shall be added thereto until paid.
   8.   Receipt: the Tax Administrator shall, upon payment to him or her of the
business privilege tax, give the person paying the same a receipt therefor, or
the Tax Administration, as the case may be.
(Res. 11/–/1986, §IV)
§ 24-905.   License.
   After the effective date of this Part, any person desiring to conduct, or to
continue to conduct any business, as herein defined, with the Township shall
file with the Tax Administrator an application for a business privilege
license.
(Res. 11/–/1986, §V)
§ 24-906.   Posting.
   The license issued shall be conspicuously posted in the place of business
for which the such license is issued, and shall remain in effect for the
license year or fraction of year for which said license was issued. In cases
where more than one place of business is conducted, a separate license shall be
issued for each place of business. Any taxpayer who is in default in payment of
tax due hereunder shall be refused a license until such tax is paid in full.
(Res. 11/–/1986, §VI)
§ 24-907.   Penalty.
   Any person who shall conduct, transact or engage in any of the businesses
subject to the tax imposed by this Part without having first secured a business
privilege license for the year, or any person who shall fail to file a tax
return as required by the provisions of this Part, or any person who shall
willfully file a false return, shall, upon summary conviction before any
magisterial district judge in the County of Luzerne, shall be sentenced to pay
a fine of not more than $600 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Res. 11/–/1986, §VII; as amended by A.O.)
§ 24-908.   Duties of the Tax Administrator.
   1.   The Tax Administrator is charged with the duties of receiving the
taxes, fines and penalties imposed by this Part. It shall be his or her duty to
keep a record showing the amount received by him or her from each person paying
the tax and the date of such receipt. It shall be his or her duty to remit
colections to the Township as soon as practical but no later than one month
from the date of receipt.
   2.   The Tax Administrator and his or her duly appointed deputies are hereby
empowered with the approval of the Plains Township Board of Commissioners to
prescribe, adopt and promulgate rules and regulations relating to any matter
pertaining to the collection, administration and enforcement of this Part,
including provisions for the examination and correction of returns, and
payments alleged or found to be incorrect, or as to which an overpayment is
claimed, or found to have occurred, and charged with enforcing the provisions
of this Part and any rules and/or regulations promulgated pursuant hereto.
   3.   In the event the person to be assessed neglects or refuses to make a
return, then in such case the Tax Administrator or his or her duly appointed
deputies shall assess said person or persons on such an amount of whole or
gross volume of business as the said Tax Administrator or his or her deputies
deem reasonable and appropriate. In all cases of assessment, the Tax
Administrator or his or her duly appointed deputies shall give the parties
assessed a notice in which shall be stated the trade, business, occupation or
class, and the amount of the business privilege tax imposed or levied.
   4.   The taxpayer shall maintain such records and books of account as will
enable him or her to make a true and accurate return in accordance with the
provisions of this Part. Such accounts and records must disclose in detail the
gross receipts and other data pertaining to the taxpayer’s gross volume of
business, and must be sufficiently complete to enable the Tax Administrator or
his or her deputies to verify all transactions. The Tax Administrator or his or
her deputies are hereby authorized to examine the books, papers and records of
any person or persons subject to or supposed to the tax imposed by this Part,
in order to verify the accuracy of the return made, or if no return was made,
ascertain the tax due.
   5.   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Administrator shall
have the right to appeal to the Court of Common Pleas as in other cases.
(Res. 11/–/1986, §IX)
§ 24-909.   Confidential Nature of Returns and the Like.
   Any information gained by the Tax Administrator or any other official, agent
or employee of the Township as a result of any returns, investigations,
hearings or verifications required or authorized by this Part, shall be
confidential, except in accordance with proper judicial order or as otherwise
provided by law.
(Res. 11/–/1986, §X)
§ 24-910.   Suit on Collection and Penalty.
   1.   The Tax Administrator or his or her duly appointed deputies shall have
the power in the name of the Township to institute proceedings against any and
all persons who violate the provisions of this Part.
   2.   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due and suit is brought for
the recovery of any such tax, the person liable therefor, shall, in addition,
be liable for the costs of collection and interest and penalties herein
imposed.
(Res. 11/–/1986, §XI)
§ 24-911.   Savings and Severability Clauses.
   1.   Nothing contained in this Part shall be construed to empower the
Township to levy and collect the taxes hereby imposed on any person, or any
business, or any portion of any business not within the taxing power of the
Township under the Constitution of the United States and the laws and
Constitution of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   2.   If the tax, or any portion thereof, imposed upon any person under the
provisions of this Part shall be held by any court of competent power or
jurisdiction to be in violation of the Constitution of the United States or of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or any other provision of the law, the
decisions of the court shall not affect or impair the right to impose the
taxes, or the validity of the taxes so imposed upon other persons as herein
provided.
   3.   The provisions of this Part are severable, and if any of its provisions
shall be held illegal, invalid or unconstitutional, the decision of the court
shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions of this Part. It is
hereby declared to be the intention of the Plains Township Board of
Commissioners that this resolution would have been adopted if such illegal,
invalid or unconstitutional provisions had not been included herein.
(Res. 11/–/1986, §XII)
Part 10
Collection of Delinquent Real Estate Taxes
§ 24-1001.   Appointment of Alternative Tax Collector.
   In addition to the authorization for the collection of taxes and institution
of tax sales authorized by the Real Estate Tax Sales Law (“RETSL”), 72 P.S.
§§5860.201 et seq. Elite Revenue Solutions, LLC as agent for the Luzerne County
Tax Claim Bureau is appointed as alternate Collector and is authorized and
directed to file liens for existing delinquent real estate taxes with the
Prothonotary of Luzerne County in accordance with the provisions of the
Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act, 53 P.S. §§7101 et seq.
(Ord. 2015-4, 6/11/2015; as amended by Ord. 3-2023, 5/11/2023)
§ 24-1002.   Interest.
   In accordance with the MCTLA and RETSL, interest shall be charged on taxes
so returned from and after but not before the first day of the month following
the return. Interest shall be charged at the rate of nine percent per annum.
(Ord. 2015-4, 6/11/2015; as amended by Ord. 3-2023, 5/11/2023)
§ 24-1003.   Collecting Fees.
   Pursuant to §7106 of the MCA, it is hereby established that the reasonable
charges, expenses and fees incurred in the collection of any delinquent account
under the MCTLA are hereby fixed at five percent of the total amount of the
delinquent taxes (including interest and penalties) and that said expenses and
fees set forth herein, shall be paid to Elite Revenue as agent for the Luzerne
County Tax Claim Bureau in lieu of payment of commission pursuant to 72 P.S. §
5860.207 of RETSL.
(Ord. 2015-4, 6/11/2015; as amended by Ord. 3-2023, 5/11/2023)
§ 24-1004.   Authority.
   The proper officials of the Township of Plains are hereby authorized and
empowered to take such additional action as they may deem necessary or
appropriate to implement this Part.
   1.   If any Section, Clause, provision or portion of this Part shall be held
invalid or unconstitutional by and court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect any other Section, Clause, provision or portion of
this Part so long as it remains legally enforceable minus the invalid portion.
The Township reserves the right to amend this Part or any portion thereof from
time to time as it shall deem advisable in the best interest of the promotion
of the purposes and intent of this Part, and the effective administration
thereof.
   2.   All ordinances inconsistent with the above provisions are repealed to
the extent of their inconsistency.
(Ord. 2015-4, 6/11/2015; as amended by Ord. 3-2023, 5/11/2023)
Chapter 25
[Reserved]
Chapter 26
[Reserved]
Chapter 27
Zoning
Part 1
General Provisions
§
27-101.   Title
§
27-102.   Interpretation and Conflict
§
27-103.   Compliance with Ordinance Required
§
27-104.   Purpose
§
27-105.   Community Development Objectives
Part 2
Definitions
§
27-201.   Application and Interpretation
§
27-202.   Definition of Terms
Part 3
General Regulations
§
27-301.   Attached Accessory Structures
§
27-302.   Unattached Accessory Structures
§
27-303.   Corner Lot Restriction
§
27-304.   Types of Residential Accessory Structures
§
27-305.   Noncommercial Satellite Dish Antenna
§
27-306.   Residential Accessory Structures in a Nonresidential Zone
§
27-307.   Private Noncommercial Swimming Pools
§
27-308.   Lots Divided by Zoning Boundaries
§
27-309.   Projections into Required Yards
§
27-310.   Exceptions to Height Limitations
§
27-311.   Required Access
§
27-312.   Land Development Approval for Certain Uses
§
27-313.   Visibility at Intersections and Private Driveways
§
27-314.   Fences and Walls
§
27-315.   Public Utilities
§
27-316.   Sewage Disposal
§
27-317.   Performance Standards
§
27-318.   Highway Occupancy Permit
§
27-319.   Mobile Homes
§
27-320.   Uses Not Addressed Within Chapter
§
27-321.   Conflicting Regulations
§
27-322.   Outdoor Fuel Burning Furnaces
§
27-323.   Exemptions for Certain for Side Yard Setbacks
§
27-324.   General Nuisance
§
27-325.   Grower and Processor of Medical Marijuana
§
27-326.   Medical Marijuana Dispensary
§
27-327.   Medical Marijuana Trucking Facility
§
27-328.   Medical Marijuana Waste Facility
Part 4
Zoning Map and Zoning Districts
§
27-401.   Official Zoning Map
§
27-402.   Changes to Official Zoning Map
§
27-403.   Interpretation of Boundaries
§
27-404.   Classes of Zoning Districts
Part 5
Zoning District Regulations
§
27-501.   R-1 Single-Family Residence District
§
27-502.   R-2 Two-Family Residence District
§
27-503.   R-3 Multi-Family Residence District
§
27-504.   B-1 Neighborhood Commercial District
§
27-505.   B-2 General Commercial District
§
27-506.   B-3 Highway Business District
§
27-507.   C-1 Conservation District
§
27-508.   I-1 General Industrial District
§
27-509.   B-4 Commercial/institutional District
§
27-510.   B-5 Commercial Recreational District
§
27-511.   MU Mixed Use District
Part 6
Special Exceptions
§
27-601.   Purpose
§
27-602.   General Provisions
§
27-603.   Site Plan
§
27-604.   General Standards
§
27-605.   Impact Analysis
Part 7
Conditional Uses
§
27-701.   Purpose
§
27-702.   Conditional Use Application Fee
§
27-703.   General Provisions
§
27-704.   Application and Site Plan
§
27-705.   Procedural Requirements in Rendering a Decision
§
27-706.   General Standards
§
27-707.   Classified Conditional Uses
§
27-708.   Environmental Impact Statement
§
27-709.   Solid Waste Facility–Supplementary Regulations
§
27-710.   Excavation of Natural Resources
§
27-711.   Sexually Oriented Uses
§
27-712.   Mobile Home Parks
§
27-713.   Planned Residential Developments
§
27-714.   Methadone Treatment Facility
§
27-715.   Wind Energy Facilities
Part 8
Supplemental Regulations
§
27-801.   Purpose and Intent
§
27-802.   Use Regulations
Part 9
Nonconforming Lots, Uses, Structures and Buildings
§
27-901.   Intent
§
27-902.   Nonconforming Lots of Record
§
27-903.   Continuation of Nonconformity
§
27-904.   Registration of Nonconforming Uses and Structures
§
27-905.   Changes of Nonconforming Uses
§
27-906.   Enlargement of Nonconforming Uses and Structures
§
27-907.   Restoration of Use
§
27-908.   Termination of Nonconforming Use and/or Structure
§
27-909.   Certificate of Intention for a Nonconforming Use
Part 10
Sign Regulations
§
27-1001.   Signs
§
27-1002.   Construction Types
§
27-1003.   Permitted Signs by Zoning District
§
27-1004.   Area, Height and Setback Requirements
§
27-1005.   Number of Signs
§
27-1006.   Setback for Freestanding Signs
§
27-1007.   Signs Related to Nonconforming Uses
§
27-1008.   Area Computation of Signs
§
27-1009.   Vertical Clearance
§
27-1010.   Prohibited Signs
§
27-1011.   Permits Required
§
27-1012.   Violation; Penalty for Signs
Part 11
Off-Street Parking and Loading
§
27-1101.   Purpose
§
27-1102.   Size of Off-street Parking Spaces
§
27-1103.   Size of Off-street Loading Spaces
§
27-1104.   Dimensions and Design
§
27-1105.   Width of Access Driveways
§
27-1106.   Number of Location of Access Driveways
§
27-1107.   Location of Off-Street Parking Areas
§
27-1108.   Expansion of Existing Use
§
27-1109.   Change of Use
§
27-1110.   Grading, Pavement and Drainage of Off-Street Parking Areas
§
27-1111.   Screening
§
27-1112.   Lighting
§
27-1113.   Parking in Setback Yard Areas
§
27-1114.   Existing Structures and Uses
§
27-1115.   Fractional Space
§
27-1116.   Multiple Activities or Uses
§
27-1117.   Off-Street Parking Requirements
§
27-1118.   Parking for Other Nonresidential Uses
§
27-1119.   Off-Street Loading Requirements
§
27-1120.   Provision of Handicapped Parking Spaces
§
27-1121.   Design Features for Handicapped Parking Spaces
§
27-1122.   Signage for Handicapped Parking
§
27-1123.   Minimum Number of Handicapped Accessible Spaces
Part 12
Floodplain Management
§
27-1201.   Statutory Authorization
§
27-1202.   Intent
§
27-1203.   Applicability
§
27-1204.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions
§
27-1205.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability
§
27-1206.   Definitions
§
27-1207.   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
§
27-1208.   Permits Required
§
27-1209.   Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
§
27-1210.   Application Procedures and Requirements
§
27-1211.   Review by County Conservation District
§
27-1212.   Review of Application by Others
§
27-1213.   Changes
§
27-1214.   Placards
§
27-1215.   Start of Construction
§
27-1216.   Enforcement
§
27-1217.   Appeals
§
27-1218.   Identification of Floodplain Areas
§
27-1219.   Description and Special Requirements of Identified Floodplain Areas
§
27-1220.   Changes in Identification of Area
§
27-1221.   Boundary Disputes
§
27-1222.   Technical Provisions
§
27-1223.   Elevation and Floodproofing Requirements
§
27-1224.   Design and Construction Standards
§
27-1225.   Development Which May Endanger Human Life
§
27-1226.   Special Requirements for Subdivisions
§
27-1227.   Special Requirements for Manufactured Homes
§
27-1228.   Special Requirements for Recreational Vehicles
§
27-1229.   Prohibited Uses
§
27-1230.   Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas
§
27-1231.   Variances
Part 13
Enforcement and Administration
§
27-1301.   Zoning Officer
§
27-1302.   Zoning Permit
§
27-1303.   Certificate of Zoning Compliance
§
27-1304.   Enforcement Procedures
§
27-1305.   Schedule of Fees, Charges and Expenses
Part 14
Amendments
§
27-1401.   Amendment Procedure
§
27-1402.   Applications for Amendments to the Text or Map
§
27-1403.   Curative Amendments
§
27-1404.   Enactment of Amendments
§
27-1405.   Notification to County
Part 15
Zoning Hearing Board
§
27-1501.   Membership of Board
§
27-1502.   Alternates to Zoning Hearing Board
§
27-1503.   Removal of Members
§
27-1504.   Organization of Board
§
27-1505.   Expenditures for Services
§
27-1506.   Hearings
§
27-1507.   Mediation Option
§
27-1508.   Jurisdiction of Zoning Hearing Board
§
27-1509.   Variances
§
27-1510.   Special Exceptions
§
27-1511.   Parties Appellant Before the Board
§
27-1512.   Time Limitations
§
27-1513.   Stay of Proceedings
Part 16
Appeals
§
27-1601.   Appeals to Court
Part 17
Airport District Overlay Ordinance
§
27-1701.   Purpose
§
27-1702.   Relation to Other Zone Districts
§
27-1703.   Definitions
§
27-1704.   Establishment of Airport Zones
§
27-1705.   Permit Applications
§
27-1706.   Variance
§
27-1707.   Use Restrictions
§
27-1708.   Pre-existing Nonconforming Uses
§
27-1709.   Obstruction Marking and Lighting
§
27-1710.   Violations and Penalties
§
27-1711.   Appeals
§
27-1712.   Conflicting Regulations
Part 1
General Provisions
§ 27-101.   Title.
   This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “1998 Zoning Ordinance
of the Township of Plains”, as amended.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 101)
§ 27-102.   Interpretation and Conflict.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this Chapter, they shall be
held to the minimum requirements for the protection and promotion of the public
health, safety, convenience, comfort, morals and general welfare of the
residents of Plains Township. In the event of any conflict in the application
of this Chapter with other applicable public or private provisions, the
following shall apply:
   A.   Public provisions. The regulations of this Chapter, are not intended to
interfere with or abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rules or regulations
previously adopted or previously issued by Plains Township which are not in
conflict with any provisions of this Chapter. Where this Chapter imposes a
greater restriction upon the use of land, structure or building than any other
previously adopted ordinance, rules or regulations of Plains Township, the
provisions of this Chapter shall apply.
   B.   Private provisions. The regulations of this Chapter are not intended to
interfere with or abrogate or annul any easement, covenant or other form of
private agreement or restriction, provided that where the provisions of this
Chapter impose a greater restriction, the requirements of this Chapter shall
govern. Plains Township shall not however be held responsible for knowledge
and/or enforcement of any private deed restriction, private covenant or other
form of private agreement which may be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Chapter and/or beyond the scope of regulations contained within this Chapter.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 102)
§ 27-103.   Compliance with Ordinance Required.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no land, building, structure or premises
shall hereafter be used, and no building or part thereof or other structure
shall be located, erected, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, converted,
altered or moved except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for
the zoning district in which it is located.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 103)
§ 27-104.   Purpose.
   This Chapter is enacted to accomplish the purposes enumerated in § 604 of
the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247, 53 P.S. § 10604, as
amended. The provisions of this Chapter are designed to achieve the following:
   A.   To promote, protect and facilitate one or more of the following: the
public health, safety, morals, general welfare, coordinated and practical
community development, proper density of population, emergency management
preparedness, airports and national defense facilities, the provisions of
adequate light and air, access to incident solar energy, police protection,
vehicle parking and loading space, transportation, water, sewage, schools,
recreational facilities, public grounds, the provision of a safe, reliable and
adequate water supply for domestic, commercial, agricultural or industrial use,
and other public requirements; as well as reservation of natural, scenic and
historic values in the environment and preservation of forests, wetlands,
aquifers and floodplains.
   B.   To prevent one or more of the following: overcrowding of land, blight,
danger and congestion in travel and transportation, loss of health, life or
property from fire, flood, panic or other dangers.
   C.   To preserve prime agriculture and farmland considering topography, soil
type and classification, and present use.
   D.   To provide for the use of land within the Township for residential
housing of various dwelling types encompassing all basic forms of housing,
including single-family and two-family dwellings and a reasonable range of
multi-family dwellings in various arrangements, mobile homes and mobile home
parks; provided, however, that this Chapter shall not be deemed invalid for the
failure to provide any other specific dwelling type.
   E.   To accommodate reasonable overall community growth, including
population and employment growth, and opportunities for development of a
variety of residential dwelling types and nonresidential uses.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 104)
§ 27-105.   Community Development Objectives.
   In addition to the community development objectives of the Township’s
Comprehensive Plan, the following shall be considered to represent supplemental
community development objectives of said plan:
   A.   Achieve the best use of land within the Township, ensuring that a
balanced pattern of development which emphasizes an efficient and compatible
arrangement of residential, commercial, industrial, open-space and public uses
intended to improve the economic and aesthetic character of community.
   B.   Continue to provide the best possible police protection, fire
protection and emergency medical service consistent with the community’s needs.
   C.   Coordinate land development with roadways and other public facilities
and utilities.
   D.   Maintain and improve Township roadways to eliminate identified
deficiencies.
   E.   Preserve adequate open space and conserve and protect the aesthetic
qualities of land in environmentally sensitive areas, including floodplains and
areas which have steep terrain.
   F.   Encourage and promote the provision of a wide range and variety of
housing types to meet the needs of all Township residents including, but not
limited to, newly formed households, growing families and senior citizens.
   G.   To ensure all new development provides adequate measures to control
storm drainage and soil erosion and sedimentation.
   H.   To facilitate proper reuse collection and disposal at reasonable cost
and to achieve maximum recycling of solid wastes, and to prevent illegal
dumping which causes degradation to the environment and to the appearance of
the community.
   I.   To periodically review and revise planning goals and objectives, and
the operational tools necessary for implementation in light of new data and
conditions.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 105)
Part 2
Definitions
§ 27-201.   Application and Interpretation.
   The definition of words included herein are provided to facilitate the
interpretation of this Chapter for administrative and enforcement purposes.
Unless expressly stated otherwise, within the context of the Chapter, the
following shall apply:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   B.   The word “person” shall include a profit or nonprofit corporation,
company, partnership, individual or single proprietorship.
   C.   The words “used” or “occupied” as applied to any land or building shall
include the words “intended”, “arranged” or “designed” to be used or occupied.
   D.   The word “building” shall include “part thereof” and “structure”.
   E.   The word “lot” shall include “plot” or “parcel”.
   F.   The word “shall” is always mandatory.
   G.   The singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the
singular.
   H.   The masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter.
   I.   The word “street” shall include “road”, “highway” and “lane”.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 201)
§ 27-202.   Definition of Terms.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words, terms and phrases have
the meaning indicated herein:
   Abandonment–to cease or discontinue a use or activity without intent to
resume, but excluding temporary or short-term interruptions to a use or
activity during periods of remodeling, maintaining, or otherwise improving or
rearranging a facility, subject to completion of the work within one year from
the issuance of a building permit.
   Abutting–having a common border with, or being separated from such a common
border by a right-of-way, alley or easement.
   Access–a way or means of approach to provide physical ingress and/or egress
to a property.
   Accessory structure–a subordinate structure detached from but located on the
same lot as the principal structure, the use of which is incidental and
accessory to that of the principal structure.
   Accessory use–a use incidental to, and on the same lot as, a principal use.
   Adjoining property–a property having a contiguous property boundary with a
separate property, including properties with any amount of opposite front, rear
or side yard areas that are separated by a right-of-way, alley or easement.
[Ord. 2009-5B]
   After hours–a use with the hours of operation from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
offering any form of entertainment which may include but is not limited to
music and dancing that is operated for profit or pecuniary gain which has a
capacity for ten or more persons which does not serve or allow consumption of
any alcoholic beverages upon premises. [Ord. 2016-1]
   Alley–a public right-of-way intended and/or used as a secondary means of
access to abutting property.
   Alteration–any change, addition or modification in construction or occupancy
of an existing structure.
   Alteration, structural–any change in the supporting members of a building or
structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   Amendment–a change in the regulations and provisions of this Chapter,
including changes to boundaries of zoning districts as provided upon the Zoning
Map.
   Antenna, commercial–a device used for to collect and/or transmit
telecommunication signals, radio signals, television signals, wireless phone
signals or similar signals in association with a commercial enterprise, which
may or may not be regulated by the FCC (Federal Communications Commission).
   Antenna support structure, commercial–a tower, pole, mast or similar
structure which supports equipment used to transmit and/or receive
telecommunication signals, radio signals, television signals, wireless phone
signals or similar signals in association with a commercial enterprise.
   Automobile wrecking yard (see also “junkyards”)–the dismantling or wrecking
of used motor vehicles or trailers, or the storage, sale, or dumping of
dismantled or wrecked vehicles or their parts. The presence on any lot or
parcel of land of two or more motor vehicles, which, for a period exceeding 30
days, have not been capable of operating under their own power and from which
parts have been or are to be removed for reuse or sale, shall constitute prima
facie evidence of an automobile wrecking yard.
   Automotive sales–the use of any building, structure or land, other than a
street, for the display and sale or rental of motor vehicles, which are in
operable condition. The owner/operator of this business must have a valid state
license for the sale or rental of such motor vehicles. Any related repair shall
be conducted within an enclosed building and shall be an accessory use.
   Bakery, retail–a retail limited bakery primarily serving individual public
consumers.
   Bakery, wholesale–a business processing and producing bakery products
primarily for retail bakeries as opposed to individual consumers.
   Basement–that portion of a building that is partly or completely below
grade. A basement shall be counted as a story if the vertical distance from the
average adjoining grade to the ceiling is five feet or greater.
   Bed and breakfast–a private owner occupied residence with one of three
guestrooms. The bed and breakfast is subordinate and incidental to the main
residential use of the structure. Individual guest are prohibited from staying
at a bed and breakfast for more than 14 days in any one year period. [Ord.
2016-1]
   Boarding house or rooming house–a structure or portion thereof which
contains rooming units which are rented or leased, with the occupants of said
units being nontransient, and utilizing said location as a legal place of
residence. The term “boarding house or rooming house” shall specifically
exclude the following:
   (1)   Dwelling.
   (2)   Dwelling unit.
   (3)   Motel and/or hotel.
   (4)   Group residence.
   Bottle club–an establishment operated for profit or pecuniary gain which has
a capacity for the assemblage of ten or more persons and in which alcoholic
liquors, alcohol or malt or brewed beverages are not legally sold but where
alcoholic liquors, alcohol or malt or brewed beverages are either provided by
the operator or agents or employees of the operator for consumption on the
premises or are brought into or kept at the establishment by the patrons or
persons assembling there for use and consumption. The term shall not include a
license under the Act of April 12, 1951 (P.L. 90, No. 21) known as the “Liquor
Code,” 47 P.S. §§
1-101 et seq., or any organization as set forth in § 6 of the Act of December
19, 1990 (P.L. 1200, No. 202) known as the “Solicitation of Funds for
Charitable Purposes Act,” 10 P.S. §§ 162.1 et seq.. Said club shall not include
a restaurant as defined in this Section. [Ord. 2016-1]
   Buffer area–a method of improvements designed to separate and substantially
obstruct the view of two adjacent land uses or properties from one another. For
the purpose of this Chapter when a buffer area is required it shall be deemed
represent a fence or stone wall with cork fitting, eight feet in height with
two staggered rows of evergreen trees planted in front of the fence with the
spacing distance between trees not less than eight feet or greater than ten
feet. Said trees shall be not less than eight feet in height at the time of
planting.
   Building–any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or property.
   Building, accessory–a subordinate structure on the same lot as the principal
or main building or use occupied or devoted to a use incidental to the
principal use.
   Building coverage–the horizontal area measured within the outside of the
exterior walls of the ground floor of all principal and accessory buildings on
a lot.
   Building height–the vertical distance of a building measure from the average
elevation of the proposed finished grade within 20 feet of the structure to the
highest point of the roof for flat roofs; to the deck line of mansard roofs and
to the average height between eaves and the ridge for gable, hip and gambrel
roofs.
   Building, principal–a building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is located.
   Caregiver–the individual designated by a patient to deliver medical
marijuana. [Ord. 2018-7]
   Carport–a roofed structure opened on two or more sides and used for the
storage of private motor vehicles. It may be constructed as a separate
accessory structure or part of the principal structure.
   Car wash–an area of land and/or a structure with machine or hand-operated
facilities used principally for the interior and/or exterior cleaning, washing,
polishing or waxing of motor vehicles.
   Cellar–the portion of any building which is located partly underground, but
having one-half or more of its height, measured from finished floor grade to
finished ceiling, below the average grade of the adjoining land. A cellar shall
not be counted as a story for the purposes of administering height regulations
of this Chapter.
   Cemetery–land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead and
dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums and
mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the boundaries of such
cemetery.
   Certificate of zoning compliance–the certificate (sometimes called
“occupancy permit”) issued by the Zoning Officer after he or she has inspected
any structure, building, sign and/or land or portion thereof for which a zoning
permit was issued in order to determine compliance with the terms of the permit
and this Chapter before the structure, building, sign and/or land or portion
thereof can be lawfully used and/or occupied.
   Certified medical use–the acquisition, possession, use or transportation of
medical marijuana by a patient, or the acquisition, possession, delivery,
transportation or administration of medical marijuana by a caregiver, for use
as part of the treatment of the patient's serious medical condition, as
authorized in a certification under the Pennsylvania Medical Marijuana Act, Pa
Act 16 of 2016, including enabling the patient to tolerate treatment for the
serious medical condition. [Ord. 2018-7]
   Change of use–any use which differs from the previous use of a building,
structure or land.
   Child care facility–
   Child care services–the provision of out-of-home care for children for part
of a 24-hour day, excluding the care provided by relatives.
   Family child care center–a residential structure in which child care
services are provided for more than six but less than 12 children, at any one
time, where the child care areas are also used as a portion of a family
residence.
   Group child care home–a structure in which child care services are provided
for seven or more children at any one time, where the child care areas within
the structure are not jointly used as a portion of a family residence.
   Chimney–a vertical structure containing one or more flues for drawing off
emissions from a stationary source of combustion, including, but not limited
to, those attached to an outdoor fuel furnace. [Ord. 2007-5A]
   Church–(see “place of worship”).
   Clean wood–natural wood that has no paint, or other types of coatings, and
natural wood that has not been treated with, including but not limited to,
copper chromium arsenate, creosote or pentachlorophenol. [Ord. 2009-5B]
   Clear sight triangle–an area of unobstructed vision at street intersections
defined by lines of sight between points at a given distance from the “corner”
so as not to interfere with traffic visibility across the corner.
   Clinic–a facility comprised of professional offices, for the examination and
treatment of persons as outpatients by physicians, dentists or other licensed
medical specialists, in which said medical practitioners work in cooperative
association. Said clinics may provide medical services customarily available at
hospitals, excluding overnight care of patients and 24-hour emergency service.
   Club–buildings or facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association
or persons for a social, educational or recreational purpose; but not primarily
for profit or to render a service that is customarily carried on as a business.
   Commercial, retail–sale or rental with incidental service of commonly used
goods and merchandise for personal or household use but excludes those
classified more specifically by definition. [Ord. 2007-5A]
   Commercial use–an occupation, employment or enterprise that is carried on
for profit by the owner, lessee or licensee.
   Common open space–a parcel or parcels of land, which may include an area of
water, within a development site and designated and intended for the use or
enjoyment of residents of a planned residential development, exclusive of
streets, off-street parking areas and areas set aside for public facilities.
   Community center–a place, structure, area or other facility used for and
providing religious, fraternal, social and/or recreational programs generally
open to the public and designed to accommodate and serve significant segments
of the community.
   Conditional use–a use that, owing to some special characteristics attendant
to its operation or installation, is permitted in a zoning district subject to
approval by the Board of Commissioners and subject to special requirements,
different from those usual requirements for the zoning district in which the
conditional use may be located.
   Condominium–a building, or group of buildings, in which units are owned
individually, and the structure, common areas and facilities are owned by all
the owners on a proportional, undivided basis.
   Continuing care facility–
   (1)   An age-restricted residential development, as defined in current state
licensing requirements, designed, operated and maintained to provide a
continuum of accommodations and care for retired adults that may include:
   (a)   Independent dwelling units.
   (b)   Skilled nursing facilities.
   (c)   Intermediate care facilities.
   (d)   Personal care facilities.
   (2)   A continuing care facility may also include supporting services and
facilities that encompass dinning, recreational and social activities limited
to residents within said facility.
[Ord. 2003-4]
   Contractor’s storage–a lot, building, or part thereof, used to store
materials used by a contractor in the construction of a road, highway,
structure or building, landscaping or utilities.
   Convenience store–any retail establishment offering for sale prepackaged
food products, household items and other goods commonly associated with the
same.
   Convenience store with gas sales–any retail establishment offering for sale
prepackaged food products, household items and other goods commonly associated
with the same, along with the retail sales of gasoline and related fuel
products.
   Convention center–a facility designed to accommodate 300 or more persons and
used for conventions, conferences, seminars, product displays, recreation
activities and entertainment functions, along with accessory functions
including temporary outdoor displays, and food and beverage preparation and
service for on-premises consumption. [Ord. 2007-5A]
   County Planning Commission–the Planning Commission of Luzerne County.
   Critical areas–an area with one or more of the following characteristics:
stream corridors, streams, floodplain areas, wetlands, slopes which equal or
exceed 15 percent, soils classified as highly acidic or highly erodible, soils
classified as having a high water table, land and associated soils which
display poor percolation, mature stands of native vegetation and aquifer
recharge and discharge area.
   Day care center–a structure in which child care services are provided for
seven or more children at any one time, where the child care areas within the
structure are not jointly used as a portion of a family residence.
   Day care facility–a facility for the provision of out-of-home care for
children for part of a 24-hour day, excluding the care provided by relatives,
and licensed as such by the state.
   Day care home–a residential structure in which child care services are
provided for more than six but not less than 12 children, at any one time,
where the child care areas are also used as a portion of a family residence.
   Day care services–the provision of out-of-home care for children for part of
a 24-hour day, excluding the care provided by relatives.
   Decision–final adjudication of any board or other body granted jurisdiction
under any land use ordinance or this act to do so, either by reason of the
grant of exclusive jurisdiction or by reason of appeals from determinations.
All decisions shall be subject to appeal to the Court of Common Pleas of
Luzerne County.
   Density–the number of dwelling units permitted per net unit of land.
   Determination–
   (1)   Final action by an officer, body or agency charged with the
administration of any land use ordinance or applications thereunder, except the
following:
   (a)   The Board of Commissioners.
   (b)   The Zoning Hearing Board.
   (c)   The Planning Commission, only if and to the extent the Planning
Commission is charged with final decision on preliminary or final plans under
the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22] or planned residential development provisions.
   (2)   Determinations may be appealed only to the boards designated as having
jurisdiction for such appeal.
   Development–any human-made improvements to improved or unimproved real
estate. The construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration,
relocation or enlargement of any building or structure, any mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling, land disturbance and any use or
extension of the use of land shall be deemed to constitute a development.
   District–(see “zoning district”).
   Dry cleaner, retail–a retail limited-processing dry cleaner primarily.
   Dwelling–one or more rooms, designed, occupied or intended for occupancy as
separated living quarters, with cooking, sleeping and sanitary facilities
provided within the dwelling unit for the exclusive use of a single family
maintaining a household.
   Dwelling, multiple–a building containing three or more dwelling units
entirely separated by vertical walls or horizontal floors, unpierced except by
access to the outside or to a common cellar. The term “townhouse” is excluded
under this term (see definition of “townhouse”).
   Dwelling, single-family–a detached building arranged or used for occupancy
by one family. A mobile home or similar manufactured housing unit which
permanently attached and anchored to a permanent foundation shall be deemed to
be a single-family dwelling unit
   Dwelling, two-family–a detached or semidetached building where not more than
two individual family or dwelling units are entirely separated by vertical
walls or horizontal floors, unpierced except by access to the outside or to a
common cellar.
   Mobile home–a transportable, single-family dwelling intended for permanent
occupancy, contained in one unit, or in two or more units designed to be joined
into one integral unit capable of again being separated for repeated towing,
which arrives at a site complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, and constructed so that it may be
used without a permanent foundation.
   Townhouse–a residential structure constructed as a single entity containing
a row of more than two single-family attached dwelling units but not more than
seven single-family attached dwelling units, whereby each unit may be sold as
an individual single-family attached unit, with each unit having a lot under
individual or association ownership. Each unit shall have its own front and
rear access to the outside and may have a common or public open space, such as
an off-street parking area, yard area, recreational area or similar common
area. No dwelling units shall be located over another unit and each unit shall
be separated from another unit by one or more party walls without openings.
[Ord. 2007-5A]
   Dwelling unit–one or more rooms physically arranged so as to create an
independent housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one family with
separate bathroom, toilet and sanitary facilities and facilities for cooking
and sleeping for exclusive use by the family residing therein.
   Easement–a grant of one or more of the property rights by the property owner
to and/or for the use by the public, a corporation or another person or entity.
   Entertainment facilities–commercial establishments engaged in providing
entertainment such as an arcade, bowling alley, billiard hall, amusement park,
skating rink, water park, water-themed amenities or similar facility, as well
as general entertainment events, including, but not limited to, outdoor
concerts, fireworks, sporting events and festivals. [Ord. 2007-5A]
   Environmental impact statement–a report and/or series of reports on the
effect of a proposed development or major action which may significantly affect
the environment and associated features thereunder.
   Excavation–removal or recovery by any means whatsoever of soil, rock,
minerals, mineral substances or organic substances other than vegetation, from
water or land on or beneath the surface thereof, or beneath the land surface,
whether exposed or submerged.
   Family–one or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living together as
a single nonprofit housekeeping unit. Foster children placed into the care and
custody of a family shall be deemed to be a member of the family. A group in
excess of four individuals who are not related by blood, marriage or legal
adoption, shall not be deemed to constitute a family.
   Flood–the temporary inundation of normally dry land.
   Flood, 100-year–a flood that on the average is likely to occur once every
100 years, i.e., that has a one percent chance of occurring each year, although
the flood may occur in any year.
   Floodplain–a relatively flat or low land area which is subject to partial or
complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river or watercourse;
and/or any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of surface water
from any source.
   Floodproofing–any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to properties and structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to property, structures and contents of buildings.
   Floodway–the channel of a river, stream or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the 100-year
flood within cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one
foot at any point.
   Floor area, gross–the sum of the total horizontal areas of the several
floors of all buildings on a lot, measured from the interior faces of exterior
walls.
   Floor area ratio–determined by dividing the gross floor area of all
buildings on a lot by the area of that lot.
   Forestry–(also see “timbering harvesting”) the management of forests and
timberlands when practiced in accordance with accepted silvicultural
principles, through developing, cultivating, harvesting, transporting and
selling trees for commercial purposes which does not involve any land
development. [Ord. 2007-5A]
   Frontage–the length of any one property line of a premises, which property
line abuts a legally accessible street right-of-way.
   Funeral home–a building or part thereof used for human funeral services.
Such building may contain space and facilities for:
   (1)   Embalming and the performance of other services used in preparation of
the dead for burial;
   (2)   The performance of autopsies and other surgical procedures;
   (3)   The storage of caskets, funeral urns and other related funeral
supplies; and
   (4)   The storage of funeral vehicles, but shall not include facilities for
cremation.
   Garage, private–a noncommercial building for the private use of the owner or
occupant of a principal building situated on the same lot of the principal
building for the storage of motor vehicles with no facilities for mechanical
service or repair of a commercial or public nature.
   Garage, repair–a building designed and used for the storage, care, repair or
refinishing of motor vehicles including both minor and major mechanical
overhauling, paint and body work.
   Garden apartments–two or more multi-family residential structures, each
containing more than two but not more than eight dwelling units, having a
common hallway for entrance into such dwelling units.
   Gas station–a property or a portion thereof where gasoline as fuel is stored
and dispensed from fixed equipment into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles. Such
an establishment may offer for sale at retail other convenience items as a
clearly secondary activity and may also include a freestanding automatic car
wash. [Ord. 2007-5A]
   Gas station, limited-service–a facility limited to retail sales to the
public of gasoline, motor oil, lubricants, motor fuels, travel aides and minor
automobile accessories. In addition, such a facility may provide minor vehicle
servicing, minor repairs and maintenance, including engine rebuilding but not
reconditioning of motor vehicles, collision services such as body, frame or
fender straightening and repair, or overall painting of automobiles. [Ord.
2007-5A]
   General nuisance–
   (1)   Any use considered to be inconsistent with the public comfort,
convenience, health, safety and general welfare, including the following: fire
and explosion hazards; electrical and radioactive disturbances; noise and
vibration; dust, dirt and fly ash; glare; smoke and odors; and other forms of
air pollution.
   (2)   Any use operated or conducted in manner which directly or indirectly
endangers the public health safety and/or welfare, including, but not limited
to, having a detrimental effect on an adjoining property or use of property
and/or the community.
   (3)   A property in a continuing state of disrepair that is not fit for
human habitation and/or occupancy with the potential to attract vermin and/or
deemed to be a fire hazard to adjoining properties.
   (4)   A property that contains trash, junk and/or one or more inoperable
motor vehicles.
[Ord. 2009-5B]
   Governing body–the Board of Commissioners of Plains Township, Luzerne
County, Pennsylvania.
   Group residence–a dwelling unit which is shared under congregate living
arrangements by three persons or more, who are residents of the dwelling unit
by virtue of their need to receive supervised services limited to health,
social and/or rehabilitative services provided by a person or persons or their
licensed or certified agents, a governmental agency or their licensed or
certified agents, a responsible corporation or their licensed or certified
agents, a partnership or limited partnership or their licensed or certified
agents or any other legal entity. Such services shall be provided on a
continuous basis in a family-like environment to persons who are in need of
supervision and/or specialized services in a residential setting:
      (1)   The following shall not be deemed to constitute a group residence:
         (a)   A boarding home and/or a personal care boarding home.
         (b)   A facility providing shelter and/or rehabilitative care or
treatment of persons for alcoholism and/or an addiction to a controlled
substance.
         (c)   A facility for persons released from or under the jurisdiction
of a governmental bureau of corrections or similar institution.
      (2)   A group residence is use by special exception in Zones B-1 and B-
3 Zones. Any request for zoning application will also require the following
information to the Zoning Officer.
         (a)   In a narrative form, a statement of the proposed use, including
its location, number of residents, name, telephone number and contact person of
the sponsoring agency.
         (b)   Proof of all required approvals, permits and licenses that are
necessary and/or have been granted from the Federal, State and County
governments or other public agencies.
         (c)   The group residence shall comply with all zoning regulations in
the district in which it intends to, and is approved to, be located.
         (d)   All information that is required by the Township of Plains
Zoning and Code Enforcement shall be provided prior to issuing any permit,
occupancy permit, or certificate of zoning compliance.
         (e)   The group residence shall maintain a similar appearance,
condition and character to existing dwellings and or structures in the
immediate vicinity of the group residence.
         (f)   Occupants of the group residence shall live as a family unit.
   Grower and processor of medical marijuana–a person that holds a permit from
the Department of Health to grow and process medical marijuana. The term
includes a research center administering a medical marijuana research program.
[Ord. 2018-7]
   Halfway houses–a facility for the housing, rehabilitation and training of
three persons or more on probation, parole or early release from a county,
state or federal correctional institution.
      (1)   A halfway house shall be a use, by special exception in Zones B-
1 and B-3, directly affiliated with a parent institution or organization that
shall provide full-time supervision and administration to the residents of the
house.
      (2)   A common food preparation and dining area must be provided; no food
preparation or dining facilities shall be provided in individual rooms or
suites.
      (3)   The residents of the halfway house shall reside on the premises to
benefit from the services provided.
      (4)   The halfway house shall not be located within 1,000 feet of any
religious structure, public recreation facility, school facility, day-care
center or public library.
      (5)   The halfway house shall not be located within 1,000 feet of another
halfway house.
      (6)   Each special exception application shall be accompanied by a
statement describing the following:
         (a)   the configuration of the halfway house;
         (b)   the policies and goals of the halfway house and the means
proposed to accomplish those goals;
         (c)   the characteristics of the residents and number of residents to
be served;
         (d)   the operating methods and procedures to be used; and
         (e)   any other facts relevant to the proposed operation of the
halfway houses.
      (7)   Any permit granted for the halfway house shall be bound to the type
and number of offenders listed in the application. Any change in the type or
number of offenders being housed shall require a new hearing before the
Township of Plains Board of Commissioners. [Ord. 2018-9]
   Hazardous substances–any material that, by reason of its quantity,
concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may:
   (1)   Cause, or significantly contribute to, an increase in mortality or an
increase in a serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness.
   (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the
environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   This definition shall be deemed to include radioactive material and medical
waste.
   Health/recreation facility–an indoor facility including uses such as game
courts, exercise equipment, locker rooms and related facilities.
   Height–the vertical distance to the highest point of the roof for flat
roofs; to the deck line of mansard roofs; and to the average height between
eaves and the ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs, measured from the curb
level if the building is not more than ten feet from the front lot line or from
the grade in all other cases.
   Height of antenna support structure, commercial–the vertical distance
measured from the base of the antenna support structure to the highest point of
the structure. If the support structure is located on a sloped grade, then the
average between the highest and lowest grades shall be used in calculating the
antenna height.
   Highway occupancy permit–a permit, issued by the Pennsylvania Department of
Transportation, the Luzerne County Road and Bridge Department or Plains
Township which authorizes access from a parcel of land onto a highway, road or
street which is under the respective jurisdiction of the above entities.
   Home occupation–an occupation, profession, activity or use that is clearly a
customary, incidental and secondary use of a residential dwelling unit and
which does not alter the exterior of the property or affect the residential
character of the neighborhood.
   Horse racing facility with related wagering–a facility licensed by the
Pennsylvania Horse Racing Commission, State Harness Racing Commission or other
agency of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to offer, for public inspection and
amusement, on-site horse racing events with on-site related wagering thereupon.
In addition, this use may also include:
   (1)   The conduct of other occasional special events;
   (2)   Accessory uses (including, but not limited to, eateries, exhibits,
parking structures and shops);
   (3)   Resident employee and guest lodging services for both humans and
animals incidental to the visit of stay on the site;
   (4)   Veterinary care for animals kept of visiting the site; and
   (5)   At such time as permitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the
conduct of slot machine and other types of gaming. [Ord. 2007-5A]
   Hospital–an institution specializing in giving clinical, temporary and
emergency services of a medical or surgical nature to human patients and
injured persons, and licensed by state law to provide facilities and services
in surgery, obstetrics and general medical practice.
   Hotel–(also see “motel”) a facility offering transient lodging
accommodations on a daily rate to the general public and providing additional
services, such as restaurants, meeting rooms and recreational facilities.
   Impact analysis–a study and/or report, which may be required at the
discretion of the Board of Commissioners prior to approval of a conditional use
or by the Zoning Hearing Board prior to approval a special exception use, to
determine the potential impact of the proposed use on activities, utilities,
traffic generation and circulation, surrounding land uses, community
facilities, environmental features, critical areas, the public health, safety
and welfare and other factors directly, indirectly or potentially affected. The
applicant shall be responsible for all costs related to the any and all reports
and/or studies required by the Board of Commissioners or Zoning Hearing Board
under or within the context of the term “impact analysis”. The landowner and/or
applicant shall also be responsible to fully reimburse Plains Township for any
and all engineering and or other consulting fees which are incurred for the
review of any required impact studies or reports for a conditional use.
   Impervious material–any material and/or development that substantially
reduces or prevents the infiltration of stormwater into previously undeveloped
land. Impervious surfaces shall include, but may not be limited to, buildings,
roofs, surfaced, graveled or compacted parking areas, streets, sidewalks,
driveways and similar vehicular and/or pedestrian rights-of-way.
   Improvements–human-made physical additions, alterations and/or changes which
become part of, placed upon or affixed to real estate.
   Industry, heavy–a use engaged in the basic processing and manufacturing of
materials or products predominately from extracted or raw materials, or a use
engaged in storage of, or manufacturing processes using flammable or explosive
materials, or storage or manufacturing processes that potentially involve
hazardous or commonly recognized offensive conditions.
   Industry, light–a use engaged in the manufacture, predominantly from
previously prepared materials, of finished products or parts, including
processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, packaging, incidental storage,
sales and distribution of such products, but excluding basic industrial
processing.
      Institutional use–a structure or facility which provides medical, health,
educational, social and/or rehabilitative services to three persons or more on
a continuous and/or regular basis. This use shall exclude a facility for
persons released from or under the jurisdiction of a governmental bureau of
corrections or similar institution and public schools and private schools (as
defined in this section). If a word is not defined in this chapter, the term
shall have its plain and    ordinary meaning within the context of the
provision as defined in a standard dictionary.
   Intermediate-care facility–a facility, as defined under current state
licensing requirements, that provides nursing care and related medical or other
personal health services to patients on a planned program of care and
administrative management, supervised on a continuous 24-hour basis in an
institutional setting. [Ord. 2003-4]
   Junk–old, dilapidated, scrap or abandoned metal, paper, building material
and equipment, bottles, glass, appliances, furniture, beds and bedding, rags,
rubber, motor vehicles and parts thereof
   Junkyard (see also “automobile wrecking yard”)–an open area where wastes or
used or secondhand materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, processed or
handled. Materials shall include, but are not limited to, scrap iron and other
metals, paper, rags, rubber tires and bottles. An automobile wrecking yard is
also considered a junkyard.
   Land development–the improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots,
tracts or parcels of land for any purpose involving:
   (1)   A group of two or more residential or nonresidential buildings,
whether proposed initially or cumulatively.
   (2)   A single nonresidential building on a lot or lots with two or more
occupants regardless of their tenure.
   (3)   A single nonresidential building, designed or intended for a single
occupant, with a minimum gross floor area of not less than 5,000 square feet,
excluding agricultural buildings and/or structures.
   (4)   Any nonresidential use of land, with or without structures, which
encompasses two or more acres of land, including grading and/or the backfilling
of land, earth moving activities, and/or removal of vegetative cover.
Agricultural uses of land and/or related agricultural activities shall be
specifically excluded.
   (5)   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially or
cumulatively, between or among two or more existing or prospective occupants by
means of, or for the purpose of streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups or other features.
   (6)   The conversion of an existing single-family detached dwelling or
single-family semidetached dwelling into more than three residential units. Any
conversion, described above, which results in not more than three residential
units shall be deemed as a land development if the units are intended to be a
condominium.
   (7)   The development of a mobile home park or the expansion of an existing
mobile home park.
   (8)   A single residential structure containing more than five residential
units.
   The development of any accessory building, including farm buildings, on a
lot or lots which are subordinate to an existing principal building shall not
be classified as a “land development”.
   Land development, major–a land development which does not qualify or
classify as a minor land development.
   Land development, minor–a development of a parcel of land which contains not
more than two detached single-family residential structures, whether developed
initially or cumulatively.
   Landowner–the legal or beneficial owner or owners of land including the
holder of an option or contract to purchase (whether or not such option or
contract is subject to any condition), a lessee if he or she is authorized
under the lease to exercise the rights of the landowner, or other person having
a propriety interest in land.
   Laundromat, self service–a business that provides home-type washing, drying,
and/or ironing machines for hire to be used by customers on the premises.
   Laundry, commercial industrial–a business that provides washing, drying and
ironing services operated by the employees on the premises.
   Lot–a designated parcel, tract or area of land established by a plat or
otherwise as permitted by law and to be used, developed or built upon as a
unit, for principal and accessory buildings or structures.
   Lot area–the total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot.
   Lot, corner–a lot abutting on and at the intersection of two or more
streets.
   Lot coverage–determined by dividing that area of a lot which is occupied or
covered by the total horizontal projected surface of all buildings, including
covered porches and accessory buildings and structures including impervious
surfaces, by the gross area of that lot. [A.O.]
   Lot depth–the average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   Lot line–a line dividing one lot from another lot or from a street or alley.
   Lot line, rear–the lot line not intersecting a front lot line that is most
distant from and most closely parallel to the front lot line. A lot bounded by
only three lot lines will not have a rear lot line.
   Lot line, side–any lot line not a front or rear lot line.
   Lot of record–a lot which exists as shown or described upon a plat or deed
and duly recorded in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of Luzerne County,
Pennsylvania, on the effective date of the adoption of this Chapter.
   Lot, through–a lot having its front and rear yards each abutting on a
street.
   Lot width–the horizontal distance between side lot lines, measured at the
required front setback line.
   Manufactured home–a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built upon a chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term shall include
park trailers, travel trailers, recreational and other similar vehicles placed
upon a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   Manufactured home park–a parcel, or contiguous parcels of land, which has
been planned and improved for the placement of two or more manufactured homes.
   Mediation–a voluntary negotiating process in which parties in a dispute
mutually select a neutral mediator to assist them in jointly exploring and
settling their differences, culminating in a written agreement which the
parties themselves create and consider acceptable.
   Medical marijuana–marijuana for certified medical use under the Pennsylvania
Medical Marijuana Act, Pa Act 16 of 2016. [Ord. 2018-7]
   Medical marijuana dispensary–a person that holds a permit issued by the
Department of Health to dispense medical marijuana. [Ord. 2018-7]
   Medical marijuana facility–a medical marijuana dispensary or a grower and
processor of medical marijuana. [Ord. 2018-7]
   Medical marijuana trucking facility–a structure, building or land used to
store trucks or delivery vehicles for transporting marijuana plants, seeds or
other raw materials to a medical marijuana facility, or transporting waste
generated from a medical marijuana facility for disposal to a facility
authorized in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to accept such waste. [Ord.
2018-7]
   Medical marijuana waste facility–the storage, management and disposal of
solid and liquid waste byproducts or remnants generated during the growing and
processing of medical marijuana, but not part of the final product. [Ord. 2018-
7]
   Methadone treatment facility–a facility licensed by the Pennsylvania
Department of Health to use the drug methadone in the treatment, maintenance or
detoxification of persons. [Ord. 2003-4]
   Mobile home–a transportable, single-family dwelling intended for permanent
occupancy, contained in one unit, or in two or more units designed to be joined
into one integral unit capable of again being separated for repeated towing,
which arrives at a site complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, and constructed so that it may be
used without a permanent foundations.
   Mobile home lot–a parcel of land in a mobile home park, improved with the
necessary utility connections and other appurtenances necessary for the
erections thereon of a single mobile home.
   Mobile home park–a parcel or contiguous parcels of land which has been so
designated and improved that it contains two or more mobile home lots for the
placement thereon of mobile homes.
   Motel (see also “hotel”)–a building or group of buildings containing
apartments and/or rooming units, each of which maintains a separate outside
entrance. Such building or group of buildings is designed, intended, or used
primarily for the accommodations of automobile travelers and provides
automobile parking conveniently located on the premises.
   Motor vehicle, inoperable–a car, truck, bus or van that cannot be started
and moved under its own power. A vehicle that is not currently licensed,
including a recreational vehicle or trailer that is designed for travel on the
public roads is also considered an inoperable vehicle. [Ord. 2009-5B]
   Municipality–the Township of Plains, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania.
   Night club–a commercial establishment dispensing alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises, and in which entertainment and dancing are
permitted, including the term “cabaret”. [Ord. 2007-5A]
   No-impact home-based business–a business or commercial activity administered
or conducted as an accessory use which is clearly secondary to the use as a
residential dwelling, and which involves no customer, client or patient
traffic, whether vehicular or pedestrian, pick-up, delivery or removal
functions to or from the premises in excess with those normally associated with
a residential use. The business or commercial activity must also comply with
the applicable supplemental requirements contained in Part 8 of this Chapter.
[Ord. 2007-5A]
   Nonconforming lot–a lot the area or dimension of which was lawful prior to
the adoption or amendment of a zoning ordinance, but which fails to conform to
the requirements of the zoning district in which it is located by reasons of
such adoption or amendment.
   Nonconforming structure–a structure or part of a structure manifestly not
designed to comply with the applicable use or extent of use provisions in this
Chapter or amendment heretofore or hereafter enacted, where such structure
lawfully existed prior to the enactment of such ordinance or amendment or prior
to the application of such ordinance or amendment to its location by reason of
annexation. Such nonconforming structures include, but are not limited to,
nonconforming signs.
   Nonconforming use–a use, whether of land or of structure, which does not
comply with the applicable use provisions in this Chapter or amendment
heretofore or hereafter enacted, where such use was lawfully in existence prior
to the enactment of such ordinance or amendment to its location by reason of
annexation.
   Offices–
   Professional office–an office (other than a service office) for the practice
of professions, such as the offices of physicians, dentists, attorneys-at-law,
architects, veterinarians, engineers, artists, musicians, teachers and others
who, through training, are qualified to perform services of a professional
nature.
   Service office–an office in which are offered services by real estate
agents, travel agents, insurance agents, accountants, public stenographers,
brokers or others who, through training, are duly qualified to perform services
of an executive nature as distinguished from a professional office.
   Open space–an area that is intended to provide light and air, and is
designed for either environmental, scenic or recreational purposes. Open space
may include, but is not limited to, lawns, decorative planting, walkways,
active and passive recreation areas, playgrounds, fountains, swimming pools,
wooded areas, and watercourses. Open space shall not be deemed to include
driveways, parking lots, or other surfaces designed or intended for vehicular
travel.
   Outdoor storage–the keeping, in an unroofed area, of any goods, material,
merchandise, equipment or vehicles which are related to the operation of a
commercial business, excluding the storage of solid waste, hazardous
substances, refuse, junk, junked vehicles discarded and/or any inoperative
durable items.
   Outdoor wood-fired boiler–
   (1)   A fuel-burning device designed:
   (a)   To burn clean wood or other approved solid fuels;
   (b)   By the manufacturer specifically for outdoor installation or
installation in structures not normally intended for habitation by humans or
domestic animals (e.g., garages); and
   (c)   To heat building space and/or water via distribution, typically
through pipes of a fluid heated in the device, typically water or a water/
antifreeze mixture.
   (2)   Outdoor wood-fired boilers are also known as outdoor wood-fired
furnaces, outdoor wood-burning appliances or outdoor hydronic heaters and the
like. [Ord. 2009-5B]
   Parcel–a continuous quantity of land in the possession of or owned by, or
recorded as the property of, the same person or persons.
   Parking lot–an area not within a building where motor vehicles may be stored
for the purposes of temporary, daily or overnight off-street parking.
   Parking, shared–the development and use of parking areas on two or more
separate properties for joint use by the business on those properties.
   Parking space–an unobstructed space or area other than a street or alley
that is permanently reserved and maintained for the parking of one motor
vehicle.
   Patient–an individual who:
      (1)   has a serious medical condition;
      (2)   has met the requirements for certification under this act; and
      (3)   is a resident of this Commonwealth. [Ord. 2018-7]
   Pawnshop–a business which loans money to a person in exchange for personal
property deposited as security. [Ord. 2005-5]
   Permitted use–any use which is specifically authorized in a particular
zoning district.
   Personal services–any enterprise conducted for gain, which primarily offers
services to the general public, such as shoe repair, valet service, watch
repairing, barber shops, beauty parlors and related activities.
   Personal-care home–a facility, as defined under current state licensing
requirements, in which food, shelter and personal assistance or supervision are
provided for a period exceeding 24 consecutive hours for more than three adults
who are not relatives of the operator of the facility and who require
assistance or supervision in such matters as dressing, bathing, diet or
medication prescribed for self administration but who do not require
hospitalization or care in a skilled nursing or intermediate care facility.
[Ord. 2003-4]
   Place of worship–a building used for religious services, including churches,
synagogues, mosques and similar edifices.
   Planned residential development–an area of land, controlled by a landowner,
to be developed as a single entity for a number of dwelling units, with a
development plan which does not correspond in lot size, bulk or type of
dwelling density, lot coverage and required open space to the regulations
established in any one residential district created, from time to time, under
the provisions of this Chapter.
   Planning Commission–the Planning Commission of Plains Township.
   Principal use–the main use of land or structures, as distinguished from a
secondary or accessory use.
   Print shop–a retail establishment that provides duplicating services using
photocopy, blueprint and offset printing equipment, including collating of
booklets and reports.
   Private–something owned, operated and supported by private individuals or a
corporation, rather than by government, and not available for public use.
   Public–something owned, operated and supported by the community or the
residents for the use and benefit of the general public.
   Public hearing–a formal meeting held pursuant to public notice by the Board
of Commissioners, Planning Commission or Zoning Hearing Board, which is
intended to inform and obtain public comment prior to taking action on a
particular subject matter or development.
   Public meeting–a forum held pursuant to notice under the Sunshine Act, 65
Pa.C.S.A. §§ 701 et seq. [A.O.]
   Public notice–notice published once each week for two successive weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Township. Such notice shall state the
time and place of the hearing and the particular nature of the matter to be
considered at the hearing. The first publication shall not be more than 30 days
and the second publication shall not be less than seven days from the date of
the hearing.
   Public uses–public parks and administrative, cultural and service buildings
excluding public land or buildings primarily devoted to the storage and
maintenance of equipment and materials.
   Public utility facilities (essential)–telephone, electric and cable
television lines, equipment structures; water or gas pipes, mains, valves or
other structures, pumping stations; telephone exchanges and all other
facilities, equipment and structures necessary for conducting a service by
public utility, under the jurisdiction of the Pennsylvania Public Utility
Commission, in accordance with § 619 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, Act 247, 53 P.S. § 10619, as amended.
   Recreational facilities, commercial–recreational facilities operated as a
business and open to the public for a fee.
   Recreational facilities, private–recreational facilities other than
commercial or public, not operated for a profit, and only open to its members
and their guests.
   Recreational facilities, public–recreational facilities operated as a
nonprofit enterprise by a governmental entity or a nonprofit organization, and
open to the general public.
   Report–any letter, review, memorandum, compilation or similar writing made
by any body, board, officer or consultant other than a solicitor to any other
body, board, officer or consultant for the purpose of assisting the recipient
of such report in the rendering of any decision or determination. All reports
shall be deemed to be a recommendation and advisory only and shall not be
binding upon the recipient, board, officer, body or agency, nor shall any
appeal lie therefrom. Any report used, received or considered by the body,
board, officer or agency rendering a determination or decision shall be made
available for inspection to the applicant and all other parties to any
proceedings upon request, with copies thereof provided at the cost of
reproduction.
   Research laboratory–a building or group of buildings in which are located
facilities for scientific research, investigation, testing or experimentation,
but not facilities for the manufacture or sale of products, except as
incidental to the main purpose of the laboratory.
   Residential neighborhood activity center–Use of a property where a
residential development as uses and/or facilities, including swimming pools,
tennis courts, playgrounds, club houses and other similar uses available to
residents of the development and their guests. [Ord. 2015-6]
   Restaurant–a business establishment whose principal business is the selling
of unpackaged food to the customer in a ready-to-consume state, in individual
servings, or in indispensable containers, and where the customer consumes these
foods while seated at tables or counters located within the building.
   Restaurant, fast-food–an establishment that offers quick food service, which
is accomplished through a limited menu of items already prepared or prepared,
fried, or grilled quickly, such as a microwave oven. Orders are not generally
taken at the customer’s table and food is generally served in disposable
wrapping or containers.
   Retail sale establishments–a commercial establishment selling products as
opposed to services or entertainment to the general public, which may include,
but is not limited to, such items as appliances; automotive parts and services;
building or plumbing supplies; crafts, fabrics and hobby supplies; clothing;
footwear; dairy products; electronic and/or computer products and equipment;
office supplies and copy services; floral arrangements; furniture; lawn and
garden supplies; groceries; hardware supplies; music products and supplies;
newspapers, books, periodicals and stationary products; paintings and
photography products and supplies; pet stores (including veterinary services
and overnight pet care facilities/boarding); pharmacy products; specialty
gifts; sporting goods and supplies, including, but not limited to, guns and
ammunition; membership/warehouse clubs such as Sam’s and Costco; home
improvement centers such as Lowe’s and Home Depot; outdoor/ camping/hunting and
fishing products, including the sale of all-terrain vehicles (ATV), off-road
vehicles (ORV), recreational vehicles (RV), boats, travel trailers and other
equipment of similar size whether engine operated or not; motor vehicle sales;
and other establishments selling similar related products, including periodic
promotional events. [Ord. 2015-6]
   Retail sales establishment, specialty–retail operations that specialize in
one type or line of merchandise. Such stores may include, but are not limited
to, apparel stores; electronic stores; greenhouse and plant nursery; jewelry
stores; vitamin/ health stores; bookstores; shoe stores; pet stores (including
veterinary services; beauty supply stores; paint stores; office supply stores;
grocery/organic/specialty food stores, including the sale of beer and wine;
sporting goods stores; stationary stores; liquor stores; hunting, camping and
fishing stores; movie theater; entertainment uses such as bowling alleys,
outdoor play centers, and game centers; telecommunication stores; computer
stores; antique stores; furniture and furnishings stores; home improvement
centers; and similar establishments.[Ord. 2015-6]
   Retail services establishment–establishments providing services or
entertainment, as opposed to products, to the general public for personal or
household use, hotels and motels; finance: car wash; automobile and automotive
repair centers; tire centers; fuel stations intended for car, motorcycle and
light truck vehicle use; laundry and dry-cleaning drop off and pick-up
stations, real estate and insurance; hair salons/beauty salons; day spas;
personal services; motion pictures; charging stations for electronic vehicles;
live theater; movie theater; entertainment uses such as bowling alleys, outdoor
play centers and game centers; amusement and recreation services; health;
educational; gun range and archery incidental to an outdoor hunting, fishing
and camping store or sporting goods store; social services; museums, libraries
and galleries; and health clubs/fitness center and gymnasiums. [Ord. 2015-6]
   Right-of-way–a strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline,
water main, sanitary or storm sewer line or other special use.
   Satellite dish antenna (noncommercial)–a device incorporating a reflective
surface that is solid, open mesh or bar configured and is in the shape of a
shallow dish, cone, horn or cornucopia. Such device shall be used to transmit
and/or receive radio or electromagnetic waves between terrestrial and/or
orbital based uses. This definition is meant to include, but not be limited to,
what are commonly referred to as satellite earth stations. TVROs (television
reception only satellite dish antennas) and satellite microwave antennas.
   School–a facility that provides a curriculum of elementary and secondary
academic instruction, including kindergartens, elementary schools, junior high
schools and high schools that are licensed by the state as such.
   Seating capacity–the actual seating capacity of an area based upon the
number of seats or one seat per 18 inches of bench or pew length. For other
areas where seats are not fixed, the seating capacity shall be determined as
indicated by the most recent ICC Code. [A.O.]
   Self-service storage facility–a building or group of buildings in a
controlled access and fenced compound that contains varying sizes of individual
compartmentalized, and controlled access stalls or lockers which are leased to
individuals for the storage of the individual’s property, possessions or wares.
   Serious medical condition–any of the following:
      (1)   Cancer.
      (2)   Positive status for human immunodeficiency virus or acquired immune
deficiency syndrome.
      (3)   Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
      (4)   Parkinson's disease.
      (5)   Multiple sclerosis.
      (6)   Damage to the nervous tissue of the spinal cord with objective
neurological indication of intractable spasticity.
      (7)   Epilepsy.
      (8)   Inflammatory bowel disease.
      (9)   Neuropathies.
      (10)   Huntington's disease.
      (11)   Crohn's disease.
      (12)   Post-traumatic stress disorder.
      (13)   Intractable seizures.
      (14)   Glaucoma.
      (15)   Sickle cell anemia.
      (16)   Severe chronic or intractable pain of neuropathic origin or severe
chronic or intractable pain in which conventional therapeutic intervention and
opiate therapy is contraindicated or ineffective.
      (17)   Autism.
      (18)   Autoimmune disease, which is a condition of the immune system
attacking the body, including, but not limited to, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus
and celiac disease. [Ord. 2018-7]
   Service station–any premises where gasoline and other petroleum products are
sold and/or light maintenance activities such as engine tune-ups, lubrication
and minor repairs are conducted.
   Setback–the required minimum horizontal distance between the building line
and the related front, side or rear property line.
   Sewage disposal, centralized–a sanitary sewage collection system, approved
by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, in which sewage is
carried from individual lots by a system of pipes to a central treatment and
disposal facility.
   Sewage disposal, on-lot–any facility designed to biochemically treat sewage
within the boundaries of an individual lot in accordance with the applicable
rules and regulations of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection.
   Sexually oriented uses–
   Massage parlor–an establishment where, for any form of consideration,
massage, alcohol rub, fomentation, electric or magnetic treatment, or similar
treatment or manipulation of the human body is administered, unless such
treatment or manipulation is administered by a medical practitioner,
chiropractor, acupuncturist, physical therapist or similar professional person
licensed by the state. This definition does not include an athletic club,
health club, school, gymnasium, reducing salon, spa or similar establishment
where massage or similar manipulation of the human body is offered as an
incidental or accessory service.
   Sexually oriented bookstore–an establishment that has as a substantial
portion of its stock-in-trade and offers for sale, for any form of
consideration, any one or more of the following:
   (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other visual representations
that are characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
   (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for use in
connection with specified sexual activities.
   Sexually oriented entertainment–a nightclub, bar, tavern, restaurant, club
or similar establishment that regularly features live performances that are
characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified
sexual activities, or films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions in which a substantial portion of the total
presentation time is devoted to the showing of material that is characterized
by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
   Specified anatomical areas–as used herein, specified anatomical areas means
and includes any of the following:
   (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areolae; or
   (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
   Specified sexual activities–as herein, specified sexual activities means and
includes any of the following:
   (a)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus or female breasts;
   (b)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
   (c)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
   (d)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth as a “sexually oriented use”.
   [Ord. 2007-5A]
   Shopping center–a grouping of retail business and service uses on a single
site with common parking facilities.
   Sign–a structure or device designed or intended to convey information to the
public in written or pictorial form.
   Sign area–the entire area within a continuous perimeter, enclosing the
extreme limits of sign display, including any frame or border. Curved,
spherical, or any other shaped sign face shall be computed on the basis of
actual surface area. The copy of signs composed of individual letters, numerals
or other devices shall be the sum of the area of the smallest rectangle or
other geometric figure encompassing each of said letter or devices. The
calculation for a double-faced sign shall be the area of one face only. Double-
faced signs shall be so constructed that the perimeter of both faces coincide
and are parallel and not more than 24 inches apart.
   Sign, billboard or off-premises advertising sign–a sign that identifies or
communicates a commercial or noncommercial message related to an activity
conducted, a service rendered, or a commodity sold at a location other than
where the sign is located.
   Sign, freestanding–a sign supported by one or more upright poles, columns or
braces placed in or on the ground and not attached to any building or
structure.
   Sign, illuminated–a sign illuminated in any manner by an artificial light
source.
   Sign, portable–any sign not permanently affixed in the ground or to a
building, including any sign attached to or displayed on a vehicle that is used
for the expressed purpose of advertising a business establishment, product,
service or entertainment, when that vehicle is so parked as to attract the
attention of the motoring or pedestrian traffic.
   Sign, projecting–any sign other than a wall sign that is attached to and
projects from the wall or face of a building or structure, including an arcade/
marquee sign.
   Sign, pylon–an on-site freestanding sign, supported by a sign structure from
the ground, which identifies businesses located on the same parcel or in the
same development on which the sign is located. Pylon signs are designed such
that the support structure and the sign face are designed as one
architecturally unified and proportional element. [Ord. 2015-6]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2207.png]
   Sign, roof–any sign erected upon, against, or directly above a roof or roof
eaves, or on top or above the parapet, or on a functional architectural
appendage above the roof or roof eaves.
   Sign, wall–a sign painted on the outside of a building or attached to and
erected parallel to the face of a building and supported throughout its length
by such building.
   Sign, window–a sign painted, stenciled or affixed on a window, which is
visible from a right-of-way.
   Site plan–a plan prepared to scale, showing accurately and with complete
dimensions, the boundaries of a site and the location of all buildings,
structures, uses and features proposed for a specific parcel of land.
   Skilled nursing facility–a facility, as defined under current state
licensing requirements, that provides nursing care and related medical or other
health services for a period of 24 hours or more for individuals not in need of
hospitalization, but who because of age, illness or other infirmity, require
high-intensity comprehensive planned nursing care. [Ord. 2003-4]
   Social hall–a room or building used for friendly or convivial gatherings,
normally owned and/or operated by a nonprofit or civic organization.
   Soil erosion and sedimentation control plan–a plan that indicates necessary
land treatment designed to effectively minimize soil erosion and sedimentation
measures requiring approval by the Luzerne County Conservation District.
   Solid waste or waste–any garbage, refuse, industrial, lunchroom or office
waste or other material including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained in
gaseous material, resulting from the operation of residential, municipal,
commercial or institutional establishments and from community activities,
excluding “hazardous substances” as so defined by this Chapter and “hazardous
waste”, as so defined by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection in 25 Pa.Code § 271.1, as amended.
   Solid waste facility–any facility operated pursuant to the laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania governing the management, processing, treatment,
storage, transfer and/or disposal of solid waste or waste, as so defined by
this Chapter.
   Special exception–a use which may only be permitted in a particular zoning
district, by special approval, granted by the Zoning Hearing Board in
accordance with the applicable provisions of this Chapter.
   Story–that portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above it,
the space between such floor and the ceiling above. A basement shall be counted
as a story if its ceiling equals or exceeds five feet of the finished ground
surface adjoining the exterior walls of such story.
   Street–a public (dedicated) or private (undedicated) right-of-way, whether
or not improved, intended for use by vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   Structure–any human-made object, the use of which requires an ascertainable
stationary location on land, whether or not it is affixed to the land.
   Subdivision–the division or redividing of a lot, tract or parcel of land by
any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development: provided, however, that
the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into parcels of more
than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of access or any
residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   Subdivision; major–any subdivision which does not qualify or classify as a
minor subdivision.
   Subdivision; minor–a subdivision of a parcel of land into not more than six
lots, which, has access, direct or indirect, to an existing public street or
road and does not require any expenditures for the extension of any street or
the extension or creation of any public improvements, does not adversely affect
the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property and does not conflict with
the Comprehensive Plan.
   Swimming pool–a water-filled enclosure, permanently constructed or portable,
having a depth of more than 18 inches below the level of the surrounding land,
or an above-surface pool, having a depth of more than 30 inches, designed, used
and maintained for swimming and bathing.
   Timber harvesting–the cutting and removal of trees from their growing site,
including the attendant operation of cutting and skidding machinery, for
commercial purposes which does not involve any land development. [Ord. 2007-5A]
   Tower–(see “antenna support structure, commercial”).
   Townhouse–a residential structure constructed as a single entity containing
a row of more than two single-family attached dwelling units but not more than
seven single-family attached dwelling units, whereby each unit may be sold as
an individual single-family attached unit, with each unit having a lot under
individual or association ownership. Each unit shall have its own front and
rear access to the outside and may have a common or public open space, such as
an off-street parking area, yard area, recreational area or similar common
area. No dwelling units shall be located over another unit and each unit shall
be separated from another unit by one or more party walls without openings.
   Township–Township of Plains, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania.
   Transfer station–a facility which receives and temporarily stores solid
waste at a location other than the generation site, which facilitates the bulk
transfer of accumulated solid waste to a another facility or site for further
processing and/or disposal of said solid waste. Said use shall be classified
and regulated as a “solid waste facility”.
   Truck repair and storage–a building and/or land used primarily for the
maintenance and storage of large commercial vehicles.
   Trucking facility–a structure, building and/or land consisting of a storage
area, management and dispatch office and loading and unloading facilities
connected with receipt or delivery of freight shipped by truck.
   Variance–a waiver granted by the Zoning Hearing Board from the terms and
requirements of this Chapter in accordance with §
27-1509 of this Chapter.
   Warehouse–a building used primarily for storage of goods and material.
   Warehousing and distribution–a use engaged in storage, wholesale and
distribution of manufactured products, supplies and equipment, excluding the
bulk storage of material that are inflammable, explosive, hazardous or commonly
recognized as offensive.
   Watercourse–a permanent or intermittent stream, river, brook, creek, or
channel or ditch for collection and conveyance of water, whether natural or
human-made.
   Wetlands–those areas that are inundated or saturated by the surface or
groundwater at a frequency or duration sufficient to support, and under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs and similar
areas. The term includes, but is not limited to, wetland areas listed in the
State Water Plan, the United States Forest Service Wetlands Inventory of
Pennsylvania, the Pennsylvania Coastal Zone Management Plan and any wetland
area designated by a river basin commission.
   Wind energy facility–a commercial electricity-generating facility consisting
of one or more wind turbines under common ownership or operating control that
includes substations, MET towers, cables/wires and other building accessories
to such facility, whose main purpose is to supply electricity to off-site
customer(s). [Ord. 2007-5A]
   Wireless commercial communication site–a tract or parcel of land containing
a commercial antenna, its support structure, accessory building(s)and parking.
   Yard–an open space that lies between the principal building and the nearest
lot line. Such yard is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground up except
for accessory buildings or projections which are expressly permitted by this
Chapter.
   Yard, front–a space extending the full width of the lot between the
principal building and the front lot line and measured perpendicular to the
building at the closest point to the front lot line.
   Yard, rear–a space extending the full width of the lot between the principal
building and the rear lot line and measured perpendicular to the building at
the closest point to the rear lot line.
   Yard, side–a space extending from the front yard to the rear yard between
the principal building and the side lot line measured perpendicular from the
side lot line to the closest point of the principal building.
   Yard waste–leaves, grass clippings, garden residue, tree trimmings, chipped
shrubbery and other vegetative material. [Ord. 2009-5B]
   Zoning district–a portion of Plains Township illustrated upon the Official
Zoning Map, within which certain uniform regulations and requirements apply
under the provisions of this Chapter.
   Zoning Hearing Board–the Zoning Hearing Board of Plains Township, Luzerne
County, Pennsylvania.
   Zoning Map–the official map which is part of this Chapter and indicates and
delineates the zoning districts of Plains Township, Luzerne County,
Pennsylvania.
   Zoning Officer–the administrative officer appointed by the Board of
Commissioners to administer and enforce this Chapter.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, §202; as amended by Ord. 2003-3, –/–/2003, §1; by Ord.
2003-4, 10/6/2003, §1; by Ord. 2005-5, 3/10/2005, §§1 and 2; by Ord. 2007-5A,
9/19/2007, §6; by Ord. 2009-5B, 5/14/2009, §§1 and 2; and by A.O.; by Ord.
2015-6, 9/10/2015, §1; by Ord. 2016-1, 2/11/2016, §1; Ord. 2017-1, 6/8/2017;
Ord. 2018-7, 9/13/2018; Ord. 2018-9, 9/13/2018)
Part 3
General Regulations
§ 27-301.   Attached Accessory Structures.
   Accessory structures which are attached to a principal structure shall be
considered a part of the principal structure and shall comply with the same
yard and lot requirements applicable to the principal structure.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 301)
§ 27-302.   Unattached Accessory Structures.
   1.   Nonresidential. When the principal use or structure is nonresidential,
an unattached accessory structure shall comply with the front yard setback
requirements applicable to the principal structure or use for the zoning
district in which it is located and shall not be less than ten feet from any
side yard lot line or rear yard lot line. An accessory structure to a principal
use and/or structure which is classified as a special exception use, shall not
be subject to the standards and regulations under Part 6, “Special Exceptions”
of this Chapter, excluding the proposed construction, establishment or use of a
structure which equals or exceeds 750 square feet of gross floor area.
   2.   Residential. When the principal structure is residential, unattached
accessory structures shall only be erected within the rear yard or side yard
areas of the lot subject to the following requirements:
   A.   The maximum height shall not exceed one and one-half stories or 15
feet, whichever is the lesser.
   B.   An accessory residential structure shall not exceed 1,000 square feet
of floor area. An accessory structure which has a floor area which equals or
exceeds 750 square feet shall not be located less than ten feet from a side lot
line or the rear lot line. An accessory structure which has a floor area which
is less than 750 square feet shall not be located less than five feet from a
side lot line or the rear lot line. In cases where said accessory structure
abuts a street or alley, a setback of ten feet shall be required.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 302)
§ 27-303.   Corner Lot Restriction.
   On a corner lot there shall be provided on each side thereof, adjacent to a
street, a yard setback equal in depth to the required front yard setback of the
prevailing zoning district in which the corner lot is located.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 303)
§ 27-304.   Types of Residential Accessory Structures.
   For residential lots, permitted accessory structures shall include
noncommercial greenhouses, tool or lawn sheds, private garages or carports,
private noncommercial swimming pools and noncommercial satellite antenna
dishes.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 304)
§ 27-305.   Noncommercial Satellite Dish Antenna.
   A noncommercial satellite dish antenna, as so defined in this Chapter, shall
be deemed an accessory use, permitted by right in all zoning districts.
Granting approval for the establishment and/or construction of a satellite dish
antenna shall not restrict or imply to restrict the use or development of
another zoning lot. The height of a noncommercial satellite dish antenna,
including any supporting device, measured from ground level to its highest
point of elevation, in all R Zoning Districts shall not exceed 35 feet.
Noncommercial satellite dish antennas in all other zones shall be exempt from
meeting height requirements.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 305)
§ 27-306.   Residential Accessory Structures in a Nonresidential Zone.
   In cases when a residential structure is a nonconforming use, located in a
nonresidential zone, the proposed erection of an accessory residential
structure shall be deemed exempt from classification as an expansion of a
nonconforming use, but shall be subject to the regulations contained under §
27-302 Subsection 2. of this Chapter.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 306)
§ 27-307.   Private Noncommercial Swimming Pools.
   Swimming pools shall be located in either the rear yard or side yard of the
property on which it is an accessory use. The swimming pool and any accessory
structures thereto, shall have a minimum setback of five feet from any rear or
side yard lot line. All swimming pools having a surface area of 30 square feet
or greater and capable of containing water to a depth, at any point, of 18
inches or greater, shall be enclosed in accordance with the following
Paragraphs:
   A.   In-ground pools. The pool or the entire property on which the pool is
located, shall be enclosed with a permanent fence being six feet in height,
which includes a gate secured with a lock. Shrubs, hedges or other vegetative
cover shall not be considered to be a fence.
   B.   Above-ground pools. An above-ground pool shall be enclosed with a
permanent fence not less than four feet in height which includes a gate secured
with a lock in accordance with the above requirements of Paragraph A. above or
in lieu of a fence, a barrier not less than four feet in height. Said barrier
may include the pool wall and any extension thereto which equals or exceeds a
height of four feet. Access into a pool which includes a deck shall be secured
by a gate with a lock. Pools without access from a deck, shall include
retractable steps or any similar device which prohibits uncontrolled access
into the pool when not in use. Shrubbery, hedges or other vegetative cover
shall not be considered as a barrier. Decks which are attached to the pool
shall not project into any required yard setback for the pool.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998; as added by Ord. 2002-3, 11/14/2002; as amended by
Ord. 2018-11, 12/13/2018)
§ 27-308.   Lots Divided by Zoning Boundaries.
   If a zoning district boundary line divides a lot held in single and separate
ownership prior to the effective date of this Chapter, placing 85 percent or
more of the lot area in a particular zoning district, the location of such
district boundary line may be construed to include the remaining 15 percent or
less of the lot so divided.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 308)
§ 27-309.   Projections into Required Yards.
   The following projections shall be permitted into required yards and shall
not be considered in the determination of yard setback requirements or building
coverage:
   A.   Terraces or patios. Provided that such terraces or patios are located
in the rear yard or side yard, are not under roof, without walls or other form
of enclosure and are not closer than five feet to any adjacent lot line.
   B.   Projecting architectural features. Such as bay windows, cornices,
eaves, fireplaces, chimneys, window sills or other similar architectural
features; provided that any of the aforementioned features do not extend more
than two feet into any required setback.
   C.   Porches and decks. Provided such porches or decks are located in the
rear yard or side yard, and that such does not exceed four and one-half feet in
depth as extended from the structure.
   D.   Handicapped ramps. May be constructed without meeting any applicable
front and/or rear yard setback requirements in any zoning district, but shall
have a minimum side yard setback of not less than five feet.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 309)
§ 27-310.   Exceptions to Height Limitations.
   The height limitations of this Chapter shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas, domes, chimneys, flagpoles, water towers, skylights or to
any accessory mechanical appurtenances and/or equipment usually located above
the roof level.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 310)
§ 27-311.   Required Access.
   Every building or structure hereafter erected shall have access to or be
located upon a lot adjacent to a public or private street.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 311)
§ 27-312.   Land Development Approval for Certain Uses.
   1.   In addition to zoning approval, the following uses are classified as a
“land development”, requiring approval under the applicable provisions of the
Plains Township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22].
   2.   The improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots, tracts or
parcels of land for any purpose involving:
   A.   A group of two or more residential or nonresidential buildings, whether
proposed initially or cumulatively.
   B.   A single nonresidential building on a lot or lots regardless of the
number of occupants or tenure.
   C.   A subdivision of land.
   D.   Any nonresidential use of land, with or without structures, which
encompasses two or more acres of land, including grading and/or the backfilling
of land, earth moving activities, and/or removal of vegetative cover.
Agricultural uses of land and/or related agricultural activities shall be
specifically excluded.
   E.   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially or
cumulatively, between or among two or more existing or prospective occupants by
means of, or for the purpose of streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups or other features.
   F.   The conversion of an existing single-family detached dwelling or
single-family semidetached dwelling into more than three residential units. Any
conversion, described above, which results in not more than three residential
units shall be deemed as a land development if the units are intended to be a
condominium.
   G.   The development of a mobile home park or the expansion of an existing
mobile home park.
   H.   A single residential structure containing more than five residential
units.
   3.   The development of any accessory building, including farm buildings, on
a lot or lots which are subordinate to an existing principal building shall not
be classified as a “land development”.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 312; as amended by Ord. 2009-5B, 5/14/2009, § 3)
§ 27-313.   Visibility at Intersections and Private Driveways.
   1.   Intersection of streets. On any corner lot no visual obstruction
between two and one-half feet and eight feet in height, excluding street signs,
utility poles or traffic signs, shall be erected or maintained within the
triangle formed by the intersection of centerlines of intersecting street
right-of-way lines adjacent to the corner lot and a line projected between
points on each of those adjacent centerlines for a minimum distance of 20 feet
from their intersection.
   2.   Private driveways. No visual obstruction between two and one-half feet
and eight feet in height shall be erected or maintained within the triangle
formed between the intersection of centerlines of a street right-of-way line
and a depth of ten feet along the centerline of the street right-of-way and a
depth of ten feet along the centerline of a private driveway.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 313)
§ 27-314.   Fences and Walls.
   The posts and/or structural supports of a fence shall be located within the
interior yard space to be enclosed.
   A.   Residential. Fences and walls to be constructed within a residential
zoning district or upon a lot in any other type of zoning district which
contains a residential property, shall be permitted according to the following
Subparagraphs:
   (1)   Front yard. The maximum height of any fence or wall in a front yard
shall not exceed four feet in height above the adjacent ground level.
   (2)   Side and rear yards. The maximum height of any fence or wall located
in a side yard or rear yard shall not exceed six feet in height.
   (3)   Materials. All fences shall be constructed with materials recognized
by the fencing industry and designed to provide a permanent enclosure. No
barbed wire or other potentially injurious material shall be contained upon the
fence or as part of the material to construct the fence.
   B.   Nonresidential. Fences to be constructed within any commercial zoning
district shall not exceed eight feet in height above the adjacent ground level.
Fences to be constructed within any industrial zoning district shall not exceed
ten feet in height above the adjacent ground level.
   C.   Exemptions. The provisions of this Section shall not be applied to
prevent the construction of a chain link in excess of ten feet in height,
designed as an enclosure to a public park, a public playground or similar
outdoor recreational facility.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 314)
§ 27-315.   Public Utilities.
   With the exception of storage yards, the provisions and regulations of this
Chapter shall not apply to any existing or proposed building or extension
thereof, used or to be used by a public utility corporation deemed necessary
for the convenience or welfare of the public in accordance with § 619 of the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247, 53 P.S. § 10619, as
amended.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 315)
§ 27-316.   Sewage Disposal.
   1.   On-lot sewage. The provision of sewage service to any proposed use and/
or development of property shall be consistent with the Township’s Act 537
Sewage Facility Plan. Any use or development of property which proposes to
utilize on-lot sewage disposal shall secure approval from the Township’s Sewage
Enforcement Officer in accordance with the applicable governing standards of
the Pennsylvania Department of Protection prior to the issuance of a zoning
permit.
   2.   Holding tanks. The use of a holding tank shall be expressly prohibited
to service any use and/or development.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 316)
§ 27-317.   Performance Standards.
   All nonresidential land uses shall comply with the following standards. In
order to determine whether a proposed use will conform to the requirements of
this Section, the Zoning Officer or the Zoning Hearing Board may require a
detailed plan of the proposed construction or development, and a description of
machinery or techniques to be used during operations of the proposed use.
   A.   Fire protection. Fire prevention and fighting equipment acceptable to
the Board of Fire Underwriters shall be readily available when any activity
involving the handling or storage of flammable or explosive materials is
carried on.
   B.   Electrical disturbance. No activity shall cause repetitive or
continuous electrical disturbance adversely affecting the operation of other
electrical equipment in the vicinity.
   C.   Noise. Noise which is determined to be objectionable because of volume,
frequency, or beat shall be muffled or otherwise controlled, except fire sirens
and related apparatus used solely for public purposes shall be exempt from this
requirement.
   D.   Smoke. The maximum amount of smoke emission permissible shall be
determined by use of the Standard Ringleman Chart issued by the U.S. Bureau of
Mines. No smoke of a shade darker than No. 2 will be allowed.
   E.   Air pollution. No pollution of air by fly ash, dust, vapors or other
substance shall be permitted which is potentially harmful to health, animals,
vegetation or other property.
   F.   Glare. Lighting devices which produce objectionable direct or reflected
glare on adjoining properties or thoroughfares shall not be permitted.
   G.   Erosion. No erosion by wind or water shall be permitted which will
carry soil or other material on to adjoining properties.
   H.   Water discharge. Water discharge of materials and substances shall be
subject to the governing standards established by the State Department of
Environmental Protection.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 317)
§ 27-318.   Highway Occupancy Permit.
   Zoning approval for any proposed use and/or development of a property, which
includes the construction and/or relocation of a driveway onto a State
Legislative Route, a county road or a Township road shall be conditioned upon
the applicant securing a highway occupancy permit from the applicable Board of
Commissioners and/or agency.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 318)
§ 27-319.   Mobile Homes.
   The removal of a mobile home, as defined in Part 2, from a property with the
intent to replace it with another mobile home may be permitted in accordance
with the following standards:
   A.   The property owner shall provide the Zoning Officer with written notice
of his or her intent to replace the structure and the date on which the current
mobile home will be removed from the lot.
   B.   The placement of the new mobile home upon the lot shall be in
conformance with all applicable setback requirements and area requirements for
the zoning district in which it is located.
   C.   A new mobile home shall be located upon the lot in conformance with all
applicable building standards and connected with all utilities, including
sewage, and ready for occupancy within 180 days from the date on previous
mobile home was removed.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 319; as amended by Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, § 7)
§ 27-320.   Uses Not Addressed Within Chapter.
   Whenever, in any zoning district established under this Chapter, a use is
neither specifically permitted nor denied and/or the Zoning Officer is unable
to classify a subject use and an application is made by a landowner to the
Zoning Officer for such use, he or she shall refer the application to the
Zoning Hearing Board and Planning Commission to hear and decide such request as
a special exception. The Board shall have the authority to permit or deny the
proposed use in accordance with the standards governing special exception
applications, if the Board makes an initial determination that the proposed use
is similar to and compatible with permitted uses in the district and in no way
is in conflict with the general purposes and intent of this Chapter. The burden
of proof shall be upon the applicant to demonstrate that:
   A.   The proposed use is similar to and compatible with permitted uses in
the district.
   B.   The proposed use would not be detrimental to the public health, safety
and welfare of the neighborhood.
   C.   The proposed use meets the standards and criteria for special
exceptions as contained in Part 6 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 320)
§ 27-321.   Conflicting Regulations.
   In the event that any provisions within this Chapter are found to be in
conflict with another provision of this Chapter, and/or any other ordinance,
law or regulation of the Township, state or United States government, the most
restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 321)
§ 27-322.   Outdoor Fuel Burning Furnaces.
   An outdoor fuel burning furnace shall be deemed to be an accessory structure
permitted in all zoning districts, as a special exception use, thereby
requiring approval from the Zoning Hearing Board and subject to the standards
as set forth in Part 8.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998; as added by Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, § 8)
§ 27-323.   Exemptions for Certain for Side Yard Setbacks.
   1.   Any structure proposed to be subdivided, containing two or more units,
residential or nonresidential, shall be exempted from the governing side yard
setback requirements under this Chapter relative only to interior side yards.
When a side yard of a proposed subdivision is directly attached to another unit
within the structure, subdivision approval shall exempt the property from
requesting and/or securing an interior side yard variance from the Zoning
Hearing Board.
   2.   Any structural portion of a building, such as a deck, patio, porch or
similar feature which is need of repair to the point of replacement shall be
exempt from complying with the applicable setback requirements when all of the
following conditions exist:
   A.   The use of the building represents a use permitted by right in the
district in which it is located.
   B.   There are no outstanding zoning or building code violations against the
owner of the property.
   C.   The structural replacement shall be the exact same location and
structural replacement shall be the same size and height, or less, than that
which is being replaced.
   D.   A photograph of the subject property, taken prior to the start of work,
must be submitted to the Zoning Officer with a completed zoning permit
application, along with any other information deemed necessary by the Zoning
Officer to process the application.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998; as added by Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, § 9)
§ 27-324.   General Nuisance.
   The use, operation and/or condition of any property found to be a “general
nuisance” as so defined in Part 2 of this Chapter shall constitute a violation
of this Chapter and shall be subject to the violation procedures and penalties
as set forth in §
27-1304, “Enforcement Procedures” of this Chapter.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998; as added by Ord. 2009-5B, 5/14/2009, § 4)
§ 27-325.   Grower and Processor of Medical Marijuana.
   A.   It is the intent of this supplemental regulation that a grower and
processor of medical marijuana shall meet the same municipal zoning and land
use requirements as other manufacturing, processing and production facilities
that are located in the same district so as to comply with Section 2107(1) of
the Pennsylvania Medical Marijuana Act, Act 16 of 2016.
   B.   Medical marijuana may only be grown and processed in an indoor,
enclosed, and secure building which includes electronic locking systems,
electronic surveillance and other features required by the Department of
Health. Solid or liquid waste byproduct or remnants generated from the
operation shall also be stored in the enclosed secured principal building until
picked up for transportation to a facility authorized to accept such waste.
Storage of medical marijuana waste remnants in an accessory building or waste
refuse container located outside of the principal building is prohibited.
Loading areas shall be located within the principal building.
   C.   Growing and processing of medical marijuana shall be limited to
wholesale products for sale to another medical marijuana facility. Retail sales
of medical marijuana including the operation of a medical marijuana dispensary
on the same property as the growing and processing operation is prohibited.
   D.   The use may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property line of a
public, private, or parochial school or day-care center unless a waiver is
granted by the Pennsylvania Department of Health.
   E.   All outdoor lighting shall comply with §
27-1112 of this Ordinance.
   F.   Off-street parking and loading spaces shall be provided in accordance
with §§
27-1101 et seq. of this Ordinance. The required number of off-street parking
spaces under this Section of the Zoning Ordinance shall be one space for every
2,000 square feet of gross floor area, plus one space for every two employees
on the maximum working shift. The required number of loading spaces under this
Section of this Ordinance shall be one space for every 7,500 square feet of
gross floor area.
   G.   A screen or buffer under §
27-1111 of this Ordinance is required where the use adjoins a residential
district or use.
   H.   The use shall obtain a permit and approval from the Pennsylvania
Department of Health and the user shall provide a copy of that approval to the
Township.
   I.   Growers/processors shall post a bond in the amount of $1,000,000 to
secure the Township's potential cost of soil and/or water contamination or
abatement of unsafe or dangerous conditions as authorized by law or any
provisions of this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2018-7, 9/13/2018)
§ 27-326.   Medical Marijuana Dispensary.
   A.   It is the intent of this supplemental regulation that a medical
marijuana dispensary shall meet the same municipal zoning and land use
requirements as other commercial facilities that are located in the same
district so as to comply with Section 2107(2) of the Pennsylvania Medical
Marijuana Act, Act 16 of 2016.
   B.   The use shall be conducted in an indoor, enclosed, permanent, and
secure building. The use shall have a single secure public entrance that is not
shared with any other use or user, and shall not be located inside the same
physical space or area of another retail commercial property. The use shall not
have a drive-through or outdoor seating. All storage areas shall be separately
locked. The medical marijuana shall not be administered or consumed on site.
The user shall implement appropriate security and surveillance measures as
required by the Pennsylvania Department of Health.
   C.   A medical marijuana dispensary may not operate on the same property as
a grower and processor of medical marijuana.
   D.   A medical marijuana dispensary may only dispense medical marijuana to
patients and caregivers.
   E.   The use may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property line of a
public, private, or parochial school or day-care center unless a waiver is
granted by the Pennsylvania Department of Health.
   F.   All outdoor lighting shall comply with §
27-1112 of this Ordinance.
   G.   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with §§
27-1102 and
27-1118 of this Ordinance. The required number of off-street parking spaces
under §
27-1118 of the Zoning Ordinance shall be one space for every 300 square feet of
gross floor area. The loading spaces shall be provided in accordance with §§
27-1103 and
27-1119 of this Ordinance. The required number of loading spaces under §
27-1103 of this Ordinance shall be one space for every 10,000 square feet or
less of gross floor area or fraction thereof.
   H.   A screen or buffer under §
27-1111 of this Ordinance is required where the use adjoins a residential
district or use.
   I.   The use shall obtain a permit and approval from the Pennsylvania
Department of Health and the user shall provide a copy of that approval to the
Township.
(Ord. 2018-7, 9/13/2018)
§ 27-327.   Medical Marijuana Trucking Facility.
   A.   The minimum lot size shall not be less than four acres.
   B.   Access drives shall be sufficient in width to accommodate the use, but
in no event exceed 25 feet in width. Access drives must connect to a public
street.
   C.   A screen or buffer under §
27-1111 of this Ordinance is required where the use adjoins a residential
district or use.
   D.   All outdoor lighting shall comply with §
27-1112 of this Ordinance.
   E.   No medical marijuana, marijuana plants, seeds or other raw materials,
or any waste generated from a medical marijuana facility, shall be stored on
site or within a truck or delivery vehicle on site.
   F.   No parking, loading, idling, storage of any kind, or trucking use shall
be allowed within the buffer yard. All truck idling in excess of 15 minutes
shall be prohibited.
   G.   Any licenses, permits, or approvals required by the Pennsylvania
Department of Health for the use or user must be obtained and a copy provided
to the Township.
(Ord. 2018-7, 9/13/2018)
§ 27-328.   Medical Marijuana Waste Facility.
   A.   The use shall be located not less than 250 feet from any street right-
of-way, lot line, one hundred-year floodplain, edge of a surface water body,
creek, stream or wetland; and not less than 1,000 feet from any residential
zoning district, or lot line where a residential dwelling unit, public,
private, or parochial school or day-care center, place of worship, or public
recreational activity is located.
   B.   The days and hours of operation shall be limited to Monday through
Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Saturday from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. The facility
shall not conduct any approved operations at any other times, and deliveries
shall only be permitted during the permitted hours of operation.
   C.   The property shall have one point of ingress and egress, which shall be
from a public road sufficient in size to accommodate the proposed traffic
generated from the use. The access drive shall be improved in accordance with
the Township of Plains Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance. A second
access drive shall be provided but restricted to use by emergency vehicles
only, and shall be clearly marked and identified as such. The application shall
also be accompanied by a plan of the site that includes the location of access
drives and proposed structures, and an emergency response plan to address
potential safety concerns associated with the use.
   D.   The property shall at all times be maintained so as not to constitute a
private or public nuisance, or adversely impact the public health, safety or
welfare.
   E.   The proposed use shall have a minimum lot size of five acres and a
maximum lot size of ten acres, whether developed initially or cumulatively,
with a maximum total capacity to treat or dispose of waste of not more than 500
tons per day.
   F.   Except for the required access drives (which shall be secured by locked
gates, which may only be open during business hours) the property shall be
completely screened by a wall or fence not less than eight feet in height and a
planting strip not less than five feet in depth, with shrubbery, plants or
evergreen trees which are a minimum of six feet in height at the time of
planting. This area must then be suitably landscaped and maintained with a
schedule to be approved by the Township. In addition, an attendant shall be
present during all periods of the operation to ensure that: (1) only authorized
waste is accepted; (2) the access drives remain unobstructed; and (3) waste is
properly stored and disposed of.
   G.   Loading and unloading of waste shall occur within an enclosed building
and no outdoor storage of waste shall be permitted. Waste material shall be
secured until properly disposed of in accordance with state law.
   H.   All applications shall include the same information, written materials
and plans that are to be submitted to the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection, and/or the Pennsylvania Department of Health, as part
of the state permitting and approval process.
   I.   All outdoor lighting shall comply with §
27-1112 of this Ordinance.
   J.   The property may not be used as a medical marijuana dispensary or as a
grower and processor of medical marijuana.
(Ord. 2018-7, 9/13/2018)
Part 4
Zoning Map and Zoning Districts
§ 27-401.   Official Zoning Map.
   Plains Township is hereby divided into zoning districts, as shown on the
Official Zoning Map, which together with all explanatory matter thereon, is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this Chapter, together
with all future notations, references and amendments.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 401)
§ 27-402.   Changes to Official Zoning Map.
   Any changes to the location of zoning district boundaries or other matters
portrayed upon the Official Zoning Map shall be undertaken in accordance with
the applicable provisions contained within Part 14 of this Chapter and the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.,
as amended. Such changes shall be provided upon the Official Zoning Map
promptly after the enactment of the subject amendment by the Plains Township
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 402)
§ 27-403.   Interpretation of Boundaries.
   For the interpretation of zoning district boundaries, the following
subsections shall apply if or when a determination is not made by the Zoning
Officer.
   A.   Zoning Hearing Board. If uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any
zoning district shown upon the Official Zoning Map, the Zoning Hearing Board
shall determine the location of such boundary according to the guidelines set
forth in Paragraph B. below.
   B.   Guidelines.
   (1)   Zoning district boundary lines are intended to follow or parallel the
centerline of streets, streams and railroads; and the lot or property lines as
they exist on a recorded deed or plan in the Luzerne County Recorder of Deeds
Office at the time of adoption of this Chapter, unless such zoning district
boundary lines are fixed by dimensions as shown on the Official Zoning Map.
   (2)   Where a zoning district boundary is not fixed by dimensions and where
it approximately follows lot lines, and does not scale more than ten feet
therefrom, such lot lines shall be construed to be such boundaries unless
specifically shown otherwise.
   (3)   If the guidelines as stated above fail to provide and establish the
boundary of a zoning district, a survey of the property or area of land in
question shall be made by a registered surveyor, with the cost of the survey
paid by the party who is questioning or contesting the boundary location.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 403)
§ 27-404.   Classes of Zoning Districts.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, Plains Township is hereby divided into
zoning districts as designated below:
   A.   R-1   Single-Family Residential District.
   B.   R-2   Two-Family Residential District.
   C.   R-3   Multi-Family Residential District.
   D.   B-1   Neighborhood Commercial District.
   E.   B-2   General Community District.
   F.   B-3   Highway Commercial District.
   G.   B-4   Commercial/Institutional District. [Ord. 2003-4]
   H.   B-5   Commercial Recreational District. [Ord. 2007-5A]
   I.   C-1   Conservation District.
   J.   I-1   Industrial District.
   K.   PRD Planned Residential Development District.
   L.   MU Mixed Use District.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 404; as amended by Ord. 2003-4, 10/6/2003, § 2; and
by Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, § 3)
Part 5
Zoning District Regulations
§ 27-501.   R-1 Single-Family Residence District.
   1.   Permitted uses.
   A.   Single-family detached dwellings.
   B.   No-impact home-based businesses (as defined in Part 2, also see Part
8).
   C.   Forestry (as defined in Part 2, also see Part 8).
   D.   Essential public utility facilities as defined in Part 2 of this
Chapter (excluding storage yards).
   E.   Accessory uses to the above.
[Ord. 2007-5A]
   2.   Uses permitted by special exception.
   A.   Home occupations.
   B.   Public recreational facilities.
   C.   Day care center.
   D.   Day care home.
   E.   Community center, as defined in Part 2 of this Chapter.
   F.   Public uses (except storage yards).
   G.   Accessory uses to the above.
[Ord. 2009-5B]
   H.   Bed and breakfast. [Ord. 2016-1]
   3.   Conditional uses. Planned residential development (see Part 7).
   4.   Dimensional regulations. Each principal building, structure and/or use
shall be governed by the following regulations, unless more restrictive
standards are applicable, including, but not limited to, state regulations and
supplementary regulations contained in Part 8 of this Chapter.
   A.   Minimum lot area. Each principal building, or use shall be located upon
a lot having a minimum lot area of not less than:
   (1)   Eleven thousand two hundred and fifty square feet when serviced by
central sewers.
   (2)   One acre when serviced by on-lot sewage disposal and governed by the
applicable standards of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection.
   B.   Minimum lot width.
   (1)   Seventy-five feet for lots serviced by central sewers.
   (2)   One hundred and fifty feet for lots with on-lot sewage disposal.
   C.   Front yard. The minimum front yard shall be not less than 30 feet in
depth as measured from the front lot line.
   D.   Rear yard. The rear yard shall be not less than 30 feet in depth as
measured from the rear lot line.
   E.   Side yard. The combined side yards shall be not less than 20 feet, with
not less than ten feet on each side.
   F.   Lot coverage. Not more than 30 percent of the lot area shall be covered
with buildings or structures.
   G.   Building height. The maximum height of any building shall not exceed
two and one-half stories or 35 feet.
   5.   Supplementary regulations. (See Part 8.)
   6.   Subdivision and land development. Any property proposed to be divided
into parcels or developed in accordance with the definitions of a “subdivision”
or “land development”, as provided in Part 2 of this Chapter, shall also be
subject to the governing regulations and provisions of the Plains Township
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22 ].
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 501; as amended by Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, §§ 10
and 11; and by Ord. 2009-5B, 5/14/2009, § 5; by Ord. 2016-1, 2/11/2016, § 2)
§ 27-502.   R-2 Two-Family Residence District.
   1.   Permitted uses.
   A.   Single-family detached dwellings.
   B.   Two-family dwellings.
   C.   No-impact home-based businesses (as defined in Part 2, also see Part
8).
   D.   Forestry (as defined in Part 2, also see Part 8).
   E.   Essential public utility facilities as defined in Part 2 of this
Chapter (excluding storage yards).
   E.   Accessory uses to the above.
[Ord. 2007-5A]
   2.   Uses permitted by special exception. (See Part 6.)
   A.   Community center, as defined in Part 2 of this Chapter.
   B.   Day care center.
   C.   Day care homes.
   D.   Group residence.
   E.   Home occupations.
   F.   Place of worship.
   G.   Public recreational facilities.
   H.   Public uses.
   I.   Accessory uses to the above.
[Ord. 2009-5B]
   J.   Bed and breakfast. [Ord. 2016-1]
   3.   Conditional uses (see Part 7). None.
   4.   Dimensional regulations . Each principal building, structure and/or use
shall be governed by the following regulations, unless more restrictive
standards are applicable, including, but not limited to, state regulations and
supplementary regulations contained in Part 8 of this Chapter.
   A.   Minimum lot area. Each principal building, structure and/or use shall
be located upon a lot having a minimum lot area of not less than:
   (1)   Eleven thousand two hundred and fifty square feet for a single-family
detached residential dwelling when serviced by central sewers.
   (2)   Fifteen thousand square feet for a two-family dwelling, when serviced
by central sewers, with an additional 3,500 square feet for each additional
unit.
   (3)   One acre when serviced by on-lot sewage disposal and governed by the
applicable standards of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection.
   B.   Minimum lot width.
   (1)   Seventy-five feet when the minimum required lot size is not less than
11,250 square feet.
   (2)   One hundred feet when the minimum required lot size is not less than
15,000 square feet.
   (3)   One hundred and fifty feet for lots with on-lot sewage disposal.
   C.   Front yard. The minimum front yard shall be not less than 30 feet in
depth as measured from the front lot line.
   D.   Rear yard. The rear yard shall be not less than 30 feet in depth as
measured from the rear lot line.
   E.   Side yard. The combined side yards shall be not less than 16 feet, with
not less than eight feet on each side.
   F.   Lot coverage. Not more than 30 percent of the lot area shall be covered
with buildings or structures.
   G.   Building height. The maximum height of any building shall not exceed
two and one-half stories or 35 feet.
   5.   Supplementary regulations (see Part 8).
   6.   Subdivision and land development. Any property proposed to be divided
into parcels or developed in accordance with the definitions of a “subdivision”
or “land development”
Chapter 22 ].
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 502; as amended by Ord. 2005-5, 3/10/2005, § 3; by
Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, §§ 12 and 13; and by Ord. 2009-5B, 5/14/2009, § 5; by
Ord. 2016-1, 2/11/2016, § 2)
§ 27-503.   R-3 Multi-Family Residence District.
   1.   Permitted uses.
   A.   Single-family detached dwellings.
   B.   Two-family dwellings.
   C.   Townhouses as defined in Part 2 of this Chapter.
   D.   No-impact home-based businesses (as defined in Part 2, also see Part
8).
   E.   Forestry (as defined in Part 2, also see Part 8).
   F.   Essential public utility facilities as defined in Part 2 of this
Chapter (excluding storage yards).
   G.   Public school.
   H.   Accessory uses to the above.
[Ord. 2007-5A]
   2.   Uses permitted by special exception.
   A.   Boarding or rooming house.
   B.   Community center, as defined in Part 2 of this Chapter.
   C.   Day care center.
   D.   Day care homes.
   E.   Group residence.
   F.   Home occupations.
   G.   Multiple family dwellings.
   H.   Place of worship.
   I.   Public recreational facilities.
   J.   Public uses.
   K.   Accessory uses to the above.
[Ord. 2009-5B]
   L.   Bed and breakfast. [Ord. 2016-1]
   3.   Conditional uses (see Part 7). Mobile home parks, including expansions
of existing mobile home parks.
   4.   Dimensional regulations. Each principal building, structure and/or use
shall be governed by the following regulations, unless more restrictive
standards are applicable, including, but not limited to, state regulations and
supplementary regulations contained in Part 8 of this Chapter.
   A.   Minimum lot area. Each principal building, structure and/or use which
shall be connected to central sewers shall be located upon a lot having a
minimum lot area of not less than:
   (1)   Eleven thousand two hundred and fifty square feet for a single-family
detached residential dwelling when serviced by central sewers.
   (2)   Fifteen thousand square feet for a two-family dwelling, when serviced
by central sewers, with an additional 3,500 square feet for each additional
unit.
   (3)   One acre when serviced by on-lot sewage disposal and governed by the
applicable standards of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection.
   B.   Minimum lot width.
   (1)   Seventy-five feet when the minimum required lot size is not less than
11,250 square feet.
   (2)   One hundred feet when the minimum required lot size is not less than
15,000 square feet.
   (3)   One Hundred and fifty for lots with on-lot sewage disposal.
   C.   Front yard. The minimum front yard shall be not less than 20 feet in
depth as measured from the front lot line.
   D.   Rear yard. The rear yard shall be not less than 30 feet in depth as
measured from the rear lot line.
   E.   Side yard. The combined side yards shall be not less than 16 feet, with
not less than eight feet on each side.
   F.   Lot coverage. Not more than 45 percent of the lot area shall be covered
with buildings or structures.
   G.   Building height. The maximum height of any building shall not exceed
three stories or 40 feet.
   5.   Supplementary regulations (see Part 8).
   6.   Subdivision and land development. Any property proposed to be divided
into parcels or developed in accordance with the definitions of a “subdivision”
or “land development”, as provided in Part 2 of this Chapter, shall also be
subject to the governing regulations and provisions of the Plains Township
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22 ].
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 503; as amended by Ord. 2005-5, 3/10/2005, § 4; by
Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, §§ 14 and 15; and by Ord. 2009-5B, 5/14/2009, § 5; by
Ord. 2016-1, 2/11/2016, § 2; Ord. 2017-1, 6/8/2017)
§ 27-504.   B-1 Neighborhood Commercial District.
   1.   Permitted uses.
   A.   Retail commercial businesses that include:
   (1)   Artist, music and hobby supplies.
   (2)   Automotive supplies.
   (3)   Clothing and clothing accessories.
   (4)   Convenience stores.
   (5)   Florist shops.
   (6)   Food/grocery.
   (7)   Forestry (as defined in Part 2; also see Part 8).
   (8)   Gas station.
   (9)   Greeting cards, newspapers, books, stationery and gift shops.
   (10)   Hardware, paint.
   (11)   Household goods and appliances.
   (12)   No-impact home-based businesses (as defined in Part 2; also see Part
8).
   (13)   Office equipment and supplies.
   (14)   Pharmaceutical products.
   (15)   Sporting goods.
   (16)   Variety goods.
[Ord. 2007-5A]
   B.   Service-oriented business including, or similar to:
   (1)   Day care centers.
   (2)   Essential public utility facilities as defined in Part 2 of this
Chapter (excluding storage yards).
   (3)   Health clubs.
   (4)   Laundromats.
   (5)   Medical offices and clinics.
   (6)   Personal services.
   (7)   Professional offices.
   (8)   Restaurants.
   (9)   Taverns.
   C.   Recreation and entertainment related business including, or similar to:
   (1)   Public recreational facilities.
   (2)   Nonprofit social halls, clubs and community centers.
   D.   Residential uses:
   (1)   Single-family detached dwellings.
   (2)   Single-family attached two-family dwellings.
   (3)   Dwelling over and/or attached to business.
   (4)   Accessory uses to the above.
   E.   Accessory uses to all uses permitted by right.
   2.   Uses permitted by special exception.
   A.   Commercial recreational facilities.
   B.   Entertainment facilities.
   C.   Funeral homes.
   D.   Group residences.
   E.   Multi-family dwellings.
   F.   Private recreational facilities.
   G.   Public uses.
   H.   Rooming or boarding homes.
   I.   Accessory uses to the above.
[Ord. 2009-5B]
   3.   Conditional uses (see Part 7). None.
   4.   Dimensional regulations. Each principal building, structure and/or use
shall be governed by the following regulations, unless more restrictive
standards are applicable, including, but not limited to, state regulations and
supplementary regulations contained in Part 8 of this Chapter.
   A.   Minimum lot area.
   (1)   None, subject to the lot being serviced by centralized sewers.
   (2)   One acre when serviced by an on-lot sewage disposal system.
   B.   Minimum lot width.
   (1)   None, subject to the lot being serviced by centralized sewers.
   (2)   One hundred feet, when the required minimum lot size is one acre.
   C.   Front yard. The minimum front yard shall be not less than ten feet in
depth as measured from the front lot line.
   D.   Rear yard. The rear yard shall be not less than 20 feet in depth as
measured from the rear lot line; a rear yard setback of 35 feet shall be
required when the adjoining rear lot contains a residential use or a
residential zoning district.
   E.   Side yard. The side yard shall be not less than ten feet on each side
when the adjoining lot contains a nonresidential use; a side yard setback of
not less than 20 feet shall be required for any side yard when adjoining lot
contains a residential use or where it abuts a residential zoning district.
   F.   Lot coverage. Not more than 50 percent of the lot area shall be covered
by buildings or structures.
   G.   Building height. The maximum height of any building shall not exceed
two and one-half stories or 35 feet.
   5.   Supplementary regulations. See Part 8.
   6.   Subdivision and land development. Any property proposed to be divided
into parcels or developed in accordance with the definitions of a “subdivision”
or “land development”, as provided in Part 2 of this Chapter, shall also be
subject to the governing regulations and provisions of the Plains Township
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22 ].
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 504; as amended by Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, §§ 16
and 17; and by Ord. 2009-5B, 5/14/2009, § 5)
§ 27-505.   B-2 General Commercial District.
   1.   Permitted uses.
   A.   Retail commercial businesses uses that include:
   (1)   Artist, music and hobby supplies.
   (2)   Automotive supplies.
   (3)   Clothing and clothing accessories.
   (4)   Commercial greenhouses, nurseries and garden shops.
   (5)   Convenience stores.
   (6)   Equipment sales and repair.
   (7)   Florist shops.
   (8)   Food/grocery.
   (9)   Forestry (as defined in Part 2; also see Part 8).
   (10)   Gas station.
   (11)   Greeting cards, books and stationery.
   (12)   Hardware.
   (13)   Household goods and appliances.
   (14)   Lumber yards.
   (15)   No-impact home-based businesses (as defined in Part 2; also see Part
8).
   (16)   Office equipment and supplies.
   (17)   Pharmaceutical products.
   (18)   Sporting goods.
   (19)   Variety goods.
[Ord. 2007-5A]
   B.   Service-oriented business including, or similar to:
   (1)   Animal hospital/veterinarian clinic.
   (2)   Automotive sales.
   (3)   Banks.
   (4)   Day care centers.
   (5)   Essential public utility facilities as defined in Part 2 of this
Chapter (excluding storage yards).
   (6)   Funeral homes.
   (7)   Health clubs.
   (8)   Medical offices and clinics.
   (9)   Motels and hotels.
   (10)   Personal services.
   (11)   Private garage (storage of vehicles).
   (12)   Professional offices.
   (13)   Repair garage.
   (14)   Restaurants.
   (15)   Taverns.
   C.   Recreation and entertainment related business including, or similar to:
   (1)   Entertainment facilities.
   (2)   Public recreational facilities.
   (3)   Social halls, clubs and community centers.
   D.   Residential uses:
   (1)   Dwelling over and/or attached to business group residences.
   (2)   Accessory uses to the above.
   E.   Accessory uses to all uses permitted by right.
   2.   Uses permitted by special exception.
   A.   Boarding or rooming homes.
   B.   Car wash.
   C.   Cemeteries.
   D.   Cleaning, laundry and dyeing plants.
   E.   Commercial recreational facilities.
   F.   Contractors yards.
   G.   Entertainment facilities.
   H.   Go-cart racing.
   I.   Medical marijuana dispensary.
   J.   Multi-family dwellings.
   K.   Outdoor storage (as defined in Part 2 of this Chapter).
   L.   Printing, lithographing or publishing plants.
   M.   Private recreational facilities.
   N.   Public uses.
   O.   Stone or monument works.
   P.   Tire retreading and recapping.
   Q.   Trucking facilities and terminals.
   R.   Accessory uses to the above.
[Ord. 2009-5B]
   3.   Conditional uses (see Part 7). Any use permitted by right or by special
exception shall be deemed a conditional use if it involves either of the
following:
   A.   The initial or cumulative disturbance which equals or exceeds 87,120
square feet of surface area.
   B.   The initial or cumulative construction, placement or installation which
equals or exceeds 43,560 square feet of buildings, structures and/or other
impervious surface area.
   4.   Dimensional regulations. Each principal building, structure and/or use
shall be governed by the following regulations, unless more restrictive
standards are applicable, including, but not limited to, state regulations and
supplementary regulations contained in Part 8 of this Chapter.
   A.   Minimum lot area.
   (1)   Ten thousand square feet, subject to the lot being serviced by
centralized sewers.
   (2)   One acre when serviced by an on-lot sewage disposal system.
   B.   Minimum lot width. Seventy-five feet.
   C.   Front yard. The minimum front yard shall be not less than ten feet in
depth as measured from the front lot line.
   D.   Rear yard. The rear yard shall be not less than 20 feet in depth as
measured from the rear lot line; a rear yard setback of 35 feet shall be
required when the adjoining rear lot contains a residential use or where it
abuts a residential zoning district.
   E.   Side yard. The side yard shall be not less than five feet on each side
when the adjoining lot contains a nonresidential use; a side yard setback of
not less than 15 feet shall be required for any side yard when adjoining lot
contains a residential use or where it abuts a residential zoning district.
   F.   Lot coverage. Not more than 50 percent of the lot area shall be covered
by buildings or structures.
   G.   Building height. The maximum height of any building shall not exceed
three stories or 40 feet.
   5.   Supplementary regulations. See Part 8.
   6.   Subdivision and land development. Any property proposed to be divided
into parcels or developed in accordance with the definitions of a “subdivision”
or “land development”, as provided in Part 2 of this Chapter, shall also be
subject to the governing regulations and provisions of the Plains Township
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22 ].
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, §505; as amended by Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, §§18 and
19; and by Ord. 2009-5B, 5/14/2009, §5; Ord. 2018-7, 9/13/2018)
§ 27-506.   B-3 Highway Business District.
   1.   Permitted uses.
   A.   Retail commercial businesses that include:
   (1)   Building, lumber or plumbing supplies.
   (2)   Clothing and clothing accessories.
   (3)   Commercial greenhouses, nurseries and garden shops.
   (4)   Convenience stores.
   (5)   Electronic equipment and products, both sales and repairs.
   (6)   Equipment sales and repair.
   (7)   Florist shops.
   (8)   Food/grocery.
   (9)   Forestry (as defined in Part 2; also see Part 8).
   (10)   Gas station.
   (11)   Greeting cards, books and stationery.
   (12)   Hardware.
   (13)   Household goods and appliances.
   (14)   No-impact home-based businesses (as defined in Part 2; also see Part
8).
   (15)   Office equipment and supplies.
   (16)   Pet shops.
   (17)   Pharmaceutical products.
   (18)   Sporting goods.
   (19)   Variety goods.
   (20)   Retail sales establishments; specialty-retail as defined under §
27-202.
[Ord. 2007-5A]
   B.   Service-oriented business including, or similar to:
   (1)   Automotive repair shops.
   (2)   Automotive sales.
   (3)   Banks, credit unions and similar uses.
   (4)   Car wash.
   (5)   Day care centers.
   (6)   Essential public utility facilities as defined in Part 2 of this
Chapter (excluding storage yards).
   (7)   Funeral homes.
   (8)   Greenhouses, nurseries and garden supplies.
   (9)   Health clubs.
   (10)   Medical clinics.
   (11)   Nursing homes.
   (12)   Outdoor storage as defined in Part 2.
   (13)   Personal services.
   (14)   Private garage (storage of vehicles).
   (15)   Professional offices.
   (16)   Public uses.
   (17)   Repair garage.
   (18)   Research and testing facilities.
   (19)   Restaurants.
   (20)   Taverns.
   (21)   Veterinary hospitals.
   (22)   Warehouse and distribution facilities.
   (23)   Warehousing, including self-storage facilities.
   C.   Recreation and entertainment related business including, or similar to:
   (1)   Entertainment facilities.
   (2)   Commercial recreational facilities.
   (3)   Private recreational facilities.
   (4)   Public recreational facilities.
   (5)   Social halls, clubs and community centers.
[Ord. 2003-3]
   D.   Specified public land use:
   (1)   Municipal/county, state or federal buildings or uses.
   (2)   Public schools.
   (3)   Public owned parking facilities (as defined in §
2-202 as parking lot).
   (4)   Public art gallery.
   E.   Residential uses:
   (1)   Single-family detached dwellings.
   (2)   Two-family dwellings.
   (3)   Multi-family dwellings.
   (4)   Dwelling over and/or attached to business.
   F.   Accessory uses to all uses permitted by right.
   2.   Uses permitted by special exception.
   A.   Car wash.
   B.   Home occupations.
   C.   Hotels/motels.
   D.   Light industry (as defined in Part 2).
   E.   Medical marijuana dispensary.
   F.   Public uses.
   G.   Trucking facilities and terminals.
   H.   Wireless commercial communication sites and support structures.
   I.   Accessory uses to the above.
[Ord. 2007-5A]
   3.   Conditional uses (see Part 7):
   A.   Shopping center. Any use permitted by right or by special exception
shall be deemed a conditional use if it involves either of the following:
   (1)   The initial or cumulative disturbance which equals or exceeds 87,120
square feet of surface area.
   (2)   The initial or cumulative construction, placement or installation
which equals or exceeds 43,560 square feet of buildings, structures and/or
other impervious surface area.
   (3)   Any use which utilizes and/or stores any hazardous substances as so
defined in Part 2 of this Chapter.
   [Ord. 2007-5A]
   4.   Dimensional regulations. Each principal building, structure and/or use
shall be governed by the following regulations, unless more restrictive
standards are applicable, including, but not limited to, state regulations and
supplementary regulations contained in Part 8 of this Chapter.
   A.   Minimum lot area:
   (1)   Fifteen thousand square feet, subject to the lot being serviced by
centralized sewers.
   (2)   One acre when serviced by an on-lot sewage disposal system.
   B.   Minimum lot width:
   (1)   Nonresidential uses. One hundred feet.
   (2)   Residential uses. Seventy feet.
   C.   Front yard. The minimum front yard shall be not less than 35 feet in
depth as measured from the front lot line.
   D.   Rear yard. The rear yard shall be not less than 40 feet in depth as
measured from the rear lot line.
   E.   Side yard. The side yard shall be not less than 15 feet on each side
when the adjoining lot contains a nonresidential use; a side yard setback of
not less than 30 feet shall be required for any side yard when adjoining lot
contains a residential use or where it abuts a residential zoning district.
   F.   Lot coverage. Not more than 40 percent of the lot area shall be covered
by buildings or structures.
   G.   Building height. The maximum height of any building shall not exceed
three stories or 40 feet. [Ord. 2003-3]
   5.   Supplementary regulations. See Part 8.
   6.   Subdivision and land development. Any property proposed to be divided
into parcels or developed in accordance with the definitions of a “subdivision”
or “land development”, as provided in Part 2 of this Chapter, shall also be
subject to the governing regulations and provisions of the Plains Township
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22 ].
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, §506; as amended by Ord. 2000-1, 2/10/2000, §1; by
Ord. 2003-3, –/–/2003, §§2, 3, 4 and 7; by Ord. 2005-5, 3/10/2005, §5; and by
Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, §§20, 21 and 22; Ord. 2017-1, 6/8/2017; Ord. 2018-7,
9/13/2018; Ord. 2018-8, 9/13/2018)
§ 27-507.   C-1 Conservation District.
   1.   Permitted uses.
   A.   County parks.
   B.   Essential public utility facilities as defined in Part 2 of this
Chapter (excluding storage yards).
   C.   Single-family detached dwellings.
   D.   Public recreational facilities.
   E.   Greenhouse, nurseries and garden shops.
   F.   State game lands.
   G.   Essential public utility facilities as defined in Part 2 of this
Chapter (excluding storage yards).
   H.   County parks.
   I.   Hospitals as defined in §
20-202.
   J.   Forestry (as defined in Part 2; also see Part 8).
   K.   No-impact home-based businesses (as defined in Part 2; also see Part
8).
   L.   Schools (as defined in Part 2 of this Chapter).
   M.   Accessory uses to the above.
[Ord. 2007-5A]
   2.   Uses permitted by special exception.
   A.   Animal hospitals or clinics.
   B.   Animal kennels.
   C.   Cemeteries.
   D.   Home occupations.
   E.   Mobile homes constructed with and anchored to a permanent foundation.
   F.   Outdoor wood-fired boiler (as an accessory use, also see Part 8).
   G.   Private recreational facilities.
   H.   Public uses.
   I.   Sewage disposal plants.
   J.   Utility buildings and storage yards.
   K.   Wireless commercial communication sites and support structures.
   L.   Accessory uses to the above.
[Ord. 2009-5B]
   3.   Conditional uses (see Part 7).
   A.   Mobile home parks.
   B.   Planned residential development.
   C.   Extraction of natural resources.
   D.   Wind energy facility.
   E.   Any use permitted by right or by special exception shall be deemed a
conditional use if it involves either of the following:
   (1)   The initial or cumulative disturbance which equals or exceeds 87,120
square feet of surface area.
   (2)   The initial or cumulative construction, placement or installation
which equals or exceeds 43,560 square feet of buildings, structures and/or
other impervious surface area.
[Ord. 2007-5A]
   4.   Dimensional regulations. A principal building, structure and/or use
shall be governed by the following regulations, unless more restrictive
standards are applicable, including but not limited to state regulations and
supplementary regulations contained in Part 8 of this Chapter. [Ord. 2009-5B]
   A.   Minimum lot area. Each principal building or use shall be located upon
a lot having a minimum lot area of not less than two acres. [Ord. 2009-5B]
   B.   Minimum lot width. Each lot shall have a lot width not less than 200
feet.
   C.   Front yard. The minimum front yard shall be not less than 50 feet in
depth as measured from the front lot line.
   D.   Rear yard. The rear yard shall be not less than 50 feet in depth as
measured from the rear lot line.
   E.   Side yard. The side yard shall be not less than 25 feet on each side.
   F.   Lot coverage. Not more than 20 percent of a lot shall be covered by
buildings. Total impervious cover shall not exceed 30 percent.
   G.   Building height. The maximum height of any building shall not exceed
two and one-half stories or 35 feet.
   5.   Supplementary regulations. See Part 8.
   6.   Subdivision and land development. Any property proposed to be divided
into parcels or developed in accordance with the definitions of a “subdivision”
or a “land development”, as provided in Part 2 of this Chapter, shall also be
subject to the governing regulations and provisions of the Plains Township
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22 ].
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 507; as amended by Ord. 2000-6, 9/14/2000; by Ord.
2007-5A, 9/19/2007, §§ 23, 24 and 25; and by Ord. 2009-5B, 5/14/2009, §§ 5, 6
and 7; Ord. 2017-1, 6/8/2017)
§ 27-508.   I-1 General Industrial District.
   1.   Permitted uses.
   A.   Automotive sales.
   B.   Contractors’ offices, shops and storage yards (for commercial uses
which sell products such as: lumber, building, heating, plumbing, electrical,
masonry, fencing and related material).
   C.   Electronic equipment and products, both sales and repairs.
   D.   Equipment sales and repairs.
   E.   Forestry (as defined in Part 2; also see Part 8).
   F.   Gas station.
   G.   Gas station, limited-service.
   H.   Light industry (as defined in Part 2).
   I.   Lumberyards.
   J.   Machine shops and sheet metal shops.
   K.   Grower/processor of medical marijuana.
   L.   No-impact home-based businesses (as defined in Part 2, also see Part
8).
   M.   Outdoor storage as defined in Part 2.
   N.   Print shops.
   O.   Public uses.
   P.   Public utility facilities.
   Q.   Repair garages.
   R.   Stone or monument works.
   S.   Tire retreading and recapping.
   T.   Trucking facilities and terminals.
   U.   Warehouse and distribution facilities.
   V.   Warehousing, including self-storage facilities.
   W.   Accessory uses to the above.
[Ord. 2007-5A]
   2.   Uses permitted by special exception.
   A.   Bulk fuel storage.
   B.   Wireless commercial communication sites and support structures.
   C.   Medical marijuana trucking facility.
   D.   Medical marijuana waste facility.
[Ord. 2009-5B]
   3.   Conditional uses (see Part 7).
   A.   Automotive wrecking yards.
   B.   Extraction, excavation and/or removal of natural resources.
   C.   Heavy industrial uses (as defined in Part 2).
   D.   Junkyards.
   E.   Solid waste facilities.
   F.   Staging areas.
   G.   Transfer station.
   H.   Any use permitted by right or by special exception shall be deemed a
conditional use if it involves either of the following:
   (1)   The initial or cumulative disturbance which equals or exceeds 87,120
square feet of surface area.
   (2)   The initial or cumulative construction, placement or installation
which equals or exceeds 43,560 square feet of buildings, structures and/or
other impervious surface area.
   (3)   Any use which utilizes and/or stores any hazardous substances as so
defined in Part 2 of this Chapter.
   4.   Dimensional regulations. Each principal building, structure and/or use
shall be governed by the following regulations, unless more restrictive
standards are applicable, including, but not limited to, state regulations and
supplementary regulations contained in Part 8 of this Chapter.
   A.   Minimum lot area.
   (1)   Twenty thousand square feet subject to the lot being serviced by
centralized sewers.
   (2)   One acre when serviced by an on-lot sewage disposal system.
   B.   Minimum lot width. Each lot shall have a lot width not less than 100
feet.
   C.   Front yard. The minimum front yard shall be not less than 50 feet in
depth as measured from the front lot line.
   D.   Rear yard. The rear yard shall be not less than 50 feet in depth as
measured from the rear lot line. When abutting any R District, a buffer area as
so defined within Part 2 of this Chapter shall be required within the required
rear yard setback.
   E.   Side yard. The side yard shall be not less than 25 feet on each side.
When abutting any R District, a buffer area as so defined within Part 2 of this
Chapter shall be required within the required side yard setback.
   F.   Lot coverage. Not more than 50 percent of the lot area shall be covered
by buildings or structures.
   G.   Building height. The maximum height of any building shall not exceed
three stories or 40 feet.
   5.   Supplementary regulations. See Part 8.
   6.   Subdivision and land development. Any property proposed to be divided
into parcels or developed in accordance with the definitions of a “subdivision”
or a “land development”, as provided in Part 2 of this Chapter, shall also be
subject to the governing regulations and provisions of the Plains Township
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22 ].
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, §508; as amended by Ord. 2000-1, 2/10/2000, §2; by
Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, §§26 and 27; and by Ord. 2009-5B, 5/14/2009, §5; Ord.
2018-7, 9/13/2018)
§ 27-509.   B-4 Commercial/institutional District.
   1.   Permitted uses.
   A.   Retail commercial businesses that include:
   (1)   Convenience stores.
   (2)   Food/grocery.
   (3)   Forestry (as defined in Part 2; also see Part 8).
   (4)   Gas station.
   (5)   Greeting cards, books and stationery.
   (6)   Medical marijuana dispensary.
   (7)   No-impact home-based businesses (as defined in Part 2, also see Part
8).
   (8)   Office equipment and supplies.
   (9)   Pharmaceutical products.
   (10)   Accessory uses to the above.
[Ord. 2007-5A]
   B.   Service-oriented businesses that include:
   (1)   Banks, credit unions and similar uses.
   (2)   Continuing care facilities.
   (3)   Day care centers.
   (4)   Essential public utility facilities as defined in Part 2 of this
Chapter (excluding storage yards).
   (5)   Health clubs.
   (6)   Hospitals.
   (7)   Intermediate care facilities.
   (8)   Medical clinics.
   (9)   Motels and hotels.
   (10)   Personal services.
   (11)   Personal-care homes.
   (12)   Professional offices.
   (13)   Restaurants.
   (14)   Skilled nursing facilities.
   (15)   Taverns.
   (16)   Veterinary hospitals.
   (17)   Accessory uses to the above.
   C.   Recreation and entertainment related business including, or similar to:
   (1)   Public recreational facilities.
   (2)   Social halls, clubs and community centers.
   (3)   Accessory uses to the above.
   D.   Specific public land use:
   (1)   Municipal/county, state or federal buildings or uses.
   (2)   Public schools.
   (3)   Public owned parking facilities (as defined in §
20-202 as parking lot).
   (4)   Public art gallery.
   (5)   Accessory uses to the above.
   2.   Uses permitted by special exception.
   A.   Public uses.
   B.   Wireless commercial communication sites and support structures.
   C.   Accessory uses to the above.
   D.   Grower/processor of medical marijuana.
[Ord. 2009-5B]
   3.   Conditional uses (see Part 7):
   A.   Any use which utilizes and/or stores any hazardous substances as so
defined in Part 2 of this Chapter.
   B.   Methadone treatment facility.
   C.   Institutional uses.
   D.   Any use permitted by right or by special exception shall be deemed a
conditional use if it involves either of the following:
   (1)   The initial or cumulative disturbance which equals or exceeds 87,120
square feet of surface area.
   (2)   The initial or cumulative construction, placement or installation
which equals or exceeds 43,560 or more square feet of buildings, structures
and/or other impervious surface areas.
[Ord. 2007-5A]
   4.   Dimensional regulations. Each principal building, structure and/or use
shall be governed by the following regulations, unless more restrictive
standards are applicable, including, but not limited to, state regulations and
supplementary regulations contained in Part 8 of this Chapter.
   A.   Minimum lot area. Each principal building or use shall be located upon
a lot having a minimum lot area of not less than 20,000 square feet, subject to
the lot being serviced by centralized sewers.
   B.   Minimum lot width. Each lot shall have a lot width of not less than 100
feet.
   C.   Front yard. The minimum front yard shall be not less than 50 feet in
depth as measured from the front lot line.
   D.   Rear yard. The rear yard shall be not less than 50 feet in depth as
measured from the rear lot line.
   E.   Side yard. The side yard shall be not less than 25 feet on each side in
cases where the adjoining lot contains a nonresidential use; a side yard
setback of not less than 35 feet shall be required for any side yard in cases
where the adjoining lot contains a residential use or where it abuts a
residential zoning district.
   F.   Lot coverage. Not more than 40 percent of the lot area shall be covered
by buildings or structures.
   G.   Building height. The maximum height of any building shall not exceed
five stories or 75 feet.
   5.   Supplementary regulations. See Part 8.
   6.   Subdivision and land development. Any property proposed to be divided
into parcels or developed in accordance with the definitions of a “subdivision”
or “land development”, as provided in Part 2 of this Chapter, shall also be
subject to the governing regulations and provisions of the Plains Township
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22 ].
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998; as added by Ord. 2003-4, 10/6/2003, §3; and as amended
by Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, §§28, 29 and 30; and by Ord. 2009-5B, 5/14/2009,
§5; Ord. 2017-1, 6/8/2017; Ord. 2018-7, 9/13/2018)
§ 27-510.   B-5 Commercial Recreational District.
   1.   Permitted uses.
   A.   Retail commercial businesses that include:
   (1)   Banquet halls.
   (2)   Convenience stores.
   (3)   Convention centers.
   (4)   Entertainment facilities (as defined in Part 2).
   (5)   Forestry (as defined in Part 2, also see Part 8).
   (6)   Gas station.
   (7)   Movie theaters and live performance theaters.
   (8)   No-impact home-based businesses (as defined in Part 2).
   (9)   Private recreational facilities (as defined in Part 2).
   (10)   Retail stores.
   (11)   Accessory uses to the above.
   B.   Service-oriented businesses that include:
   (1)   Bars and taverns.
   (2)   Billboard signs.
   (3)   Day care centers, including facilities in which daycare services are
rendered.
   (4)   Essential public utility facilities as defined in Part 2 of this
Chapter (excluding storage yards).
   (5)   Health clubs.
   (6)   Motels and hotels.
   (7)   Night clubs.
   (8)   Personal services.
   (9)   Professional offices.
   (10)   Restaurants.
   (11)   Accessory uses to the above.
   C.   Recreation and entertainment related businesses including or similar
to:
   (1)   Horse racing facility with related wagering (as defined in Part 2).
   (2)   Private recreational facilities (as defined in Part 2).
   (3)   Accessory uses to the above.
   2.   Uses permitted by special exception.
   A.   Wireless commercial communication sites and support structures.
   B.   Accessory uses to the above.
[Ord. 2009-5B]
   3.   Conditional uses.
   A.   Sexually oriented uses (as defined in Part 2).
   B.   Pawn shops.
   C.   After hours club. [Ord. 2016-1]
   D.   Bottle clubs. [Ord. 2016-1]
   4.   Dimensional regulations. Each principal building, structure and/or use
shall be governed by the following regulations, unless more restrictive
standards are applicable, including, but not limited to, state regulations and
supplementary regulations contained in Part 8 of this Chapter.
   A.   Minimum lot area. Each principal building or use shall be located upon
a lot having minimum lot area of not less than 15,000 square feet, subject to
the lot being serviced by centralized sewers.
   B.   Minimum lot width. Each lot shall have a lot width of not less than 100
feet.
   C.   Front yard. The minimum front yard shall be not less than 50 feet in
depth as measured from the front lot line.
   D.   Rear yard. The rear yard shall be not less than 50 feet in depth as
measured from the rear lot line.
   E.   Side yard. The side yard shall be not less than 25 feet on each side in
cases where the adjoining lot contains a nonresidential use; a side yard
setback of not less than 40 feet shall be required for any side yard in cases
where the adjoining lot contains a residential use or where it abuts a
residential zoning district.
   F.   Lot coverage. Not more than 60 percent of the lot area shall be covered
by buildings or structures.
   G.   Building height. The maximum height of any building shall not exceed 20
stories.
   5.   Supplementary regulations.
   6.   Subdivision and land development. Any property proposed to be divided
into parcels or developed in accordance with the definitions of a “subdivision”
or “land development”, as provided in Part 2 of this Chapter, shall also be
subject to the governing regulations and provisions of the Plains Township
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22 ].
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998; as added by Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, § 5; and as
amended by Ord. 2009-5B, 5/14/2009, § 5; by Ord. 2016-1, 2/11/2016, § 3)
§ 27-511.   MU Mixed Use District.
   1.   Purpose. The purpose of this District is intended to encourage
creativity and flexibility in the development of larger tract land by relaxing
the rigidity of the strict separation of land uses which may be otherwise
compatible with the overall site development of a property.
   2.   Permitted nonresidential use.
   A.   Retail commercial businesses that include:
   (1)   Retail sale establishments.
   (2)   Retail sales establishment, specialty.
   (3)   Accessory uses to the above.
   B.   Service-oriented businesses that include:
   (1)   Hotels, motels, bed and breakfast inns.
   (2)   Professional offices.
   (3)   Retail services establishment.
   (4)   Service offices.
   (5)   Laundry and dry-cleaning service (exclusively for pick-up and delivery
of laundry and/or dry cleaning without any cleaning service equipment upon the
premises).
   (6)   Child-care uses.
   (7)   Gymnasiums, health/fitness centers.
   (8)   Automobile service station.
   (9)   Commercial radio antennas and support structures.
   (10)   Accessory uses to the above.
   3.   Permitted residential uses.
   A.   Two-family dwelling.
   B.   Multi-family dwelling.
   C.   Townhouses.
   D.   Residential neighborhood activity center.
   E.   Accessory uses to the above.
   4.   Dimensional regulations - nonresidential uses.
   A.   Generally. Each principal building, structure and/or use shall be
governed by the following regulations, unless more restrictive standards are
applicable, including, but not limited to, state regulations and supplementary
regulations contained in Part 8 of this
Chapter 27.
   B.   Nonresidential uses.
   (1)   Minimum lot area. Each principal building or use shall be located upon
a lot having a minimum lot area or lease area of not less than 15,000 square
feet.
   (2)   Minimum lot width. If applicable, each lot or leased area shall have a
lot width of not less than 100 feet. *
   (3)   Front yard. The minimum front yard shall be not less than 50 feet in
depth as measured from the front lot line. *
   (4)   Rear yard. The rear yard shall be not less than 50 feet in depth as
measured from the rear lot line. * In cases where the rear lot line of a
nonresidential structure borders the boundary of an R-1 Zoning District, a rear
yard setback of 75 feet shall be required along with a vegetative screening
consisting of two staggered rows of evergreen trees planted with the spacing
distance between trees not less than eight feet or greater than ten feet. Said
trees shall be not less than six feet in height at the time of planting. The
owner of the property shall be responsible to maintain the required vegetation
within the buffer area, including the replacement of any trees which are
damaged, die, removed by whatever means or otherwise fail to grow.
   (5)   Side yard. No interior sideyard setback distances shall apply among
any principal buildings of a development which is classified as a “land
development”. In all other cases a side yard setback distance of not less than
25 feet on each side shall be required.
   (6)   Lot coverage. Not more than 65 percent of the lot area shall be
covered by buildings or structures. Impervious surfaces shall not be considered
with such calculations
   (7)   Building height. The maximum height of any building shall not exceed
ten stories.
   * In the case of leased space under a land development application, the lot
width and the front and the rear yard setback requirements shall be based upon
measurement applicable to the principal lot, which may include two or more
leased areas and not from the description of the leased space within the
principal lot of record.
   5.   Subdivision and land development. Any property proposed to be divided
into parcels or developed in accordance with the definitions of a “subdivision”
or “land development”, as defined in Plains Township Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance, shall be subject to the governing regulations and
provisions of
Chapter 22.
   6.   Dimensional regulations.
   A.   Generally. Each principal building, structure and/or use shall be
governed by the following regulations, unless more restrictive standards are
applicable, including but not limited to state regulations and supplementary
regulations contained in Part 8 of this
Chapter 27. See §
27-802 Subsection 29. for dimensional regulations governing structures
containing multi-family dwelling units and §
27-802 Subsection 30. for dimensional regulations governing townhouse.
   B.   Residential uses.
   (1)   Minimum lot area. Each principal building, structure and/or use shall
be located upon a lot having a minimum lot area of not less than 10,000 square
feet.
   (2)   Minimum lot width. Each lot shall have a lot width of not less than
100 feet.
   (3)   Front yard. The minimum front yard shall be not less than 20 feet in
depth as measured from the front lot line.
   (4)   Rear yard. The rear yard shall be not less than 30 feet in depth as
measured from the rear lot line.
   (5)   Side yard. The combined side yards shall be not less than 16 feet,
with not less than eight feet on each side.
   (6)   Lot coverage. Not more than 45 percent of the lot area shall be
covered with buildings or structures.
   (7)   Building height. The maximum height of any building shall not exceed
stories three stories or 40 feet.
   (8)   Neighborhood activity center. Use of property where a residential
development has uses and/or facilities (including pools, tennis courts,
playgrounds, clubhouses, golf courses and other similar uses) available to
residents of the development and their guests.
   7.   Supplementary regulations. See Part 8.
   8.   Subdivision and land development. Any property proposed to be divided
into parcels or developed in accordance with the definitions of a “subdivision”
or “land development”, as defined in Plains Township Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance shall be subject to the governing regulations and
provisions of
Chapter 22.
   9.   Sign regulations. The following types of signs shall be permitted
within the MU District. All signs shall be classified according to type and use
as provided herein:
   A.   Business sign. A sign which communicates information concerning a
business, profession, commodity, service, entertainment or development which is
sold, offered, prepared, manufactured or conducted upon the zoning lot where
the sign is located.
   B.   Billboard or off-premises advertising sign. A sign which communicates
information concerning a subject, business, profession, activity, commodity,
service, entertainment or development not related to, sold, offered, prepared
or manufactured on the zoning lot where the sign is located.
   C.   Institutional sign. A sign which identifies a use pertaining to a
school, church, hospital or other institution of a similar public or semipublic
nature.
   D.   On-site directional and/or informational sign. A sign commonly
associated with, and limited to, information and directions necessary for
visitors entering or exiting a property, including signs marking entrance and
exits, parking areas, circulation direction, restrooms and pick-up and delivery
areas. Other than company logos, such signs shall contain no advertising
material.
   E.   Pylon sign. A pylon sign shall mean an on-site freestanding sign,
supported by a sign structure from the ground, which identifies businesses
located on the same parcel or in the same development on which the sign is
located.
   10.   Construction types of signs. All signs shall be classified according
to construction types. The following types shall be permitted within the MU
District:
   A.   Freestanding sign. A sign not attached or applied to a principal
building but supported by another structure, including structures designed for
the sign itself and accessory structures.
   B.   Wall sign. A sign attached, painted or affixed to the wall of a
principal structure or accessory structure, not projecting over any public
right-of-way and not extending more than two feet from the building or
structure.
   C.   Projecting sign. A sign which projects outward or extends more than two
feet from the building or structure.
   11.   Setback for freestanding signs. The minimum side yard setback and rear
yard setback for any freestanding sign shall be the same as the minimum side
yard or rear yard setback for a principal structure in the zoning district in
which the sign is located. The minimum front yard setback, with the exception
of §
27-1004, Paragraph G., On-Site Directional and/or Informational Sign and §
27-1004, Paragraph H., Billboard Sign or Off-Premise Advertising Sign shall be
not less than 25 percent of the required setback for a principal structure in
the zoning district in which the sign is located. If an existing building has a
front yard setback which is less than ten feet, any proposed new sign shall be
attached flat against the building as a wall sign.
   12.   Prohibited signs. The following types of signs shall be prohibited
within the MU District:
   A.   Air- and gas-filled devices.
   B.   Awning and canopy signs.
   C.   Banners unless permitted as special temporary sign.
   D.   Bench signs.
   E.   Signs which display obscene text, copy, message, pictures, forms or
structures.
   F.   Flashing, blinking, traveling signs or lights, excluding any reader
board or other sign identifying retail commercial businesses or service-
oriented businesses.
   G.   Portable, mobile or trailer signs.
   H.   Roof signs.
   I.   Sidewalk, sandwich signs and A-frame signs.
   J.   Signs affixed to utility poles, trees, street markers, and fence posts
or placed on any curb, sidewalk, fence, hydrant, bridge or other surface
located on public property or over or across any public street.
   K.   Signs that advertise or promote illegal activities.
   L.   Signs that are erected, located or maintained in such a manner as to
interfere with safe and free ingress or egress of any door or emergency exit or
fire escape.
   M.   Spectacular signs, including feather flag signs.
   N.   Swinging or projecting sign.
   O.   Signs which obstruct sight of motorists or pedestrians so as to create
safety hazards for motorists or pedestrians.
   13.   Pylon sign. In an integrated grouping of commercial uses which is
classified as a “land development”, in addition to permitting each individual
use to display signage, a pylon sign shall be permitted which identifies uses
located on the same parcel or in the same development on which the sign is
located. Not more than two pylons signs shall be permitted. A such sign shall
not exceed 2,000 square feet in area nor exceed a maximum height of 125 feet
above the existing grade.
   14.   Maximum area of signage. The maximum area of a business sign and/or
the cumulative amount of all signage for a property located in the MU District
shall not exceed five square feet of signage for each linear foot of frontage
along a public road or a public right-of way. In the case of corner properties,
the frontage along both sides shall be included in calculating the maximum
square feet of permitted signage. Wall signs, pylon signs and temporary signs
shall be excluded from such calculations.
(Ord. 2015-6, 9/10/2015, § 4)
Part 6
Special Exceptions
§ 27-601.   Purpose.
   The purpose of a use classified as a special exception is to provide
expressed standards for regulating unique or special characteristics of certain
uses which may otherwise allow such uses to be permitted by right within their
respective zoning district, as provided in Part 5, Zoning District Regulations.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 601)
§ 27-602.   General Provisions.
   The authority for approving or denying applications for uses permitted by
special exception shall be vested in the Zoning Hearing Board in accordance
with the provisions contained in Part 15. Decisions by the Zoning Hearing Board
shall be made pursuant to the standards and criteria set forth in this Part (§
27-1504), the respective zoning district in which the use is located, all other
applicable regulations of this Chapter, other ordinances of the Township and
any applicable state and/or federal regulations. All applications for special
exception uses which involve new construction shall be initially referred to
the Plains Planning Commission for its review and comment along with any
recommendation it may wish to render to the Zoning Hearing Board.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 602)
§ 27-603.   Site Plan.
   Uses classified as a special exception shall file, in addition to a zoning
permit, a site plan at a scale of not greater than one inch equal 50 feet,
which shall be submitted to the Zoning Officer. Such plan shall provide all
applicable information required for the Zoning Hearing Board to render a
decision including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   The location and size of all buildings and structures, both principal
and accessory.
   B.   The location of all off-street parking areas and/or loading areas.
   C.   The location of all open space areas, including buffer areas and
fencing, if applicable.
   D.   Traffic access to the site and internal traffic circulation within the
site.
   E.   All streets, both public and private, within 500 feet of the site.
   F.   Contours of the site for each five feet of change in elevation, based
upon a field survey of the site, with the name of the person or firm who
conducted the survey and the date of the survey.
   G.   The location, nature and terms of any existing or proposed easements on
the site and any easements both on-site and off-site which are used or intended
to be used for access to the site.
   H.   Streams, ponds, watercourses, wetlands or any other type bodies of
water, including natural or human-made drainage swales, located on the site or
within 500 feet of the site.
   I.   The location of any residential structure within 500 feet of any
property boundary line of the subject site.
   J.   The map, block and lot number of the subject parcel.
   K.   A location map at a scale of not greater than one inch equals 2,000
feet, indicating the relation of the site to its geographic proximity within
the Township.
   L.   A narrative outline which fully describes the proposed use of the site
and the pertinent operational aspects and features of the proposed use.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 603)
§ 27-604.   General Standards.
   The general standards contained herein, in addition to all other applicable
regulations, shall be utilized in the review of applications and plans for any
use which is classified as a special exception:
   A.   The proposed use shall not jeopardize the objectives of the community
development objectives of this Chapter nor shall it adversely affect the
health, safety and welfare of the public and/or the environment.
   B.   Public services and facilities such as streets, sewage disposal, water,
police and fire protection shall be adequate for the proposed use.
   C.   Existing and future streets and access to the site shall be adequate
for emergency services, for avoiding undue congestion, and for providing for
the safety and convenience of pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   The relationship of the proposed use to other activities existing or
planned in the vicinity shall be harmonious in terms of the location and size
relative to the proposed use, and the nature and intensity of the operation
involved.
   E.   The relationship of the proposed use to other activities existing or
planned in the vicinity shall be harmonious in terms of the character and
height of buildings, walls and fences so that the use, development and value of
adjacent property is not impaired.
   F.   The proposed use shall not be more objectionable in its operation in
terms of noise, fumes, smoke, vapors, gases, odors, heat, glare, vibration,
lighting or electrical disturbances than would be the operation of any
permitted use in the district nor shall it constitute a general nuisance as so
defined in Part 2 of this Chapter.
   G.   Any other reasonable conditions and safeguards, in addition to those
expressed in this Chapter, may be imposed by the Zoning Hearing Board in the
interest of protecting the health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 604)
§ 27-605.   Impact Analysis.
   In considering an application for a special exception, the Zoning Hearing
Board shall have the authority to require the applicant to prepare an impact
analysis on a particular aspect of the subject application and/or potential
effect of the subject application in relationship to surrounding properties in
accordance with the definition of said term as provided within Part 2 of this
Chapter. The cost of preparing and/or providing such information shall be borne
by the applicant.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 605)
Part 7
Conditional Uses
§ 27-701.   Purpose.
   The purpose of a use classified as a conditional use is to provide expressed
standards to regulate uses classified as such in particular zoning districts,
as provided in Part 5 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 701)
§ 27-702.   Conditional Use Application Fee.
   As part of the conditional use application fee, which shall be established
the Board of Commissioners, the applicant shall be responsible to reimburse the
Township for all reasonable and necessary consulting fees which are incurred by
the Township to review plans, reports, data, studies and any other information
related to an application for a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 702)
§ 27-703.   General Provisions.
   The authority for approving or denying applications for uses permitted as a
conditional use shall be vested in the Board of Commissioners, with the
Township Planning Commission having the authority to review and submit their
recommendations to the Board of Commissioners. Decisions by the Board of
Commissioners shall be made in accordance with standards and criteria set forth
in this Part, any studies and reports required within the context of an impact
analysis, as so defined in Part 2 of this Chapter, the respective zoning
district in which the use is located, all other applicable regulations of this
Chapter, other ordinances of the Township and all applicable state and/or
federal regulations.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 703)
§ 27-704.   Application and Site Plan.
   A conditional use application, and 15 copies of said application shall be
submitted to the Zoning Officer along with 15 of a site plan which includes the
following information.
   A.   The site plan shall be at a scale of not greater than one inch equals
50 feet. Such plan shall, at minimum, indicate:
   (1)   The location and size of all buildings and structures, both principal
and accessory, open space, parking areas, traffic access and circulation.
   (2)   All public or private streets within 1,000 feet of the site.
   (3)   Contours of the site for each two feet of change in elevation, based
upon a field survey of the site, with the name of the person or firm who
conducted the survey and the date of survey.
   (4)   Streams, ponds, watercourses, wetlands or any other bodies of water,
including natural or human-made drainage swales located both on the site and
within 500 feet of the site.
   (5)   The location, nature and terms of any existing or proposed easements
on the site and any existing or proposed easements both on-site and off-site
which are used or intended to be used for access to the site.
   (6)   The location, type and height of any required screening.
   (7)   The location of all structures within 200 feet of any property line
boundary of the subject site.
   (8)   The map, block and lot number of the subject parcel.
   (9)   A location map at a scale of not greater than one inch equals 2,000
feet, indicating the relation of the site to its geographic proximity within
the Township.
   (10)   A narrative outline which fully describes the proposed use of the
site and the pertinent operational aspects and features of the proposed use.
   (11)   Any other information required by the Board of Commissioners for
determining the conformance of the conditional use with the regulations for
that particular use.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 704)
§ 27-705.   Procedural Requirements in Rendering a Decision.
   1.   Prior to approving or denying an application for a conditional use, the
Board of Commissioners shall conduct a public hearing pursuant to public
notice. The Board of Commissioners shall submit the application for the
proposed conditional use to the Township Planning Commission, not less than 30
days prior to the public hearing, to allow the Planning Commission to submit
any such recommendations as they may deem appropriate.
   2.   The required public hearing shall be held and conducted in accordance
with the same procedural guidelines which govern the Zoning Hearing Board under
Part 15 of this Chapter. The term “Board of Commissioners” shall replace the
term “Zoning Hearing Board” in relevant passages of said Part.
   3.   The Board of Commissioners shall render a written decision or, when no
decision is called for, make written findings on the conditional use
application within 45 days after the last hearing before the Board of
Commissioners. Where the application is contested or denied, each decision
shall be accompanied by findings of fact and conclusions based thereon,
together with the reasons therefor. Conclusions based on any provisions of the
ordinance or any other ordinance, rule or regulation, shall contain a reference
to the provisions relied upon and the reasons why the conclusion is deemed
appropriate in light of the facts found.
   4.   If the Board of Commissioners fails to render a decision within 45 days
after the last hearing or fails to hold the required hearing within 60 days
from the date of the applicant’s request for hearing, the decision shall be
deemed to have been rendered in favor of the applicant, unless the applicant
has agreed in writing or on the record to an extension of time. When a decision
has been rendered in favor of the applicant because of their failure of the
Board of Commissioners to meet or render a decision as hereinabove provided,
the Board of Commissioners shall give public notice of said decision within ten
days from the last day it could have met to render a decision in the same
manner as required by public notice. If the Board of Commissioners fails to
provide such notice, the applicant may do so.
   5.   Nothing contained within this Section shall prejudice the right of any
party opposing the application to appeal the decision to a court of competent
jurisdiction. A copy of the final decision or, where no decision is called for,
of the findings shall be delivered to the applicant personally or mailed to him
or her no later than the day following its date.
   6.   The Board of Commissioners shall grant an approval for a conditional
use upon its determination that adequate evidence and information has been
provided, which indicates the applicant’s proposal meets the general and
specific requirements for the type of conditional use in question, and any
additional conditions and safeguards deemed necessary to protect the public
health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 705)
§ 27-706.   General Standards.
   The general standards contained herein, shall be utilized in the review of
applications and plans for any use which is classified as a conditional use.
   A.   The proposed use shall not jeopardize the community objectives of this
Chapter nor shall it adversely affect the health, safety and welfare of the
public and/or the environment.
   B.   Public services and facilities such as streets, sewage disposal, water,
police and fire protection shall be adequate for the proposed use.
   C.   Existing and future streets and access to the site shall be adequate
for emergency services, for avoiding undue congestion, and for providing for
the safety and convenience of pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   The relationship of the proposed use to other activities existing or
planned in the vicinity shall be harmonious in terms of location and size
relative to the proposed operation and the nature and intensity of the
operation involved.
   E.   The relationship of the proposed use to other activities existing or
planned in the vicinity shall be harmonious in terms of the character and
height of structures, buildings, walls and fences, so that the use, and
development of adjacent property is not impaired.
   F.   The proposed use shall not be more objectionable in its operation in
terms of noise, fumes, odors, vibration or lighting that would be the
operations of any permitted use in the district.
   G.   The submission of an environmental impact statement for all
nonresidential conditional uses in accordance with §
27-708 of this Chapter, and all subsections thereunder.
   H.   The submission of any reports and/or studies within the context of the
definition “impact analysis” as contained within Part 2 of this Chapter, which
conclusively demonstrates that the proposed use or development will not have a
negative impact upon the particular subject or subjects as set forth by the
Board of Commissioners including, but not limited to, the interest of
protecting the health, safety and welfare of the public and environmental
features and characteristics of the site and/or surrounding areas. In its
review of an impact analysis, the Board of Commissioners shall have the
discretion to retain the services of firms or agencies which have expertise
within the subject or subjects addressed therein.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 706)
§ 27-707.   Classified Conditional Uses.
   The following uses/developments are classified as conditional uses within
Part 5 of this Chapter:
   A.   Any use permitted by right or special exception, involving the initial
or cumulative disturbance of 87,120 or more square feet of surface area
including, but not limited to, the excavation of land, grading and/or the
backfilling of land not related to the extraction of natural resources.
   B.   Any use permitted by right or special exception, involving the initial
or cumulative construction, installation or placement of 43,560 or more square
feet of buildings, structures and/or other impervious surface areas.
   C.   Any use which utilizes and/or stores any hazardous substances as so
defined in Part 2 of this Chapter.
   D.   Automotive wrecking yards.
   E.   Extraction, excavation and/or removal of natural resources.
   F.   Heavy industry (as defined in Part 2).
   G.   Institutional uses.
   H.   Junkyards.
   I.   Methadone treatment facilities.
   J.   Mobile home parks, including expansions of existing mobile home parks.
   K.   Pawn shops.
   L.   Planned residential developments.
   M.   Sewage treatment facilities.
   N.   Sexually oriented uses (as defined in Part 2).
   O.   Shopping center.
   P.   Solid waste facilities.
   Q.   Staging areas.
   R.   Transfer station.
   S.   Wind energy facility.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 707; as amended by Ord. 2003-3, –/–/2003, §§ 5 and
6; by Ord. 2003-4, 10/6/2003, § 4; and by Ord. 2005-5, 3/10/2005, § 6)
§ 27-708.   Environmental Impact Statement.
   In addition to all other requirements, an environmental impact statement
shall be required for any nonresidential use and/or development which is
classified as a conditional use. Upon a written request from the applicant, the
Board of Commissioners, at its sole discretion, may exempt a nonresidential use
from the submission of an environmental impact statement, in whole or in part,
upon a determination that certain information is not applicable to the proposed
use and/or development. The burden of proof that certain information is not
applicable to the proposed use and/or development shall rest with the applicant
in addressing the basis for the requested exemption. The purpose of the
environmental impact statement is to disclose the environmental consequences of
a proposed action. This requirement is designed to protect the natural
environment with respect to water quality, water supply, soil erosion,
pollution of any kind, flooding and waste disposal. The intent is to preserve
trees and vegetation, to protect watercourses, air quality, aquifers and the
quality of life throughout Plains Township and its environs. An environmental
impact statement shall include a response to the following items and said
proposed use/development shall further comply with all other applicable
standards and requirements of this Chapter:
   A.   Soil types.
   (1)   U.S.D.A. soil types (illustrated upon map).
   (2)   Permeability of soil on the site.
   (3)   Rate of percolation of water through the soil for every five acres.
   B.   Surface waters.
   (1)   Distance of site from the nearest surface water and head waters of
streams.
   (2)   Sources of runoff water.
   (3)   Rate of runoff from the site.
   (4)   Destination of runoff water and method of controlling down stream
effects.
   (5)   Chemical additives to runoff water on the site.
   (6)   Submission of a soils erosion and sedimentation control plan meeting
the requirements of the Luzerne County Conservation District.
   (7)   A stormwater management plan which shall be developed in coordination
with the soils erosion and sedimentation plan.
   C.   Ground cover including trees.
   (1)   Extent of existing impervious ground cover on the site.
   (2)   Extent of proposed impervious ground cover on the site.
   (3)   Extent of existing vegetative cover on the site.
   (4)   Extent of proposed vegetative cover on the site.
   D.   Topography.
   (1)   Maximum existing elevation of site.
   (2)   Minimum existing elevation of site.
   (3)   Maximum proposed elevation of site.
   (4)   Minimum proposed elevation of site.
   (5)   Description of the topography of the site and all proposed changes in
topography.
   E.   Groundwater.
   (1)   Average depth to seasonal high water table.
   (2)   Minimum depth to water table on site.
   (3)   Maximum depth to water table on site.
   F.   Water supply.
   (1)   The source and adequacy of water to be provided to the site.
   (2)   The projected water requirements (G.P.D.) for the site.
   (3)   The uses to which the water will be put.
   G.   Sewage system.
   (1)   Sewage disposal system (description and location on the site of
system).
   (2)   Expected content of sewage effluents (human waste, pesticides,
detergents, oils, heavy metals, other chemicals).
   (3)   Projected daily volumes of sewage.
   (4)   Affected sewage treatment plants present capacity and design capacity.
   H.   Solid waste.
   (1)   Estimated quantity of solid waste to be developed and/or processed on
the site during and after construction.
   (2)   Method of disposal and/or processing of solid waste during and after
construction.
   (3)   Plans for recycling of solid waste during and after construction.
   I.   Air quality.
   (1)   Expected changes in air quality due to activities at the site during
and after construction.
   (2)   Plans for control of emissions affecting air quality.
   J.   Noise.
   (1)   Noise levels, above existing levels, anticipated to be generated at
the site, (source and magnitude), during and after construction.
   (2)   Proposed method for control of additional noise on-site during and
after construction.
   K.   Impact of proposed use/development. A description of the impacts on the
environment and mitigating factors shall be provided for the following:
   (1)   Existing plant species, (upland and marine), and effects thereon.
   (2)   Existing animal species and effects thereon.
   (3)   Existing wild fowl and other birds and effects thereon.
   (4)   Effects of drainage and runoff.
   (5)   Effects on groundwater quality.
   (6)   Effects on surface water quality.
   (7)   Effects on air quality.
   (8)   Alternatives to proposed use/development, consistent with the zoning
of the site.
   (9)   Effects on sites of historic significance.
   (10)   Projected amount and type of traffic to be generated and the effects
of the same on public roads and highways.
   L.   Impact upon critical areas. The applicant shall define, describe and
identify upon a map, critical areas as defined in Part 2 of this Chapter. A
statement of any potential impact upon critical areas shall be provided by the
applicant, including, but not limited to, adverse impacts which cannot be
avoided and/or mitigated as a resulting effect of the development.
   M.   Other governmental jurisdiction. A list of all licenses, permits and
other approvals required by county, state or federal law and the status of
each.
   N.   Review procedure of environmental impact statement.
   (1)   Upon receipt of an environmental impact statement, the Board of
Commissioners shall promptly forward the environmental impact statement to the
Township Planning Commission, the Township Engineer and any other agency, firm
or individual which the Board of Commissioners may desire for their
consultation and input.
   (2)   The Planning Commission shall review the applicant’s environmental
impact statement and provide the Board of Commissioners with its comments and
recommendations within 30 days from the date of its submission to the Planning
Commission.
   (3)   The Board of Commissioners shall have the discretion to retain the
expertise of appropriate parties in their review of the environmental impact
statement. All fees and costs incurred for such consultation shall be paid by
the applicant.
   (4)   A determination by the Board of Commissioners of a potential adverse
impact which may result shall constitute sufficient basis for the denial of a
conditional use permit.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 708)
§ 27-709.   Solid Waste Facility–Supplementary Regulations.
   1.   Conformance to the following. A solid waste facility shall conclusively
demonstrate conformance to all of the following items:
   A.   The applicant shall provide a comprehensive soil analysis and
groundwater report which shall conclusively demonstrate that the proposed
design, construction and operation of the solid waste facility shall not
pollute surface or groundwater, nor otherwise cause any potential health or
environmental hazard. Said report shall be jointly signed and certified by the
applicant and the consultant, who prepares the report, attesting to the
accuracy of information and the validity of said report.
   B.   The applicant shall sign an agreement prepared by the Township
Solicitor, prior to final approval of the application for a conditional use
permit which shall specify all the terms and conditions of approval, including
the Township’s authority to revoke the permit for the violation of any terms
and/or conditions under which the application was approved. Prior to formal
action to revoke the conditional use permit, the Board of Commissioners shall
convene a public hearing, pursuant to public notice, to consider testimony and
evidence relative to the alleged violations. Based upon the testimony and
evidence provided, the Board of Commissioners shall render a decision.
   C.   The land area and/or parcel of land on which the solid waste facility
is located shall not exceed 25 acres, whether developed initially or
cumulatively.
   D.   The applicant of a proposed solid waste facility shall provide
conclusive evidence, based upon a mining report, soil analysis, test borings
and any other appropriate technical data which conclusively demonstrates that
the subsurface conditions beneath any area to be utilized as a landfill is
capable of sustaining the bearing load of projected and/or planned quantity of
material to be deposited and/or disposed of upon the site. The applicant and
the person, party or firm providing such evidence shall jointly sign and
certify the accuracy and validity of the information and data which is provided
as conclusive evidence.
   E.   Any application for a conditional use permit for a solid waste
facility, which includes the operation of a landfill, shall include a proposed
reuse of the property and/or area utilized as a landfill upon the cessation of
landfill activities. The proposed reuse of the property shall not be
inconsistent with §
27-105 of this Chapter.
   F.   The applicant shall be required to create an escrow fund to finance the
proposed and planned reuse and development of any area utilized as a landfill
based upon the projected life expectancy of any area within the solid waste
facility which is utilized as a landfill. Such fund shall be funded while the
property is still being used for a landfill with annual increment payments. The
annual increment payment shall be based upon the estimated cost of the proposed
reuse of the site divided by the number of years which the landfill is expected
to operate. Such fund shall be separate and distinct from any funding and/or
bonding requirement pursuant to closure activities.
   G.   A solid waste facility may conduct and operate all approved functional
aspects within the facility from the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. from
Monday through Friday. Said facility shall not conduct and/or operate any
approved functional aspects associated with the facility on Saturdays, Sundays
and all legally recognized holidays by the federal government and/or the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   H.   The entire site of a solid waste facility shall be enclosed with
industrial type gauge fencing which shall be ten feet in height. All gates
shall be closed and locked at the end of business hours. There shall be no
advertising of any kind displayed upon the fence.
   I.   No operations and/or activities permitted within a solid waste facility
shall be permitted within 1,000 feet of any property line boundary and/or
within 2,500 feet of any residences and/or zoning district in which residences
are a permitted use.
   J.   All solid waste facilities and staging areas which store the solid
waste at any stage prior to disposal at an approved facility shall maintain the
aforesaid solid waste within a completely enclosed building. Storage of
materials, supplies or solid waste in motor vehicles, trucks, trailers or other
containers normally used to transport the materials shall not be permitted
unless the aforesaid motor vehicles, trucks, trailers or other containers shall
be stored within a completely enclosed building.
   K.   A solid waste facility shall provide for treatment and disposal of all
liquid effluent and discharges generated by the facility due to the storage,
washing or other process used in treating and/or processing the solid waste.
Any water discharge from the facility after being treated by the wastewater
treatment system shall meet all applicable regulations and requirements of the
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. [A.O.]
   L.   All stormwater collected on the site shall be treated by the facility’s
wastewater treatment system. Parking of motor vehicles containing solid waste
or motor vehicles which have not been properly cleaned and washed shall only be
permitted in completely enclosed buildings, handling areas or parking areas in
which containment of spillage, leakage or other contaminants is provided.
   M.   The owner and/or operator of any solid waste facility shall be required
to monitor the ground and surface water in the vicinity of the facility. Water
testing shall be conducted every three months on any stream within 500 feet of
any areas used for the storage or disposal of solid waste, if water drainage
from the facility is discharged into said stream. For each testing period, two
testing samples shall be collected: one sample shall be taken from the stream
at a point upstream of the facility drainage area and one sample shall be taken
from the stream at a point below the facility drainage area. In addition, the
well location, if applicable, located on the premises shall also be sampled
every three months. All water samples shall be collected and analyzed by an
independent party which is a certified water analysis laboratory for
hydrocarbons or other parameters deemed appropriate by the Township
Commissioners, and the results shall be provided to the Township. If said
samples exceed the limits established by the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection, the facility shall immediately cease operation until
such time as the source of the contamination has been identified and totally
corrected. [A.O.]
   N.   The area or areas upon which any permitted operations and/or activities
within a solid waste facility are conducted shall be entirely screened. Such
screening shall consist of a variety of evergreen trees, approved by the Board
of Commissioners, planted not more than six feet apart and being not less than
eight feet in height at the time of planting. Said screening shall be located
not greater than 300 feet from the operations and/or activities which are
subject to being screened. The applicant and/or operator of the facility shall
be responsible to maintain such screening, including the replacement of any
trees which are damaged, die or otherwise fail to grow.
   O.   The applicant shall provide a detailed narrative which fully describes
the daily operations of all permitted functions and activities within the
proposed solid waste facility, including the projected daily volume and tonnage
of refuse being accepted for processing and/or disposal.
   P.   The applicant shall submit to the Board of Commissioners, a copy of his
or her commercial policy of liability insurance covering third party claims for
property damage and personal injury.
   Q.   Vehicular access for ingress, egress and regress to a solid waste
facility shall be solely limited to private access roads, constructed in
accordance to the design standards of as so provided within Part 8 of the
Plains Township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance. Such private access
roads shall only have access to a State Legislative Route with no permitted
access to or from any local streets and/or roads.
   R.   The owner and or operator of a solid waste facility shall provide an
emergency response plan to address potential hazards associated with its
operations. Said plan shall be submitted for review and comment to the local
fire companies which serve Plains Township.
   S.   Any solid waste facility which processes sludge, prior to its final
disposal, shall be designed to include a liner in accordance with the
applicable standards of the Department of Environmental Protection for the
liner within a proposed landfill.
   T.   Any solid waste facility which includes incineration shall be designed
and operated in a manner to limit emissions by not less than ten percent below
the applicable allowable emission standards of the Department of Environmental
Protection or the Environmental Protection Agency, based upon the more
restrictive regulations for reducing and/or limiting air pollution. Any
emissions stack or similar structure shall not exceed 150 feet in height.
   U.   The applicant shall in addition to other required information and data
provide an impact analysis which address the impact of the proposed operation
and activities of a solid waste facility in relationship to the following
items:
   (1)   All streets and roads which shall and/or are likely to be utilized for
means of access to and from the site, including projected truck traffic which
shall be generated in relationship to the projected daily volume of waste being
transported to the solid waste facility.
   (2)   The suitability of the site for the proposed operations and activities
of the solid waste facility in relationship to the soils, slopes, woodlands,
wetlands, floodplains, aquifers, natural resources and other natural features
which are located both on-site and off-site of the facility.
   (3)   The impact, both on-site and off-site, of the proposed operations and
activities of the solid waste facility on the soils, slopes, woodlands,
wetlands, floodplains, aquifers, natural resources and other natural features
regarding the degree to which these are protected or destroyed, the tolerance
of these resources to the proposed development and any adverse environmental
impacts.
   (4)   The impact of the proposed operations and activities of the solid
waste facility upon any locations and/or structures of historical and/or
cultural significance within 3,000 feet to any property boundary line of the
facility.
   (5)   The impact of the proposed operations and activities of the solid
waste facility upon the preservation of agriculture and other land uses which
are essential to the public health and welfare.
   2.   Mitigation of adverse impacts. In the event that any information, data
and/or impact analysis indicates a projected and/or potential adverse impact,
the applicant shall fully mitigate such impact. A determination of a potential
adverse impact which may result, based upon the environmental impact statement
or the Board of Commissioners’ review of the same shall constitute sufficient
basis for the denial of a conditional use permit.
   3.   Land development approval required. In addition to the regulations
contained within this Part, a solid waste facility shall be subject to the
applicable regulations and provisions as contained within the Plains Township
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22]. The application process for a conditional use permit and a land
development may be submitted concurrently by the applicant.
   4.   Host municipality fee. A host municipality fee shall be executed
between Plains Township and applicant, owner and/or operator of a solid waste
facility prior to the commencement of construction of said facility.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 709; as amended by A.O.)
§ 27-710.   Excavation of Natural Resources.
   Extraction, excavation, removal and/or surface mining of coal and/or coal by
products and the extraction, excavation and/or removal of other natural
resources including sand, gravel, rock, topsoil and peat moss shall be
considered a temporary use, subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Map. Submission of a map which outlines the entire proposed area
subject to be the proposed extraction, excavation, removal and/or surface
mining of coal or coal by products. Said map shall contain surface features
showing the location of buildings, dwellings, places of worship, schools,
railroads, highways and lot lines of public and semipublic uses within a
distance of 500 feet from the perimeter of the proposed use. In addition, said
map shall indicate the proposed maximum depth of any excavation.
   B.   Bond, backfilling and fees. The applicant shall provide documentation
that all applicable state requirements relative to providing a bond which
guarantees the restoration and backfilling any land proposed to be excavated or
otherwise disturbed has been secured.
   C.   Insurance. That a certificate of insurance with limits of $100,000 per
person and $300,000 per accident for personal injuries, and $300,000 for
property damage, be filed with the Board of Commissioners both for the benefit
of all persons who might be injured or suffer property damage as a result of
the operations, and to save Plains Township and its officials harmless from any
and all claims, suits or demands caused by any operations of the subject use.
   D.   Distance provisions. The perimeter of any excavation under this Section
shall not be nearer than 500 feet from any building, property line or street,
except that owned by the excavator.
   E.   Timing. Blasting, if permitted by the Board of Commissioners, shall
occur only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. local time and in
accordance with regulations promulgated by and under the supervision of a
representative of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. The
applicant shall provide the Township with not less than a 24-hour advance
notice.
   F.   Location of processing equipment. To reduce airborne dust, dirt and
noise, all structures for sorting, crushing, grinding, loading, weighing,
washing and other operations shall be not less than 1,000 feet from the right-
of-way of any street, and/or 1,000 feet from any residential building or the
boundary of a residential zoning district.
   G.   Drainage. All excavations both during operations and after completion
shall be adequately drained to prevent the formation of pools of water.
Adequate measures shall be taken prior to any excavation and fully documented
prior to approval of the operation.
   H.   Limitation on land area. The extraction, excavation, removal and/or
surface mining of coal or the reclamation of coal by products shall not exceed
ten acres in area on any lot or tract of land.
   I.   Compliance with state requirements. Final and/or unconditional approval
under the provisions of this Chapter will not be issued until all required
licenses and/or permits have been properly secured from the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 710)
§ 27-711.   Sexually Oriented Uses.
   1.   No sexually oriented use, as so defined in Part 2 of this Chapter,
shall be located less than 1,000 feet from any of the following uses:
   A.   A residential dwelling.
   B.   A place of worship.
   C.   A public or quasi-public use or structure.
   D.   A zoning boundary of any residential zoning district.
   2.   Measurements of the required distance shall be made in a straight line,
from the nearest portion of the structure or premises of an adult use, to the
nearest property line of the above noted uses. The structure and/or premises of
an adult use, including all off-street parking areas shall be completely have a
buffer area, as defined in Part 2, around the entire property, excluding points
of vehicular access. The owner of the property shall be responsible to maintain
the required vegetation within the buffer area, including the replacement of
any frees which are damaged, die, removed by whatever means or otherwise fail
to grow.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 711; as amended by Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, § 31)
§ 27-712.   Mobile Home Parks.
   The standards and regulations provided herein shall apply to both the
development of new mobile home parks and the expansion of existing ones. The
development of a mobile home park, including the expansion of an existing one,
shall also be deemed as a subdivision or land development and shall be subject
to applicable regulations of the Township’s Subdivision and Land Development
Ordinance [
Chapter 22]. Customary accessory residential uses shall be permitted, along
with common areas for use by residents of the mobile home park.
   A.   All mobile home parks shall have a total land area of not less than ten
acres.
   B.   All mobile home parks shall be located on well-drained land with the
average natural slope not exceeding ten percent.
   C.   All mobile home parks shall have access to public streets or roads.
   D.   All mobile home parks shall be serviced by an off-site sewage disposal
system and a central water supply and distribution system.
   E.   Mobile homes shall not be located on sites so that any portion of any
mobile home is closer than 30 feet to any portion of any other mobile home or
permanent building within the mobile home park.
   F.   Access to mobile home sites shall be from interior driveways, access
drives or private streets and shall not be from public street or roads.
Entrance roads shall have a paved cartway width of at least 24 feet.
   G.   Every mobile home site shall be provided with a minimum of two off-
street parking spaces.
   H.   All mobile home parks shall be provided with pedestrian walkways on at
least one side of every street.
   I.   Each mobile home site shall have a minimum area of not less than 3,000
square feet and a minimum lot width of not less than 50 feet. The minimum
front, rear and side setback for any mobile home shall be ten feet.
   J.   Every mobile home park shall provide a defined recreational site or
sites which shall contain an area of land not less than five percent of the
total gross land area within the boundaries of the mobile home park. All
recreational sites shall be located in areas which are readily accessible to
all residents of the mobile home park. A recreational development plan shall be
provided which identifies passive and active recreational features to be
provided upon the site, including recreational equipment, play apparatus,
benches and all other features and facilities to be incorporated into the
design of the recreational site. The location of the recreational site and the
recreational development plan shall be subject to the review and approval of
Board of Commissioners. The recreational site must be identified and approved
by the Board of Commissioners prior to final approval of the development or
expansion of a mobile home park. To guarantee the installation of all
improvements to the site, the applicant shall be required to complete the
installation of all such improvements prior to receiving an unconditional final
approval or to post an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of 110
percent of the estimated cost of improvements. The procedures and standards
contained within § 509 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act
247, 53 P.S. § 10509, as amended, shall apply to posting the aforementioned
irrevocable letter of credit. The procedures and standards within § 510 of Act
247, 53 P.S. § 10510, as amended, shall apply to the release of the irrevocable
letter of credit upon the completion of the required improvements. The
applicant shall be required to reimburse the Township for any engineering fees
associated with the inspection of improvements to the site. Said reimbursement
must be paid at the same meeting of the Board of Commissioners at which the
applicant seeks final and unconditional approval of said improvements.
   K.   Each mobile home site shall be provided with a stand or pad consisting
of two concrete strips to accommodate the supporting base or foundation of the
mobile home.
   L.   Every mobile home in the park shall be enclosed from the bottom of the
mobile home to the ground or stand using industry-approved skirting material
compatible with the home.
   M.   Every mobile home shall be securely anchored or tied-down on at least
the four corners and/or in accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations
furnished with each home.
   N.   The owner/operator of each mobile home park shall provide a refuse
disposal plan.
   O.   An approved soils erosion and sedimentation plan and a stormwater
management plan shall be required prior to the unconditional approval for the
development or expansion of a mobile home park.
   P.   An approved Department of Environmental Protection planning module
shall be required prior to the unconditional approval for the development or
expansion of a mobile home park.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 712)
§ 27-713.   Planned Residential Developments.
   1.   Purpose. The purpose of this district, as stated in the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., as amended, is
to achieve the following:
   A.   To ensure that the provisions of this Chapter, which are concerned with
the uniform treatment of dwelling type, bulk, density and open space within
each zoning district, shall not be applied to the improvement of land by other
than lot-by-lot development in a manner which would distort the objectives of
the ordinance.
   B.   To encourage innovations in residential development and renewal so that
the growing demand for housing may be met by greater variety in type, design
and layout of dwellings and by the conservation and more efficient use of open
space ancillary to said dwellings.
   C.   To provide greater opportunities for better housing and recreation for
all who are or may become residents of the Township.
   D.   To encourage a more efficient use of land and public services and to
reflect changes in the technology of land development so that the economies so
secured may ensure the benefits of those who need housing.
   E.   To encourage more flexible land development which will respect and
conserve natural resources such as streams, floodplains, groundwater, wooded
areas and areas of unusual attractiveness in the natural environment.
   F.   In aid of the purpose stated within this Section, to provide a
procedure which can regulate the type, design and layout of a residential
development to the particular site and particular demand for housing existing
at the time of development in a manner consistent with the preservation of
property values within existing residential areas. To assure that the increased
flexibility of regulations over land development established hereby is carried
out pursuant to sound, expeditious and fair administrative standards and
procedures.
   2.   Use regulations. The principal permitted uses shall include:
   A.   Single-family detached dwellings.
   B.   Two-family dwellings.
   C.   Townhouses.
   D.   Accessory uses: customary accessory uses and buildings to the above
shall be permitted in accordance with the applicable provisions of this
Chapter.
   3.   Density regulations. The density of a planned residential development,
based upon the existing residential zoning district in which the planned
residential development is proposed to be established, shall not exceed the
minimum lot area per dwelling unit as provided for in this Chapter, along with
the corresponding maximum lot coverage requirements and required common open
space requirements as set forth in Subsection 6. of this Section.
   4.   Dimensional regulations. All planned residential developments shall be
subject to the following:
   A.   Minimum lot area. A planned residential development shall have an area
of not less than ten acres.
   B.   Distance between buildings. No buildings or structure, including
porches, decks or balconies shall be less than 30 feet to any other building or
structure.
   C.   Setback requirements. The minimum front, side and rear setbacks for a
planned residential development shall each be not less than 50 feet to the
property lines of adjoining properties. A planting strip of not less than 20
feet in width shall be along all property lines at the periphery of the
development where necessary to preserve the privacy of neighboring residents.
Land adjacent to a lake, pond, stream, wetlands or watercourse shall remain as
permanent open space for a distance of not less than 100 feet from the water’s
edge, unless superseded by more restrictive standards.
   D.   Common open space. Not less than 20 percent of the total area of a
Planned Residential Development, excluding streets and off-street parking
areas, shall be designated, designed and devoted to common open space for the
use and enjoyment of the residents therein.
   5.   Development regulations. A planned residential development shall be
subject to the following standards and regulations:
   A.   Requirements for improvements and design. All improvements, including,
but not limited to, streets, curbing, sidewalks, stormwater detention
facilities, drainage facilities, water supply facilities, sewage disposal,
street lighting, tree lawns and the like, unless otherwise exempted, shall be
designed and constructed in conformance with the standards and requirements of
the Plains Township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22].
   B.   Sewage disposal. Disposal of sanitary sewage shall be by means of
centralized sewers and shall conform to the design standards of the Plains
Township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22]. The proposed sewage collection system, and treatment facility
shall require DEP approval as a prerequisite and/or condition to tentative
approval of a development plan.
   C.   Water supply. The water supply may be an on-site or off-site system. If
the water is to be provided by means other than private wells, owned and
maintained by individual owners of lots within the planned residential
development, evidence shall be provided that the planned residential
development is to be supplied by a certified public utility, a bona fide
cooperative association of lot owners, or by a municipal corporation, authority
or utility. A copy of a certificate of public convenience from the Pennsylvania
Public Utility Commission or an application for such certificate, a cooperative
agreement or a commitment or agreement to serve the planned residential
development in question shall be required. Whichever form is appropriate, shall
be considered as acceptable evidence.
   6.   Location/management of common open space. Common open space within a
planned residential development shall be designed as a contiguous area which
shall be easily accessible to the residents. A planned residential development
must insure that the common open space shall remain as such and be properly
maintained by the developer’s compliance with one of the following:
   A.   Dedicate such land to public use, providing the Township will accept
such dedication.
   B.   Retain ownership and responsibility for maintenance of such land.
   C.   Provide for and establish an organization for the ownership and
maintenance of such land, which includes provisions that such organization
shall not be dissolved nor shall it dispose of such land, by sale or otherwise
(except to an organization conceived and established to own and maintain the
common open space), without first offering to dedicate such land to the
Township.
   The Township shall utilize the appropriate procedures and remedies, as set
forth in Article VII of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247,
53 P.S. §§ 10701 et seq., as amended, should an organization established to own
and maintain common open space fail to do so in a reasonable order and
conditioned in accordance with the development plan.
   7.   Phasing of development. A planned residential development may be
constructed in phases subject to the following:
   A.   The application for tentative approval shall cover the entire area to
be developed with a schedule delineating all proposed phases, as well as the
dates by which applications for final approval of each phase shall be filed.
Such schedule shall be updated annually by the applicant on or before the
anniversary date of the approval of the development plan, until all phases are
completed and granted final approval by the Board of Commissioners. Any
modification in the aforesaid schedule shall be subject to approval of the
Board of Commissioners in its discretion. [A.O.]
   B.   Not less than 15 percent of the total number of dwelling units to be
constructed shall be included in the first phase.
   C.   The second and any subsequent phases shall be completed in accordance
with the tentatively approved plan, with each phase containing not less than 15
of the total number of dwelling units.
   D.   The Board of Commissioners may impose further conditions upon the
filing of any phase of a development plan, as it may deem necessary to assure
the orderly development of the plan and/or to protect the public health, safety
and welfare.
   8.   Enforcement and modification of provisions of plan. To further the
mutual interest of the residents of the planned residential development and of
the public in the preservation of the integrity of the development plan, as
finally approved, and to ensure that modifications, if any, in the development
plan shall not impair the reasonable reliance of said residents upon the
provisions of the development plan, nor result in changes that would adversely
affect the public interest, the enforcement and modifications of the provisions
of the development as finally approved, whether those are recorded by plat,
covenant, easement or otherwise, shall be subject to the following:
   A.   Provisions of the development plan relating to the use, bulk and
location of buildings and structures; the quantity and location of common open
space, except as otherwise provided herein; and, the intensity of use or the
density of residential units shall run in favor of the Township and shall be
enforceable in law or in equity by the Township, without limitation on any
powers of regulation otherwise granted the Township by law.
   B.   All provisions of the development plan shall run in favor of the
residents of the planned residential development, but only to the extent
expressly provided in the development plan and in accordance with the terms of
the development plan, and to that extent said provisions, whether recorded by
plat, covenant, easement or otherwise, may be enforced at law or in equity by
said residents acting individually, jointly or through an organization
designated in the development plan to act on their behalf; provided, however,
that no provisions of the development plan shall be implied to exist in favor
of residents of the planned residential development except as to those portions
of the development plan which have been finally approved and have been
recorded.
   C.   All those provisions of the development plan authorized to be enforced
by the Township under this Section may be modified, removed or released by the
Township, except grants of easements relating to the service or equipment of a
public utility, subject to the following conditions:
   (1)   No such modification, removal or release of the provisions of the
development plan by the Township shall affect the rights of the residents of
the planned residential development to maintain and enforce those provisions,
at law or in equity, as provided in this Section.
   (2)   No modification, removal or release of the provisions of the
development plan by the Township shall be permitted except upon a finding by
the Board of Commissioners, after a review by the Board of Commissioners,
following a public hearing pursuant to public notice, called and held in
accordance with the provisions of this Section, that the same is consistent
with the efficient development and preservation of the entire planned
residential development, does not adversely affect either the enjoyment of land
abutting upon or across the street from the planned residential development or
public interest, and is not granted solely to confer a special benefit upon any
person.
   D.   Residents of the planned residential development may, to the extent and
in the manner expressly authorized by the provisions of the development plan,
modify, remove or release their rights to enforce the provisions of the
development plan, but no such action shall affect the right of the Township to
enforce the provisions of the development plan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section.
   9.   Application for tentative approval. The application for approval,
tentative and final, of a planned residential development as provided for by
this Chapter, shall be in lieu of all other procedures or approvals otherwise
required by this Chapter and Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22] of the Township, except where specifically indicated. The
procedures herein described for approval or disapproval of a development plan
for a planned residential development and the continuing administration thereof
are established in the public interests in order to provide an expeditious
method for processing a development plan for a planned residential development
and to avoid the delay and uncertainty which would arise if it were necessary
to secure approval, by a multiplicity of local procedures, of a plat of
subdivision as well as approval of a change in the zoning regulations otherwise
applicable to the property. An application for tentative approval shall be
consistent with the following:
   A.   Informal consultation. The landowner and the Board of Commissioners may
consult informally at a public meeting or work session concerning the proposed
planned residential development prior to the filing of an application for
tentative approval, provided that no statement or representation by a member of
the Board of Commissioners shall be binding upon the Board of Commissioners.
The informal consultation is intended to allow the landowner and Board of
Commissioners to exchange comments and discuss issues which may be of
particular significance to the site.
   B.   Application and fee. An application for tentative approval shall be
filed by or on behalf of the landowner with the Zoning Officer. An application
fee in an amount as established, from time to time, by resolution of the Board
of Commissioners per housing unit, based upon total number of proposed housing
units, shall be paid upon filing the required application. [A.O.]
   C.   Relationship to planning, zoning and subdivision. All planning, zoning
and subdivision matters relating to the platting, use and development of the
planned residential development and subsequent modifications of the regulations
relating thereto, to the extent such modification is vested in the Township,
shall be determined and established by the Board of Commissioners.
   D.   Required documentation.
   (1)   The application for tentative approval shall include documentation
illustrating compliance with all of the standards for a planned residential
development and, where necessary, the Township shall order such documentation
to aid them in their review.
   (2)   An original and 15 copies of the application shall be submitted along
with 15 copies of each of the following:
   (a)   Any required study and/or report, prepared as an impact analysis,
which may be required at the discretion of the Board of Commissioners. A
determination of the need for any such study and/or report may be made at the
time of the informal consultation or during the public hearing for
consideration of tentative approval of the development plan.
   (b)   The development plan for the entire site, which shall include
conformance to the requirements of this Chapter, along with the information and
documentation noted herein:
   1)   The location, size and topography of the site and the legal nature of
the landowner’s interest in the land proposed to be developed.
   2)   The density of land use to be allocated to parts and/or phases of the
site to be developed.
   3)   The location and size of common open space and the form of organization
proposed to own and maintain the common open space.
   4)   The use and height, bulk and location of buildings and other
structures.
   5)   The means and feasibility of proposals for the disposition of sanitary
waste and stormwater.
   6)   The substance of covenants, grants or easement or other restrictions
proposed to be imposed upon the use of the land, buildings and structures
including proposed easements or grants for public utilities.
   7)   Provisions for parking of vehicles and the location and width of
proposed streets and any other form of public rights-of-way, excluding common
open space.
   8)   The required modifications in the Township land use regulations as
contained within this Chapter and Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22], otherwise applicable to the subject property.
   9)   The feasibility of proposals for energy conservation and the effective
utilization of renewable energy sources.
   10)   In the case of development plans which call for development over a
period of years, a schedule showing the proposed timetable within which
applications for final approval of all phases of the planned residential
development are intended to filed. This schedule must be updated annually, on
the anniversary of its approval, until the development is completed and
accepted.
   11)   A plan map at a scale of not greater than one inch equals 50 feet,
with contours for each two-foot change in elevation. A location map shall also
be provided at a scale of not greater than one inch equals 2,000 feet,
indicating the relation of the site to its geographic proximity within the
Township. The drafting standards applicable for a major subdivision and/or land
development, as provided for within the Plains Township Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22], shall apply.
   E.   Statement of landowner. The application shall also include a written
statement by the landowner setting forth the reasons why, in his or her
opinion, the planned residential development would be in the public interest
and consistent with the community development objectives within §
27-105 of this Chapter.
   F.   Application and approval procedures in lieu of others. The application
for tentative and final approval of a development plan for a planned
residential development prescribed herein shall be in lieu of all other
procedures and approvals required by this Chapter and Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22] of the Township, unless otherwise expressly stated.
   G.   Referrals and review of plan. The application for tentative approval
shall be filed with the Zoning Officer, who shall be authorized to accept such
applications under this Chapter. Copies of the application and tentative plan
shall be referred to the agencies and officials identified in §
22-304 Subsection 2. of the Township’s Subdivision and Land Development
Ordinance [
Chapter 22] for their review and comment.
   10.   Public hearings.
   A.   Within 60 days after the filing of an application for tentative
approval of a planned residential development pursuant to this Part, a public
hearing pursuant to public notice on said application shall be held by the
Board of Commissioners in the manner prescribed in the ordinance for the
enactment of an amendment to this Chapter.
   B.   The Chairperson or in his or her absence, the Acting Chairperson, of
the Board of Commissioners, may administer oaths and compel the attendants of
witnesses. All testimony by witnesses shall be given under oath and every party
of record at a hearing shall have the right to cross-examine adverse witnesses.
   C.   A verbatim record of the hearing shall be provided by the Board of
Commissioners whenever such records are requested by any party to the
proceedings, with the cost of making and transcribing such a record shall be
paid by those parties wishing to obtain such copies. All exhibits accepted as
evidence shall be properly identified and the reason for any exclusion shall be
clearly noted in the record.
   D.   The Board of Commissioners may continue the public hearing as required
provided that in any event, the public hearing or hearings shall be concluded
within 60 days following the date of the first public hearing.
   11.   Findings.
   A.   The Board of Commissioners, within 60 days following the conclusion of
the public hearing, or within 180 days after the date of filing the
application, whichever occurs first, shall by official written communication to
the landowner, either:
   (1)   Grant tentative approval to the development plan as submitted.
   (2)   Grant tentative approval subject to specified conditions not included
in the development plan as submitted.
   (3)   Deny the tentative approval to the development plan.
[Ord. 2005-5]
   B.   Failure to act within the prescribed time period shall be deemed to be
a grant of tentative approval of the development plan as submitted. In the
event, that tentative approval is granted subject to conditions, the landowner
may, within 30 days after receiving a copy of the official written
communication of the Board of Commissioners, notify said Board of his or her
refusal to accept all said conditions, in which case the Board of Commissioners
shall be deemed to have denied tentative approval of the development plan. In
the event the landowner does not notify the Board of Commissioners of his or
her refusal to accept all said conditions within 30 days after receiving a copy
of the official written communication of the Board of Commissioners, tentative
approval of the development plan, with all said conditions, shall stand as
granted.
   C.   The grant or denial of tentative approval by official written
communication shall include not only conclusions, but also findings of fact
related to the specific proposal and shall set forth the reasons for the
denial, and said communication shall set forth particulars in what respect the
development plan would or would not be in the public interest including, but
not limited to, findings of facts and conclusions based upon the following:
   (1)   Those respects in which the development plan is or is not consistent
with the community development objectives within §
27-105 of this Chapter.
   (2)   The extent to which the development plan departs from zoning and
subdivision regulations otherwise applicable to the subject property,
including, but not limited to, density, bulk and use and the reasons why such
departures are or are not deemed to be in the public interest.
   (3)   The purpose, locations and amount of common open space in the planned
residential development, the reliability of the proposals for maintenance and
conservation of the common open space and the adequacy or inadequacy of the
amount and purpose of the common open space as related to the proposed density
and type of residential development.
   (4)   The physical design of the development plan and the manner in which
said design does or does not make adequate provisions for public services,
(including, but not limited to, sewage, water and stormwater runoff) provide
adequate control for vehicular traffic, and further the amenities of light and
air, recreation and visual enjoyment.
   (5)   The relationship, beneficial or adverse, of the proposed planned
residential development to the neighborhood or area of the Township in which it
is proposed to be established.
   (6)   In the case of a development plan which proposes development over a
period of years, the sufficiency of the terms and conditions intended to
protect the interest of the public and of the residents of the planned
residential development in the integrity of the development plan.
   D.   In the event a development plan is granted tentative approval, with or
without conditions, the Board of Commissioners may set forth in the official
written communication, the time within which an application for final approval
of the development plan shall be filed or, in the case of a development plan
which provides for development over a period of years, the periods of time
within which applications for final approval of each part or phase thereof
shall be filed. Except upon the consent of the landowner, the time so
established between grant of tentative approval and an application for final
approval shall not be less than 90 days. In the case of development plans which
extend over a period of years, the time between applications for final approval
of each part of the plan shall not be less than one year.
   12.   Status of plan after tentative approval.
   A.   The official written communication provided for in this Part shall be
certified by the Township Secretary and filed in his or her office; a certified
copy shall be mailed to the landowner. Where tentative approval has been
granted, it shall be deemed as an amendment to the Zoning Map, effective and so
noted upon the Zoning Map upon final approval.
   B.   Tentative approval of a development plan shall not qualify a plan of
the planned residential development for recording nor authorize development or
the issuance of any zoning permit. A development plan, which has been given
tentative approval with conditions which have been accepted by the landowner
(and provided that the landowner has not defaulted nor violated any of the
conditions of the tentative approval), shall not be modified or revoked nor
otherwise impaired by action of the Township pending the application or
applications for final approval, without the consent of the landowner, provided
an application for final approval is filed or, in the case of development over
a period of years, provided applications are filed within the periods of time
specified in the official written communication granting tentative approval.
   C.   In the event that a development plan is given tentative approval and
thereafter, but prior to the final approval, the landowner shall elect to
abandon said development plan and shall so notify the Board of Commissioners in
writing, or in the event the landowner shall fail to file application or
applications for final approval within the required period of time or times, as
the case may be, the tentative approval shall be deemed to be revoked and all
that portion of the area included in the development for which final approval
has not been given shall be subject to those Township land use ordinances
otherwise applicable thereto. The same shall be noted on the Zoning Map and in
the records of the Township Secretary.
   13.   Application for final approval.
   A.   An application for final approval may be for all of the land included
in a development plan or, to the extent set forth in the tentative approval, a
section thereof. Said application shall be made through the Zoning Officer and
subject to approval by the Board of Commissioners within the time or times
specified by the official written communication granting tentative approval. If
the application for final approval is in compliance with the tentatively
approved development plan, a public hearing shall not be required.
   B.   The application shall include all drawings, specifications for required
improvements, covenants, easements, a financial guarantee and all other such
requirements as specified under §§
22-702, 22-703 and 22-704 of the Plains Township Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22], as well as any conditions set forth in the official written
communication granting tentative approval.
   C.   In the event that the application for final approval has been filed,
together with all drawings, specifications and other documents in support
thereof, and as required by the ordinance and the official written
communication of tentative approval, the Board of Commissioners shall, within
45 days of such filing, grant such development plan final approval.
   D.   In the event the development plan as submitted contains variations from
the development plan given tentative approval, the Board of Commissioners may
refuse to grant final approval and shall, within 45 days from the filing of the
application for final approval, so advise the landowner in writing of said
refusal, setting forth in said notice the reasons why one or more said
variations are objectionable and not in the public interest.
   E.   In the event of such refusal the landowner may either:
   (1)   Refile his or her application for final approval without the
variations to which the Board of Commissioners deemed objectionable and not in
the public interest.
   (2)   File a written request with the Board of Commissioners that it hold a
public hearing on his or her application for final approval.
   F.   If the landowner wishes to take either of such alternate action, he or
she may do so at any time within which he or she shall be entitled to apply for
final approval, or within 30 additional days if the time for applying for final
approval shall have already passed at the time when the landowner was advised
that the development plan was not in substantial compliance. In the event the
landowner shall fail to take either of these alternate actions within said
time, he or she shall be deemed to have abandoned the development plan.
   G.   Any such public hearing shall be held pursuant to public notice within
30 days after the request for the hearing is made in writing by the landowner.
The hearing shall be conducted in the manner prescribed in this Chapter for
public hearings on applications for tentative approval. Within 30 days after
the conclusion of the public hearing, the Board of Commissioners shall, by
official written communication, either grant final approval to the development
plan or deny final approval.
   H.   The grant or denial of final approval of the development plan shall, in
cases arising under this Section, be in the form and contain findings required
for an application for tentative approval as set forth in this Part.
   I.   A development plan, or any part thereof, which has been given final
approval, shall be so signed and certified without delay by the Board of
Commissioners. Said development plan shall be filed of record forthwith in the
office of the Recorder of Deeds of Luzerne County before any development shall
take place in accordance therewith. Upon filing of record of the development
plan, the zoning and subdivision regulations otherwise applicable to the land
included in such plan shall cease to apply thereto. Pending completion in
accordance with the time provisions as provided for under §
22-106 and §
22-107 of the Plains Township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22], said planned residential development or part thereof, as the case
may be, that has been finally approved, no modification of the provisions of
said development plan, or part thereof, as finally approved, shall be made
except with the consent of the landowner. Upon approval of a final plat the
developer shall record the plat within 90 days from the date of approval and
post a financial security in accordance with Part 7 of the Plains Township
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22].
   J.   In the event that a development plan, or section thereof, is given
final approval and thereafter the landowner shall abandon such plan or section
thereof that has been finally approved, and shall so notify the Board of
Commissioners in writing; or in the event the landowner shall fail to commence
and carry out the planned residential development in accordance with the time
provisions as provided for under §
22-106 and §
22-107 of the Plains Township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance, after
final approval has been granted, no development or further development shall
take place on the property included in the development plan until after the
said property is resubdivided and is reclassified by enactment of an amendment
to this Chapter in the manner prescribed for such amendments by this Chapter.
   14.   Legal proceedings and enforcement remedies. Any person, partnership or
corporation, who or which has violated the provisions of this Part, shall be
prosecuted in accordance with §§ 712.1 and 712.2 of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247, 53 P.S. §§ 10712.1, 10712.2, as amended.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 713; as amended by Ord. 2005-5, 3/10/2005, § 8; and
by A.O.)
§ 27-714.   Methadone Treatment Facility.
   1.   A methadone treatment facility shall be located upon a lot having an
area of not less than 30,000 square feet, applicable for either new
construction or for adaptive reuse of an existing structure.
   2.   Any proposed methadone treatment facility shall include with its
submission of a zoning permit application, an operational narrative which
accurately describes the nature of medical services to be offered and the names
of the medical practitioners providing said services. A licensed physician, a
MD or a DO, shall be on duty at the facility during the methadone treatment
facility’s hours of operation.
   3.   Prior to occupancy, any existing structure proposed for adaptive reuse
as a methadone treatment facility shall be brought into compliance with all
current building codes and all other applicable Township, county, state and
federal regulations.
   4.   Any methadone treatment facility with direct access and/or frontage
along a State Legislative Route shall include with its submission of a zoning
permit application, a traffic impact analysis prepared by a professional
licensed engineer with expertise in transportation and traffic planning. Such
analysis shall address the following:
   A.   The number of vehicle trips expected to be generated during an average
weekday including both a.m. and p.m. peak hours of adjacent street traffic.
   B.   The number and types of vehicles, with an origin or destination at the
subject site, the need for which is generated by said use.
   C.   The routes, roadways or streets to reach the methadone treatment
facility.
   D.   The impact of the levels of service at intersections within one-half
mile of said methadone treatment facility.
   E.   Recommended traffic control devices designed to mitigate any documented
adverse impact on adjacent roadways.
   5.   A methadone treatment facility shall demonstrate its compliance with
supplying the required number of off-street parking spaces as provided for in
Part 11 of this Chapter. All off-street parking areas shall be adequately
lighted, with a lighting plan included within the submission of the required
site plan.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998; as added by Ord. 2003-4, 10/6/2003, § 5; and as
amended by Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, § 32)
§ 27-715.   Wind Energy Facilities.
   1.   Information to be submitted. The applicant for a wind energy facility
shall be required to submit the following information:
   A.   The applicant’s and landowner’s name and contact information.
   B.   The tax map numbers, existing use and acreage of the site parcel.
   C.   A survey map at an appropriate scale showing the proposed location of
the wind energy facility (including access roads) as it relates to the
boundaries of the parcel, adjacent ownerships and existing residences, schools,
churches, hospitals, libraries, federal, state, county or local parks, and
recognized historic or heritage sites within a distance of 2,000 feet or less
from any property boundary.
   D.   Standard drawings of the wind turbine structure, including the tower,
base and footings, drawings of access roads, and including an engineering
analysis and certification of the tower, showing compliance with the applicable
building code.
   E.   The make, model, picture and manufacturer’s specifications, including
noise decibels.
   F.   Data pertaining to the tower’s safety and stability, including safety
results from test facilities.
   G.   A completed environmental impact statement in accordance with §
27-706 of this Chapter.
   H.   A project visibility map, based on a digital elevation model, showing
the impact of topography upon visibility of the project from other locations,
to a radius of three miles from the center of the project. The scale used shall
depict the three-mile radius as no smaller than six inches, and the base map
used shall be a published topographic map showing human-made features, such as
roads and buildings.
   I.   No fewer than four, and no more than the number of proposed individual
wind turbines, plus three color photos, no smaller than three inches by five
inches, taken from locations within a three-mile radius from the site and to be
selected by the Board of Commissioners, and computer-enhanced to simulate the
appearance of the as-built site facilities as they would appear from these
locations. [A.O.]
   J.   Copies of all proposed leases required to be secured by the applicant,
if the applicant is not the sole owner of the parcel or parcels on which the
wind energy facility is proposed to be constructed.
   2.   Approval standards. In addition to all other applicable criteria and
requirements for approval of a conditional use, the following standards shall
apply:
   A.   The minimum distance between the ground and any part of the rotor blade
system shall be 30 feet.
   B.   To limit unauthorized access, a fence eight feet high with a locking
portal shall be placed around the facility’s tower base.
   C.   Wind energy facilities shall not be artificially lighted, except to the
extent required by the FAA or other applicable authority.
   D.   All wind turbines shall have an automatic braking, governing or
feathering system to prevent uncontrolled rotation, overspeeding and excessive
pressure on the tower structure, rotor blades and turbine components.
   E.   All power transmission lines from a wind turbine tower to on-site
substations shall be underground.
   F.   Prior to issuance of a building permit, the applicant shall provide the
Township proof of a level of insurance to be determined by the Board of
Commissioners in consultation with the Township’s insurer, to cover damage or
injury that might result from the failure of a tower or towers or any other
part or parts of the generation and transmission facility. Said insurance must
be maintained for the life of the wind energy facility, until such time that
all components of the wind energy facility are decommissioned and/or removed.
[A.O.]
   G.   Appropriate warning signs shall be posted. At least one sign shall be
posted at the base of the tower warning of electrical shock or high voltage. A
sign shall be posted on the entry area of fence around each tower or group of
towers and any building, containing emergency contact information, including a
local telephone number with 24-hour, seven days a week coverage. [A.O.]
   H.   Any wind energy facility found to be unsafe by the local enforcement
officer or agent of the Township shall be repaired by the owner to meet
federal, state and local safety standards or removed within six months. If any
wind energy facility is not operated for a continuous period of 12 months, the
Township will notify the landowner by registered mail and provide 45 days for a
response. In such a response, the landowner shall set forth reasons for the
operational difficulty and provide a reasonable timetable for corrective
action. If the Township deems the timetable for corrective action as
unreasonable, they must notify the landowner and such landowner shall remove
the turbine within 120 days of receipt of notice from the Township.
   I.   The owner of a wind energy facility shall have it inspected at least
every two years for structural and operational integrity by a licensed
professional engineer, and shall submit a copy of the inspection report to the
Township. If such report recommends that repairs or maintenance are to be
conducted, the owner shall provide written to the Township with a written
schedule for the repairs or maintenance.
   3.   Siting and installation. A wind energy facility shall:
   A.   Use existing roads to provide access to the facility site, or if new
roads are needed, minimize the amount of land used for new roads and locate
them so as to minimize adverse environmental impacts.
   B.   Combine transmission lines and points of connection to local
distribution lines.
   C.   Connect the facility to existing substations, or if new substations are
needed, minimize the number of new substations.
   D.   All wiring between wind turbines and the wind energy facility
substation shall be underground.
   E.   The wind power generation facility, if interconnected to a utility
system, shall meet the requirements for interconnection and operation as set
forth in the electric utility’s then current service regulations applicable to
wind power generation facilities and shall provide evidence of a signed
interconnection agreement, or letter of intent, with the interconnecting
utility company.
   4.   Setbacks.
   A.   The minimum setback distance between each wind turbine tower and
overhead utility or transmission lines, other wind turbine towers, electrical
substations, meteorological towers and public roads shall be equal to no less
than one and one-half times the sum of proposed structure height plus the rotor
radius.
   B.   The minimum setback distance for each wind turbine tower and all
surrounding property lines and dwellings shall be not less than 1,500 feet.
   C.   Each wind turbine shall be set back from the nearest public road a
distance no less than 1.1 times its total height, determined at the nearest
boundary of the underlying right-of-way for such public road.
   D.   Each wind turbine shall be set back from the nearest above-ground
public electric power line or telephone line a distance no less than 1.1 times
its total height, determined from the existing power line or telephone line.
   5.   Nuisance issues.
   A.   Individual wind turbine towers shall be located so that the level of
noise produced by wind turbine operation shall not exceed 55 dBA, measured at
the site property line.
   B.   No individual tower facility shall be installed in any location where
its proximity with fixed broadcast, retransmission or reception antenna for
radio, television or wireless phone or other personal communications systems
would produce electromagnetic interference with signal transmission or
reception.
   6.   Environmental and visual.
   A.   Wind energy facilities shall not be used for displaying any advertising
except for reasonable identification of the manufacturer or operator of the
wind energy facility.
   B.   The design of the buildings and related structures shall, to the extent
reasonably possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and landscaping
that will blend the facility into the natural setting and existing environment.
   C.   Where wind characteristics permit, wind turbine towers shall be set
back from the tops of visually prominent ridgelines to minimize the visual
contrast from any public access.
   D.   Wind turbine towers, the proposed structure height plus the rotor
radius shall not exceed 250 feet.
   E.   Towers shall be designed and located to minimize adverse visual impacts
from neighboring residential areas, to the greatest extent feasible.
   F.   Avoid, to the extent practicable, the creation of artificial habitat
for raptors or raptor prey, such as:
   (1)   Electrical equipment boxes on or near the ground that can provide
shelter and warmth.
   (2)   Horizontal perching opportunities on the towers or related structures.
   (3)   Soil where weeds can accumulate.
   G.   Wind turbine towers shall be set back at least 500 feet from any bodies
of water including, but not limited to, lakes, ponds, streams, creeks and
rivers.
   H.   Wind turbine towers shall be set back at least 500 feet from identified
wetlands and its delineated boundaries.
   I.   Wind energy facilities shall provide conclusive documentation that the
location and operation of the proposed facility will not adversely affect the
wild life habitat, including, but not limited to, bats and birds of the region
and associated migration routes.
   7.   Traffic routes.
   A.   (1)   Construction of wind energy facilities poses potential risks
because of the large size construction vehicles and their impact on traffic
safety and their physical impact on ideal roads. Construction and delivery
vehicles for wind energy facilities shall use traffic routes established as
part of the application review process. Factors in establishing such corridors
shall include:
   (a)   Minimizing traffic impacts from construction and delivery vehicles.
   (b)   Minimizing wind energy facilities related traffic during times of
school bus activity.
   (c)   Minimizing wear and tear on local roads.
   (d)   Minimizing impacts on local business operations.
   (2)   Permit conditions may limit wind energy facilities related traffic to
specified routes, and include a plan for disseminating traffic route
information to the public.
   B.   The applicant is responsible for remediation of damaged roads upon
completion of the installation or maintenance of a wind energy facility. A
public improvement bond shall be posted prior to the issuance of any building
permit in an amount, determined by the Township, sufficient to compensate the
Township for any damage to local roads.
   8.   Decommissioning and restoration requirements.
   A.   The applicant shall include the following information regarding
decommissioning of the project and restoring the site:
   (1)   The anticipated life of the project.
   (2)   The estimated decommissioning costs in current dollars.
   (3)   The method and schedule for updating the costs of decommissioning and
restoration.
   (4)   The method of ensuring that funds will be available for
decommissioning and restoration.
   (5)   The anticipated manner in which the project will be decommissioned and
the site restored.
   B.   The Board of Commissioners shall require the applicant to provide an
appropriate and adequate demolition bond for purposes of removing the wind
energy facility in case the applicant fails to do so as required above. Proof
of this bond shall be provided each year and shall be a continuing condition
for the life of the project. [A.O.]
   C.   The sufficiency of the demolition bond shall be confirmed at least
every five years by an analysis and report of the cost of removal and property
restoration to be performed by a licensed professional engineer, the cost of
same to be borne by the applicant. If said analysis and report determines that
the amount of the bond in force is insufficient to cover the removal, disposal
and restoration costs, the bond shall be increased to the amount necessary to
cover such costs within ten days of the applicant’s receipt of such report.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998; as added by Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, § 33; and as
amended by A.O.)
Part 8
Supplemental Regulations
§ 27-801.   Purpose and Intent.
   Certain uses of land and/or buildings, as specified herein, whether
permitted by right, special exception and or conditional use, shall be subject
to supplemental regulations in addition to those of the district in which the
use is located.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 801)
§ 27-802.   Use Regulations.
   1.   Animal hospital. An animal hospital shall maintain all activities
within a completely enclosed soundproof building, and no objectionable odors
shall be vented outside the building. No animal hospital shall be located less
than 25 feet from any property line.
   2.   Animal kennels. Animal kennels in which animals are kept, boarded or
trained may be either enclosed buildings or a combination of buildings and open
runways. If all activities are maintained within a completely enclosed
building, no objectionable odors shall be vented outside the building. If open
runways are used, the building and runways shall be located not less than 100
feet from all property lines. Where the property abuts a district having
residences as a principal permitted use, the building and runways shall be not
less than 200 feet from such property lines.
   3.   Automobile related activities.
   A.   Automotive repairs (repair garage). Activities including the repair of
automobiles, trucks, snowmobiles and motorcycles shall be conducted within a
completely enclosed building where adequate measures shall be taken to minimize
noise, vibrations, fumes and glare. Only vehicles to be repaired on the
premises or picked up by the vehicle’s owner may be stored in the yard area.
Where the operation abuts on the side or rear property line of a district
having residences as a principal permitted use, a solid wall or substantial
attractive fence six feet in height shall be constructed and maintained in good
condition along such boundary. Outside lighting shall be directed away from
adjacent properties.
   B.   Automotive sales. The outdoor display of new or used automobiles, shall
be conducted within a completely enclosed building designed and constructed to
minimize noise, fumes, vibrations and glare. Where an automotive sales use
abuts a rear or side lot line of any district having residences as a principal
permitted use, a solid wall or substantial, attractive fence six feet in height
shall be constructed and maintained in good condition along such boundary.
Outside lighting shall be directed away from adjacent properties.
   C.   Car wash. Appropriate drainage facilities for washing activities shall
be provided. The site shall be sufficiently large to accommodate three cars per
stall awaiting washing during peak periods so that lines along public streets
are avoided. Such operations shall also comply with any applicable regulations
of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. Car wash operations
abutting on the side or rear property lines of a district having residences as
a principal permitted use shall provide a solid wall or substantial,
attractive, tight fence being six feet in height and well maintained along such
boundary. Outdoor lighting shall be directed away from adjacent activities.
[A.O.]
   D.   Gasoline service stations. When a service station abuts on the rear or
side lot line of a district having residences as a principal use, a solid wall
or substantial attractive fence being six feet in height shall be constructed
and maintained in good condition along such boundary. When a service station
occupies a corner lot, the access driveways shall be located at least 60 feet
from the intersection of the front and side street lines of the lot. All access
driveways shall not exceed 25 feet in width. Gasoline pumps or other service
appliances may be located in the required front yard not to exceed 15 feet. All
repairs, service, storage or similar activities in connection with the use
shall be conducted within the building where adequate measures shall be taken
to minimize noise, fumes and glare. Outside lighting shall be directed away
from adjacent properties.
   4.   Banks. Banks and other similar financial offices shall provide
sufficient space to accommodate parking, vehicular circulation areas for drive-
in tellers, access areas for parking lots separated from drive-in areas, and
areas for pedestrian traffic separated from vehicular traffic for safety.
Access driveways shall be no more than 25 feet in width. Canopies over drive-
through areas shall meet all yard setback requirements.
   5.   Boarding house. The property shall be limited to providing lodging for
not more than four persons, excluding the owner of the property. Off-street
parking spaces shall be provided for each person residing therein.
   6.   Bulk fuel storage. Bulk fuel storage shall be located on a tract of
land not less than five acres. Storage tanks shall be located not less than 100
feet from any property line and shall be not less than 500 feet from any
dwelling, school, church or similar use. Cylinder filling rooms, pumps,
compressors and truck filling stations shall be located 250 feet from all
property lines. The tank storage area shall be fenced with an eight feet high
industrial gauge fence. If the storage property abuts on the side or rear
property line containing a residence, the fence shall be screened from view by
a dense growth of evergreens at least five feet in height at the time of
planting. Bulk fuel storage facilities shall be developed in full compliance
with all applicable federal, state and insurance regulations.
   7.   Cemeteries. A structure, grave or place of permanent burial shall be
set back not less than 50 feet from the property line. The cemetery shall be
enclosed by a fence, wall or shrubbery at least three feet in height. The
interior roads shall have a minimum width of 12 feet and shall be properly
maintained with either gravel or paving.
   8.   Community center (as defined in Part 2). Buildings utilized for such
purposes shall not be less than 20 feet from any property line. Where the use
abuts on the rear or side lot line on the side or rear property line of any R
District, a solid wall or substantial attractive fence not less than six feet
in height, designed to conceal and screen the use from adjoining properties,
shall be constructed and maintained in good condition along such boundary. The
provision of any outside lighting shall be directed away from adjacent
properties.
   9.   Contractors’ storage yards. Commercial or industrial uses utilizing
outdoor storage space which exceeds an area of more than 2,000 square feet
shall be located on a tract of land of not less than 25,000 square feet.
Supplies stored outdoors shall be neatly arranged and no required yard areas
shall be used for storage. There shall be a roadway 14 feet in width provided
for in every 40 linear feet of stored materials. The roadway shall be kept
passable for firefighting equipment. Where the operation abuts on the rear or
side lot line of a district having residences as a principal permitted use, a
solid wall or substantial fence being six feet in height shall be constructed
and maintained in good condition along such boundary. Outside lighting shall be
directed away from adjoining properties.
   10.   Convenience store with gasoline pumps. The property shall have a lot
area of not less than 20,000 square feet. The principal structure as well as
the canopy over gasoline pumps shall meet all the minimum setback requirements
for all yards in the district in which it is located. Where the operation abuts
on the rear or side lot line of a district having residences as a principal
permitted use, a solid wall or substantial fence being six feet in height shall
be constructed and maintained in good condition along such boundary. A parking
area accommodating all spaces required by Part 11 shall be provided. Access
driveways shall be no more than 25 feet wide at the street line, and in the
case of a corner lot, access driveways shall be at least 60 feet from the
intersection of the two streets, as measured from the right-of-way line. All
lighting shall be directed away from adjoining property.
   11.   Child care facilities. All day care facilities, as so defined in Part
2 of this Chapter, shall comply with the following:
   A.   The applicant or owner shall provide evidence of certification of
compliance with all appropriate regulations of any designated state agency
whose approval is required by the laws of the Commonwealth.
   B.   Noise and all other possible disturbing aspects connected with such use
shall be controlled to the extent that the operation of such use shall not
unduly interfere with the use and enjoyment of properties in the surrounding
area.
   C.   All outdoor play areas shall be completely enclosed with a fence being
six feet in height. Outdoor play activities shall be limited to the hours
between 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. local time.
   D.   The applicant shall provide evidence that vehicular traffic congestion
will be avoided in “pick-up and drop-off points” utilized in transporting
children to and from the facility.
   12.   Dwelling over or attached to a business establishment. Dwellings units
may be permitted over or attached to business establishments in any zoning
district. Such dwellings shall have private access and the required residence
parking spaces in addition to commercial parking spaces as required by Part 11.
   13.   Eating and drinking establishments. All eating and drinking
establishments shall meet the parking requirements as set forth in Part 11 of
this Chapter. Access drives shall not exceed 25 feet in width and for those
establishments located on a corner lot, no access drive shall be located less
than 60 feet of an intersection, as measured from the right-of-way lines, from
the intersection of the two abutting streets. Outside lighting shall be
directed away from adjacent properties.
   14.   Entertainment facilities. Entertainment facilities as defined in Part
2 of this Chapter shall provide proper parking areas with vehicular circulation
and access designed to minimize any potential traffic congestion. Such
facilities shall not be closer than 20 feet from any boundary of a district
having residences as principal permitted use, shall provide adequate screening
from any residential district and shall be conducted entirely within an
enclosed structure.
   15.   Funeral home. Funeral homes shall accommodate all of the parking areas
required as provided in Part 11 of this Chapter. In addition, sufficient area
shall be provided for vehicular circulation on the lot and for the assembly
area for the procession beyond the street right-of-way line. Points of
vehicular access to the site shall not create traffic hazards on the street.
Loading and unloading areas for ambulances and hearses shall be within an
enclosed building or shall be screened from view from adjacent properties by a
solid wall or substantial, attractive fence being six feet in height. Outside
lighting shall be directed away from adjacent properties.
   16.   Group residence. Any party wishing to establish and/or operate a
“group residence”, in addition to all other applicable zoning regulations and/
or requirements, shall be subject to the following supplemental requirements:
   A.   The maximum occupancy of a group residence shall not exceed eight
persons, excluding staff. The occupancy of said group residence shall be
governed by the standards and requirements as provided for within the most
recent housing code standards of the Pennsylvania Uniform Construction Code, 34
Pa.Code §§ 401 et seq.
   B.   The group residence shall be under the jurisdictional and regulatory
control of a governmental entity (county, state and/or federal).
   C.   The applicant and/or operator of group residence shall provide written
documentation from the applicable governmental entity which certifies said
group residence complies with the location, supervised services, operation,
staffing and management of all applicable standards and regulations of the
subject governing program.
   D.   The applicable requirements and standards which govern off-street
parking for a single-family dwelling shall also govern for a group residence;
however, two additional off-street parking spaces shall be provided any if
there is any required staffing associated with the management and operation of
a group residence.
   17.   Home occupations. A home occupation which is conducted within a
dwelling unit or an existing accessory building to the dwelling shall be
subject to the following provisions:
   A.   The occupation shall be carried on wholly indoors, within the principal
building or within a building accessory thereto.
   B.   There shall be permitted a sign, not to exceed two square feet in
surface area, placed flat against the building as a wall sign, and shall not be
permitted above the first story level. No other exterior display or exterior
storage of materials or any other exterior indication of the home occupation
shall be permitted.
   C.   There shall be no maintenance of a stock in trade or show windows or
displays or advertising visible outside the premises.
   D.   No articles shall be sold or offered for sale except those which are
produced on the premises.
   E.   There shall be no repetitive servicing by truck.
   F.   No offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat or glare shall
be produced.
   G.   The home occupation shall be carried on only by members of the
immediate family residing in the dwelling unit, plus not more than two
additional employees. Licensed medical practitioners and attorneys may have
more than two additional employees, subject to approval by the Zoning Hearing
Board.
   H.   The floor area devoted to a home occupation, regardless of where
located on a lot, shall be equivalent to not more than 20 percent of the floor
area of the dwelling unit.
   I.   Each home occupation shall have off-street parking as indicated below,
in addition to that required for the dwelling unit:
   (1)   Four spaces for each physician, dentist or other licensed medical
practitioner.
   (2)   Two spaces for all other home occupations.
   18.   Industrial activities. In addition to the applicable requirements of
this Chapter, all industrial activities and uses permitted by right, special
exception and/or conditional use within the I-1 District shall comply with all
regulations governing odors, fumes, dust, smoke, vibration, noise, sewage,
industrial waste, fire hazards and any other of the activities and uses with
side effects are deemed injurious to the public health, safety and welfare by
the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) and the Pennsylvania Department of
Labor and Industry. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide
the Zoning Officer with approval from all state and federal regulations
governing the proposed use.
   19.   Junkyards and automotive wrecking yards. All junkyards and automotive
wrecking yards existing at the effective date of this Chapter shall comply
within one year after the adoption thereof. All new junkyards and automotive
wrecking yards shall comply with the following:
   A.   Such premises shall at all times be maintained so as not to constitute
a nuisance or menace to the health of the community or residents nearby or a
place for the breeding of rodents and vermin.
   B.   Burning of any materials shall be prohibited.
   C.   No oil, grease, tires or gasoline shall be burned at any time.
   D.   No garbage, organic waste, rubbish, toxic materials and hazardous
materials shall be stored on such premises.
   E.   Whenever any motor vehicle shall be received on such premises as junk,
all gasoline and oil shall be drained and removed therefrom.
   F.   The storage of any combustible materials, such as gasoline, oil or
related items, shall be placed in fireproof containers and stored within
fireproof sheds.
   G.   The manner of storage and arrangement of junk and the drainage
facilities on the site shall be such as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant
water upon the premises. A stormwater drainage plan shall be required.
   H.   There shall be no stockpiling of motor vehicles, nor shall there be any
junk piled higher than four feet.
   I.   There shall be a roadway 14 feet in width provided for every 40 linear
feet of junk. The roadway shall be kept open and unobstructed for proper access
for fire fighting equipment and safety purposes.
   J.   Junk shall not be stored within 100 feet of any adjoining property line
or nearer than 100 feet to any adjoining or abutting street.
   K.   All junkyards shall be completely screened from view on all sides by a
buffer area as so defined in Part 2 of this Chapter. The required fence shall
be not closer than 20 feet to any property line.
   L.   Such premises may be open for business or any work in connection with
the storage, processing and transportation or removal of junk only on Monday
through Saturday from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., local time.
   20.   Motels and hotels. Motels and hotels shall uses shall require a
minimum lot size of not less than two acres with a lot width of not less than
200 feet. The following requirements shall also apply:
   A.   There shall be more than ten sleeping rooms.
   B.   Fifty percent or more of the gross floor area shall be devoted to
sleeping rooms.
   C.   There may be club rooms, ballrooms and common dining facilities.
   D.   In the case of a corner lot, access drives shall be not less than 60
feet from the intersection of any two streets as measured from the intersection
of their right-of-way lines.
   21.   Nonprofit social halls, clubs and community centers. Buildings
utilized for such purposes shall not be less than ten feet from the property
line, nor shall any designated parking area be within ten feet from a property
line.
   22.   Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage, as defined in Part 2, when proposed
as a principal use of land shall be enclosed with a chain link fence not less
than six feet in height. A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan and
stormwater drainage plan shall be required for all areas of impervious surface
to be provided for such storage. A complete listing of all types of machinery,
material and items to be stored therein shall be attached to the required
zoning application. No hazardous substances, as so defined in Part 2 of this
Chapter, shall be permitted upon the site.
   23.   Place of worship. A parking area shall accommodate all parking spaces
as required in Part 11 of this Chapter. Access driveways shall be not greater
than 25 feet in width. In the case of a corner lot, access driveways shall be
not less than 60 feet from the intersection of the two streets, as measured
from the intersection of their right-of-way lines. Where the parking area abuts
existing residences on the side or rear property line, a buffer area,
consisting of shrubbery or evergreen trees, being not less than four feet in
height at the time of planting, shall be provided.
   24.   Public uses.
   A.   Municipal, police and fire buildings. Where the parking area abuts the
side or rear property lines of an adjoining residential use, a fence being six
feet in height and a buffer area consisting of shrubbery or evergreen trees
shall be provided.
   B.   Public and private schools. The size of a lot shall meet the minimum
requirements as prescribed by the Pennsylvania Department of Education. Access
to the site shall be from an arterial or collector street. Access driveways
shall not exceed 25 feet in width. In the case of a corner lot, access
driveways shall be not less than 60 feet from the intersection of the two
streets, as measured from the intersection of their right-of-way. Loading and
unloading areas, parking areas and circulation shall be provided in accordance
with Part 11 of this Chapter.
   25.   Public utility buildings and structures. Public utility facilities as
defined in Part 2, shall conform to the following regulations for properties
containing such uses:
   A.   Access and parking shall be provided only for maintenance and servicing
of such facilities.
   B.   A chain-link fence and locked gate not less than eight feet in height
shall surround the building or structures of such facilities.
   C.   A buffer area not less than ten feet in depth and comprised of trees
and/or shrubs designed to conceal such buildings or structures of such
facilities.
   D.   Outside lighting shall be directed away from adjacent properties.
   E.   The location, design and operation of such facilities shall not
adversely affect the character of any adjacent residential properties.
   26.   Recreational facilities–(outdoors). All such facilities, whether
public, private or commercial, shall conform to the following regulations:
   A.   No outdoor recreation activity shall be conducted closer than 50 feet
to any property line.
   B.   A buffer area, at least ten feet in depth and planted with trees,
shrubs or other landscaping, shall surround the property except for access
drives.
   C.   Access drives shall be not greater than 25 feet in width; parking areas
shall not be located within buffer areas.
   D.   Storm drainage from the site shall be channeled to natural drainage
courses and away from adjoining properties.
   27.   Rooming house. The property shall be limited to providing lodging for
not more than four persons, excluding the owner of the property. Off-street
parking spaces shall be provided for each person residing therein.
   28.   Sewage disposal and sewage treatment plants. The location and
operation of a public or private sewage disposal and/or sewage treatment plant
shall be in full compliance with the applicable regulations of the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection. Written approval from DEP shall be
secured prior to the installation of such facilities.
   29.   Single residential structures, containing multi-family dwelling units.
Such structures shall contain a lot area of not less than 2,500 square feet for
each dwelling. A minimum lot width of not less than 100 feet shall be required.
Each side yard shall have a setback of not less than 15 feet.
   30.   Townhouses and garden apartments. Townhouses and/or garden apartments
which are not being developed as part of a planned residential development,
shall be subject to the following provisions and all applicable provisions of
the Plains Township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22]:
   A.   Minimum lot width shall be 120 feet.
   B.   Maximum percentage of building coverage on a lot per dwelling unit,
exclusive of common or public open areas, shall be 40 percent.
   C.   Minimum lot width per dwelling unit shall be 20 feet.
   D.   Minimum lot depth per dwelling unit shall be 100 feet.
   E.   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be 2,000 square feet.
   F.   Minimum front yard setback shall be 30 feet.
   G.   Minimum side yard setbacks shall be 30 feet. Side yard setbacks shall
be required only at the ends of rows of attached dwellings.
   H.   Minimum rear yard setback shall be 30 feet.
   I.   Minimum width of each dwelling unit shall be 20 feet.
   J.   Maximum building height shall be three stories or 35 feet.
   K.   Minimum distance between principal structures shall be 30 feet.
   L.   Minimum front yard setback for off-street parking areas shall be ten
feet.
   M.   Minimum rear yard setbacks for off-street parking areas shall be 15
feet.
   N.   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit.
   O.   Unattached accessory structures such as pools, garages, carports and
sheds shall be prohibited in the front yard. Unattached accessory structures
located in the side or rear yard shall have five feet side and rear yard
setbacks. Attached accessory structures shall have the same setbacks as
required for principal structures.
   31.   Trucking facilities. The property shall not be less than two acres in
area. Access drives shall be no more than 25 feet in width; parking and loading
areas shall conform to the regulations within Part 11. No truck parking or
terminal operation shall be allowed within 50 feet of any lot line. Outside
lighting shall be directed away from adjacent properties.
   32.   Warehouse and distribution facilities. All materials shall be stored
within a completely enclosed building and yard areas shall be kept clear of
junk, trash or other types of debris. Access drives shall not exceed 25 feet in
width; parking and loading areas shall conform with the regulations of Part 11
of this Chapter. No warehouse activities, including parking and/or loading
areas, shall be allowed within 20 feet of any property line.
   33.   Warehouse (self-storage). These facilities may be a building or group
of buildings in a controlled-access and fenced compound, containing varying
sizes of individual compartmentalized and controlled-access stalls or lockers
for dead storage of customers’ goods and personal property, with storage space
available for rental to the general public. All storage shall be contained
within a completely enclosed building or buildings. There shall be a minimum
spacing of 25 feet between buildings for traffic circulation, parking and fire
lane purposes. No activities including off-street parking shall be allowed
within 20 feet of a property line abutting a district having residences as a
principal permitted use. All outside lighting shall be directed away from
adjacent properties.
   34.   Wireless commercial communication site.
   A.   Structural integrity and safety.
   (1)   A commercial antenna support structure for a wireless commercial
communication site shall be designed and constructed to meet or exceed all
applicable standards of the American National Standards Institute, ANSI/EIA222-
E Manual, as amended, and also to FAA standards for marking and lighting
requirements of obstructions to air navigation as set forth within the most
recent edition of Advisory Circular AC 70/7460-1H, including any amendments
thereto.
   (2)   A soil report complying with the standards of Appendix I: Geotechnical
Investigations, ANSI/EIA-222-E Manual, as amended, shall be submitted to
document and verify the design specifications of the foundation for the
commercial antenna support structure, and anchors for the guy wires, if used.
   (3)   The operational use of a commercial antenna, as defined within this
Chapter, including those mounted upon a support structure or to an existing
structure, shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the FCC
and the FAA.
   (4)   The applicant or owner of a commercial antenna support structure shall
provide a design certificate and an operational certificate, prepared by a
professional engineer, which certifies compliance with the standards addressed
in the above Subparagraphs (1), (2) and (3). The design certificate shall be
submitted with the zoning application for the proposed commercial antenna
support structure. The operational certificate, shall include “as-built”
drawings and written certification from the applicant’s professional engineer
that all applicable regulations have been met.
   B.   Height and setback requirements.
   (1)   A commercial antenna which mounted upon an existing structure,
including an existing building, shall not exceed the height of the existing
structure by more than eight feet.
   (2)   A commercial antenna support structure shall be set back from any
property line to a distance that is not less than 100 percent of the height of
the antenna support structure measured in linear feet.
   (3)   Any building utilized as a component of a commercial enterprise in the
collection and/or transmission telecommunication signals, radio signals,
television signals, wireless phone signals or similar signals shall be
completely enclosed by a fence, eight feet in height, with such building
meeting the setback requirements for the zoning district in which it is
located.
   (4)   A commercial antenna support structure or an antenna mounted upon an
existing structure, shall be removed by the owner of the same with six months
of the discontinuance of its use. The owner shall provide Plains Township with
a copy of the notice to the FCC of intent to cease operations. The six-month
period for the removal of the antenna support structure or an antenna mounted
upon an existing structure shall commence on the date indicated for ceasing
operations.
   C.   Site plans.
   (1)   A site plan in conformance with the governing standards of the Luzerne
County Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22], as amended, shall also be required when the location of a
freestanding a commercial antenna support structure represents a described
parcel of land subject to a lease, within an existing deed of record.
   (2)   A new site plan shall not be required when a proposed antenna is to be
located on an existing freestanding a commercial antenna support structure.
   D.   Supplemental standards and criteria.
   (1)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the proposed antenna support
structure complies with all applicable state and federal standards.
   (2)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the proposed commercial antenna
and its support structure are safe and the surrounding properties will not be
negatively affected by support structure failure, falling ice or other debris.
   (3)   All support structures shall be fitted with anti-climbing devices, as
approved by the manufacturers.
   (4)   A commercial antenna support structure shall be designed with excess
capacity beyond the initial intended use in order to encourage secondary users
to lease the balance of the capacity at reasonable rates. When a new antenna
support structure is proposed, the applicant must demonstrate that all
alternatives to the construction of a new antenna support structure have been
exhausted.
   (5)   The applicant shall provide information on a proposed design of a
commercial antenna support structure which shall minimize the visual impact for
those residents in an immediate area and for those in the larger community who
view it from a distance.
   35.   Continuing care facility. The following requirements shall apply for
the development of a continuing care facility:
   A.   The minimum lot size shall be not less than 15 acres.
   B.   The maximum number of dwelling units shall not exceed five units per
acre with four intermediate or skilled nursing beds as the equivalent of one
dwelling unit.
   C.   The minimum setback distance from a public street shall not be less
than 75 feet and the minimum setback distance to any property line shall be not
less than 100 feet.
   D.   The maximum lot coverage shall not exceed 40 percent of the lot area.
   E.   Not less than 20 percent of the total lot area shall be designated as
common open space.
[Ord. 2003-4]
   36.   Forestry.
   A.   In order to preserve forests and the environmental and economic
benefits that they provide, it is the policy of Plains Township to encourage
the owners of forest land to continue to use their land for forestry purposes,
including the long-term production of timber, recreation, wildlife, historical
and amenity values. The timber harvesting regulations set forth in this Section
are intended to further this policy by:
   (1)   Promoting good forest stewardship.
   (2)   Protecting the rights of adjoining property owners.
   (3)   Minimizing the potential for adverse environmental impacts.
   (4)   Preserving historical and environmental sensitive areas.
   (5)   Avoiding unreasonable and unnecessary restrictions of the right to
practice forestry.
   B.   Forestry activities that include timbering operations that exceed five
acres shall be conducted in accordance with the following requirements:
   (1)   A zoning permit application shall be submitted to the Plains Township
Zoning Officer prior to harvesting or otherwise removing trees on any tract of
land larger than five acres.
   (2)   Prior to the start of operations, a forestry management plan shall be
prepared and filed with the submission of the zoning permit application. Said
plan shall be prepared by a qualified forester or forest technician, with a
four-year degree from and accredited college.
   (3)   The forestry management plan shall be consistent with the Timber
Harvesting Guidelines of the Pennsylvania Forestry Association.
   (4)   Prior to the approval of the zoning permit application, an erosion and
sediment control plan shall be submitted by the applicant to the Luzerne County
Conservation District for its review, recommendation and approval.
   (5)   Clear cutting shall be prohibited except on tracts of less than five
acres.
   (6)   When harvesting or otherwise removing on tracts larger than five
acres, at least 30 percent of the forest cover (canopy) shall be kept and the
residual trees shall be well distributed. At least 30 percent of these residual
trees shall be composed of highest value species as determined and documented
by the forestry management plan.
   (7)   Clear cutting is prohibited on acres with slopes greater than 15
percent or within the 100-year floodway.
   C.   Any “forestry” operations that include any activities which encompass a
land development shall be subject to securing land development approval in
accordance with the governing provisions of the Plains Township Subdivision and
Land Development Ordinance [
Chapter 22].
[Ord. 2007-5A]
   37.   No-impact home-based business. A no-impact home-based business, as
defined in Part 2 of this Chapter, shall be permitted by right in all
residential zoning districts and zoning districts in which residences are
permitted as a principal permitted use, except that such permission shall not
supersede any deed restriction, covenant or agreement restricting the use of
the land, nor any master deed, bylaw or other document applicable to common
interest ownership community. The following standards and criteria shall apply
to a no-impact home-based business:
   A.   The business activity shall be compatible with the residential use of
the property and surrounding residential uses.
   B.   The business shall employ no employees other than the family members
residing in the dwelling.
   C.   There shall be no display or sale of retail goods and no stockpiling or
inventory of a substantial nature.
   D.   There shall be no outside appearance of a business, including, but not
limited to, parking, signs or lights.
   E.   The business activity shall not use any equipment or process which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical or electronic
interference, including interference with radio or television reception, which
is detectable in the neighborhood.
   F.   The business activity shall not generate any solid waste or sewage
discharge, in volume or type, which is not normally associated with a
residential use in the neighborhood.
   G.   The business activity shall not occupy more than 25 percent of the
habitable floor area.
   H.   The business shall not involve any illegal activity.
[Ord. 2007-5A]
   38.   Outdoor wood-fired boiler. An outdoor wood-fired boiler shall be
deemed to be an accessory structure permitted in a C-1 Conservation District.
Outdoor wood-fired boilers shall only be located within a rear yard of a
property. An outdoor wood-fired boiler shall comply with the following
standards
   A.   The property must have a lot area of not less than two acres.
   B.   A safe flue or chimney shall be provided which has a minimum
termination height of 25 feet above the natural ground level upon which the
outdoor wood-fired boiler is located and be provided with a spark arresting
device designed and approved for that purpose.
   C.   A fan or blower attached to the appliance to increase the efficiency of
the outdoor wood-fired boiler.
   D.   An outdoor wood-fired boiler shall be located not less than 200 feet
from any property line and not less than 40 feet to any principal structure or
building located upon the property.
   E.   The outdoor wood-fired boiler shall have an orange hang tag that
signifies that it meets the EPA’s standards for Phase 1 air emission levels of
0.60 pounds of fine particulates per million BTU heat input and qualifies for
the EPS’s voluntary program.
   F.   All outdoor wood-fired boilers shall be installed, operated and
maintained in strict conformance with the manufacturer’s instructions and the
regulations promulgated hereunder. In the event of a conflict, the regulations
promulgated within this Section shall apply unless the manufacturer’s
instructions more restrictive, in which case the manufacturer’s instructions
shall apply.
   G.   The owner of the outdoor wood-fired boiler shall produce the
manufacturer’s instructions for all devices that do not conform to the
requirements of this Section.
   H.   All outdoor wood-fired boilers may only be utilized for the sole
purpose of furnishing heat to a structure or building and/or providing hot
water during the time period of October 1 through May 1; and, subject to
meeting the requirements of this Section.
   I.   No homemade outdoor wood-fired boilers will be allowed.
   J.   Only natural clean wood may be burned in outdoor wood-fired boiler.
Regardless of the manufacturer’s instructions an outdoor wood-fired boiler
shall not be used to burn any of the following materials:
   (1)   Any material that does not meet the definition of clean wood.
   (2)   Furniture.
   (3)   Garbage.
   (4)   Tires.
   (5)   Lawn clippings or yard waste.
   (6)   Wet or soggy wood.
   (7)   Material containing plastic.
   (8)   Material containing rubber.
   (9)   Waste petroleum products.
   (10)   Paints and paint thinners.
   (11)   Chemicals.
   (12)   Any hazardous waste.
   (13)   Coal.
   (14)   Glossy colored paper.
   (15)   Construction and demolition debris.
   (16)   Plywood.
   (17)   Particleboard.
   (18)   Salt water driftwood.
   (19)   Manure.
   (20)   Animal carcasses.
   (21)   Asphalt products.
   K.   All storage of materials to be burned in the outdoor wood-fired boiler
shall be neatly stacked and/or stored under cover and free from insects
(termites, ants and the like) or any type of disease carrying rodents.
   L.   Ashes or waste cannot be accumulated in a large area on the property.
They may be dispersed on the property as long as no accumulation can be seen
(for example: spread in a driveway). Any large accumulation of ashes or waste
must be disposed of weekly with the owner’s trash.
[Ord. 2009-5B]
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 802; as amended by Ord. 2003-4, 10/6/2003, § 6; by
Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, §§ 34, 35 and 36; by Ord. 2009-5B, 5/14/2009, § 8; and
by A.O.)
Part 9
Nonconforming Lots, Uses, Structures and Buildings
§ 27-901.   Intent.
   Within the zoning districts established by this Chapter, or subsequent
amendments thereto, there may exist or will exist certain nonconforming uses of
structures and/or land which if lawful before this Chapter was passed or
amended, may be continued, subject to certain limitations, although such uses
would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms and provisions of
this Chapter or subsequent amendments thereto.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 901)
§ 27-902.   Nonconforming Lots of Record.
   1.   In any zoning district, structures, both principal and accessory, maybe
erected on any single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this Chapter, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other
provisions or regulations of this Chapter, even though such lots fail to meet
the requirements for the area and/or width of the zoning district in which such
lot is located. The erection of a structure on such a lot shall, however,
conform to front, rear and side yard requirements for the zoning district in
which such lot is located. Variances from the aforementioned yard requirements
may be obtained only through action of the Zoning Hearing Board.
   2.   If two or more adjacent lots, with continuous frontage, in single
ownership, are lots of record at the effective date of the adoption or
amendment of this Chapter, and if such lots do not meet the required lot area
and/or width requirements, such lots shall be considered to be an undivided
parcel and no portions of such parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which
further diminishes compliance with the required lot area and/or width
requirement for the zoning district in which such lots are located.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 902)
§ 27-903.   Continuation of Nonconformity.
   Any lawful nonconforming use and/or nonconforming structure may be continued
except as otherwise provided in this Part, but any nonconforming use and/or
structure shall not be enlarged, reconstructed, structurally altered or changed
except as permitted by provisions of this Part.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 903)
§ 27-904.   Registration of Nonconforming Uses and Structures.
   The Zoning Officer may prepare and maintain an accurate listing of all
nonconforming uses and structures. The Zoning Officer or the property owner may
initiate the process of certifying the nonconformity of a given property. The
Zoning Officer shall issue a certificate of nonconformity where he or she finds
the use or structure, although not in compliance with all applicable
requirements of the zoning district in which it is located, to be a lawful
nonconforming use or structure.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 904)
§ 27-905.   Changes of Nonconforming Uses.
   The Zoning Hearing Board may grant a special exception to allow one
nonconforming use to be changed to another nonconforming use, if the Board
finds that all of the following provisions will be met:
   A.   No structural alterations are made.
   B.   The proposed change shall be less objectionable in external effects
than that of the previous or existing nonconforming use, and shall be more
consistent with its physical surrounding.
   C.   There shall be no increase in traffic generation or congestion,
including both vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   D.   There shall be no increase in the danger of fire or explosion.
   E.   There shall be no increase in noise, smoke, dust, fumes, vapors, gases,
heat, odor, glare, vibration, lighting or electrical disturbances.
   F.   There shall be no increased threat to health by any reason, including
that of rodent, vermin or otherwise.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 905)
§ 27-906.   Enlargement of Nonconforming Uses and Structures.
   The Zoning Hearing Board may grant a special exception for the enlargement
of a nonconforming use and/or structure, if the Board finds the following
standards will be met:
   A.   The enlargement will not replace a conforming use.
   B.   The nonconforming structure and/or use, after enlargement, shall comply
with the yard and lot coverage requirements applicable to the zoning district
in which it is located.
   C.   The use and/or structure, after enlargement, shall comply with all
applicable off-street parking and/or loading requirements for said use and/or
structure.
   D.   Not more than one enlargement of a nonconforming use and/or structure
shall be permitted.
   E.   A nonconforming structure and/or use shall not be enlarged beyond the
limits of the zoning lot on which it is located. Expansion to an adjoining lot
shall be prohibited, even if such adjoining lot was in the same ownership at
the effective date of the adoption of this Chapter.
   F.   The enlargement shall not exceed 25 percent of the gross floor area or
land area as it existed at the time the structure or use first became
nonconforming.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 906)
§ 27-907.   Restoration of Use.
   1.   A nonconforming use and/or structure which has been damaged or
destroyed by fire, explosion, windstorm, flood or other similar act or cause to
the extent of more than 60 percent of its reproduction value at the time of the
damage shall not be restored except in conformity with the regulations of the
zoning district in which it is located.
   2.   When damage is less than 60 percent of its reproduction value, a
nonconforming building or other structure may be repaired or reconstructed and
used as before the time of the damage, provided such repairs or reconstruction
are completed within one year of the date of such damage.
   3.   A conforming residential use, which is constructed on a lot that is
nonconforming with respect to lot area, lot width and/or yard areas, may be
reconstructed on the same lot subject to receiving approval from the Zoning
Hearing Board for any necessary variances.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 907)
§ 27-908.   Termination of Nonconforming Use and/or Structure.
   1.   Nonconforming use and/or structure. A nonconforming use and/or
structure shall not be reconstructed when damaged to an extent greater than 60
percent of its reproduction value at the time of the damage and said
nonconforming use and/or structure shall be deemed terminated.
   2.   Change of nonconforming use. Where a nonconforming use is changed into
a conforming use, a nonconforming use shall not thereafter be resumed. A change
of one nonconforming use, without approval by the Zoning Hearing Board, shall
be considered an abandonment of the prior nonconforming use, which shall not
thereafter be resumed.
   3.   Abandonment of nonconforming use. The right to a nonconforming use
shall be terminated and a nonconforming use shall not be resumed if a
nonconforming use is abandoned. A nonconforming use shall be deemed abandoned,
if it is changed as set forth in Subsection 2. of this Section or if it is
discontinued for a continuous period of one year and the owner of said property
fails to obtain a certificate of intention in accordance with §
27-909 of this Chapter which indicates his or her intent to resume the
nonconforming use.
   4.   Nonconforming mobile homes.
   A.   The removal of a mobile home as a nonconforming use upon a property
with the intent to replace it with another mobile home may be permitted in
accordance with the following standards:
   (1)   The property owner shall provide the Zoning Officer with written
notice of his or her intent to replace the structure and the date on which the
current mobile home will be removed from the lot.
   (2)   The placement of the new mobile home upon the lot shall be in
conformance with all applicable setback requirements and area requirements for
zoning district in which it is located.
   (3)   A new mobile home shall be located upon the lot and connected with all
utilities, including sewage, and ready for occupancy within 180 days from the
date on previous mobile home was removed.
   B.   The removal of a mobile home as a conforming use upon a property with
the intent to replace it with another mobile home shall be in conformance with
all applicable setback requirements and area requirements for zoning district
in which it is located.
   5.   Unsafe structures. If a nonconforming structure, containing a
nonconforming use, becomes physically unsafe due to lack of maintenance or
repairs and has been legally condemned, it shall not thereafter be restored,
repaired or rebuilt except in conformity with uses permitted within the zoning
district in which such structure is located.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 908)
§ 27-909.   Certificate of Intention for a Nonconforming Use.
   1.   A certificate of intention shall be required in any instance when a
nonconforming use of a structure, building and/or land is to be discontinued
for a period of more than one year and the owner or operator of the
nonconforming use wishes to maintain a legal nonconforming status. A
certificate of intention form shall be completed by the owner or operator of
the discontinued nonconforming use. Said completed certificate of intention
form shall be submitted to and approved by the Zoning Officer. The applicant
shall indicate in writing the reason or basis for the discontinuation of the
nonconforming use and the anticipated date on which the nonconforming use will
resume.
   2.   A certificate of intention, as issued and approved by the Zoning
Officer, shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of issuance. A
certificate of intention may be renewed annually by the owner or operator of
the nonconforming use. Failure to renew a certificate of intention shall
constitute a deemed abandonment of the use and forfeiture of the legal
nonconforming use status of the property.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 909)
Part 10
Sign Regulations
§ 27-1001.   Signs.
   Type and use of signs. All signs shall be classified according to type and
use as provided herein:
   A.   Identification sign. A sign which communicates the name and/or address
of an occupant or a permitted home occupation upon the zoning lot on which the
sign is located.
   B.   Business sign. A sign which communicates information concerning a
business, profession, commodity, service, entertainment or development which is
sold, offered, prepared, manufactured or conducted upon the zoning lot where
the sign is located.
   C.   Billboard or off-premises advertising sign. A sign which communicates
information concerning a subject, business, profession, activity, commodity,
service, entertainment or development not related to, sold, offered, prepared
or manufactured on the zoning lot where the sign is located.
   D.   Real estate sign. A temporary sign, having an area not greater than
eight square feet in area which advertises the sale, rental or development of
the premises upon which the sign is located.
   E.   Construction sign. A temporary sign erected on the premises on which
construction is taking place, indicating the names of the firm or firms
performing the construction activities, including names of any architectural
firms and engineering firm associated with the project.
   F.   Subdivision/development sign. A temporary real estate sign, not greater
than 60 square feet in area, which advertises the sale of property within an
approved subdivision or planned residential development.
   G.   Institutional sign. A sign which identifies a use pertaining to a
school, church, hospital or other institution of a similar public or semipublic
nature.
   H.   On-site directional and/or informational sign. A sign commonly
associated with, and limited to, information and directions necessary for
visitors entering or exiting a property, including signs marking entrance and
exits, parking areas, circulation direction, restrooms and pick-up and delivery
areas. Such signs shall contain no advertising material.
   I.   Bench sign. A sign which communicates information concerning a subject,
business, professional activity, commodity, service, entertainment or
development not related to, sold, offered, prepared or manufactured on the
zoning lot where sign is located and is attached to or constructed to form a
sitting surface.
   (1)   Size. Signs affixed to benches may not exceed 18 inches high by six
feet wide.
   (2)   Identification. Bench owners name and current phone number must appear
on the bench.
   (3)   Location. Bench owners must provide signature of the property owner
when applying for zoning permit for bench.
[Ord. 2011-3]
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1001; as amended by Ord. 2011-3, 7/14/2011, §
1001.1)
§ 27-1002.   Construction Types.
   All signs shall be classified according to construction types as provided
herein:
   A.   Freestanding sign. A sign (including bench signs) not attached or
applied to a building, but supported by another structure, including structures
designed for the sign itself and accessory structures. [Ord. 2011-3]
   B.   Wall sign. A sign attached, painted or affixed to the wall of a
principal structure or accessory structure, not projecting over any public
right-of-way and not extending more than two feet from the building or
structure.
   C.   Projecting sign. A sign which projects outward or extends more than two
feet from the building or structure.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1002; as amended by Ord. 2011-3, 7/14/2011, § 1002)
§ 27-1003.   Permitted Signs by Zoning District.
   The establishment, erection or reconstruction of any sign shall be in
accordance with the regulations as set forth herein:
   A.   Identification sign. Such signs shall be permitted in all zoning
districts.
   B.   Business signs. Such signs shall be permitted in B-1, B-2, B-3, C-1 and
I-1 Zoning Districts.
   C.   Real estate signs. Such signs shall be permitted in all zoning
districts.
   D.   Subdivision/development signs. Such signs shall be permitted in all
zoning districts and any PRD zoning district, upon the creation of such.
   E.   Institutional signs. Such signs shall be permitted in all zoning
districts.
   F   On-site directional and/or informational sign. Such signs shall be
permitted in all zoning districts.
   G.   Billboard signs. Such signs shall be permitted as a special exemption
use in a B-3 and I-1 Zoning District. [Ord. 2000-1]
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1003; as amended by Ord. 2000-1, 2/10/2000, § 3)
§ 27-1004.   Area, Height and Setback Requirements.
   The establishment, erection or reconstruction of permitted signs shall be
governed by the following regulations:
   A   Identification sign. An identification sign shall not exceed two square
feet in area. Such a sign shall be set back not less than ten feet from the
front lot line. The maximum height of an identification sign, if freestanding,
shall not exceed ten feet in height, or if attached to a building shall not be
higher than the first story of the building to which it is attached.
   B.   Business sign.
   (1)   A business sign shall not exceed area for the following Zoning
Districts:
   (a)   C-1 District. Fifty square feet.
   (b)   B-1 District. Fifty square feet.
   (c)   B-2 District. Seventy-five square feet.
   (d)   B-3 District. Two hundred fifty square feet.
   (e)   B-4 District. Two hundred fifty square feet.
   (f)   B-5 District. Three thousand two hundred square feet.
   (g)   I-1 District. Two hundred fifty square feet.
   [Ord. 2007-5A]
   (2)   In an integrated grouping of commercial or industrial uses which is
classified as a “land development”, in addition to permitting each individual
business establishment to display a business sign, one sign shall be permitted
on the lot, which indicates the name of the integrated grouping of commercial
or industrial uses and/or the names of the business establishments located
therein. Only one such sign shall be permitted on the lot and such sign shall
not exceed 200 square feet in area. The maximum height of any business sign
shall not exceed 20 feet.
   C.   Real estate sign. A temporary real estate sign shall not exceed eight
square feet in area and shall be located on the same lot on which the property
is offered for sale or rental. The sign shall be set back not less than ten
feet from the front lot line and shall be removed from the premises within 30
days after the sale or rental of the property.
   D.   Subdivision/development sign. A subdivision/development sign shall be
considered a temporary real estate sign and shall not exceed 60 square feet in
area. The sign shall be located on the same property on which lots and/or homes
in the subdivision are offered for sale. Not more than one sign shall be
erected in any subdivision, and such signs shall be set back not less than 35
feet from the front lot line. The sign shall be removed from the premises
within 30 days after the last lot and/or home is sold.
   E.   Construction sign. A construction sign shall not exceed 40 square feet
in area and shall be located upon the same property on which the construction
activity is being conducted. An individual sign for each firm performing work
upon the property shall be permitted. No sign shall be located within a public
right-of-way or less than ten feet from any public right-of-way. All
construction signs shall be temporary in nature and removed within 30 days
following the completion of construction activity.
   F.   Institutional sign. An institutional sign for public and semipublic
facilities, such as schools, churches, hospitals, libraries, colleges or other
institutions of a similar nature shall not exceed 30 square feet in area. The
maximum height of such signs shall not exceed the maximum height restriction
established for a principal structure in the district in which the sign is
located. An institutional sign shall be not less than ten feet from the front
lot line.
   G.   On-site directional and/or informational sign. An on-site directional
and/or informational sign shall not exceed six square feet in area. A front,
rear or side yard setback of not less than five feet shall be required for such
signs. The maximum height of such signs shall not exceed six feet.
   H.   Billboard sign or off-premises advertising sign. The following
regulations shall apply to any billboard and/or off-premise advertising sign.
The advertising surface area of any panel shall not exceed 300 square feet and
not more than one double-faced panel shall be permitted on the same structure
or standard.
   (1)   Such a sign shall not be located within 200 feet of any residential
structure or residential zoning district.
   (2)   There shall be a minimum spacing distance of 1,000 feet between all
such signs.
   (3)   Such signs shall not be attached to a building nor shall such signs be
permitted to project above the maximum height limitation for the zoning
district in which it is located.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1004; as amended by Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, § 37)
§ 27-1005.   Number of Signs.
   Excluding on-site directional and/or informational signs, not more than two
signs shall be permitted on any property located in any zoning district. In the
case of a property located upon a corner lot, a total of three signs may be
permitted. The above limitations on signage shall not apply to properties in
the B-4 District, B-5 District or the MU District.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1005; as amended by Ord. 2007-5A, 9/19/2007, § 38;
by Ord. 2015-6, 9/10/2015, § 3)
§ 27-1006.   Setback for Freestanding Signs.
   The minimum side yard setback and rear yard setback for any freestanding
sign shall be the same as the minimum side yard or rear yard setback for a
principal structure in the zoning district in which the sign is located. The
minimum front yard setback, with the exception of §
27-1004 Paragraph F., On-Site Directional and/or Informational Sign and §
27-1004 Paragraph G., Billboard Sign or Off-Premises Advertising Sign shall be
not less than 25 percent of the required setback for a principal structure in
the zoning district in which the sign is located. If an existing building has a
front yard setback which is less than ten feet, any proposed new sign shall be
attached flat against the building as a wall sign.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1006)
§ 27-1007.   Signs Related to Nonconforming Uses.
   An existing sign related to a legally established nonconforming use shall be
considered a nonconforming sign, which may be continued at its present
dimensions and location, but shall not be enlarged. Where a nonconforming use
is lawfully changed to another nonconforming use, a new sign shall be permitted
being the same type and size as the previous sign. The new sign shall be
erected on the property at the same location as the previous sign. The sign may
be erected at a different location provided it meets all applicable regulations
for the zoning district in which it is located.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1007)
§ 27-1008.   Area Computation of Signs.
   The area of a sign shall be construed to include all lettering, wording and
accompanying design and symbols, together with the background including border
and trim, whether open or enclosed on which they are displayed, but not
including any supporting framework and bracing which are incidental to the
display itself. Computation of the area for particular signs shall be in
accordance with the following regulations:
   A.   Wall sign. For a sign painted upon or applied to a building, the area
shall be considered to include all lettering, wording and accompanying design
or symbols together with any backing associated with the sign.
   B.   Separate symbols. Where the sign consists of individual letters or
symbols attached to or painted on a surface, building, wall or window, the area
shall be considered to be that of the smallest rectangle or other shape which
encompasses all of the letters and symbols.
   C.   Double-face sign. With the exception of a billboard, when computing the
area of a double-face sign, only one sign shall be considered, provided both
faces are identical.
   D.   Cylindrical sign. The area of a cylindrical sign shall be computed by
multiplying one-half of the circumference by the height of the sign.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1008)
§ 27-1009.   Vertical Clearance.
   A freestanding sign and a projecting sign shall have a vertical distance of
not less than nine feet as measured from the lowest edge or point of the sign
to the highest ground elevation located beneath the sign.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1009)
§ 27-1010.   Prohibited Signs.
   The following types of signs shall not be permitted in any zoning district:
   A.   Signs which are located in such a position which endangers vehicular
and/or pedestrian traffic by obscuring the site distance.
   B.   Signs which by design and/or location may be confused with traffic
signs or signals.
   C.   Any sign located in or extending into a public right-of-way, including
sidewalk areas, except an official street sign or traffic control sign.
   D.   Any freestanding or projecting sign within an area bounded by the
intersection of two public or private streets, for a distance of 20 feet along
the centerline of the right-of-way of such streets from the point of their
intersection.
   E.   Freestanding or projecting signs over any type of public right-of-way,
including sidewalk areas.
   F.   Sequential, flashing or oscillating signs.
   G.   Signs which due to their construction and/or location would constitute
a hazard or a potential danger to the community.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1010)
§ 27-1011.   Permits Required.
   A zoning permit shall be required for the erection, alteration or relocation
of any sign which exceeds eight square feet in surface area. Real estate signs
and construction signs shall be exempt from securing a zoning permit.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1011)
§ 27-1012.   Violation; Penalty for Signs.
   1.   If the Code Enforcement Officer, Zoning Officer or Fire Inspector of
the Township finds that any sign or advertising structure regulated under this
Chapter within the Township to be unsafe, unsecure or menace to the public,
abandoned or is maintained in a dilapidated condition or the area where it is
located is not properly maintained or has been constructed or erected and is
maintained is such a matter that it is in violation of this Chapter, then he,
she or it shall be given written notice to the permittee and/or property owner
or owners of the sign thereof of this violation. If the permittee, property
owner or owner of the sign fails to remove, alter the structure or property
maintain the area where the sign is located so as to comply with the standards
herein set forth within ten days after such notice, such sign or advertising
structure may be removed or altered to comply with this Chapter by the Code
Enforcement Officer, Zoning Officer or Fire Inspector at the expense of the
permittee, owner of the property or owner of the sign. The Code Enforcement
Officer, Zoning Officer or Fire Inspector may cause any sign or advertising
structure which is an immediate peril to person or property to be removed
summarily and without notice. Any other removal or alternation shall not occur
until after the ten-day notice to the owner. Any cost for repair of the sign or
advertising structure or maintenance of the area where the sign or advertising
structure is located shall be the responsibility of the permittee, property
owner or sign owner and shall reimburse the Township within ten days of notice
of this cost. If not reimbursed within that time period, the Code Enforcement
Officer, Zoning Officer or Fire Inspector may remove or if not removed cover
the sign or advertising structure which shall not be replaced until
reimbursement is made to the Township.
   2.   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with or resists enforcement of any of the provisions of this Part shall be
guilty of an offense and upon conviction in any court of competent jurisdiction
shall be fined not less than $25 nor more that $500. Every such person shall be
deemed guilty of a separate offense for every day such violation shall continue
after notification thereof. [A.O.]
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998; as added by Ord. 2004-6, 11/–/2004; and as amended by
A.O.)
Part 11
Off-Street Parking and Loading
§ 27-1101.   Purpose.
   Off-street parking, loading and unloading facilities shall be provided to
lessen traffic congestion in the streets. The facilities required by these
provisions shall be available throughout the hours of operation for the
particular business or use for which such facilities are provided. As used
herein, the term “parking space” includes covered garage or carport or
uncovered parking lot space located off the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1101)
§ 27-1102.   Size of Off-Street Parking Spaces.
   Each off-street parking space shall have an area of not less than 162 square
feet, being nine feet in width and 18 feet in length, exclusive of access
drives or aisles.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1102)
§ 27-1103.   Size of Off-Street Loading Spaces.
   Each off-street loading space shall be not less than 50 feet in depth, 12
feet in width and provide an overhead clearance of not less than 14 feet. All
loading areas shall be designed, constructed and used so that all vehicular
maneuvering is contained within the lot and no vehicle shall be permitted to
back into or out of the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1103)
§ 27-1104.   Dimensions and Design.
   The dimension and design of off-street parking areas, including garages,
shall comply with the following:
   A.   Stall width shall be at least nine feet.
   B.   Stall depth shall be at least 18 feet for angle parking and 20 feet for
parallel parking.
   C.   The minimum width of aisles providing access to stalls, with one-way
traffic, varying with the angle of parking, shall be:
 
Angle of Parking Minimum Aisle Width
Parallel         12 feet
30 degrees       11 feet
45 degrees       13 feet
60 degrees       18 feet
90 degrees       20 feet
 
   D.   The minimum width for aisles providing access to stalls with two-way
traffic shall be 24 feet.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1104)
§ 27-1105.   Width of Access Driveways.
   The width of a driveway intended to provide access to or from a property
shall comply with the following:
   A.   A minimum of nine feet for all single-family dwellings.
   B.   A minimum of 12 feet for one-way traffic for all uses other than
single-family dwellings.
   C.   A minimum of 20 feet for two-way traffic for all uses other than
single-family dwellings.
   D.   A maximum of 20 feet at the street lines in residential districts and
30 feet in all other districts.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1105)
§ 27-1106.   Number of Location of Access Driveways.
   1.   For the purpose of providing access to a property, driveways crossing a
street line shall be 40 feet apart and shall be limited to two along each
front, rear or side lot line. On all corner properties, there shall be a
minimum distance of 30 feet from any driveway to the lot line fronting on the
intersecting street.
   2.   There shall be adequate ingress or egress to all parking spaces. There
shall be provided an access drive leading to off-street parking and/or loading
areas. Such access drive shall not be less than ten feet in width for
residential uses nor greater than 20 feet and not less than 20 feet, or greater
than 30 feet for any nonresidential use. Access drives to such off-street
parking and/or loading areas shall be limited to well defined locations, not to
exceed two along each front, side or rear lot lines. For corner properties, all
access drives shall be not less than 35 feet from the intersection of streets,
as measured along the right-of-way lines.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1106)
§ 27-1107.   Location of Off-Street Parking Areas.
   The required off-street parking spaces for any type of use shall be located
on the same lot as the principal use to which it is accessory. The required
off-street parking may be permitted on another lot subject to the following
requirements:
   A.   The lot to be used for off-street parking and the lot on which the
principal use is located shall be in the same zoning district.
   B.   The lot to be used for off-street parking and the lot on which the
principal use is located shall be held under the same ownership.
   C.   The lot to be used for off-street parking shall be not less than 300
feet to any lot line on which the principal structure is located.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1107)
§ 27-1108.   Expansion of Existing Use.
   When an existing use of a building, structure or land is expanded, off-
street parking and/or loading facilities shall be provided in accordance with
the applicable provisions of this Chapter for the net increase of expansion
based upon land area and/or gross floor area of the subject use.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1108)
§ 27-1109.   Change of Use.
   Whenever an existing use of a building, structure or land is changed to a
different use, the required off-street parking and/or loading facilities shall
be provided in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Chapter based
upon the proposed change in use.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1109)
§ 27-1110.   Grading, Pavement and Drainage of Off-street Parking Areas.
   Off-street parking areas shall be graded in a manner to preclude standing
surface water and to prevent damage to abutting properties and/or streets. Off-
street parking areas shall be surfaced with a pavement structure of bituminous
asphalt material or concrete. The need for any catch basins, including the
design, location and material of the same may be referred to the Township
Engineer for review and approval.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1110)
§ 27-1111.   Screening.
   Properties which contain off-street parking for ten or more vehicles and/or
any amount of off-street loading, along a side yard or rear yard which abuts a
residential district or residential use, shall be screened by a substantial,
tight fence not less than six feet in height and a planting strip not less than
five feet in depth, with shrubbery, plants or trees which are a minimum of
three feet in height at the time of planting.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1111)
§ 27-1112.   Lighting.
   Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking or loading areas shall be
arranged to reflect the light away from adjoining properties and the public
right-of-way.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1112)
§ 27-1113.   Parking in Setback Yard Areas.
   Required parking shall be permitted within the required front or side yard
setbacks, provided that the minimum setback distance to any area used for off-
street parking is not less than five feet to the nearest point of a side yard
property line and not less than ten feet from the front yard property line. Any
off-street parking areas for a nonresidential use, when abutting a residential
zoning district or a residential property shall be set back a minimum of ten
feet from the rear yard and any side yard.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1113)
§ 27-1114.   Existing Structures and Uses.
   Structures and uses in existence at the date of adoption of this Chapter
shall not be subject to the off-street parking or off-street loading
requirements, so long as a structure or use is not changed, altered or
expanded. Existing off-street parking or off-street loading facilities provided
prior to the adoption of this Chapter shall not be reduced below the minimum
required in this Chapter.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1114)
§ 27-1115.   Fractional Space.
   When required parking computation results in fractions, any fraction less
than one-half shall be disregarded and any fraction equal to or greater than
one-half shall be construed to require a full space.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1115)
§ 27-1116.   Multiple Activities or Uses.
   In any instance where a nonresidential structure, building or use of land
contains more than one defined use, the required parking for each specific use
shall be provided.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1116)
§ 27-1117.   Off-Street Parking Requirements.
   Any structure, building or use of land hereafter erected, converted,
enlarged or placed into use shall comply with the minimum off-street parking
spaces as provided herein:
   A.   Single-family structure. One space for each dwelling unit.
   B.   Two-family structure. One space for each dwelling unit.
   C.   Multi-family residential, (including townhouses and garden apartments).
Two spaces for each dwelling unit.
   D.   Boarding house or rooming house. One space for each guest room.
   E.   Home occupation.
   (1)   Four spaces for any medical practitioner.
   (2)   Two spaces for all other home occupations.
   (3)   The above requirements do not include those required for the dwelling
unit.
   F.   Churches and similar places of worship. One space for every four seats
in the main assembly room or one space for each 12 feet of bench length; if
fixed seating is not provided, one space for every 30 square feet of gross
floor area.
   G.   Places of public or private assembly, including auditoriums, meeting
halls and community centers. One space for every four seats or one space for
each 50 square feet of floor area when there is no fixed seating.
   H.   Schools, elementary and secondary. One space for each staff member,
plus one space for every 20 classroom seats.
   I.   College, commercial, business or vocational trade schools. One space
for each staff and/or faculty member, plus one space for every five classroom
seats.
   J.   Nursery or day care schools. One space for each employee, plus one
space for every five children, based upon the maximum number of children which
the facility is licensed to serve.
   K.   Hospitals/nursing homes. One space for every five beds, plus one space
for every two employees on the maximum working shift.
   L.   Medical or dental offices or clinics. Six spaces for every doctor,
dentist, chiropractor or other licensed medical practitioner.
   M.   Nonprofit social halls, clubs and lodges. One space for every 100
square feet of gross floor area.
   N.   Public uses. One space for every 200 square feet of gross floor area.
   O.   Public utility facilities. Two spaces per facility; if the facility
includes maintenance and/or storage yards then the required number of spaces
shall be one for each employee assigned to work at such facility.
   P.   Outdoor recreational facilities. In cases where such facilities include
spectator seating, there shall be one space for every four seats; facilities
which do not provide any spectator seating shall provide one space for every
2,000 square feet in the recreational site, plus an additional ten spaces, if
there is a swimming pool and an additional two spaces if there is playground
equipment.
   Q.   Retail businesses. One space for every 300 square feet of gross floor
area.
   R.   Eating and drinking establishments. One space for every three seats,
plus two spaces for every three employees based upon the maximum working shift.
   S.   Fast food restaurant. One space for every 80 square feet of service or
dining area, with a minimum of five spaces. A fast food restaurant with a
drive-in window shall, in addition to the above requirements, provide eight
stacking spaces for the drive-in window designated for the ordering station.
Such spaces shall be designed in a manner not to impede pedestrian or vehicular
circulation on the site or on any abutting street.
   T.   Entertainment facilities. Such facilities as defined in Part 2 of this
Chapter, shall require one space for every 200 square feet of gross floor area.
   U.   Miniature golf. Two spaces for each tee.
   V.   Personal services. As defined in Part 2 of this Chapter, such
establishments shall provide one space for every 300 square feet of gross floor
area; the following exceptions include:
   (1)   Self-service coin-operated laundries and dry cleaners. Shall provide
one space for every two washing or drying machines.
   (2)   Health clubs. Shall provide one space for every 200 square feet of
gross floor area; any such club which also serves food and/or beverages shall
also comply with the parking requirements of any eating or drinking
establishment.
   W.   Animal hospital Five spaces for every veterinarian.
   X.   Group residence. One space for each two employees based upon the
maximum working shift and one space for each two residents who are eligible to
operate a vehicle.
   Y.   Funeral homes. Twenty spaces for each viewing parlor.
   Z.   Professional offices. One space for every 200 square feet of gross
floor area.
   AA.   Motels and hotels. One space for each unit for guest accommodations
plus one space for each three employees on the maximum working shift. Any such
facility which also serves food and/or beverages shall also comply with the
parking requirements of an eating or drinking establishment.
   BB.   Self-storage warehouse. One space for every ten stalls or lockers
available for rental, plus one for each employee on the maximum working shift.
   CC.   Gasoline service stations. Two exterior spaces for each service bay,
one space for each pump, plus one space for every 200 square feet of gross
floor area which is used for the sale of retail goods, including food and/or
beverages.
   DD.   Automobile car washes. One space for each employee on the maximum
working shift.
   EE.   Automotive sales. One exterior space for every 600 square feet of
gross interior floor space plus one additional space per each 5,000 square feet
open sales or display area.
   FF.   Automotive repairs. One exterior space for every 200 square feet of
gross interior floor area.
   GG.   Equipment sales and repairs. One exterior space for every 200 square
feet of gross floor space.
   HH.   Industrial, manufacturing, wholesale and warehouse establishments,
truck terminals, research and testing facilities. One space for every 1,000
square feet of gross floor area; plus one space for every two employees on the
maximum working shift; in any case, however, the total parking area shall be
not less than 25 percent of the total gross square feet of the building.
   II.   Sexually oriented businesses.
   (1)   Sexually oriented bookstore. One space for every 100 square feet of
gross floor area, plus two additional spaces for every three employees based
upon the maximum working shift.
   (2)   Sexually oriented entertainment. One space for every 100 square feet
of gross floor area, plus:
   (a)   One additional space for every two seats and/or, one space for each 50
square feet of floor area when there is no fixed seating.
   (b)   Two additional spaces for every three employees based upon the maximum
working shift.
   (3)   Massage parlor. One space for every 100 square feet of gross floor
area, plus two additional spaces for every three employees based upon the
maximum working shift.
[Ord. 2005-5]
   JJ.   Methadone treatment facility. Twelve spaces for every doctor, licensed
medical practitioner, and/or counselor; employed at the facility and one
additional space for every 100 square feet of gross floor area. [Ord. 2003-4]
   KK.   Pawn shop. One space for every 100 square feet of gross floor area,
plus one space for each employee. [Ord. 2005-5]
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1117; as amended by Ord. 2003-4, 10/6/2003, § 7; and
by Ord. 2005-5, 3/10/2005, § 7)
§ 27-1118.   Parking for Other Nonresidential Uses.
   Any commercial use or nonresidential use of a structure, building or land,
not specifically listed within §
27-1117 of this Chapter shall provide one off-street parking space for every
300 square feet of gross floor area or lot area.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1118)
§ 27-1119.   Off-Street Loading Requirements.
   All commercial and industrial establishments shall provide off-street
loading, unloading and commercial vehicle storage space adequate for their
needs. In no case shall a public right-of-way be used for the loading,
unloading or storage of such vehicles.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1119)
§ 27-1120.   Provision of Handicapped Parking Spaces.
   1.   Any business, individual or corporation that owns, leases or operates a
facility which includes the provision of public accommodations and/or
commercial facilities shall be governed by the provision of this Section. A
facility which provides public accommodations shall include, but may not be
limited to, the following:
   A.   Places of lodging.
   B.   Establishments serving food or drink.
   C.   Places of exhibition or entertainment.
   D.   Places of public gathering.
   E.   Sales or rental establishments.
   F.   Service establishments, stations used for specified public
transportation.
   G.   Places of public display or collection.
   H.   Places of recreation.
   I.   Places of education.
   J.   Social service center establishments, and places of exercise or
recreation.
   2.   A commercial facility shall include any business whose operations are
open to the general public.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1120)
§ 27-1121.   Design Features for Handicapped Parking Spaces.
   1.   The following provisions shall apply for required handicapped parking
spaces:
   A.   An area not less than five feet in width shall be provided between each
handicapped parking space. Said area shall be marked and/or designed to prevent
parking therein.
   B.   An area not less than eight feet in width shall be provided between
each van accessible parking space. Said area shall be marked and/or designed to
prevent parking therein.
   C.   Vehicular access to handicapped parking areas shall have a minimum
vertical clearance of not less than nine and one-half feet.
   D.   An off-street parking area shall be designed to provide accessible
routes from the handicapped parking areas to an accessible building entrance
and to public streets and sidewalks which adjourn the off-street parking area.
   2.   Handicapped accessible spaces, serving a particular facility, shall be
located on the shortest accessible route of travel from the parking area to an
accessible entrance.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1121)
§ 27-1122.   Signage for Handicapped Parking.
   Handicapped accessible parking spaces shall be designated as reserved by a
sign showing the symbol of accessibility. Parking spaces designed for vans
shall have an additional sign reading “Van Accessible” mounted below the
accessibility sign. Such signs shall be located in a manner so they cannot be
obscured by a vehicle.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1122)
§ 27-1123.   Minimum Number of Handicapped Accessible Spaces.
   When parking spaces are provided for self-parking by employees or visitors,
or both, within the total number of off-street parking spaces required under §
27-1117 and/or §
27-1118 of this Chapter, the following table shall be used to determine the
required number of handicapped accessible spaces.
Total No. Of Spaces Required No. Of Accessible Spaces
Total No. Of Spaces Required No. Of Accessible Spaces
1 to 25             1
26 to 50            2
51 to 75            3
76 to 100           4
101 to 150          5
151 to 200          6
201 to 300          7
301 to 400          8
401 to 500          9
501 to 1,000        2 percent of total
 
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1123)
Part 12
Floodplain Management
§ 27-1201.   Statutory Authorization.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has, by the passage of
the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act of 1978, delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt floodplain management
regulations to promote public health, safety and the general welfare of its
citizenry.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1201)
§ 27-1202.   Intent.
   The intent of the regulations as set forth in this Part to:
   1.   Promote the general health, welfare, and safety of the community.
   2.   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future.
   3.   Minimize danger to public health by protecting water supply and natural
drainage.
   4.    Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units, and its residents, by preventing excessive development in areas subject
to flooding.
   5.   Comply with federal and state floodplain management requirements.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1202)
§ 27-1203.   Applicability.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or corporation to
undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any construction or development anywhere
within Plains Township unless a permit has been obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator. A permit shall not be required for minor repairs to existing
buildings or structures.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1203)
§ 27-1204.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions.
   The regulations within this Part supersede any other conflicting provisions
which may be in effect in identified floodplain areas. However, any other
ordinance provisions shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that
those provisions are more restrictive. If there is any conflict between any of
the provisions of this Article, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1204)
§ 27-1205.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability.
   1.   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this Part is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on acceptable
engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood heights may be
increased by natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings restricted by
debris. This Part does not imply that areas outside any identified floodplain
areas or that land uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding
or flood damages.
   2.   This Part shall not create liability on the part of Plains Township or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on the provisions of this Part or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1206)
§ 27-1206.   Definitions.
   Unless specifically defined below, words and phrases used in this Part shall
be interpreted so as to give this Part its most reasonable application.
   Accessory use or structure–a use or structure on the same lot with, and of a
nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   Base flood–a flood which has a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also called the “100-year flood”).
   Base flood elevation (BFE) –the elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30 that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from a flood that has a one percent or greater chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   Basement–any area of the building having its floor below ground level on all
sides.
   Building–a combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all manufactured homes and trailers to be
used for human habitation.
   Development–any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion, or alteration of buildings or other structures; the
placement of manufactured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling,
grading and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of
equipment or materials; and the subdivision of land.
   Existing manufactured home park or subdivision–a manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision–the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   Flood–a temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)–the official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   Flood Insurance Study (FIS)–the official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency that includes flood profiles, the Flood Insurance
Rate Map, the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, and the water surface elevation
of the base flood.
   Floodplain area–a relatively flat or low land area which is subject to
partial or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river or
watercourse; and/or any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of
surface waters from any source.
   Floodproofing–any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   Floodway–the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   Highest adjacent grade–the highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   Historic structure–any structure that is:
   (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register.
   (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district.
   (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
   (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation that have been certified either:
   (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior.
   (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
   Lowest floor–the lowest floor of the lowest fully enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished, flood resistant partially enclosed area, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access and incidental storage, in an area
other than a basement area is not considered the lowest floor of a building,
provided that such space is not designed and built so that the structure is in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this Part.
   Manufactured home–a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis, and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term includes
park trailers, travel trailers, recreational and other similar vehicles which
are placed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   Manufactured home park or subdivision–a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   Minor repair–the replacement of existing work with equivalent materials for
the purpose of its routine maintenance and upkeep, but not including the
cutting away of any wall, partition or portion thereof, the removal or cutting
of any structural beam or bearing support, or the removal or change of any
required means of egress, or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting
the exitway requirements; nor shall minor repairs include addition to,
alteration of, replacement or relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer,
drainage, drain leader, gas, oil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric
wiring or mechanical or other work affecting public health or general safety.
   New construction–structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after November 2, 2012, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures. Any construction started after May 6, 1977 and before November 2,
2012 is subject to the ordinance in effect at the time the permit was issued,
provided the start of construction was within 180 days of permit issuance.
   New manufactured home park or subdivision–a manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   Permit–the term permit as used throughout this Part shall mean a zoning
permit which is required by the Plains Township Zoning Ordinance for the use of
property as set forth in §
27-1402 of Plains Township Zoning Ordinance. The regulations contained within
this Part shall be deemed to be supplemental as an overlay to the underlying
regulations contained in the zoning district in which a property is located.
   Person–an individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility or any other legal entity whatsoever, which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   Recreational vehicle–a vehicle which is built on a single chassis; not more
than 400 square feet, measured at the largest horizontal projections; designed
to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-duty truck; not designed
for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   Regulatory flood elevation–the base flood elevation (BFE) plus a freeboard
safety factor of one and one-half feet.
   Repetitive loss–flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on average, equals or exceeds 25 percent of
the market value of the structure before the damages occurred.
   Special flood hazard area (SFHA)–an area in the floodplain subject to a one
percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on the
FIRM as Zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99 or AH.
   Start of construction–includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the permit was issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days from the date of the permit
and shall be completed within 12 months after the date of issuance of the
permit unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain
Administrator. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   Structure–a walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   Subdivision–the division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land by
any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development; provided, however, that
the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into parcels of more
than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of access or any
residential dwelling, shall be exempted.
   Substantial damage–damage from any cause sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceeds 50 percent or more of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   Substantial improvement.
   (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value
of the structure before the “start of construction” of the improvement. This
term includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage” or
“repetitive loss” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does
not, however, include any project for improvement of a structure to correct
existing violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement
Official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
   (2)   Historic structures undergoing repair or rehabilitation that would
constitute a substantial improvement as defined in this Part, must comply with
all ordinance requirements that do not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure. Documentation that a specific ordinance
requirement will cause removal of the structure from the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic places must be obtained from
the Secretary of the Interior or the State Historic Preservation Officer. Any
exemption from ordinance requirements will be the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
   Uniform Construction Code (UCC)–the statewide building code adopted by the
Pennsylvania General Assembly in 1999 applicable to new construction in all
municipalities whether administered by the municipality, a third party or the
Department of Labor and Industry. Applicable to residential and commercial
buildings, the Code adopted the International Residential Code (IRC) and the
International Building Code (IBC), by reference, as the construction standard
applicable with the state floodplain construction. For coordination purposes,
references to the above are made specifically to various sections of the IRC
and the IBC.
   Violation–the failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the applicable floodplain management regulations of Plains
Townships set forth in this Part. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance
required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(4) or (e)(5)
and within this Part is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1207)
§ 27-1207.   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator.
   The Zoning Officer is hereby appointed to administer and enforce the
provisions of this Part and is referred to herein as the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1208)
§ 27-1208.   Permits Required.
   A permit shall be required before any construction or development is
undertaken within any area of Plains Township.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1209)
§ 27-1209.   Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator.
   1. The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit only after it has been
determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance with
the requirements of this Part and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
   2.   Prior to the issuance of any permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall
review the application for the permit to determine if all other necessary
government permits required by state and federal laws have been obtained, such
as those required by the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act 1966-537, as
amended) 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.; the Pennsylvania Dam Safety and
Encroachments Act (Act 1978-325, as amended) 32 P.S. §§ 693.1 et seq.; the
Pennsylvania Clean Streams Act (Act 1937-394, as amended); and the U.S. Clean
Water Act, § 404, 33 U.S.C. § 1344. No permit shall be issued until this
determination has been made.
   3.   In the case of existing structures, prior to the issuance of any
development/permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall review the history of
repairs to the subject building, so that any repetitive loss issues can be
addressed before the permit is issued.
   4.   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or other
authorized official shall inspect the premises to determine that the work is
progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable municipal laws and ordinances. He or she
shall make as many inspections during and upon completion of the work as are
necessary.
   5.   In the discharge of his or her duties, the Floodplain Administrator
shall have the authority to enter any building, structure, premises or
development in the identified floodplain area, upon presentation of proper
credentials, at any reasonable hour to enforce the provisions of this Part.
   6.   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does
not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances,
or that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant,
the Floodplain Administrator shall revoke the permit and report such fact to
the Board of Supervisors for whatever action it considers necessary.
   7.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain all records associated with
the requirements of this Part including, but not limited to, permitting,
inspection and enforcement.
   8.   The Floodplain Administrator shall consider the requirements of the 34
PA Code and the 2009 EBC and the 2009 IRC or latest revisions thereof.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1210)
§ 27-1210.   Application Procedures and Requirements.
   1.   Application for such a permit shall be made, in writing, to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms supplied by Plains Township. Such application
shall contain the following:
   A.   Name and address of applicant.
   B.   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is to
occur.
   C.   Name and address of contractor.
   D.   Site location including address.
   E.   Listing of other permits required.
   F.   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost, including a
breakout of flood-related cost and the market value of the building before the
flood damage occurred where appropriate.
   G.   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the proposed
construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
   2.   If any proposed construction or development is located entirely or
partially within any identified floodplain area, applicants for permits shall
provide all the necessary information in sufficient detail and clarity to
enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
   A.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and conform to the requirements of this Part and all other applicable
codes and ordinances.
   B.   All utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
   C.   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   D.   Structures will be anchored to prevent floatation, collapse or lateral
movement.
   E.   Building materials are flood-resistant.
   F.   Appropriate practices that minimize flood damage have been used.
   G.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities have been designed and/or located to prevent water
entry or accumulation.
   3.   Applicants shall file the following minimum information plus any other
pertinent information as may be required by the Floodplain Administrator to
make the above determination:
   A.   A completed zoning permit application form.
   B.   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of one
inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
   (1)   North arrow, scale and date.
   (2)   Topographic contour lines, if available.
   (3)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures and
other improvements, including the location of any existing or proposed
subdivision and development.
   (4)   The location of all existing streets, drives and other access ways.
   (5)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
identified floodplain areas, and, if available, information pertaining to the
floodway, and the flow of water including direction and velocities.
   C.   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
   (1)   The proposed lowest floor elevation of any proposed building based
upon North American Vertical Datum of 1988.
   (2)   The elevation of the base flood.
   (3)   Supplemental information as may be necessary under 34 PA Code, the
2009 IBC or the 2009 IRC.
   D.   The following data and documentation:
   (1)   If available, information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with a base
flood elevation.
   (2)   Detailed information concerning any proposed floodproofing measures
and corresponding elevations.
   (3)   Documentation, certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect, to show that the cumulative effect of any proposed development
within an special floodplain area (See §
27-1219 Subsection 2.) when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the base flood elevation more than one foot at
any point.
   (4)   (a)   A document, certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect, which states that the proposed construction or development has been
adequately designed to withstand the pressures, velocities, impact and uplift
forces associated with the base flood.
   (b)   Such statement shall include a description of the type and extent of
flood proofing measures which have been incorporated into the design of the
structure and/or the development.
   (5)   Detailed information needed to determine compliance with §
27-1224 Subsection 6., Storage, and §
27-1225, Development Which May Endanger Human Life, including:
   (a)   The amount, location and purpose of any materials or substances
referred to in §§
27-1224 Subsection 6. and 27-1225 which are intended to be used, produced,
stored or otherwise maintained on site.
   (b)   A description of the safeguards incorporated into the design of the
proposed structure to prevent leaks or spills of the dangerous materials or
substances listed in §
27-1225 during a base flood.
   (6)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s “Planning Module for Land Development”.
   (7)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control.
   E.   Applications for permits required under this Section shall be
accompanied by a fee payable to the Township based upon the governing fee
schedule for the improvements addressed within the subject application. The
applicant shall also be responsible for the payment of any other fees
associated with any other permits that may be required in accordance with
Subsection 1., Paragraph E. above.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1211)
§ 27-1211.   Review by County Conservation District.
   A copy of all applications and plans for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval
shall be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to the County Conservation
District for review and comment prior to the issuance of a permit. The
recommendations of the Conservation District shall be considered by the
Floodplain Administrator for possible incorporation into the proposed plan.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1212)
§ 27-1212.   Review of Application by Others.
   A copy of all plans and applications for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval may
be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to any other appropriate agencies
and/or individuals (e.g., Planning Commission, Municipal Engineer and the like)
for review and comment.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1213)
§ 27-1213.   Changes.
   After the issuance of a permit by the Floodplain Administrator, no changes
of any kind shall be made to the application, permit or any of the plans,
specifications or other documents submitted with the application without the
written consent or approval of the Floodplain Administrator. Requests for any
such change shall be in writing, and shall be submitted by the applicant to
Floodplain Administrator for consideration.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1214)
§ 27-1214.   Placards.
   In addition to the permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a
placard which shall be displayed on the premises during the time construction
is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the permit, the date of
its issuance and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1215)
§ 27-1215.   Start of Construction.
   1.   Work on the proposed construction or development shall begin within 180
days after the date of issuance and shall be completed within 12 months after
the date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall expire unless a time
extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain Administrator. The actual
start of construction means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation or the placement of a manufacture home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first,
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   2.   Time extensions shall be granted only if a written request is submitted
by the applicant, which sets forth sufficient and reasonable cause for the
Floodplain Administrator to approve such a request.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1216)
§ 27-1216.   Enforcement.
   1.   Notices. Whenever the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized
municipal representative determines that there are reasonable grounds to
believe that there has been a violation of any provisions of this Part, or of
any regulations adopted pursuant thereto, the Floodplain Administrator shall
give notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter provided. Such notice
shall:
   A.   Be in writing.
   B.   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance.
   C.   Allow a reasonable time not to exceed a period of 30 days for the
performance of any act it requires.
   D.   Be served upon the property owner or his or her agent as the case may
require; provided, however, that such notice or order shall be deemed to have
been properly served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been
served with such notice by any other method authorized or required by the laws
of this state.
   E.   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this Part.
   2.   Penalties. Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the
requirements or provisions of this Part or who fails or refuses to comply with
any notice, order of direction of the Floodplain Administrator or any other
authorized employee of the municipality shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall pay a fine to Plains Township of not less than $25 nor
more than $600, plus costs of prosecution. In addition to the above penalties,
all other actions are hereby reserved including an action in equity for the
proper enforcement of this Part. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any
violation of, or noncompliance with, this Part shall not excuse the violation
or noncompliance or permit it to continue and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations and noncompliance within a
reasonable time. Any development initiated or any structure or building
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, altered or relocated in noncompliance
with this Part may be declared by the Board of Commissioners to be a public
nuisance and abatable as such.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1217)
§ 27-1217.   Appeals.
   1.   Any person aggrieved by any action or decision of the Floodplain
Administrator concerning the administration of the provisions of this Part, may
appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board. Such appeal must be filed, in writing,
within 30 days after the decision, determination or action of the Floodplain
Administrator.
   2.   Upon receipt of such appeal the Zoning Hearing Board convene a hearing
in accordance with the procedures set in §
27-1506, Hearings.
   3.   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Zoning Hearing Board may
seek relief there from by appeal to court, as provided by the laws of this
state including the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1218)
§ 27-1218.   Identification of Floodplain Areas.
   1.   The identified floodplain area shall be any areas of Plains Township
classified as special flood hazard areas (SFHAs) in the Flood Insurance Study
(FIS) and the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) dated November 2,
2012, and issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or the most
recent revision thereof including all digital data developed as part of the
Flood Insurance Study.
   2.   The above referenced FIS and FIRMs, and any subsequent revisions and
amendments are hereby adopted by Plains Township and declared to be a part of
this Part.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1219)
§ 27-1219.   Description and Special Requirements of Identified Floodplain
Areas.
   The identified floodplain area shall consist of the following specific
areas:
   1.   The Floodway Area/District Identified as Floodway in the FIS which
represents the channel of a watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must
be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation by more than one foot at any point. This
term shall also include floodway areas which have been identified in other
available studies or sources of information for those special floodplain areas
where no floodway has been identified in the FIS.
   A.   Within any floodway area, no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements or other development shall not be
permitted unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   B.   No new construction or development shall be allowed, unless a permit is
obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection Regional Office.
   2.   A.   The AE Area/District without floodway shall be those areas
identified as an AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and
for which base flood elevations have been provided in the FIS but no floodway
has been delineated.
   B.   No permit shall be granted for any construction, development, use or
activity within any AE Area/District without floodway unless it is demonstrated
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development would not, together with
all other existing and anticipated development, increase the BFE than one foot
at any point.
   3.   A.   The A Area/District shall be those areas identified as an A Zone
on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no one percent
annual chance flood elevations have been provided. For these areas, elevation
and floodway information from other federal, state or other acceptable source
shall be used when available. Where other acceptable information is not
available, the elevation shall be determined by using the elevation of a point
on the boundary of the identified floodplain area which is nearest the
construction site.
   B.   In lieu of the above, the municipality may require the applicant to
determine the elevation with hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques.
Hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by professional
engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the
technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
Studies, analyses, computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient
detail to allow a thorough technical review by the municipality.
   4.   The Shallow Flooding Area/ District shall be those areas identified as
Zones AO and AH on the FIRM and in the FIS. These areas are subject to
inundation by one-percent-annual-chance shallow flooding where average depths
are between one and three feet. In Zones AO and AH, drainage paths shall be
established to guide floodwaters around and away from structures on slopes.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1220)
§ 27-1220.   Changes in Identification of Area.
   The identified floodplain area may be revised or modified by the Plains
Township Board of Supervisors where studies or information provided by a
qualified agency or person documents the need for such revision. However, prior
to any such change, approval must be obtained from the FEMA. Additionally, as
soon as practicable, but not later than six months after the date such
information becomes available, a community shall notify the FEMA of the changes
by submitting technical or scientific data.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1221)
§ 27-1221.   Boundary Disputes.
   Should a dispute concerning any identified floodplain boundary arise, an
initial determination shall be made by the Plains Township Floodplain
Administrator and any party aggrieved by this decision or determination may
appeal to the Plains Township Zoning Hearing Board. The burden of proof shall
be on the appellant.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1222)
§ 27-1222.   Technical Provisions.
   1.   Alteration or relocation of watercourse:
   A.   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be made to
any watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected by such
action have been notified by the municipality, and until all required permits
or approvals have been first obtained from the Department of Environmental
Protection Regional Office.
   B.   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be made to
any watercourse unless it can be shown that the activity will not reduce or
impede the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse in any way.
   C.   In addition, the FEMA and Pennsylvania Department of Community and
Economic Development, shall be notified prior to any alteration or relocation
of any watercourse.
   2.   Technical or scientific data shall be submitted by Plains Township to
FEMA for a letter of map revision (LOMR) as soon as practicable but within six
months of any new construction, development, or other activity resulting in
changes in the BFE. The situations when a LOMR or a conditional letter of map
revision (CLOMR) are required are:
   A.   Any development that causes a rise in the base flood elevations within
the floodway.
   B.   Any development occurring in Zones A1-30 and Zone AE without a
designated floodway, which will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base
flood elevation.
   C.   Alteration or relocation of a stream (including, but not limited to,
installing culverts and bridges).
   3.   Any new construction, development, uses or activities allowed within
any identified floodplain area shall be undertaken in strict compliance with
the provisions contained in this Part and any other applicable codes,
ordinances and regulations.
   4.   Within any identified floodplain area (see §
27-1220), no new construction or development shall be located within the area
measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1223)
§ 27-1223.   Elevation and Floodproofing Requirements.
   1.   Residential structures.
   A.   In AE, A1-30 and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated up to, or
above, the regulatory flood elevation.
   B.   In A Zones, where there are no base flood elevations specified on the
FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood
elevation determined in accordance with §
27-1206 of this Part.
   C.   In AO Zones, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have
the lowest floor (including basement) at or above the highest adjacent grade at
least as high as the depth number specified on the FIRM.
   D.   The design and construction standards and specifications contained in
the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCE 24 and 34
PA Code (Chapters 401–405 as amended) shall be utilized.
   2.   Nonresidential structures.
   A.   In AE, A1-30 and AH Zones, any new construction or substantial
improvement of a nonresidential structure shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated up to, or above, the regulatory flood elevation,
or be designed and constructed so that the space enclosed below the regulatory
flood elevation:
   (1)   Is floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water.
   (2)   Has structural components with the capability of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
   B.   In A Zones, where there no base flood elevations are specified on the
FIRM, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated or completely floodproofed up to, or above,
the regulatory flood elevation determined in accordance with §
27-1206 of this Part.
   C.   In AO Zones, any new construction or substantial improvement shall have
their lowest floor elevated or completely floodproofed above the highest
adjacent grade to at least as high as the depth number specified on the FIRM.
   D.   Any nonresidential structure, or part thereof, made watertight below
the regulatory flood elevation shall be floodproofed in accordance with the WI
or W2 space classification standards contained in the publication entitled
“Floodproofing Regulations” published by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (June
1972, as amended March 1992) or with some other equivalent standard. All plans
and specifications for such floodproofing shall be accompanied by a statement
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect which states that
the proposed design and methods of construction are in conformance with the
above referenced standards.
   E.   The design and construction standards and specifications contained in
the 2009 International Building Code (IBC) and in the 2009 International
Residential Code (IRC) or the most recent revisions thereof and ASCB 24 and 34
PA Code (Chapters 401–405 as amended) shall be utilized.
   3.   Space below the lowest floor.
   A.   Fully enclosed space below the lowest floor (excluding basements) which
will be used solely for the parking of a vehicle, building access, or
incidental storage in an area other than a basement, shall be designed and
constructed to allow for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters for the
purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on exterior walls. The term “fully
enclosed space” also includes crawl spaces.
   B.   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
   (1)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less than one
square inch for every square foot of enclosed space.
   (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
   (3)   Openings maybe equipped with screens, louvers and the like or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   4.   Historic structures. See §
27-1206 for requirements for the substantial improvement of any historic
structures.
   5.   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to a principal building need
not be elevated or floodproofed to remain dry, but shall comply, at a minimum,
with the following requirements:
   A.   The structure shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but
shall be limited to the parking of vehicles, or to the storage of tools,
material and equipment related to the principal use or activity.
   B.   Floor area shall not exceed 750 square feet.
   C.   The structure will have a low damage potential.
   D.   The structure will be located on the site so as to cause the least
obstruction to the flow of floodwaters.
   E.   Power lines, wiring and outlets will be elevated to the regulatory
flood elevation.
   F.   Permanently affixed utility equipment and appliances such as furnaces,
heaters, washers, dryers and the like are prohibited.
   G.   Sanitary facilities are prohibited.
   H.   The structure shall be adequately anchored to prevent flotation or
movement and shall be designed to automatically provide for the entry and exit
of floodwater for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on the walls.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
   (1)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less than one
square inch for every square foot of enclosed space.
   (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
   (3)   Openings maybe equipped with screens, louvers and the like or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1224)
§ 27-1224.   Design and Construction Standards.
   The following minimum standards shall apply for all construction and
development proposed within any identified floodplain area.
   1.   Fill. If fill is used, it shall:
   A.   Extend laterally at least 15 feet beyond the building line from all
points.
   B.   Consist of soil or small rock materials only. Sanitary landfills shall
not be permitted.
   C.   Be compacted to provide the necessary permeability and resistance to
erosion, scouring or settling.
   D.   Be no steeper than one vertical to two horizontal, feet unless
substantiated data, justifying steeper slopes are submitted to, and approved by
the Floodplain Administrator.
   E.   Be used to the extent to which it does not adversely affect adjacent
properties.
   2.   Drainage facilities. Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to
convey the flow of stormwater runoff in a safe and efficient manner. The system
shall ensure proper drainage along streets, and provide positive drainage away
from buildings. The system shall also be designed to prevent the discharge of
excess runoff onto adjacent properties.
   3.   Water and sanitary sewer facilities and systems.
   A.   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer facilities and
systems shall be located, designed and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damages and the infiltration of floodwaters.
   B.   Sanitary sewer facilities and systems shall be designed to prevent the
discharge of untreated sewage into floodwaters.
   C.   No part of any on-site sewage system shall be located within any
identified floodplain area except in strict compliance with all state and local
regulations for such systems. If any such system is permitted, it shall be
located so as to avoid impairment to it, or contamination from it, during a
flood.
   D.   The design and construction provisions of the UCC and FEMA #348,
Protecting Building Utilities From Flood Damages and the International Private
Sewage Disposal Code shall be utilized.
   4.   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical and
telephone systems shall be located, elevated (where possible) and constructed
to minimize the chance of impairment during a flood.
   5.   Streets. The finished elevation of all new streets shall be no more
than one foot below the regulatory flood elevation.
   6.   Storage. All materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or in
times of flooding, could be injurious to human, animal or plant life, and not
listed in §
27-1225, Development Which May Endanger Human Life, shall be stored at or above
the regulatory flood elevation and/or floodproofed to the maximum extent
possible.
   7.   Placement of buildings and structures. All buildings and structures
shall be designed, located and constructed so as to offer the minimum
obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to have a minimum effect
upon the flow and height of floodwater.
   8.   Anchoring.
   A.   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement.
   B.   All air ducts, large pipes, storage tanks and other similar objects or
components located below the regulatory flood elevation shall be securely
anchored or affixed to prevent flotation.
   9.   Floors, walls and ceilings.
   A.   Wood flooring used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
installed to accommodate a lateral expansion of the flooring, perpendicular to
the flooring grain without causing structural damage to the building.
   B.   Plywood used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be of a
“marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
   C.   Walls and ceilings at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
designed and constructed of materials that are “water-resistant” and will
withstand inundation.
   D.   Windows, doors and other components at or below the regulatory flood
elevation shall be made of metal or other “water-resistant” material.
   10.   Paints and adhesives.
   A.   Paints and other finishes used at or below the regulatory flood
elevation shall be of “marine” or “water-resistant” quality.
   B.   Adhesives used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be of a
“marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
   C.   All wooden components (doors, trim, cabinets and the like) used at or
below the regulatory flood elevation shall be finished with a “marine” or
“water-resistant” paint or other finishing material.
   11.   Electrical components.
   A.   Electrical distribution panels shall be at least three feet above the
base flood elevation.
   B.   Separate electrical circuits shall serve lower levels and shall be
dropped from above.
   12.   Equipment. Water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and ventilating
units, and other electrical, mechanical or utility equipment or apparatus shall
not be located below the regulatory flood elevation.
   13.   Fuel supply systems. All gas and oil supply systems shall be designed
to prevent the infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharges from
the system into floodwaters. Additional provisions shall be made for the
drainage of these systems in the event that floodwater infiltration occurs.
   14.   Uniform Construction Code Coordination. The Standards and
Specifications contained 34 PA Code (Chapters 401–405), as amended and not
limited to the following provisions shall apply to the above and other Sections
and Subsections of this Part, to the extent that they are more restrictive and/
or supplement the requirements of this Part.
   A.   International Building Code (IBC) 2009 or the latest edition thereof:
§§ 801, 1202, 1403, 1603, 1605, 1612, 3402 and Appendix G.
   B.   International Residential Building Code (IRC) 2009 or the latest
edition thereof: §§R104, R105, R109, R323, Appendix AE101, Appendix E and
Appendix J.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1225)
§ 27-1225.   Development Which May Endanger Human Life.
   1.   A.   In accordance with the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act, and
the regulations adopted by the Department of Community and Economic Development
as required by the Act, any new or substantially improved structure which:
   (1)   Will be used for the production or storage of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances.
   (2)   Will be used for any activity requiring the maintenance of a supply of
more than 550 gallons, or other comparable volume, of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances on the premises.
   (3)   Will involve the production, storage or use of any amount of
radioactive substances, shall be subject to the provisions of this Section, in
addition to all other applicable provisions.
   B.   The following list of materials and substances are considered dangerous
to human life:
   (1)   Acetone.
   (2)   Ammonia.
   (3)   Benzene.
   (4)   Calcium carbide.
   (5)   Carbon disulfide.
   (6)   Celluloid.
   (7)   Chlorine.
   (8)   Hydrochloric acid.
   (9)   Hydrocyanic acid.
   (10)   Magnesium.
   (11)   Nitric acid and oxides of nitrogen.
   (12)   Petroleum products (gasoline, fuel oil and the like).
   (13)   Phosphorus.
   (14)   Potassium.
   (15)   Sodium.
   (16)   Sulphur and sulphur products.
   (17)   Pesticides (including insecticides, fungicides and rodenticides).
   (18)   Radioactive substances, insofar as such substances are not otherwise
regulated.
   2.   Within any floodway area, any structure of the kind described in
Subsection 1. above shall be prohibited.
   3.   Within any floodplain area, any new or substantially improved structure
of the kind described in Subsection 1. above shall be prohibited within the
area measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse.
   4.   Where permitted within any floodplain area, any new or substantially
improved structure of the kind described in Subsection 1. above shall be:
   A.   Elevated or designed and constructed to remain completely dry up to at
least one and one-half feet above base flood elevation.
   B.   Designed to prevent pollution from the structure or activity during the
course of a base flood elevation.
   5.   Any such structure, or part thereof, that will be built below the
regulatory flood elevation shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the standards for completely dry floodproofing contained in the publication
“Floodproofing Regulations” (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, June 1972 as amended
March 1992), or with some other equivalent watertight standard.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1226)
§ 27-1226.   Special Requirements for Subdivisions.
   All subdivision proposals and development proposals containing at least 50
lots or at least five acres, whichever is the lesser, in flood hazard areas
where base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by
hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analyses that determine base flood
elevations and floodway information. The analyses shall be prepared by a
licensed professional engineer in a format required by FEMA for a conditional
letter of map revision or letter of map revision. Submittal requirements and
processing fees shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1227)
§ 27-1227.   Special Requirements for Manufactured Homes.
   1.   Within any FW (Floodway Area), manufactured homes shall be prohibited.
   2.   Within approximate floodplain or special floodplain area, manufactured
homes shall be prohibited within the area measured 50 feet landward from the
top-of-bank of any watercourse.
   3.   Where permitted within any floodplain area, all manufactured homes, and
any improvements thereto, shall be:
   A.   Placed on a permanent foundation.
   B.   Elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at least
one and one-half feet above base flood elevation.
   C.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
   4.   Installation of manufactured homes shall be done in accordance with the
manufacturers’ installation instructions as provided by the manufacturer. Where
the applicant cannot provide the above information, the requirements of
Appendix E of the 2009 International Residential Building Code or the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Permanent Foundations for
Manufactured Housing, 1984 Edition, draft or latest revision thereto shall
apply and 34 PA Code Chapter 401–405.
   5.   Consideration shall be given to the installation requirements of the
2009 IBC, and the 2009 IRC or the most recent revisions thereto and 34 PA Code,
as amended where appropriate and/or applicable to units where the
manufacturers’ standards for anchoring cannot be provided or were not
established for the units(s) proposed installation.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1228)
§ 27-1228.   Special Requirements for Recreational Vehicles.
   Recreational vehicles in Zones A, A1-30, AH and AE must either:
   1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days.
   2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use.
   3.   Meet the permit requirements for manufactured homes in §
27-1227.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1229)
§ 27-1229.   Prohibited Uses.
   The development of the following uses and/or activities including new
construction, expansion, enlargement and/or substantial improvement is hereby
prohibited in any area of a designated 100-year floodplain:
   1.   Hospitals.
   2.   Nursing homes (public or private).
   3.   Jails, prisons or any similar detention facility.
   4.   Manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1230)
§ 27-1230.   Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas.
   1.   Existing structures. The provisions of this Part do not require any
changes or improvements to be made to lawfully existing structures. However,
when an improvement is made to any existing structure, the provisions of §
27-1231, Subsection 2. shall apply.
   2.   Improvements. The following provisions shall apply whenever any
improvement is made to an existing structure located within any identified
floodplain area:
   1.   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within any floodway area that would cause any increase in the elevation of the
base flood elevation.
   2.   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be allowed
within any Special Floodplain Area that would, together with all other existing
and anticipated development, increase the BFE more than one foot at any point.
   3.   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement, of any
kind to an existing structure, to an extent or amount of 50 percent or more of
its market value, shall constitute a substantial improvement and shall be
undertaken only in full compliance with the provisions of this Part.
   4.   The above activity shall also address the requirements of the 34 PA
Code, as amended and the 2009 IBC and the 2009 IRC.
   5.   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any kind
that meets the definition of “repetitive loss” shall be undertaken only in full
compliance with the provisions of this Part.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1231)
§ 27-1231.   Variances.
   1.   General. If compliance with any of the requirements of this Article
would result in an exceptional hardship to a prospective builder, developer or
landowner, the Zoning Hearing Board of Plains Township may, upon request, grant
relief from the strict application of the requirements.
   2.   Variance procedures and conditions. Requests for variances shall be
considered by the Zoning Hearing Board of Plains Township in accordance with
the procedures contained in §
27-1217 of this Part and the following.
   A.   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use or
activity within any identified floodplain that would cause any increase the
BFE.
   B.   No variance shall be granted for any use, activity and/or development
that is prohibited under §
27-1229 of this Part.
   C.   Except for a possible modification of the regulatory flood elevation
requirement involved, no variance shall be granted for any of the other
requirements pertaining specifically to development regulated by §
27-1225, Development Which May Endanger Human Life.
   D.   If granted, a variance shall involve only the least modification
necessary to provide relief.
   E.   In granting any variance, the Zoning Hearing Board of Plains Township
shall attach whatever reasonable conditions and safeguards it considers
necessary in order to protect the public health, safety and welfare, and to
achieve the objectives of this Part.
   F.   Whenever a variance is granted, the Zoning Hearing Board of Plains
Township shall notify the applicant in writing that:
   (1)   The granting of the variance may result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance.
   (2)   Such variances may increase the risks to life and property.
   G.   In reviewing any request for a variance, the Zoning Hearing Board of
Plains Township shall consider, at a minimum, the following:
   (1)   That there is good and sufficient cause.
   (2)   That failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship to the applicant.
   (3)   That the granting of the variance will:
   (a)   Neither result in an unacceptable or prohibited increase in flood
heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary public expense;
nor
   (b)   Create nuisances, cause fraud on, or victimize the public or conflict
with any other applicable state or local ordinances and regulations.
   H.   A complete record of all variance requests and related actions shall be
maintained by the Zoning Hearing Board of Plains Township. In addition, a
report of all variances granted during the year shall be included in the annual
report to the FEMA.
   3.   Minimum resistance. Notwithstanding any of the above, however, all
structures shall be designed and constructed so as to have the capability of
resisting the one percent annual chance flood.
(Ord. 2012-3, 8/9/2012, § 1232)
Part 13
Enforcement and Administration
§ 27-1301.   Zoning Officer.
   1.   Appointment. A Zoning Officer, who shall not hold any elected office
within Plains Township, shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners. The
Zoning Officer shall meet qualifications established by Plains Township, which
shall at minimum include, a working knowledge of municipal zoning.
   2.   Duties and powers of the Zoning Officer. It shall be the duty of the
Zoning Officer to enforce the provisions of this Chapter in accordance with its
literal terms and said officer shall not have the power to permit any
construction, alteration or any use or change of use to land or structure which
does not conform to the applicable provisions within this Chapter. The Zoning
Officer’s duties shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
   A.   Receive and review all applications for zoning permits and to approve
and issue zoning permits when warranted.
   B.   Keep an official record of all business and activities, including all
complaints of zoning violations of any of the provisions of this Chapter and
the resulting action of said complaints.
   C.   Conduct inspections of properties as required to fulfill his or her
duties. In conducting such activities, the Zoning Officer may have access to
any land, building or structure.
   D.   Issue permits as authorized by the Zoning Hearing Board or the Planning
Commission, pursuant to the requirements and applicable procedures of this
Chapter or by written order of a court of proper jurisdiction.
   E.   Issue certificates of zoning compliance in accordance with the terms
and provisions of this Chapter.
   F.   Issue certificates of nonconformity to nonconforming uses and/or
structures and to maintain a listing of such as required.
   G.   Maintain the Zoning Map, showing the current zoning districts of all
land and the zoning text, including amendments thereto.
   H.   Notify the Zoning Hearing Board of required and/or requested hearings
based upon the completion of his or her review and processing of applications
for a zoning permit. The submission of an application for a zoning permit to
the Zoning Officer and his or her determination that a hearing before the Board
is either required or requested shall be a prerequisite for any application
being forwarded to the Zoning Hearing Board for consideration.
   I.   Participate in proceedings before the Zoning Hearing Board and Planning
Commission and at their request, furnish such facts, records and similar
information which may assist them in rendering decisions.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1301)
§ 27-1302.   Zoning Permit.
   1.   Issuance of permit. No building, structure or sign shall be erected,
constructed, moved, added to or structurally altered, nor shall any land,
structure or building be put to any use without first obtaining a zoning permit
from the Zoning Officer. No application shall be submitted to or considered by
the Zoning Hearing Board until the Zoning Officer has received an application
for a zoning permit and has determined that an approval and/or review by the
Zoning Hearing Board is required or requested by the applicant. No such permit
shall be issued except in conformity with the provisions of this Chapter or
upon written order from the Zoning Hearing Board in the form of a special
exception, variance or as otherwise provided for by this Chapter or any court
of proper jurisdiction. Normal and routine maintenance and repairs to a
structure shall be exempt from obtaining a zoning permit. Interior remodeling
of a structure shall also be exempt from obtaining a zoning permit provided
that such remodeling does not include structural alterations or result in a
change in the use of the structure.
   2.   Form of application. All applications for permits shall be made in
writing by the owner, his or her authorized agent or equitable owner and shall
be filed with the Zoning Officer on forms prescribed by the same. All
applications shall be accompanied by two sets of plans and information which
includes, but is not limited to, the following:
   A.   A plan drawn to scale, indicating the actual dimensions and shape of
the lot to be built upon and a written statement that the applicant is the
owner or authorized agent of the owner or equitable owner.
   B.   The exact size and location on the lot of existing and/or proposed
structures, buildings or signs, including proposed additions thereto.
   C.   The number and type of dwelling units, if applicable.
   D.   The amount and location of parking and/or loading facilities.
   E.   The existing use and/or proposed use of the property.
   F.   The height of the building, structure and/or sign.
   G.   A detailed scale drawing of all signs, existing and proposed,
indicating their location and how they are and/or will be affixed to the
property.
   H.   Existing and/or proposed access to the site.
   I.   Any other information deemed necessary by the Zoning Officer to
determine conformance with the provisions and regulations of this Chapter.
   3.   Processing applications. The Zoning Officer shall return one copy of
the plans and accompanying information to the applicant upon marking such
copies approved or denied and attested to the same by his or her signature. One
copy of the plans and accompanying information shall be retained by the Zoning
Officer and kept on file.
   4.   Time period for processing application. A zoning permit shall be
approved or denied within 30 days from the date of receipt of a completed
application and plans along with any additional information as required by the
Zoning Officer. A zoning permit shall not be deemed complete, until all
applicable and associated fees are paid in full. In cases of denial, the
applicant shall be informed of his or her rights of appeal as prescribed within
this Chapter. Such notice shall be in writing under the signature of the Zoning
Officer.
   5.   Expiration of zoning permit. A zoning permit shall expire one year from
the date of issuance, if the work described in said permit has not commenced,
including permits authorized to be issued by the Zoning Hearing Board. If the
work described within the zoning permit has commenced within the prescribed
one-year period, the permit shall expire two years from the date of issuance.
An extension of time may be granted as a variance from the Zoning Hearing
Board.
   6.   Revocation of permits. The Zoning Officer may revoke a permit or
approval issued in error under the provisions of this Chapter or in the case of
any false statements or misrepresentation of fact in the application or on the
plans on which the permit or approval was based or for any other just cause as
set forth in this Chapter.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1302)
§ 27-1303.   Certificate of Zoning Compliance.
   A certificate of zoning compliance, issued by the Zoning Officer, shall be
required prior to the occupation for the use or change of use of any building,
structure or land. It shall be unlawful to use and/or occupy any structure,
building and/or land or portions thereof in any manner until a certificate of
zoning compliance has been issued and obtained from the Zoning Officer.
Residential accessory structures uses shall be exempt from securing a
certificate of zoning compliance.
   A.   Applications. All applications for a certificate of zoning compliance
shall be made in writing on forms prescribed by the Zoning Officer and shall
include all information necessary for the Zoning Officer to ascertain
compliance with the subject zoning permit and this Chapter.
   B.   Issuance of certificate of zoning compliance. A certificate of zoning
compliance shall not be issued until the Zoning Officer has certified the
proposed use complies with all provisions and regulations of this Chapter or
upon written order from the Zoning Hearing Board or any court of proper
jurisdiction.
   C.   Time limitation. An application for a certificate of zoning compliance
shall be approved or denied within 30 days after the Zoning Officer has been
officially notified of either the completion of construction or the request to
occupy and use land where no construction is involved.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1303)
§ 27-1304.   Enforcement Procedures.
   1.   Notice of violation. If in the judgment of the Zoning Officer, it
appears that a violation of this Chapter has occurred, the Zoning Officer shall
initiate enforcement proceedings by sending a violation notice to the owner of
record of the parcel of land on which the violation has occurred, to any person
who has filed a written request to receive violation notices regarding the
parcel of land and to any other person requested in writing by the owner of
record. The violation notice shall include, but may not be limited to, the
following:
   A.   The name of the owner of record and any other person against whom
Plains Township intends to take action.
   B.   The location and/or address of the property in violation.
   C.   The specific violations with a description of the requirements which
have not been met, citing in each instance the applicable Sections and
provisions of this Chapter.
   D.   The date by which the steps for compliance must be commenced and the
date by which the steps for compliance must be completed.
   E.   That the recipient of the violation notice has the right to appeal the
violation notice and request a hearing on the same before the Zoning Hearing
Board within 30 days from the issuance of the violation notice. Section 27-
1506, “Hearings”, shall govern the procedural process of any appeal of a
violation notice.
   F.   Failure to comply with the notice within the specified time period,
unless extended by an appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board, constitutes a
violation, with a description of sanctions which shall result to correct or
abate the violation.
   2.   Causes of action. In case any building, structure, landscaping or land
is, or is proposed to be, erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
converted, maintained or used in violation of this Chapter, the Board of
Commissioners or, with the approval of the Board of Commissioners, an officer
or agent of Plains Township, or any aggrieved owner or tenant of real property
who shows that his or her property or person will be substantially affected by
the alleged violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute any
appropriate action or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct or abate such
building, structure, landscaping or land, or to prevent, in or about such
premises, any act, conduct, business or use constituting a violation of this
Chapter. When such action is instituted by a landowner or tenant, notice of
that action shall be served upon Plains Township not less than 30 days prior to
the time the action is begun by serving a copy of the complaint to the Board of
Commissioners. No action may be taken until such notice has been given.
   3.   Jurisdiction. Magisterial district judges shall have initial
jurisdiction over proceedings brought under Subsection 4. of this Section.
[A.O.]
   4.   Enforcement remedies.
   A.   Any person, partnership or corporation who or which has violated or
permitted the violation of the provisions of this Chapter shall, upon being
found liable therefor in a civil enforcement proceedings commenced by Plains
Township or the Zoning Officer, shall pay a judgment of not more than $500,
plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by Plains
Township as a result of said proceedings. No judgment shall commence or be
imposed, levied or payable until the date of the determination of a violation
by the magisterial district judge. If the defendant neither pays nor timely
appeals the judgment, Plains Township may enforce the judgment pursuant to the
applicable rules of civil procedure. Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate violation, unless the magisterial district judge
determining that there has been a violation and further determines that there
has been a good faith basis for the person, partnership or corporation
violating this Chapter to have believed that there was no such violation. In
such cases, there shall be deemed to have been only one such violation until
the fifth day following the date of the determination of a violation by the
magisterial district judge and thereafter each day that a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation. All judgments, costs and reasonable
attorney’s fees collected for the violation of this Chapter shall be paid over
to Plains Township. [A.O.]
   B.   The Court of Common Pleas, upon petition, may grant an order of stay,
upon cause shown, tolling the per diem fine pending a final adjudication of the
violation and judgment.
   C.   Nothing contained in this Section shall be construed or interpreted to
grant any person or entity other than Plains Township the right to commence any
action for enforcement pursuant to this Section.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1304; as amended by A.O.)
§ 27-1305.   Schedule of Fees, Charges and Expenses.
   The Board of Commissioners shall establish by resolution a schedule of fees,
charges and expenses and collection procedures for zoning permits, certificates
of occupancy, certificates of nonconformance, appeals to the Zoning Hearing
Board, applications for conditional uses, amendments to this Chapter or Zoning
Map and any other matters pertaining to the administration of this Chapter. The
schedule of fees, charges and expenses shall be available for public inspection
and may be altered or amended by resolution of the Board of Commissioners. No
action shall be taken on any application, appeal or certificate until all
related fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full. An application shall
not be deemed as filed until completed and submitted with payment in full of
appropriate fees.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1305)
Part 14
Amendments
§ 27-1401.   Amendment Procedure.
   1.   The provisions of this Chapter and the boundaries of the zoning
districts as set forth upon the Zoning Map, may from time to time be amended by
the Township Board of Commissioners in accordance with the provisions as set
forth in the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247, 53 P.S. §§
10101 et seq., as amended. Prior to adopting any amendment to this Chapter or
to the Zoning Map, the following procedures shall be met:
   A.   Any proposed amendment, not initiated by the Township Planning
Commission, shall be referred to the Township Planning Commission not less than
30 days prior to a public hearing before the Township Board of Commissioners to
provide the Township Planning Commission an opportunity to submit any comments
or recommendations regarding the proposed amendment.
   B.   Prior to voting on the enactment of any proposed amendment, the
Township Board of Commissioners shall hold a public hearing pursuant to public
notice. If, after any public hearing held upon a proposed amendment, said
amendment is substantially changed, or is revised to include land not
previously affected by the proposed amendment, the Township Board of
Commissioners shall hold another public hearing before proceeding to vote on
the amendment.
   C.   Any recommendation of the Township Planning Commission shall be
submitted to the Township Board of Commissioners in writing.
   D.   Not less than 30 days prior to the public hearing, the Township Board
of Commissioners shall submit the proposed amendment to the Luzerne County
Planning Commission for its comments and recommendation. In addition to the
proposed amendment, the Township Board of Commissioners shall submit the
required fees charged by the Luzerne County Planning Commission for their
review.
   E.   Proposed action shall not be taken until the Township Planning
Commission and the Luzerne County Planning Commission comments and
recommendations are submitted to the Township Board of Commissioners. If either
Commission fails to act within 30 days, from its receipt of the proposed
amendment, the Township Board of Commissioners may proceed without such
recommendation.
   F.   If a proposed amendment involves a Zoning Map change, notice of said
public hearing shall be conspicuously posted by Plains Township at points
deemed sufficient along the perimeter of the tract to notify potentially
interested citizens. The affected tract or area shall be posted not less than
one week prior to the date of the public hearing.
   2.   In addition to posting the tract, written notice will be provided to
the owners of all properties within a distance of 200 feet of any property
boundary line of the property subject to the proposed zone change. It shall be
the responsibility of the applicant to provide the Township with the names and
mailing addresses of the true and correct owners of record based upon the
records contained in the Luzerne County Tax Assessor’s Office and a copy of the
corresponding Tax Assessment Map of the true and correct owners of record whose
properties fall within the required distance of 200 feet. While it shall be the
intent of Plains Township to provide written notice to such owners who may be
substantially interested in the proposed amendment to the Zoning Map, failure
to do so, shall not invalidate an otherwise a duly enacted ordinance which
provides for a change in the Zoning Map.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1401)
§ 27-1402.   Applications for Amendments to the Text or Map.
   The application for a proposed amendment, which is not submitted as a
curative amendment, to the text of this Chapter or to the Zoning Map, shall be
submitted in writing to the Zoning Officer, who shall process said application
in accordance with §
27-1401 of this Chapter. An application shall contain the following information
when applicable:
   A.   The applicant’s name and address and/or the name and address of his or
her authorized agent or the equitable owner.
   B.   A signed statement by the owner of record attesting to the truth of the
facts of all information contained within the application.
   C.   A scaled plan of the area proposed to be rezoned, which indicates
abutting streets, the zone classification of adjoining properties and the names
and addresses of the true and correct owners of record based upon the records
contained in the Luzerne County Tax Assessor’s Office, for a distance
(diameter) extending 200 feet from the area proposed to be rezoned.
   D.   Plans, drawings and explanatory material, which describes in detail the
applicant’s proposed use and/or development of the property.
   E.   Specify those Sections of this Chapter or areas upon the Zoning Map
which will be affected by the proposed amendment.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1402)
§ 27-1403.   Curative Amendments.
   1.   Initiated by landowner.
   A.   A landowner who desires to challenge on substantive grounds the
validity of this Chapter or the Zoning Map, or any provision thereof, which
prohibits or restricts the use or development of land in which he or she has an
interest, may submit a curative amendment to the Township Board of
Commissioners with a written request that his or her challenge and proposed
amendment to cure the alleged defect, be heard and decided by the Township
Board of Commissioners. In addition to the written request and proposed
amendment, the landowner shall also submit plans, drawings and explanatory
material, which describes in detail his or her proposed use or development. The
Township Board of Commissioners shall commence a public hearing pursuant to
public notice within 60 days of the landowner’s request. The 60-day period
shall not commence until all required information and material is submitted,
along with all related fees.
   B.   The curative amendment and supporting information shall be referred to
the Township Planning Commission and the Luzerne County Planning Commission for
their review and comment not less than 30 days prior to the public hearing.
   C.   The public hearing before the Township Board of Commissioners shall be
conducted in accordance with the procedures contained in §
27-1506 of this Chapter and all references therein to the Zoning Hearing Board
shall, for the purposes of this Section, be references to the Township Board of
Commissioners. Public notice of the required public hearing shall include
notice of the validity of those particular provisions of this Chapter and/or
the Zoning Map which are in question, along with the place where the proposed
amendment, plans, drawings, explanatory material and any other pertinent
information may be examined by the public.
   D.   If the Township Board of Commissioners determines that a validity
challenge has merit, it may accept a landowner’s curative amendment, with or
without revisions, or it may adopt an alternative amendment which will cure the
challenged defects. The Township Board of Commissioners shall consider in
addition to the proposed curative amendment, plans, drawings and explanatory
material the following items:
   (1)   The impact of the proposal upon roads, sewer facilities, water
supplies, schools and other public service facilities.
   (2)   If the proposal is for a residential use, the impact of the proposal
upon regional housing needs and the effectiveness of the proposal in providing
housing units of a type actually available and affordable by classes of persons
otherwise unlawfully excluded by the challenged provisions of this Chapter and/
or Zoning Map.
   (3)   The suitability of the site for the intensity of use proposed in
relationship to the site’s soils, slopes, woodlands, floodplains, aquifers,
natural resources and other natural features.
   (4)   The impact of the proposed use on the site’s soils, slopes, woodlands,
wetlands, floodplains, aquifers, natural resources and other natural features,
in relationship to the degree to which these are protected or destroyed, the
tolerance of the resources to development and any adverse environmental
impacts.
   (5)   The impact of the proposal on the preservation of agriculture and any
other land uses which are essential to the public health and welfare.
   E.   The proposed curative amendment shall be deemed denied in accordance
with any of the following:
   (1)   When the Township Board of Commissioners notifies the landowner that
it will not adopt the curative amendment.
   (2)   When the Township Board of Commissioners adopts another curative
amendment which is unacceptable to the landowner.
   (3)   When the Township Board of Commissioners fails to act on the request
within 45 days after the close of the last public hearing on the request,
unless the time is extended by mutual consent by the landowner and the Township
Board of Commissioners.
   2.   Initiated by the township.
   A.   If the Township Board of Commissioners determines this Chapter or the
Official Zoning Map, or any portion thereof, to be substantially invalid, it
shall declare such by a formal action and propose to prepare a curative
amendment to overcome such invalidity. Within 30 days following said
declaration, the Township Board of Commissioners shall by resolution make
specific findings setting forth the declared invalidity which may include:
   (1)   References to specific uses which are either not permitted or not
permitted in sufficient quantity.
   (2)   Reference to a class of use or uses which require revision.
   (3)   Reference to the entire ordinance and/or map which requires revisions.
   B.   Within 180 days from the date of the declaration and proposal as set
forth in this Section, the Township Board of Commissioners shall enact a
curative amendment to correct those portions deemed invalid or reaffirm the
validity of those portions initially deemed to be invalid. Upon the initiation
of procedures as set forth in this Section, the Township Board of Commissioners
shall not be required to entertain or consider any landowner’s curative
amendment, nor shall the Zoning Hearing Board be required to consider a
substantive challenge to the validity of this Chapter or Zoning Map, pursuant
to §
27-1508 Paragraph A. of this Chapter, based upon grounds identical to or
substantially similar to those specified in the Township Board of
Commissioners’ resolution.
   C.   The Township Board of Commissioners, having utilized the procedures as
set forth in this Section, may not again utilize said procedure for a 36-month
period following the date of the enactment of a curative amendment or
reaffirmation of the validity of this Chapter and/or Zoning Map. However, if
after the date of declaration and proposal, there is a substantially new duty
or obligation imposed upon Plains Township by virtue of a change in statute or
by virtue of a Pennsylvania Appellate Court decision, Plains Township may
utilize the provisions of this Section to prepare a curative amendment to
fulfill said duty or obligation.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1403)
§ 27-1404.   Enactment of Amendments.
   A proposed amendment to this Chapter or to the Zoning Map shall be enacted
in conformance with the following:
   A.   The Township Board of Commissioners shall conduct a public hearing
pursuant to public notice and in accordance with the procedures as contained
within §
27-1401 of this Chapter.
   B.   Public notice shall include the time, place and date of the meeting at
which enactment will be considered and a place within Plains Township where
copies of the proposed amendment may be examined without charge or obtained for
a charge not greater than the cost thereof.
   C.   Public notice shall include either the full text of the amendment or
the title and a brief summary of the amendment as prepared by the Township
Solicitor. If the full text is not included, then a copy of such shall be
supplied to the newspaper in which the public notice is published, and an
attested copy to the County Law Library.
   D.   In the event substantial changes are made to the proposed amendment,
before voting upon enactment, the Township Board of Commissioners shall, not
less than ten days prior to enactment, readvertise in one newspaper of general
circulation in Plains Township, a brief summary setting forth all the
provisions in reasonable detail together with a summary of the changes.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1404)
§ 27-1405.   Notification to County.
   Within 30 days after the enactment of an amendment to this Chapter or to the
Zoning Map, a copy of the amendment shall be forwarded to the Luzerne County
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1405)
Part 15
Zoning Hearing Board
§ 27-1501.   Membership of Board.
   The membership of the Zoning Hearing Board shall consist of five residents
of Plains Township appointed by the Township Board of Commissioners by
resolution. The terms of office for Board members shall be five years and shall
be so fixed that the term of office of one member shall expire each year. The
Board shall promptly notify the Township Board of Commissioners of any
vacancies which occur. Appointments to fill vacancies shall be only for the
unexpired portion of the term. Members of the Board shall hold no other office
in the Township, including membership upon the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1501)
§ 27-1502.   Alternates to Zoning Hearing Board.
   The Township Board of Commissioners may appoint by resolution one resident
of Plains Township to serve as an alternate member of the Board. When seated
pursuant to the provisions of §
27-1504 of this Chapter, an alternate shall be entitled to participate in all
proceedings and discussions of the Board to the same and full extent as
provided by law for Board members, including specifically the right to cast a
vote as a voting member during proceedings, and shall have all the powers and
duties set forth in this Chapter and as otherwise provided by law. An alternate
shall hold no other office in the Township, including membership on the
Planning Commission. An alternate may participate in any proceedings or
discussions of the Board, but shall not be entitled to vote as a member of the
Board unless designated as a voting alternate member pursuant to §
27-1504 of this Chapter. The term of office for an alternate member of the
Zoning Hearing Board shall be one year.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1502)
§ 27-1503.   Removal of Members.
   Any Board member or alternate may be removed for malfeasance, misfeasance or
nonfeasance in office or for any other just cause by the Township Board of
Commissioners. Prior to any vote by the Township Board of Commissioners, the
member shall receive notice 15 days in advance of the date at which it intends
to take such a vote. A hearing before the Township Board of Commissioners shall
be held in connection with the vote, if the member requests a hearing in
writing.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1503)
§ 27-1504.   Organization of Board.
   1.   The Board shall elect from its own membership its officers, who shall
serve annual terms as such and may succeed themselves. For the conduct of any
hearing and the taking of any action, a quorum shall be not less than a
majority of all the members of the Board. The Board, however, may appoint a
hearing officer from its own membership to conduct any hearing on its behalf
and the parties may waive further action by the Board as provided in §
27-1506. If by any reason of absence or disqualification of a member, a quorum
is not reached, the Chairperson of the Board shall designate the alternate
member of the Board to be seated to establish a quorum. The alternate member of
the Board shall continue to serve on the Board in all proceedings involving the
matter or case for which the alternate was initially appointed until the Board
has made a final determination of the matter or case.
   2.   The Board may make, alter and rescind rules and forms for its
procedure, consistent with ordinances of Plains Township and laws of the
Commonwealth. The Board shall keep full public records of its business, which
records shall be the property of the Township, and shall submit an annual
report of its activities to the Township Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1504)
§ 27-1505.   Expenditures for Services.
   Within the limits of appropriated funds, the Board may employ or contract
for secretaries, clerks, legal counsel, consultants and technical services
which they may deem necessary to augment the Board in the performance of its
duties.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1505)
§ 27-1506.   Hearings.
   The Zoning Hearing Board shall conduct hearings and render decisions in
accordance with the following:
   A.   Notice of hearings before the Board shall be by public notice; a notice
published once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper of general
circulation in the Township. Such notice shall state the time and place of the
hearing and the particular nature of matters to be considered at the hearing by
the Board. The first publication shall not be more than 30 days and the second
publication shall not be less than seven days from the date of the hearing.
   B.   Written notice of all hearings before the Board shall be conspicuously
posted on the affected property not less than one week prior to the hearing.
   (1)   Written notice shall be given to the Zoning Officer, to the applicant,
to the owner of record of the subject property before the Board, if different
than that of the applicant, to the owner of record of any property which has a
common side yard or rear yard boundary or opposite frontage with the subject
property before the Board and to any party or person who has submitted a
written request to receive notification on the subject property.
   (2)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the Zoning Hearing
Board with the names and addresses of the true and correct owners of record
based upon the records contained in the Luzerne County Tax Assessor’s Office.
While it shall be the intent of the Plains Township Zoning Hearing Board to
provide written notice to property owners which have a common side yard, rear
yard or opposite frontage to the subject property before the Board, failure to
do so shall not represent a basis for appeal or otherwise invalidate a decision
and/or finding of the Zoning Hearing Board.
   (3)   In the event a hearing is continued to a future date for the purpose
of obtaining additional information, additional testimony or to render a
decision, and the Zoning Hearing Board publicly announces during the course of
the hearing the time and date for the resumption of the hearing, additional
written notice need not be provided to the above parties.
   C.   The Township Board of Commissioners may prescribe reasonable fees with
respect to hearings before the Board. Fees for said hearings may include
compensation for the Secretary, notice and advertising costs and necessary
administrative overhead connected with the hearing. The costs, however, shall
not include legal expenses of the Board or expenses for engineering,
architectural or other technical consultants or expert witnesses.
   D.   The first hearing shall be held within 60 days from the applicant’s
request, unless the applicant has agreed in writing to an extension of time.
The 60-day time period shall not commence until the applicant has submitted a
properly completed application, with all required signatures, supporting
information, the names and mailing addresses of parties to receive notice of
the hearing, and all required fees. Each subsequent hearing shall be held
within 45 days of the prior hearing, unless otherwise agreed to by the
applicant in writing or on the record. An applicant shall complete the
presentation of his or her case-in-chief within 100 days of the first hearing.
Upon the request of the applicant, the Zoning Hearing Board or hearing officer
shall assure that the applicant receives at least seven hours of hearings
within the 100 days, including the first hearing. Persons opposed to the
application shall complete the presentation of their opposition to the
application within 100 days of the first hearing held after the completion of
the applicant’s case-in-chief. An applicant may, upon request, be granted
additional hearings to complete his or her case-in-chief provided the persons
opposed to the application are granted an equal number of hearings. Persons
opposed to the application may, upon written consent or consent on the record
by the applicant and Township, may be granted additional hearings to complete
their opposition to the application provided the applicant is granted an equal
number of additional hearings for rebuttal. [Ord. 2005-5]
   E.   Hearings shall be conducted by the Board or by any member appointed by
the Board as a hearing officer. The decision, or where no decision is called
for, the findings shall be made by the Board, unless the appellant or
applicant, as the case may be, in addition to the Township, agree to waive any
decision or findings by the Board and accept the decision or findings of the
hearing officer as final. If the decision or findings of the hearing officer
are to be accepted as final, all parties to the hearing must agree to such
stipulation at the outset of the hearing.
   F.   The parties to the hearing shall be the Township, any person affected
by the application who has made a timely appearance of record before the Board,
and any other person including civic or community organizations permitted to
appear by the Board. The Board shall have power to require that all persons who
wish to be considered parties to the hearing enter appearances in writing on
forms provided by the Board for such purpose.
   G.   The presiding Chairperson or Acting Chairperson of the Board or hearing
officer shall have the power to administer oaths and issue subpoenas to compel
attendance of witnesses and the production of relevant documents and papers,
including witnesses and documents requested by parties to the hearing. The
parties to the hearing shall have the right to be represented by legal counsel
and shall be afforded the opportunity to respond and present evidence and
arguments and to cross-examine adverse witnesses on all relevant issues.
   H.   Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but irrelevant, immaterial or
unduly repetitious evidence may be excluded.
   I.   The Board or the hearing officer, as the case may be, shall keep a
stenographic record of the proceedings. The appearance fee for a stenographer
shall be shared equally by the applicant and the Board. The cost of the
original transcript shall be paid by the Board if the transcript is ordered by
the Board or hearing officer, or shall be paid by the person appealing from the
decision of the Board, if such appeal is made and in the event the cost of
additional copies shall be paid by the person requesting such copies. In other
cases the party requesting the original transcript shall bear the cost thereof.
   J.   The Board, collectively or individually, or the hearing officer, shall
not communicate directly or indirectly with any party or his or her
representatives in connection with any issue before the Board involved except
upon notice and opportunity for all parties to participate, shall not take
notice of any communication, reports, staff memoranda, or other materials,
except advice from its solicitor, unless all parties are afforded an
opportunity to contest the material so noticed and shall not inspect the site
or its surroundings after the commencement of hearings with any party or his or
her representative unless all parties are given an opportunity to be present.
   K.   The Board or the hearing officer, as the case may be, shall render a
written decision or, if no decision is called for, make written findings on the
application within 45 days after the last hearing before the Board or hearing
officer. If the application is contested or denied, each decision shall be
accompanied by findings of fact and conclusions based thereon, together with
the reasons therefor. Conclusions based on any provisions of this Chapter or
any other ordinance, rule or regulation, shall contain a reference to the
provisions relied upon and the reasons why the conclusion is deemed appropriate
in light of the facts found. If the hearing is conducted by a hearing officer,
and there has been no stipulation that his or her decision or findings are
final, the Board shall make his or her report and recommendations available to
the parties of record within 45 days. The parties shall be entitled to make
written representations thereon to the Board prior to final decision or entry
of findings, with the Board’s decision entered no later than 30 days after the
report of the hearing officer. If the Board fails to hold the required hearing
within 60 days from the date of the applicant’s request for hearing, the
decision shall be deemed to have been rendered in favor of the applicant,
unless the applicant has agreed in writing or on the record to an extension of
time. If a decision has been rendered in favor of the applicant because of
their failure of the Board to meet or render a decision as hereinabove
provided, the Board shall give public notice of said decision within ten days
from the last day it could have met to render a decision in the same manner as
provided under Paragraph A. above and written notice of the decision shall be
mailed to those parties identified under Paragraph B. above. If the Board fails
to provide such notice, the applicant may do so. Nothing contained within this
Section shall prejudice the right of any party opposing the application to
appeal the decision to a court of competent jurisdiction.
   L.   In any appeal of an enforcement notice under §
27-1304 of this Chapter to the Zoning Hearing Board shall require that the
Zoning Officer and/or Township provide its evidence first to the Board
regarding the basis, nature and supporting information regarding the subject
enforcement notice. Upon the conclusion of the same, the appealing party shall
provide the Board with his or her evidence in contesting the subject
enforcement notice. Any filing fees paid by a party to appeal an enforcement
notice to the Zoning Hearing Board shall be returned to said party, if Zoning
Hearing Board or any subsequent court rules in favor of the appealing party.
   M.   The final decision or, where no decision is called for, the findings
shall be rendered by the Zoning Hearing Board at a public hearing. A copy of
the written decision or findings shall be delivered to the applicant personally
or mailed to him or her not later than the day following the date of the
Board’s decision or findings. The Zoning Hearing Board shall provide by mail or
otherwise, to all persons who have filed their name and address with the Board,
not later than the last day of the hearing, a statement of brief notice of the
decision or findings and a statement of the place and at which a copy of the
full decision or findings may be examined.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1506; as amended by Ord. 2005-5, 3/10/2005, § 9)
§ 27-1507.   Mediation Option.
   1.    Mediation may be utilized as an aid designed to supplement, as opposed
to replacing, any proceedings before and under the jurisdiction of the Zoning
Hearing Board. In no case, however, shall the Board or any member of the Board,
initiate the use of mediation. No member of the Board shall be allowed to
participate as a mediating party or be present during any sessions of
mediation. Nothing within this Section shall be interpreted as expanding or
limiting municipal police powers or modifying any principles of substantive
law.
   2.   Mediation shall be voluntary among all subject parties with the
appropriateness of mediation determined by the particular issues of each case
and the willingness among all the subject parties to negotiate. In order to
supplement proceedings before the Zoning Hearing Board, the following
information shall be submitted to the Board in written form and signed by all
parties to the mediation, the selected mediator, and the Zoning Hearing Board.
   A.   Method and commitment of funding of mediation.
   B.   The mediator shall be an attorney and/or an individual who is certified
by the American Arbitration Association, who shall possess a working knowledge
of municipal zoning and subdivision practices and procedures.
   C.   A schedule which shall clearly prescribe the time limitations for both
the start and completion of mediation. The completion date shall be adhered to
even if the negotiations fail to result in a mediated agreement by said date.
   D.   Suspension of the appropriate time limitations which apply to the
Zoning Hearing Board in convening a hearing and/or rendering a decision, once a
hearing is convened, subject to executing a document of expressed written
consent by the mediating parties, and by the Zoning Hearing Board.
   E.   Identification of all subject parties and affording them the
opportunity to participate.
   F.   A determination of whether some or all of the mediation sessions shall
be opened or closed to the public, subject to governing legal constraints.
   G.   An agreement among the mediating parties, that any mediated solution be
in written form and subject to review and approval by the Zoning Hearing Board.
   H.   Any mediation which concludes within the prescribed time limits under
Subsection C. of this Section, which does resolve in whole or in part, the
issues subject to mediation, shall then proceed under the hearing process
before the Zoning Hearing Board.
   I.   No offer or statements made in the mediation sessions, excluding the
final written mediated agreement, shall be admissible as evidence in any
subsequent judicial or administrative proceedings.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1507)
§ 27-1508.   Jurisdiction of Zoning Hearing Board.
   The Zoning Hearing Board, in accordance with the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, Act 247, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., as amended, shall have
exclusive jurisdiction to hear and render final adjudication in the following
matters:
   A.   Substantive challenges to the validity of any land use ordinance,
except for those brought before the Township Board of Commissioners under §
27-1403 of this Chapter.
   B.   Challenges to the validity of any land use ordinance, based upon
procedural questions or alleged defects in the process of enactment or
adoption. Challenges based upon procedural questions or alleged defects shall
be raised by an appeal to the Board within 30 days after the effective date of
the Chapter subject to the appeal.
   C.   Appeals from the determination of the Zoning Officer, including, but
not limited to, the application and/or interpretation of regulations, granting
or denial of any permit, or failure to act on the application therefor, the
issuance of any cease and desist order, the revocation of a zoning permitted/or
building permit or the registration or refusal to register any nonconforming
use, structure or lot.
   D.   Appeals from a determination by the Zoning Officer with reference to
the administration of any floodplain provision or regulation within any land
use ordinance.
   E.   Applications for variances, pursuant to §
27-1509 of this Chapter.
   F.   Applications for special exceptions pursuant to §
27-1510 of this Chapter.
   G.   Appeals from the determination of the Zoning Officer or Township
Engineer in the administration of any land use ordinance or provision thereof
with reference to sedimentation and erosion control and stormwater management
not related to development which is classified as a subdivision, land
development or a planned residential development.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1508)
§ 27-1509.   Variances.
   1.   Initial determination by Zoning Officer. An application for a variance
shall not be submitted to or considered by the Zoning Hearing Board until the
following procedure has been completed:
   A.   The applicant submits an application for a zoning permit to the Zoning
Officer in accordance with §
27-1302 of this Chapter.
   B.   The Zoning Officer is reviewing the subject application renders a
determination that the proposed development and/or use of property fails to
comply with an applicable provisions and/or regulations of this Chapter.
   C.   The Zoning Officer specifies the applicable Sections of this Chapter
relative to the applicant’s need to secure a variance(s) from the Zoning
Hearing Board.
   2.   Provisions for granting variances.
   A.   The Zoning Hearing Board shall hear requests for variances if it is
alleged that the provisions of this Chapter inflict unnecessary hardship upon
the applicant. The Board may by rule prescribe the form of application and may
require preliminary application to the Zoning Officer. The Board may grant a
variance, provided that all of the following findings are made where relevant
in a given case:
   (1)   There are unique physical circumstances or conditions, including
irregularity, narrowness or shallowness of lot size or shape, or exceptional
topographical or other physical conditions peculiar to the particular property
and that the unnecessary hardship is due to such conditions and not the
circumstances or conditions generally created by the provisions of this Chapter
in the neighborhood or district in which the property is located.
   (2)   Because of such physical circumstances or conditions, there is no
possibility that the property can be developed in strict conformity with the
provisions of this Chapter and that the authorization of a variance is
therefore necessary to enable the reasonable use of the property.
   (3)   Such unnecessary hardship has not been created by the appellant.
   (4)   The variance, if authorized, will not alter the essential character of
the neighborhood or district in which the property is located, nor
substantially or permanently impair the appropriate use or development of
adjacent property, nor be detrimental to the public welfare.
   (5)   The variance, if authorized, will represent the minimum variance that
will afford relief and will represent the least modification possible of the
regulation in issue.
   B.   In granting any variance, the Board may attach such reasonable
conditions and safeguards as it may deem necessary to implement the purposes of
this Chapter and the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247, 53
P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1509)
§ 27-1510.   Special Exceptions.
   1.   Initial determination by Zoning Officer. An application for a special
exception use shall not be submitted to or considered by the Zoning Hearing
Board until the following procedure has been completed:
   A.   The applicant submits an application for a zoning permit to the Zoning
Officer in accordance with §
27-1302 of this Chapter and a site plan in accordance with §
27-603 of this Chapter.
   B.   The Zoning Officer shall initially review the site plan to determine
its compliance with §
27-603 of this Chapter.
   C.   The Zoning Officer shall also render a determination regarding whether
the proposed development and/or use is required to secure any variances from
the Zoning Hearing Board, in addition to securing a special exception approval.
   2.   Provisions for granting a special exception approval.
   A.   The Zoning Hearing Board shall hear and decide requests for uses and/or
development which are permitted as special exception uses. Special exception
uses shall be referred to the Planning Commission for their review, comments
and recommendations prior to final action by the Board. The Board shall grant
approval only upon the determination that the proposed use and/or development
conforms with all applicable standards and provisions within this Chapter and
the following expressed standards and criteria:
   (1)   Public services and facilities such as streets, sewers, water, police
and fire protection shall be adequate for the proposed use and/or development.
   (2)   Existing and future streets and access to the site shall be adequate
for emergency services, for avoiding undue congestion, and for providing for
the safety and convenience of pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (3)   The relationship of the proposed use and/or development to other uses
and activities existing or planned in the vicinity shall be harmonious in terms
of the location and site relative to the proposed operation, and the nature and
intensity of the operation involved.
   (4)   The relationship of the proposed use and/or development to other
activities existing or planned in the vicinity shall be harmonious in terms of
the character and height of buildings, walls and fences so that the use,
development and value of adjacent property is not impaired.
   (5)   The proposed use and/or development shall not be more objectionable in
its operations in terms of noise, fumes, odors, vibration or lights than would
be the operations of any permitted use in the district.
   (6)   The proposed use and/or development shall not be injurious to the
public interest.
   B.   In granting approval, the Zoning Hearing Board may attach such
reasonable conditions and safeguards as it may deem necessary to implement the
purposes of this Chapter and the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act
247, 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1510)
§ 27-1511.   Parties Appellant Before the Board.
   Appeal and/or applications for hearings before the Zoning Hearing Board
pursuant to those matters contained within §
27-1509 of this Chapter, may be filed with the Board in writing by the affected
landowner or by any aggrieved person or party. The Board shall not accept
appeals or applications for hearings from any tenant or equitable owner of a
property without the express written consent of the landowner. In such cases,
the landowner’s signature shall be required upon all applicable forms,
applications or documents which are to be submitted to the Board.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1511)
§ 27-1512.   Time Limitations.
   1.    No person shall be allowed to file any proceeding with the Zoning
Hearing Board later than 30 days after an application for the development,
preliminary or final, has been approved by an appropriate Township officer,
agency or body if such proceeding is designed to secure reversal or to limit
the approval in any manner unless such person alleges and proves that he or she
had no notice, knowledge or reason to believe that such approval had been
given. If such person has succeeded to his or her interest after such approval,
he or she shall be bound by the knowledge of his or her predecessor in
interest. The failure of anyone other than the landowner to appeal from an
adverse decision on a tentative plan for a planned residential development,
pursuant to § 709 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, Act 247, 53
P.S. § 10709, as amended, or from an adverse decision by a zoning officer on a
challenge to the validity of an ordinance or map based upon substantive
grounds, pursuant to § 916.2 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code,
Act 247, 53 P.S. § 10916.2, as amended, shall preclude an appeal from a final
approval except in the case where the final submission substantially deviates
from the approved tentative approval.
   2.   Any landowner wishing to appeal a decision of the Zoning Hearing Board
shall be required to file such appeal to a court of competent jurisdiction
within 30 days after the notice of the Board’s determination is issued. Failure
to do so within the prescribed 30-day time period shall preclude any further
appeal of the Board’s decision.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1512)
§ 27-1513.   Stay of Proceedings.
   1.    Upon filing of any proceeding referred to in §
27-1508 of this Chapter, and during its pendency before the Zoning Hearing
Board, all land development pursuant to any challenged ordinance, order or
approval of the Zoning Officer or of any agency or body, and all official
action thereunder, shall be stayed unless the Zoning Officer or any other
appropriate agency or body certifies to the Board facts indicating that such
stay would cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case the
development or official action shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order, which may be granted by the Board or by the court having
jurisdiction of zoning appeals, on petition, after notice to the Zoning Officer
or other appropriate agency or body. When the application for development,
preliminary or final, has been duly approved and proceedings designed to
reverse or limit the approval are filed with the Board by persons other than
the applicant, the applicant may petition the court having jurisdiction of
zoning appeals to order such persons to post a bond as a condition to
continuing the proceedings before the Board.
   2.   After the petition is presented, the court shall hold a hearing to
determine if the filing of the appeal is frivolous. At the hearing, evidence
may be presented on the merits of the case. It shall be the burden of the
applicant for a bond to prove the appeal is frivolous. After consideration of
all the evidence presented, if the court determines that the appeal is
frivolous, it shall grant the petition for a bond. The right to petition the
court to order the appellants to post bond may be waived by the appellee, but
such waiver may be revoked by him or her if an appeal is taken from a final
decision of the court.
   3.    The question whether or not such petition should be granted and the
amount of the bond shall be within the sound discretion of the court. An order
denying a petition for bond shall be interlocutory. An order directing the
responding party to post a bond shall be interlocutory.
   4.   If an appeal is taken by a respondent to the petition for a bond from
an order of the court dismissing a zoning appeal for refusal to post a bond and
the appellate court sustains the order below to post a bond, the respondent to
the petition for a bond, upon motion of the petitioner and after hearing in the
court having jurisdiction of zoning appeals, shall be liable for all reasonable
costs, expenses and attorney’s fees incurred by the petitioner.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1513)
Part 16
Appeals
§ 27-1601.   Appeals to Court.
   The procedures set forth in Article X-A of the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, Act 247, 53 P.S. § 11001-A, as amended, shall constitute the
exclusive mode for securing judicial review of any decision rendered or deemed
to have been made under this Chapter.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1601)
Part 17
Airport District Overlay Ordinance
§ 27-1701.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Part is to create an airport district overlay that
considers safety issues around the Wilkes-Barre/Wyoming Valley Airport (WBW)
and the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Airport (AVP), regulates and restricts the
heights of constructed structures and objects of natural growth, creates
appropriate zones, establishing the boundaries thereof and providing for
changes in the restrictions and boundaries of such zones, creates the
permitting process for use within said zones and provides for enforcement,
assessment of violation penalties, an appeals process and judicial review.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1701; as added by Ord. 2012-1, 5/10/2012, § 1; as
amended by Ord. 2013-3, 10/10/2013, § 1)
§ 27-1702.   Relation to Other Zone Districts.
   The Airport District Overlay shall not modify the boundaries of any
underlying zoning district. Where identified, the Airport District Overlay
shall impose certain requirements on land use and construction in addition to
those contained in the underlying zoning district.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1702; as added by Ord. 2012-1, 5/10/2012, § 2; as
amended by Ord. 2013-3, 10/10/2013, § 2)
§ 27-1703.   Definitions.
   The following words and phrases when used in this Part shall have the
meaning given to them in this Section unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise.
   Airport elevation–the highest point of an airport’s useable landing area
measured in feet above sea level. The airport elevation of the Wilkes-Barre/
Wyoming Valley Airport is 543.3 (MSL) and the Wilkes-Barre/ Scranton Airport is
962.0 (MSL).
   Airport hazard–any structure or object, natural or human-made, or use of
land which obstructs the airspace required for flight or aircraft in landing or
taking off at an airport or is otherwise hazardous as defined in 14 C.F.R. Part
77 and 74 Pa.C.S.A. § 5102.
   Airport hazard area–any area of land or water upon which an airport hazard
might be established if not prevented as provided for in this Part and the Act
164 of 1984 (Pennsylvania Laws Relating to Aviation), 74 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 5101 et
seq.
   Approach surface (zone)–an imaginary surface longitudinally centered on the
extended runway centerline and extending outward and upward from each end of
the primary surface. An approach surface is applied to each end of the runway
based on the planned approach. The inner edge of the approach surface is the
same width as the primary surface and expands uniformly depending on the
planned approach. The approach surface zone, as shown on Figure 27-17-1, is
derived from the approach surface.
   Conical surface (zone)–an imaginary surface extending outward and upward
from the periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 feet horizontally
to one foot vertically for a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet. The conical
surface zone, as shown on Figure 27-17-1, is based on the conical surface.
   Department–Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
   FAA–Federal Aviation Administration of the United States Department of
Transportation.
   Height–for the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this Part and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea
level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   Horizontal surface (zone)–an imaginary plane 150 feet above the established
airport elevation that is constructed by swinging arcs of various radii from
the center of the end of the primary surface and then connecting the adjacent
arc by tangent lines. The radius of each arc is based on the planned approach.
The horizontal surface zone, as shown on Figure 27-17-1, is derived from the
horizontal surface.
   Nonconforming use–any pre-existing structure, object of natural growth or
use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this Part or an
amendment thereto.
   Nonprecision instrument runway–a runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal
guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in
nonprecision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned.
   Obstruction–any structure, growth or other object, including a mobile
object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth by this Part.
   Other than utility runway–a runway that is constructed for and intended to
be used by propeller driven aircraft of greater than 12,500 pounds maximum
gross weight and jet powered aircraft.
   Precision instrument runway–a runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing an instrument landing system (ILS) or a precisions approach
radar (PAR). It also means a runway for which a precision approach system is
planned and is so indicated on an approved airport layout plan or any other
planning document.
   Primary surface (zone)–an imaginary surface longitudinally centered on the
runway, extending 200 feet beyond the end of paved runways or ending at each
end of turf runways. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the
same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline. The
primary surface zone, as shown on Figure 27-17-1, is derived from the primary
surface.
   Runway–a defined area of an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length.
   Structure–object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
humans, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes,
smokestacks, earth formation and overhead transmission lines.
   Transitional surface (zone)–An imaginary surface that extends outward and
upward from the edge of the primary and approach surfaces to the horizontal
surface at a slope of seven feet horizontally to one foot vertically (7:1). The
transitional surface zone, as shown on Figure 27-17-1, is derived from the
transitional surface.
   Tree–any object of natural growth.
   Utility runway–a runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight or less.
   Visual runway–a runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1702; as added by Ord. 2012-1, 5/10/2012, § 3; as
amended by Ord. 2013-3, 10/10/2013, § 3)
§ 27-1704.   Establishment of Airport Zones.
   There are hereby created and established certain zones within this Part,
defined in §
27-1703 and depicted on Figure 27-17-1 and depicted on the Plains Township
Zoning Map, hereby adopted as part of this Part, which include:
   A.   Approach Surface Zone.
   B.   Conical Surface Zone.
   C.   Horizontal Surface Zone.
   D.   Transitional Surface Zone.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1702; as added by Ord. 2012-1, 5/10/2012, § 4; as
amended by Ord. 2013-3, 10/10/2013, § 4)
§ 27-1705.   Permit Applications.
   1.   As regulated by Act 164 and defined by 14 C.F.R. Part 77.13(a) (as
amended or replaced), any person who plans to erect a new structure, to add to
an existing structure, or to erect and maintain any object (natural or human-
made), in the vicinity of the Wilkes-Barre/Wyoming Valley Airport (WBW) and the
Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Airport (AVP), shall first notify the Department’s Bureau
of Aviation (BOA) by submitting PennDOT Form AV-57 to obtain an obstruction
review of the proposal at least 30 days prior to commencement thereof. The
Department’s BOA response must be included with this permit application for it
to be considered complete. If the Department’s BOA returns a determination of
no penetration of airspace, the permit request should be considered in
compliance with the intent of this Part. If the Department’s BOA returns a
determination of a penetration of airspace, the permit shall be denied, and the
project sponsor may seek a variance from such regulations as outlined in §
27-1706.
   A.   In the areas lying within the limits of the horizontal surface zone and
conical surface zone, no permit shall be required for any proposed tree or
proposed structure less than 75 feet of vertical height except when because of
terrain, land contour or topographic features such tree or structure would
extend above the height limits prescribed for this zone.
   B.   In areas lying within the limits of the approach surface zones, but at
a horizontal distance of not less than 4,200 feet from each end of the runway,
no permit shall be required for any proposed tree or proposed structure less
than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground except when because of
terrain, land contour or topographic features such tree or structure would
extend above the height limits prescribed for this zone.
   C.   In areas lying within the limits of the transitions surface zone,
beyond the perimeter of the horizontal surface zones, no permit shall be
required for any proposed tree or proposed structure less than 75 feet of
vertical height above the ground, except when because of terrain, land contour
or topographic features such tree or structure would extend above the height
limits prescribed for this zone.
   2.   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be construed
as permitting or intending to permit any construction, or alteration of any
structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this Part, except that no permit is required to make maintenance
repairs to or to replace parts of existing structures which do not enlarge or
increase the height of an existing structure.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1702; as added by Ord. 2012-1, 5/10/2012, § 5; as
amended by Ord. 2013-3, 10/10/2013, § 5)
§ 27-1706.   Variance.
   1.   Any request for a variance shall include documentation in compliance
with 14 C.F.R. Part 77 Subpart B (FAA Form 7460-1 as amended or replaced).
Determinations of whether to grant a variance will depend on the determinations
made by the FAA and the Department’s BOA as to the effect of the proposal on
the operation of air navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of
navigable air space. In particular, the request for a variance shall consider
which of the following categories the FAA has placed the proposed construction
in:
   A.   No objection. The subject construction is determined not to exceed
obstruction standards and marking/lighting is not required to mitigate
potential hazard. Under this determination a variance shall be granted.
   B.   Conditional determination. The proposed construction/alteration is
determined to create some level of encroachment into an airport hazard area
which can be effectively mitigated. Under this determination, a variance shall
be granted contingent upon implementation of mitigating measures as described
in §
27-1709, Obstruction Marking and Lighting.
   C.   Objectionable. The proposed construction/alteration is determined to be
a hazard and is thus objectionable. A variance shall be denied and the reasons
for this determination shall be outlined to the applicant.
   2.   Such requests for variances shall be granted where it is duly found
that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations will result in
unnecessary hardship and that relief granted will not be contrary to the public
interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation, will do substantial
justice, and will be in accordance with the intent of this Part.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1702; as added by Ord. 2012-1, 5/10/2012, § 6; as
amended by Ord. 2013-3, 10/10/2013, § 6)
§ 27-1707.   Use Restrictions.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Part, no use shall be made of
land or water within the Airport District Overlay in such a manner as to create
electrical interference with navigational signals or radio communications
between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to distinguish
between airport lights and others, impair visibility in the vicinity of the
airport, create bird strike hazards or otherwise endanger or interfere with the
landing, takeoff or maneuvering of aircraft utilizing the Wilkes-Barre/Wyoming
Valley Airport (WBW) and the Wilkes-Barre /Scranton Airport (AVP).
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1702; as added by Ord. 2012-1, 5/10/2012, § 7; as
amended by Ord. 2013-3, 10/10/2013, § 7)
§ 27-1708.   Pre-existing Nonconforming Uses.
   The regulations prescribed by this Part shall not be construed to require
the removal, lowering or other change or alteration of any structure or tree
not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date of this Part, or
otherwise interfere with the continuance of a nonconforming use. No
nonconforming use shall be structurally altered or permitted to grow higher, so
as to increase the nonconformity, and a nonconforming use, once substantially
abated (subject to the underlying zoning ordinance) may only be reestablished
consistent with the provisions herein.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1702; as added by Ord. 2012-1, 5/10/2012, § 8; as
amended by Ord. 2013-3, 10/10/2013, § 8)
§ 27-1709.   Obstruction Marking and Lighting.
   Any permit or variance granted pursuant to the provisions of this Part may
be conditioned according to the process described in §
27-1706 to require the owner of the structure or object of natural growth in
question to permit the municipality, at its own expense, or require the person
requesting the permit or variance, to install, operate and maintain such
marking or lighting as deemed necessary to assure both ground and air safety.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1702; as added by Ord. 2012-1, 5/10/2012, § 9; as
amended by Ord. 2013-3, 10/10/2013, § 9)
§ 27-1710.   Violations and Penalties.
   Subject to the process in this
Chapter 27, Part 13, entitled “Enforcement and Administration”.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1702; as added by Ord. 2012-1, 5/10/2012, § 10; as
amended by Ord. 2013-3, 10/10/2013, § 10)
§ 27-1711.   Appeals.
   Subject to the process in this
Chapter 27, Part 16, entitled “Appeals”.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1702; as added by Ord. 2012-1, 5/10/2012, § 11; as
amended by Ord. 2013-3, 10/10/2013, § 11)
§ 27-1712.   Conflicting Regulations.
   Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this Part and any other regulation applicable to the same area,
the more stringent limitation or requirement shall govern and prevail.
(Ord. 1998-1, 3/19/1998, § 1702; as added by Ord. 2012-1, 5/10/2012, § 12; as
amended by Ord. 2013-3, 10/10/2013, § 12)
   FIGURE 27-17-1: PART 77 SURFACE AREAS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b40137fc8b48d5dea9edf5acb79a0a065cb28c47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2209.png]
(Ord. 2013-3, 10/10/2013)
Zoning Map Amendments
 
Ord. /Res.  Date      Subject
Ord. 1998-5 7/16/1998 Re-zoned and re-classified a piece of land from a I-
                      1 Industrial District to a R-2 Residential District.
Ord. 2005-5 3/10/2005 Re-zoned piece of land from a I-1 (Industrial) to B-3
                      (Highway Commercial).
                      Re-zoned approximately 65 acres which encompasses the
Ord. 2015-6 9/10/2015 site of the former Valley Crest Nursing Home and a
                      property owned by Bold Gold Media, WBS, LP (site of radio
                      tower) from C-1 (Conservation) to MU (Mixed Use).
 
Appendix
   The following ordinances and resolutions are no longer of general interest,
primarily because their provisions were carried out directly after their
enactment. Since they are mainly of historical or administrative interest, it
has not been considered necessary to include their entire text. Instead, they
are arranged in groups, according to subject matter, and within each group
listed by title in chronological order. The content of the ordinances and
resolutions is indexed, in all necessary detail, in the general index at the
end of this volume. The annual budget and tax ordinances have been listed only
in the “Table of Disposition of Ordinances.” Any person who desires to read the
full text of any of the ordinances or resolutions may do so by consulting the
original Ordinance Books on file in the Township offices.
   The enactments included in this Appendix are grouped under the following
headings:
   
A   Adjustments to Township Boundaries
   
B   Debt and Bond Issues
   
C   Franchises and Services
   
D   Governmental and Intergovernmental Affairs
   
E   Plan Approval
   
F   Public Property
   
G   Sewers
   
H   Streets and Sidewalks
   
I   Water
   
J   Zoning; Prior Ordinances
Appendix A
Adjustments to Township Boundaries
   [Reserved]
Appendix B
Debt and Bond Issues
Ord./Res. Date Subject
Ord./Res.  Date     Subject
                    Determining the highest responsible bidder for the purchase of $65,000 General
Res. –/–/–/Obligation Improvement Bonds of the Township and authorizing the sale of the
                    bonds
Res. –/–/–/To make a temporary loan with First National Bank of Pittston in the sum of
                    $17,000
                    Authorizing an increase of the indebtedness of the Township by making a loan of
Ord. –/–/–/$16,000 without bonds, for capital expenditures for municipal equipment,
                    providing for the levying of tax for the payment of the loan and prescribing
                    the form of the security to be used
Res. 12/7/ 12/7/    To borrow from First National Bank of Wilkes-Barre, as a temporary loan, the
1954       1954     sum of $15,000, promissory note bearing interest not exceeding 4 percent per
                    annum
Res. 12/6/ 12/6/    To borrow from First National Bank of Wilkes-Barre, as a temporary loan, the
1955       1955     sum of $20,000, promissory note bearing interest not exceeding 4 percent per
                    annum
                    Authorizing an increase of the indebtedness of the Township by making a loan of
Ord. 11/   11/29/   $12,390 without bonds, for capital expenditures for municipal equipment,
29/1963    1963     providing for the levying of tax for the payment of the loan and prescribing
                    the form of the security to be used
Res. 11/   11/29/   Amending the Budget of 1963
29/1963    1963
Ord. 1964-          Authorizing and directing the issuance of General Obligation Bonds of the
20         1/1/1964 Township in the maximum amount of $50,000 to provide funds for and toward the
                    acquisition of land and the construction and furnishing of a Town Hall
Res. 1/15/ 1/15/    To borrow from First National Bank of Pittston, as a temporary loan or a series
1964       1964     of loans, the sum of $25,000 in anticipation of taxes to be collected during
                    the current fiscal year
                    Authorizing an increase of the indebtedness of the Township by making a loan of
Ord. 7/30/ 7/30/    $8,000 without bonds, for capital expenditures for municipal improvement and
1965       1965     equipment, providing for the levying of tax for the payment of the loan and
                    prescribing the form of the security to be used
Res. 12/   12/15/   To borrow from First National Bank of Pittston, as a temporary loan, the sum of
15/1965    1965     $7,500 in anticipation of taxes to be collected during the current fiscal year
Res. 1/14/ 1/14/    To borrow from First National Bank of Pittston, as a temporary loan or a series
1966       1966     of loans, the sum of $40,000 in anticipation of taxes to be collected during
                    the current fiscal year
Ord. (App.          Authorizing an increase of the indebtedness of the Township by making a loan of
B)2/25/    2/25/    $6,400 without bonds, for capital expenditures for municipal equipment,
1966       1966     providing for the levying of tax for the payment of the loan and prescribing
                    the form of the security to be used
Res. 1/13/ 1/13/    To borrow from First National Bank of Wilkes-Barre, as a temporary loan or a
1967       1967     series of loans, the sum of $30,000 in anticipation of taxes to be collected
                    during the current fiscal year
Ord. 1967- 2/15/    Approving the form of interim and permanent financing of a project consisting
1          1967     of the financing and construction of sewage collection facilities for the
                    Township
                    Authorizing an increase of the indebtedness of the Township by making a loan of
Ord. 5/12/ 5/12/    $2,800 without bonds, for capital expenditures for municipal equipment,
1967       1967     providing for the levying of tax for the payment of the loan and prescribing
                    the form of the security to be used
                    Authorizing the advertisement for sale of $65,000 of General Obligation
Res. 8/15/ 8/15/    Improvement Bonds of the Township; specifying the form of advertisement and
1967       1967     adopting the terms of sale; prescribing the manner of publication; and
                    repealing inconsistent resolutions
                    Authorizing and directing the issuance of General Obligation Improvement Bonds,
Ord. 9/7/  9/7/1967 1967 Series, in the amount of $65,000 for the purpose of providing funds for
1967                and toward the cost of making improvements to Township streets and paying
                    incidental costs and expenses
                    Authorizing an increase of the indebtedness of the Township by making a loan of
Ord. 12/   12/29/   $13,500 without bonds, for capital expenditures for municipal improvement,
29/1967    1967     providing for the levying of tax for the payment of the loan and prescribing
                    the form of the security to be used
Res. 5/15/ 5/15/    Authorizing the making of temporary loans in the aggregate sum of $60,000 for
1969       1969     the payment of current operating expenses during the fiscal year 1969
                    Authorizing an increase of the indebtedness of the Township by making a loan of
Ord. 5/15/ 5/15/    $18,600 without bonds, for capital expenditures for municipal equipment,
1969       1969     providing for the levying of tax for the payment of the loan and prescribing
                    the form of the security to be used
Res. 1/15/ 1/15/    Authorizing the Township to borrow the sum of $40,000 to be used for operating
1970       1970     expenses during the current fiscal year
Res. 6/30/ 6/30/    Extending the maturity date of loan
1970       1970
Res. 10/   10/31/   Authorizing the execution and indebtedness of $33,000 Capital Outlay Loan
31/1972B   1972
Res. 8/29/ 8/29/    Authorizing the making of a temporary loan
1974       1974
Res. 10/   10/28/   Authorizing the execution and indebtedness of Operation and Maintenance Loan
28/1976    1976
Res. 2/7/  2/7/1980 Authorizing the issuance of a Tax Anticipation Note in the amount of $100,000
1980
Res. 2/1/  2/1/1982 Authorizing the issuance of a Tax Anticipation Note in the amount of $225,000
1982
Ord. 3/12/ 3/12/    Declaring the refunding of the Wyoming Valley Sanitary Authority Sewer Revenue
1987       1987     Bonds, Series of 1985
Res. 2/11/ 2/11/    The intent that the Ordinance on March 12, 1987 would be a continuing ordinance
1988A      1988     until such time as the interest rates declined to a point where the refunding
                    would be to the advantage of the Township
Res. 1990- 12/13/   Tax and Revenue Anticipation Note Series of 1991 to be issued in January of
56         1990     1991, and to mature on December 31, 1991
Res. 1991- 1/10/    Rescinding the authorization of Tax and Revenue Anticipation Note Series of
1          1991     1991
Res. 1992- 1/30/    Tax and Revenue Anticipation Note Series of 1992 to be issued in February of
1          1992     1992, and to mature on December 31, 1992
Ord. 1992- 4/9/1992 Approving as a project the refunding of the Sewer Authority of the Township’s
1                   guaranteed Sewer Revenue Bonds, Series of 1989
Res. 1993- 1/14/    Tax and Revenue Anticipation Note Series of 1993 to be issued in January of
1          1993     1993, and to mature on December 31, 1993
Res. 1993- 12/30/   Tax and Revenue Anticipation Note Series of 1994 to be issued in January of
35         1993     1994, and to mature on December 31, 1994
Res. 1994- 3/23/    Authorizing small borrowing for capital purposes
20         1994
Res. 1994- 7/14/    Placing items in its budget for the current fiscal year
26         1994
Res. 1995- –/–/1Authorizing the issuance of Tax and Revenue Anticipation Notes, Series 1995
2
Res. 1997- 2/13/    Authorizing the issuance of Tax and Revenue Anticipation Notes, Series 1997
2          1997
Ord. 1997- 11/13/   Authorizing the incurring of Nonelectoral Debt to finance the cost of a project
6          1997
Res. 1997- 12/11/   Authorizing the issuance of Tax and Revenue Anticipation Notes, Series 1998
29         1997
Res. 1998- 7/16/    Authorizing small borrowing for capital purposes
10         1998
Ord. 1998- 10/8/    Authorizing the incurring of Nonelectoral Debt to finance the cost of a project
6          1998
Res. 1998- 10/9/    Authorizing the Sewer Authority of the Township to loan the Township the sum of
10-9       1998     $80,000 at zero percent interest
                    Authorizing borrowing in anticipation of current taxes and current revenues and
Res. 1998- 11/12/   the issuance of Tax and Revenue Anticipation Notes; providing for the form of
13         1998     Notes; awarding the Notes at a negotiated sale to Mellon Bank; providing
                    security for the Notes
Res. 1999- 12/9/    Authorizing Tax and Revenue Anticipation Note in the amount of $240,000 in
19         1999     anticipation of the receipt of current taxes and revenues to be sold at private
                    sale
Res. 2000- 12/21/   Authorizing Tax and Revenue Anticipation Note in the amount of $260,000 in
25         2000     anticipation of the receipt of current taxes and revenues to be sold at private
                    sale
Ord. 2001- 11/8/    Increasing the indebtedness of the Township by the issue of a General
1          2001     Obligation Note in the amount of $335,000 for Sundry purposes
Ord. 2001- 11/8/    Increasing the indebtedness of the Township by the issue of a General
2          2001     Obligation Note in the amount of $545,000 for Sundry purposes
Res. 2001- 12/27/   Authorizing Tax and Revenue Anticipation Note in the amount of $260,000 in
11         2001     anticipation of the receipt of current taxes and revenues to be sold at private
                    sale
Res. 2001- 12/27/   Authorizing small borrowing for capital purposes under § 8109 of the LGUDA
12         2001
Res. 2002- 12/12/   Authorizing Tax and Revenue Anticipation Note in the amount of $270,000 in
25         2002     anticipation of the receipt of current taxes and revenues to be sold at private
                    sale
Res. 2003- 12/18/   Authorizing small borrowing for capital purposes under § 8109 of the LGUDA
15         2003
Res. 2003- 12/18/   Authorizing Tax and Revenue Anticipation Note in the amount of $300,000 in
14         2003     anticipation of the receipt of current taxes and revenues to be sold at private
                    sale
Res. 2004- 2/12/    Authorizing Tax and Revenue Anticipation Note in the amount of $120,000 in
3          2004     anticipation of the receipt of current taxes and revenues to be sold at private
                    sale
Ord. 2004- 3/11/    Increasing the indebtedness of the Township by the issue of a General
1          2004     Obligation Note in the amount of $554,000 for Sundry purposes
Res. 2004- 11/11/   Authorizing Tax and Revenue Anticipation Note in the amount of $450,000 in
15         2004     anticipation of the receipt of current taxes and revenues to be sold at private
                    sale
Res. 2006- 7/13/    Authorizing the issuance of a Tax and Anticipation Note, Series 2006
21         2006
Res. 2006- –/–/2Authorizing the issuance of a Tax and Anticipation Note, Series 2007
24
Ord. 2006- 10/2/    $1,000,000 General Obligation Notes, Series PNC-
5          2006
Res. 2011- 1/13/    Authorizing the incurring of lease obligations in an amount not-to-exceed
2          2011     $860,000 to be evidenced by a Lease Purchase Agreement with Manufacturers and
                    Traders Trust Company
Ord. 2018- 3/8/2018 Increasing the indebtedness of the Township by the issue of General Obligation
1                   Notes in the amount of $167,348 for acquiring capital items
Ord. 2018- 8/9/2018 $100,000 General Obligation Notes, Series 2018-A
4
Ord. 2-    8/12/    Increasing the indebtedness of the Township by the issue of a General
2021       2021     Obligation Note in the amount of $5,100,000 for reducing unfunded accrued
                    liability
                   
 
Appendix C
Franchises and Services
A.   General
Ord./Res. Date Subject
Ord./Res.  Date  Subject
                 Giving permission and consent to Pennsylvania Power & Light Company and its
Res. –/–/successors and assigns in the operation of electric facilities in the
                 Township to construct, operate and maintain facilities
Ord. 1950- 9/19/ Providing for the furnishing of electric street lighting service
5          1950
Ord. 4/29/ 4/29/ Granting a non-exclusive franchise to Universal Television Cable Systems,
1966       1966  Inc. to construct, install and operate a community antenna television
                 system within the geographical limits of the Township
Res. 10/   10/   Giving permission and consent to Pennsylvania Power & Light Company and its
31/1968    31/   successors and assigns in the operation of electric facilities in the
           1968  Township to construct, operate and maintain facilities
Res. 1/31/ 1/31/ Giving permission and consent to Pennsylvania Power & Light Company and its
1969       1969  successors and assigns in the operation of electric facilities in the
                 Township to construct and maintain facilities
                 Granting permission to Pennsylvania Power & Light Company, its successors
Res. 9/15/ 9/15/ and assigns in the operation of electric facilities in the Township to
1969       1969  install and underground service in the sidewalk area of St. Mary’s Street
                 for the purpose of serving Mr. Walter Rymar
Agrmt. 5/  5/5/  Authorizing the execution of this agreement by its proper officers and in
5/1977     1977  consideration of the sum of $1 to it paid at the date hereof by
                 Pennsylvania Power & Light Company
                 Giving permission and consent to Pennsylvania Power & Light Company and its
Res. 7/13/ 7/13/ successors and assigns in the operation of electric facilities in the
1978A      1978  Township to install underground facilities in the sidewalk area on North
                 River Street to serve the Plains Township Sewer Authority Station A
Ord. 5/12/ 5/12/ Amending the ordinance granting franchise to Universal Television Cable
1988       1988  Systems, Inc. to construct, install and operate a community television
                 system and closed circuit television system
Res. 1990- 3/8/  Providing for the furnishing of electric street light service
17         1990
Ord. 1995- 9/14/ Authorizing the Board of Commissioners and other appropriate officials of
3          1995  the Township to execute and enter into a Franchise Renewal Agreement
                 between the Township and Universal Television Cable Systems, Inc.
Ord. 2013- 1/10/ Authorizing execution of a cable franchise agreement between the Township
2          2013  and Comcast of Colorado/Pennsylvania/West Virginia, LLC
 
B.   Streetlights
Street Activity Description Ord./Res. Date
Street      Activity     Description                                                               Ord./Res.  Date
Anesbury    Installing   a street light on Pole No. 1410                                           Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                                                                                             1967       1967
Atherton    Installing   a street light on Pole No. 1588                                           Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                                                                                             1967       1967
Avon Street Installing   a street light on Pole No. 9092                                           Res. 7/15/ 7/15/
                                                                                                   1965       1965
Bergh                                                                                              Res. 11/   11/
Street      Installing   a street light on Pole No. 440                                            14/1969    14/
                                                                                                              1969
Bergh                                                                                              Res. 10/   10/
Street      Installing   (Hudson Section), a street light on Pole No. 2587                         15/1970    15/
                                                                                                              1970
Catherine   Installing   a street light on Pole No. 2176                                           Res. 9/30/ 9/30/
Street                                                                                             1959       1959
Center      Installing   a street light on Pole No. 2863                                           Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                                                                                             1967       1967
Chamberlain                                                                                        Res. 11/   11/
Street      Installing   a street light on Pole No. 100                                            14/1969    14/
                                                                                                              1969
Chestnut    Installing   a street light on Pole No. 3089                                           Res. 7/15/ 7/15/
Street                                                                                             1965       1965
Clark       Installing   pole and light to be installed at end of Clark Street near last home      Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                                                                                             1967       1967
Clark       Installing   two poles and to attache wires to four Township poles along Clark Street, Res. 5/17/ 5/17/
Street                   to supply electric service to Eaglesville Excavating Company              1984       1984
Clarke                   one pole and one guy, overhead wires and underground cable, to serve Mr.  Res. 10/   10/
Street      Installing   John Benzi                                                                31/1969    31/
                                                                                                              1969
Cook Street Installing   a street light on Pole No. 2T5174                                         Res. 7/15/ 7/15/
                                                                                                   1965       1965
Cortright   Installing   a street light on Pole No. 2T2679                                         Res. 7/15/ 7/15/
Street                                                                                             1965       1965
Cortright   Removing     a street light on Pole No. 2T2678                                         Res. 7/15/ 7/15/
Street                                                                                             1965       1965
Crow Street Installing   a street light on Pole No. 2617                                           Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
                                                                                                   1967       1967
Diana                                                                                              Res. 10/   10/
Street      Installing   a new pole and anchor guy, for the purpose of serving a new home          14/1971    14/
                                                                                                              1971
East End    Installing   street lights on Pole Nos. 9055 and KT2-20-9069                           Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Boulevard                                                                                          1967       1967
East Main   Installing   one pole along East Main Street in the Fox Hill Section                   Res. 8/2/  8/2/
Street                                                                                             1979       1979
East                                                                                               Res. 1993- 12/9/
Mountain    Conversion   the overhead lighting to underground-supplied street lights               34         1993
Boulevard
East Saylor                                                                                        Res. 10/   10/
Avenue      Installing   a street light on Pole No. 20518                                          31/1972A   31/
                                                                                                              1972
Enterprise  Installing   a street light on the rear of Enterprise Street                           Res. 7/15/ 7/15/
Street                                                                                             1965       1965
First       Installing   a street light on Pole No.                                                Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                                                                                             1967       1967
Garden      Installing   a street light on Pole No. 2T5174                                         Res. 7/15/ 7/15/
Drive                                                                                              1965       1965
Garden                                                                                             Res. 10/   10/
Drive       Installing   at Merlino Street, Hudson Gardens, a street light on Pole No. 5170        31/1972    31/
                                                                                                              1972
Haines      Changing     a street light on Pole No. 1425                                           Res. 7/15/ 7/15/
Street                                                                                             1965       1965
Henry       Changing     a street light on Pole No. 1989                                           Res. 7/15/ 7/15/
Street                                                                                             1965       1965
Henry       Installing   a street light on Pole No. 2397-92W                                       Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                                                                                             1967       1967
Hilldale    Installing   a street light on Pole No. 1762                                           Res. 9/30/ 9/30/
Avenue                                                                                             1959       1959
Hillside    Installing   a street light on Pole No. 1622WB                                         Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                                                                                             1967       1967
Hollenback  Installing   a street light on Pole No. 1470                                           Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                                                                                             1967       1967
Hudson Road Installing   two poles and anchor guy on Third Lane                                    Res. 6/5/  6/5/
                                                                                                   1950       1950
Hudson      Installing   a street light on Pole No. 2632                                           Res. 7/15/ 7/15/
Street                                                                                             1965       1965
Keystone    Changing     a street light on Pole No. 16382                                          Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Road                                                                                               1967       1967
Laflin Road Installing   Plains (th Ward), a street light on Pole No. 19652                        Res. 9/15/ 9/15/
                                                                                                   1970       1970
Lloyd       Installing   (2nd Ward), a street light on Pole No. 550                                Res. 9/15/ 9/15/
Street                                                                                             1970       1970
Maffet      Installing   a street light at the rear of 337 Maffet Street                           Res. 3/12/ 3/12/
Street                                                                                             1965       1965
Maffett     Installing   Across from pole, a street light on Pole No. 234                          Res. 6/27/ 6/27/
Street                                                                                             1969       1969
Main Road   Installing   Fox Hill Section (10th Ward), a street light on Pole No. 3029             Res. 9/15/ 9/15/
                                                                                                   1970       1970
Maple       Installing   a street light on Pole No. 2879                                           Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                                                                                             1967       1967
Margaret    Removing and the existing street light on Pole No. 400 C.P.–2189, at the rear of the Res. 4/29/ 4/29/
Street      Replacing    Plains Township High School                                               1966       1966
Miner                                                                                              Res. 10/   10/
Street      Installing   Hudson, a street light on Pole No. 21147                                  31/1972    31/
                                                                                                              1972
New Street  Installing   West end of New Street, a street light on last Pole No. 540               Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
                                                                                                   1967       1967
New Street  Installing   a pole at 36 New Street                                                   Res. 9/15/ 9/15/
                                                                                                   1970       1970
New Street  Installing   a pole at 58 New Street                                                   Res. 9/15/ 9/15/
                                                                                                   1970       1970
North Main  Changing     a street light on Pole No. 1989                                           Res. 7/15/ 7/15/
Street                                                                                             1965       1965
North Main  Installing   a street light on Pole No. 1996                                           Res. 7/15/ 7/15/
Street                                                                                             1965       1965
North River                                                                                        Res. 10/   10/
Street      Installing   a street light on Pole No. 1650                                           31/1972    31/
                                                                                                              1972
North River                                                                                        Res. 10/   10/
Street      Installing   a street light on Pole No. 1653                                           31/1972    31/
                                                                                                              1972
North River                                                                                        Res. 10/   10/
Street      Installing   a street light on Pole No. 1656                                           31/1972    31/
                                                                                                              1972
North       Installing   a street light on Pole No. 2863                                           Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                                                                                             1967       1967
Oak Street  Changing     a street light on Pole No.                                                Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
                                                                                                   1967       1967
Parking Lot Installing   in the parking lot of the new Town Hall, at a site designated by Allen,   Res. 3/30/ 3/30/
                         Rodda & Hauch, Architects, two area lights                                1965       1965
Parkview    Installing   Plains (2nd Ward), a street light on Pole No. 100K                        Res. 9/15/ 9/15/
Drive                                                                                              1970       1970
Parkview    Installing   a street light on Pole No. 11090                                          Res. 6/27/ 6/27/
Terrace                                                                                            1969       1969
Penn State  Installing   two poles on Penn State Alley                                             Res. 10/9/ 10/9/
Alley                                                                                              1986       1986
Pittston    Installing   a street light on Pole No. 15507WP                                        Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Boulevard                                                                                          1967       1967
Recreation               Plains Township Recreation Area, Hilldale, requires change in existing    Res. 10/   10/
Area        Installing   light                                                                     31/1972    31/
                                                                                                              1972
Ridgewood   Installing   a street light on Pole No. 58                                             Res. 9/30/ 9/30/
Road                                                                                               1959       1959
Ridgewood   Installing   a street light on Pole No. 2672                                           Res. 6/27/ 6/27/
Road                                                                                               1969       1969
Ridgewood   Installing   Keystone Section (8th Ward), a street light on Pole No. 2701              Res. 9/15/ 9/15/
Road                                                                                               1970       1970
Ridgewood   Transferring the street light on Pole No. 2753 to Pole No. 2754                        Res. 1/31/ 1/31/
Street                                                                                             1962       1962
River       Changing     a street light on Pole No. 1509                                           Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                                                                                             1967       1967
River       Installing   a street light on Pole No. 481                                            Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                                                                                             1967       1967
River       Installing   a street light on Pole No. 1470                                           Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                                                                                             1967       1967
River       Installing   near A&P, a street light on Pole No. 134                                  Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                                                                                             1967       1967
Riverview   Installing   two additional street lights at Pole Nos. 2T962 and 2T5166                Res. 11/1/ 11/1/
Terrace                                                                                            1962       1962
Riverview   Installing   a street light on Pole No. 2T9347                                         Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Terrace                                                                                            1967       1967
Scott       Installing   a street light on Pole No. 1421                                           Res. 9/30/ 9/30/
                                                                                                   1959       1959
Seminole                                                                                           Res. 10/   10/
Avenue      Installing   a street light on Pole No. 9082                                           31/1972    31/
                                                                                                              1972
South River Installing   Plains (2nd Ward), a street light on Pole No. 100K                        Res. 9/15/ 9/15/
Street                                                                                             1970       1970
St. David   Installing   a street light on Pole No. 1604WB                                         Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                                                                                             1967       1967
St. James                                                                                          Res. 10/   10/
Street      Installing   48 St. James Street, a street light on Pole No.-Unknown                   31/1972    31/
                                                                                                              1972
Stark       Changing     a street light on Pole No. 2118                                           Res. 7/15/ 7/15/
Street                                                                                             1965       1965
Stark       Changing     a street light on Pole No.                                                Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                                                                                             1967       1967
Thomas      Installing   Plains (10th Ward), a street light on Pole No. 18291                      Res. 9/15/ 9/15/
Street                                                                                             1970       1970
Thomas                   one pole along the Thomas Street Extension located to the rear of 21      Res. 7/13/ 7/13/
Street      Installing   Charles Street                                                            1978       1978
Extension
Tulip Drive Installing   Hudson (9th Ward), a street light on Pole No. 20152                       Res. 9/15/ 9/15/
                                                                                                   1970       1970
Union       Installing   a street light on Pole No. 2632                                           Res. 7/15/ 7/15/
Street                                                                                             1965       1965
Union       Installing   a street light on pole Key-T, located across the street from Warren       Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                   Ralston property                                                          1967       1967
Union       Installing   a street light on Pole No. 2637                                           Res. 6/27/ 6/27/
Street                                                                                             1969       1969
Unknown     Changing     a street light on Pole No. 2833                                           Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
                                                                                                   1967       1967
Unknown     Installing   a street light on Pole No. 292                                            Res. 9/30/ 9/30/
                                                                                                   1959       1959
                                                                                                   Res. 10/   10/
Unknown     Installing   Manor Section, a street light on Pole No. 9085                            15/1970    15/
                                                                                                              1970
Warner      Changing     a street light on Pole No. 1425                                           Res. 7/15/ 7/15/
Street                                                                                             1965       1965
West Bergh  Installing   a street light on pole to be erected                                      Res. 6/27/ 6/27/
Street                                                                                             1969       1969
West Carey  Changing     a street light on Pole No. 1509                                           Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                                                                                             1967       1967
West Carey  Installing   a street light on Pole No. 2187                                           Res. –/–/–/–
Street
West        Installing   a street light on Pole No. 6924                                           Res. 9/30/ 9/30/
Charles                                                                                            1959       1959
West                                                                                               Res. 7/15/ 7/15/
Stanton     Installing   a street light on Pole No. 507                                            1965       1965
Street
West                                                                                               Res. 9/15/ 9/15/
Stanton     Installing   a pole, Hudson                                                            1970       1970
Street
West                     street light transferred and installed on Bergh Street (Hudson Section)   Res. 10/   10/
Stanton     Transferring Pole No. 2587                                                             15/1970    15/
Street                                                                                                        1970
Wyoming     Installing   a street light on Pole No. 1410                                           Res. 9/29/ 9/29/
Street                                                                                             1967       1967
 
Appendix D
Governmental and Intergovernmental Affairs
Ord./Res. Date Subject
Ord./Res.     Date     Subject
Res. –/–/–/–/Authorizing the Solicitor to take any and all steps necessary to allow the Township
                       to claim under the sharing provisions of the Municipal Government Unit Debt Act
Res. –/–/–/–/Appointing Ronald D. Oley, Esquire, Township Solicitor and Louis Pesotski, Board of
                       Commissioners to a committee to effectuate the closure of the Eastside Landfill
Res. –/–/–/–/Presenting the Outstanding Citizenship award to Joseph A. Plaviak
Res. –/–/–/–/Proclaiming June 19, 1983 as Ron Hunt Day
                       Stating that no Plains Township resident who serves as a member of the Zoning Hearing
Res. –/–/–/–/Board, Planning Commission, Recreation Board or any other Commission or Committee
                       which may be designated by the Board from time to time may hold a position in any
                       other Commission, Committee or Board at the same time
Res. –/–/–/–/Designating July 18, 1982 as “WARM Day”
Res. –/–/–/–/Authorizing the elimination of contributions made by members of the Plains Township
                       Police Department for the years commencing January 1, 1984 and January 1, 1985
Res. –/–/–/–/Authorizing the elimination of contributions made by members of the Plains Township
                       Police Department for the years commencing January 1, 1986 and January 1, 1987
Res. –/–/–/–/Adopting Daylight Saving Time
Res. –/–/–/–/Approving Code Enforcement Officers decision to raze buildings
Ord. 10/16/   10/16/   Providing funds for additional highway reconstruction in the Township
1951          1951
Ord. 5/11/    5/11/    Establishing compensation for all road labors, rubbish collection laborers, State aid
1954          1954     laborers and laborers on sewers
Res. 6/–/1959/–/195Changing of provisions in Zoning Ordinance of Veterans’ Administration Hospital
                       Permitting Air Products, Inc. to remove a barricade on the Old East End Boulevard;
                       that the entrance to the Kelly Run Quarry is to become restricted, guarded and posted
Res. 6/4/1957 6/4/1957 by them; and permission to use Kelly Run Quarry as a test site for diesel driver
                       generators and Air Products, Inc. to guarantee no pollution of water to be caused by
                       operation to be undertaken
                       Fixing the salaries of certain employees and method of payment: Victoria Gudaitis,
Ord. 1/6/     1/6/1958 Telephone Operator and Desk Clerk, $192.62 per month; Paul Motsko, Secretary to the
1958A                  Township Commissioners, $1,000 per annum; and Bernard Brominski, Solicitor to the
                       Township Commissioners, $1,000 per annum
Res. 7/31/    7/31/    Certifying the names of certain residents of the Township to the Tax Collector with
1962          1962     directions to add said names to the tax duplicate and to collect the proper tax
Res. 9/17/    9/17/    Requesting Public Utility Commission to investigate condition of bridge
1962          1962
Ord. 10/12/   10/12/   Appointing Wilson Jones, 81 Merritt Street, as the delegate to serve on the Joint
1962          1962     Sanitary Landfill Authority
Ord. 3/13/    3/13/    Adopting the proposed agreement between the East Side Landfill Authority and the City
1964          1964     of Wilkes-Barre, Township of Hanover, Township of Plains and the Borough of Ashley
Res. 1/31/    1/31/    Providing for the assent of the electors to erect and maintain a firehouse
1968          1968
Res. 11/15/   11/15/   Authorizing the filing of Interim Assistance Grant under the United States Department
1972          1972     of Housing and Urban Development
Res. 2/28/    2/28/    Authorizing the establishment of the Plains Township Municipal Water Authority
1973          1973
Res. 2/28/    2/28/    Excluding school guards as employees of the Township
1973A         1973
Res. 4/12/    4/12/    Creating formal cooperation between the City of Wilkes-Barre and the Township with
1973          1973     regard to the Industrial Park Area
Ord. 8/30/    8/30/    Declaring an intention to promulgate certain code regulations
1973          1973
Res. 11/17/   11/17/   Rerouting heavy truck traffic on Route 115
1977          1977
Ord. 12/28/   12/28/   Electing to join the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement System
1978          1978
Ord. 4/5/1979 4/5/1979 Police Pension
Ord. 5/10/    5/10/    Adopting this ordinance under the authority of the Act of the General Assembly of
1979          1979     April 13, 1972, (Act No. 62), known as the “Home Rule Charter and Optional Plan Law”
Ord. 9/6/1979 9/6/1979 Repealing the ordinance pursuant to Act No. 62 known as the Home Rule Charter and
                       Option Plans Law
Res. 3/20/    3/20/    Directing the Township Engineer to survey property on the site of the Old Laurel Line
1980          1980     Station at the end of Preston Street and prepare a legal description
Res. –/–/1–/–/1Requesting the Economy League of Pennsylvania to conduct a study of the total
                       operations of the Township
Res. 12/30/   12/30/   That 100 percent of liquid fuel moneys received shall be used for the purposes of
1981          1981     maintenance and repair of existing roads, streets and bridges and payment of wages
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
                       and Commissions within the Township: Civil Service Commission, Frank Glazenski, Frank
                       Sabatini and Leo Fedor; Parks and Recreation Board, Leo Pensieri, Amerigo Pennoni,
                       Louis Cardoni, Francis Wallace, John Panatieri, Mary Ann Williams, William O’Boyle,
Res. 2/1/     2/1/1982 Charles Stanski and John Million; Library Board, Frank Sabatini, Dr. Walter Raven,
1982A                  Mary Ann Williams and Amerigo Pennoni; Zoning Hearing Board, Fabian Maskinas, Edward
                       Klem, Chester Cognigni, Arthur Pavia and Ted Franchella; Planning Commission, Joseph
                       Petrenchak, Edward Gupko, Norman Pegga, Robert Milligan, Phil D. Pavia, John Yurko
                       and Michael Niznik; Sewer Authority, Herman Cardoni, Simon Russin, Dan Rozanski, Dr.
                       Joseph Falchek and Andrew Lazar
Res. 2/1/     2/1/1982 Adopting the Employers Insurance Trust Plan
1982B
Res. 2/2/1982 2/2/1982 Authorizing the issuance of a tax anticipation in the amount of $225,000
Ord. 8/2/1982 8/2/1982 Authorizing the Township to participate as a settlor of the Penna Government
                       Investment Trust
Ord. 8/2/     8/2/1982 Authorizing the Township to participate as a settlor of the Penna. Government
1982A                  Investment Trust
Res. 8/2/1982 8/2/1982 Authorizing the Chairperson and the Secretary to execute an agreement for the benefit
                       of the government
Res. 9/1/1982 9/1/1982 Approving the amendment of the Urban Renewal Plan and the Redevelopment proposal for
                       the Plainsville Disaster Urban Renewal Project, PA. R-667
Res. 1/1/1983 1/1/1983 Authorizing the elimination of contributions made by members of the Plains Township
                       Police Department for the years commencing January 1, 1982 and January 1, 1983
Res. 7/4/1983 7/4/1983 Approving the amendment of the Urban Renewal Plan and the Redevelopment Proposal from
                       the Plainsville Disaster Urban Renewal Project, PA. R-667
Res. 8/15/    8/15/    Authorizing the President and Secretary to execute an agreement with John Baloga of
1983          1983     Baloga Construction, 5 Sunrise Drive, a contractor of property located in the
                       Hilldale Park Development
Ord. 10/–/  10/–/  Amendment to and ordinance establishing the Plains Township Police Pension Fund
1983          1983
Res. 1/1/1984 1/1/1984 To release and hold harmless the County of Luzerne under the Luzerne County Community
                       Development Demolition Program
Res. 1/2/1984 1/2/1984 That employees of the Township will, effective January 2, 1984, receive paychecks on
                       a bi-weekly basis
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
                       and Commissions within the Township: Civil Service Commission Paul Motski, William
                       Biniek and Louis Cardoni; Park and Recreation Board, Leo Pensieri, Louis Cardoni,
                       John A. Bonita, Francis Wallace, Charles Stanski, Mary Ann Williams, Melvin Jack
                       Bush, Amerigo Pennoni, Walter Shubila, Barry J. Centini and Jean Miscavage; Library
Res. 2/9/1984 2/9/1984 Board, Frank Sabatini, Dr. Walter Raven, Mary Ann Williams, Amerigo Pennoni, James
                       Liesiewicki and Mary Ann Kownacki; Zoning Hearing Board, Edward Klem, Chester
                       Cognigni, Arthur Pavia, Ronald Filippini and Fabian Maskinas; Planning Commission;
                       Joseph Petrenchak, Edward Gupko, Phil D. Pavia; Dr. Gus Moore; Michael Niznik, Arthur
                       Fanelli and Cathy Hoinski; and the Sewer Authority, Herman Cardoni, Simon Russin,
                       Daniel Rozanski, Dr. Joseph Falchek, Andrew Lazar and Ben Berrini (Liaison Officer
                       for Commissioners)
Res. 2/9/     2/9/1984 Authorizing officers to open a savings deposit account subject to telephone transfer
1984A                  authorization to First Eastern Bank, N.A.
Res. 4/26/    4/26/    Requesting a Site Development Grant of $50,000 from the Department of Commerce to be
1984          1984     used for rehabilitation and improvement of Tamarac Road, Second Street, Laird Street
                       and Eugene Drive
Res. 10/11/   10/11/   Taking the opportunity to congratulate the Plain’s Yankee’s “A” Cheerleaders; “B”
1984          1984     Cheerleaders; “C” Cheerleaders; and Strutters and wish them much success in the
                       future
Res. 1/10/    1/10/    Filling a vacancy in the Board of Commissioners by the death of Lindo Rossi
1985          1985
Res. 2/14/    2/14/    Authorizing the Chairperson and the Secretary to execute the agreement to conduct
1985          1985     project activity consisting of exploratory drilling, Hilldale as part of Project
                       Number OSM 40(525-84)
              12/30/   Designating the Luzerne County Industrial Development Committee c/o the Greater
Res. 1985-36  1985     Wilkes-Barre Chamber of Commerce as the Industrial Development Agency for the County
                       of Luzerne
Res. 1/6/1986 1/6/1986 Authorizing the date and time of the Township Commissioners’ monthly meeting
Res. 1/9/1986 1/9/1986 Appointing Don Wilkinson Agency to collect the following Act 511 taxes: Earned Income
                       Tax, Mercantile Tax, Occupational Privilege Tax, Admissions Tax and Parking Tax
Res. 2/13/    2/13/    Appointed Donald P. Williamson, President of A.S.C.O. Financial Group, Suite 6005,
1986          1986     Genetti Best Western as the Plains Township Municipality Pension Fund Consultant to
                       the Police, Fire and Non-uniform Pension Plans
Res. 4/10/    4/10/    Authorizing the elimination of contributions made by members of the Plains Township
1986          1986     Police Department for the years commencing January 1, 1984 and January 1, 1985
Res. 6/12/    6/12/    Authorizing the Chairperson to execute the Settlement Agreement on behalf of the
1986          1986     Township
Res. 9/11/    9/11/    Authorizing the filing of a proposal for funds with the Department of Community
1986          1986     Affairs
Res. 12/11/   12/11/   Appointing Patricia Sluhocki as the Chief Administrative Officer, Plains Township
1986          1986     Pension Plans
Res. 12/11/   12/11/   Appointing Don Wilkinson Agency to collect the following Act 511 taxes: Earned Income
1986A         1986     Tax, Mercantile Tax, Occupational Privilege Tax, Admissions Tax and Parking Tax
Res. 12/11/   12/11/   Authorizing the date and time of the Township Commissioners’ monthly meeting
1986B         1986
                       Authorizing the Chairperson and the Vice Chairperson to execute the Consent for Right
Res. 3/13/    3/13/    of Entry Agreement to conduct project activity consisting of access to drill
1987          1987     boreholes, drilling boreholes and a part of a subsurface investigation as part of
                       Government Project Number OSM PA(813)102.5 & OSM 40(1860
Res. 5/14/    5/14/    Instructing First Eastern Bank to issue a draft payable to the Commonwealth of
1987          1987     Pennsylvania in the amount of $3,438 as reimbursement for the overpayment
Res. 5/14/    5/14/    Authorizing the execution of various contracts for the Township’s FY 1986/87 Housing
1987A         1987     Assistance Program
Res. 6/11/    6/11/    Authorizing the Solicitor to take any and all steps necessary to allow the Township
1987          1987     to claim under the sharing provisions of the Municipal Government Unit Debt Act
Res. 6/11/    6/11/    Authorizing the Vice Chairperson to execute an assignment of the judgement to
1987A         1987     contractor in full satisfaction of all claims with contractor may have against the
                       Township for services provided
Res. 7/9/1987 7/9/1987 Authorizing the execution of a contract with the Pennsylvania Department of Community
                       Affairs
Res. 8/13/    8/13/    Establishing a housing rehabilitation program in connection with the F.Y. 1986/87
1987          1987     Housing and Redevelopment Assistance Grant, M.E. No. 305-86-0015
Res. 12/10/   12/10/   Authorizing the date and time of the Township Commissioners’ monthly meeting
1987A         1987
Res. 12/10/   12/10/   Appointing Don Wilkinson Agency to collect the following Act 511 taxes: Earned Income
1987B         1987     Tax, Mercantile Tax, Occupational Privilege Tax, Business Privilege Tax, Admissions
                       Tax, Parking Tax and Per Capita Tax
Res. 1/1/1988 1/1/1988 Appointing Patricia Sluhocki as the Chief Administrative Officer for the Plains
                       Township Pension Plans
Res. 1/14/    1/14/    Designating First Eastern Bank, N.A. as the official depository for Township funds
1988          1988
Res. 2/11/    2/11/    Authorizing the following check signers for the Township’s FY 1986/87 Pennsylvania
1988          1988     Housing and Development Assistance Program: Louise Pesotski, Chairperson of the Board
                       of Commissioners; Arthur Fanelli, Commissioner; and Richard Lussi, Treasurer
Res. 2/25/    2/25/    Establishing a Public Service Program
1988          1988
Res. 4/14/    4/14/    Amending the resolution establishing the Police Pension Fund providing for a cost of
1988          1988     living increase for members of the police force receiving retirement benefits
Res. 4/14/    4/14/    Authorizing the filing of an application to the Pennsylvania Department of Community
1988A         1988     Affairs for financial assistance for community planning
Res. 6/9/1988 6/9/1988 Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of Community
                       Affairs
Res. 10/13/   10/13/   Acknowledging the services offered to the blind by the Lions Club
1988          1988
Res. 10/20/   10/20/   Appointing a Plains Township Police Officer to the position of Assistant Chief
1988          1988
Ord. 1/12/    1/12/    Repealing the Municipal Retirement Ordinance and appointing administrator of the
1989          1989     Plains Township Non-uniformed Pension Plan
Res. 2/9/1989 2/9/1989 That members of the Plains Township Police Pension Plan shall contribute 5 percent of
                       their compensation
Res. 2/20/    2/20/    Requesting the Luzerne County Board of Commissioners, sitting as the Luzerne County
1989          1989     Board of Elections to place a referendum on the ballot of the Primary Election
                       Designating Luzerne County Industrial Development Committee C/O the Greater Wilkes-
Res. 3/9/1989 3/9/1989 Barre Chamber of Commerce as the Industrial Development Agency for the County of
                       Luzerne in all matters relevant to and for all purposes of the Industrial Development
                       Assistance Law
                       Authorizing and directing the Chairperson to purchase and sign the Highway
Res. 4/–/1984/–/198Restoration and Maintenance Bond on its behalf in reference to the East Carey Street
                       Improvement Project
Res. 9/14/    9/14/    Supporting any and all legislation, whether it be on a State or national level which
1989A         1989     would make burning, or any form of desecration of the American flag a very serious
                       crime to be punished as provided by law
Res. 11/14/   11/14/   Authorizing to execute the Consent for Right of Entry Agreement to conduct project
1989          1989     activity consisting of drilling boreholes as part of Government Project Number OSM 35
                       (813)104.5
Ord. 12/31/   12/31/   Setting the rate of compensation for the Township Treasurer
1989          1989
Res. 1990-1   1/11/    Appointing Patricia Sluhocki as the Chief Administrative Officer of the pension plans
              1990
              1/11/    Ratifying and authorizing the elimination of contributions made by members of the
Res. 1990-2   1990     Plains Township Police Department for the period commencing January 1, 1988 to June
                       30, 1988
              1/11/    Appointing Don Wilkinson Agency to collect the following Act 511 taxes: Earned Income
Res. 1990-3   1990     Tax, Mercantile Tax, Occupational Privilege Tax, Business Privilege Tax and Per
                       Capita Tax
Res. 1990-4   1/11/    Designating that the Merchants Bank, North as an official depository for Township
              1990     funds
              1/11/    Designating that the First Eastern Bank, N.A. as an official depository for the
Res. 1990-5   1990     following Township funds: General Fund Account, Payroll Account, State wide Account,
                       Disaster Fund Account, Sinking Fund Account, and the Community Development Account
Res. 1990-6   1/11/    Designating the United Penn Bank as an official depository for the Township funds
              1990
Res. 1990-7   1/11/    Authorizing certain actions regarding the Township’s FY 1986/87 Pennsylvania Housing
              1990     and Development Assistance Program
Res. 1990-8   1/11/    Authorizing the execution of amendments for contracts for the Township’s Housing
              1990     Assistance Program
Res. 1990-9   1/11/    Authorizing the execution of a contract with the Pennsylvania Department of Community
              1990     Affairs for the a F.Y. 1989/90 Housing and Development Assistance Grant
Res. 1990-10  1/11/    Authorizing the execution of various contracts for the Township’s FY 1989/90 Housing
              1990     and Development Assistance Grant
Res. 1990-11  1/25/    Appointing Donald Olszewski to Township Manager
              1990
Res. 1990-12  1/25/    Agreeing to enter into a Traffic Signal Maintenance Agreement, and authorizing and
              1990     directing the Chairperson to sign the agreement
Res. 1990-14  –/–/1Ratifying and approving Municipal Police Cooperation Agreement regarding illegal use
                       and traffic of narcotics and other dangerous drugs
Res. 1990-18  3/8/1990 Recommending amendments to House Bill No. 2293
                       Appointing Bernard W. Szot to act as Consultant/Grantsman to assist and prepare the
Res. 1990-19  3/8/1990 application for obtaining funds from the Department of Environmental Resources in the
                       amount of $148,017 for Municipal Recycling Program Grants
Res. 1990-20  3/8/1990 Fixing the rate of compensation of the Independent Auditor, Thomas Opiel, at the rate
                       of $50 per hour
Res. 1990-21  3/8/1990 Authorizing certain actions regarding the Township’s FY 1989/90 Pennsylvania Housing
                       and Development Assistance Program
Res. 1990-23  3/8/1990 Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
                       Environmental Resources
Res. 1990-24  3/8/1990 Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
                       Environmental Resources
Res. 1990-25  4/12/    Approving the payment of $312 to Reilly Associates for services performed relating to
              1990     the proposal for grant assistance F.Y. 1986/1987 Housing Assistance Program
Res. 1990-26  4/12/    Appointing Township Secretary and Assistant Secretary
              1990
Res. 1990-27  4/12/    Extending the agreement between the Township and Bear Creek Associates to October 12,
              1990     1990
                       Authorizing First Eastern Bank to make payment from the funds on deposit with it upon
              4/12/    and according to checks, drafts or notes signed by three signatures as hereinafter
Res. 1990-28  1990     stated; specifically signatures of Joseph J. Niemiec, Chairperson; Richard J. Lussi,
                       Treasurer and either the signature of Kathleen Lavisky, Secretary; of Patricia
                       Sluhicki, Assistant Secretary
                       Authorizing Merchants Bank to make payment from the funds on deposit with it upon and
              4/12/    according to checks, drafts or notes signed by three signatures as hereinafter
Res. 1990-29  1990     stated; specifically signatures of Joseph J. Niemiec, Chairperson; Richard J. Lussi,
                       Treasurer and either the signature of Kathleen Lavisky, Secretary; of Patricia
                       Sluhicki, Assistant Secretary
Res. 1990-30  4/12/    Approving Sergeant Leonard H. Sarnick’s request for his pension benefits
              1990
Res. 1990-31  5/10/    Establishing a Housing Rehabilitation Program in connection with the F.Y. 1989
              1990     Housing and Development Assistance Grant, Project No. 306-89-0069
Res. 1990-32  5/10/    To fill a vacancy on the Board of Commissioners
              1990
              5/10/    Authorizing Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson, to execute a contract on behalf of the
Res. 1990-34  1990     Township with Suzanne M. Jackiewicz for the minute transcriptions for the sum of
                       $5,000 plus cost
Res. 1990-35  5/10/    Compensating Bernard W. Szot at the rate of $20 per hour to serve as Project Officer
              1990     and Recycling Program
Res. 1990-36  5/10/    Entering into a contract for professional services with Bernard W. Szot, services of
              1990     Census Coordinator, compensating at the rate of $20 per hour
              5/10/    Appointing Arthur Finelli to serve as the Board of Commissioners Officer of the
Res. 1990-37  1990     Police Pension Fund and Sergeant Jack Timko as an officer of the Police Pension Fund
                       as the member representing the police force
              5/24/    Directing the Secretary to execute a certificate attesting the adoption of this
Res. 1990-38  1990     resolution whereas the Township is desirous of obtaining funds from the Department of
                       Community Affairs for the prevention and elimination of blight
                       Directing the Secretary to execute a certificate attesting the adoption of this
Res. 1990-39  5/24/    resolution whereas the Greater Wilkes-Barre Industrial Fund, Inc. plans to acquire a
              1990     200 acre site on East Mountain Boulevard for the purpose of developing a business
                       park
Res. 1990-40  5/24/    Appointing Patricia Sluhocki to serve as an officer of the Police Pension Fund
              1990
Res. 1990-41  6/14/    Authorizing the filing of a proposal for funds with the Department of Community
              1990     Affairs
              6/14/    Adopting and implementing a Municipal Police Cooperative Agreement between the
Ord. 1990-4   1990     Township and various municipalities, all of which are located in the boundaries of
                       Wyoming, Luzerne and Lackawanna Counties
Res. 1990-42A 7/12/    Joining with the Greater Wilkes-Barre Industrial Fund, Inc. as co-applicants for
              1990     funding under the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965
Res. 1990-45  8/9/1990 Authorizing and directing the Chairperson to sign the Department of Transportation
                       Winter Traffic Services 5-year Agreement
                       Authorizing Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson to execute the Consent for Right of Entry
              9/13/    Agreement to conduct project activity consisting of mobilization of equipment,
Res. 1990-46  1990     drilling core holes, installing steel casing pipe, demobilization or equipment and
                       clean up of the area upon completion of the project as part of Government Project
                       Number OSM 40(2173)
Res. 1990-48  10/11/   Authorizing the execution of an agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of
              1990     Environmental Resources for a Municipal Recycling Program and other related actions
Res. 8/9/1990 8/9/1990 Authorizing and directing the President to sign the attached agreement
Res. 1990-50  –/–/1Amending the benefits of the Township Manager
              11/8/    Desiring to obtain funds from the Penna. Department of Community Affairs for “The
Res. 1990-51  1990     Brick Park Project” under the Recreational Improvement and Rehabilitation Act (RIRA)
                       Program Grant
              11/8/    Appointing Bernard W. Szot to act as Grant Consultant to assist and prepare the
Res. 1990-53  1990     application to obtain funds from the Penna. Department of Community Affairs for a
                       Recreational Improvement and Rehabilitation Act (RIRA) Program Grant
              11/8/    Desiring to obtain funds from the Penna. Department of Community Affairs for “The
Res. 1990-52  1990     Brick Park Project” under the Recreational Improvement and Rehabilitation Act (RIRA)
                       Program Grant
Res. 1990-54  11/8/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
              1990     Environmental Resources
              11/8/    Appointing Bernard W. Szot to act as Grant Consultant to assist and prepare the
Res. 1990-55  1990     application to obtain funds from the Department of Environmental Resources for a
                       Municipal Recycling Program Grant
              1/10/    Authorizing the Chairperson to enter into the Contract No. 463-90-0004 with the
Res. 1991-2   1991     Department of Community Affairs pertaining to the Housing and Development Assistance
                       Program
Res. 1991-3   2/14/    Authorizing the Chairperson to sign and submit application for $932,000 grant from
              1991     the U.S. Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration
Res. 1991-4   2/14/    Fixing the contributions to the Police Pension Fund at 3 percent for the period
              1991     commencing January 1, 1991, to and including December 31, 1991
Res. 1991-5   2/14/    Recognizing and supporting the efforts of our servicemen and women and the support
              1991     personnel in their effort to restore freedom in the Middle East
Res. 1991-6   3/14/    Increasing the compensation of the Contract for Professional Services with Bernard W.
              1991     Szot form $1,200 to $1,700
Res. 1991-7   3/14/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
              1991     Environmental Resources for a Municipal Recycling Performance Grant
Res. 1991-8   4/11/    Authorizing Traffic Study for the intersections of Main Street S.R. 2024, S.R. 2022
              1991     (L.R. 40038), Abbott Street and Maffett Street S.R. 2024 (L.R. 40046)
Res. 1991-10  4/11/    Nominating John Timko to the Civil Service Commission for non-competitive examination
              1991     to fill the vacancy of Chief of Police
Res. 1991-13  6/6/1991 Authorizing the filing of a proposal for funds with the Department of Community
                       Affairs
Res. 1991-16  7/18/    To sponsor a flood protection project and to request the Bureau of Water Projects
              1991     conduct a study on this unnamed tributary of Mill Creek
Res. 1991-17  7/18/    Authorizing the execution of amendments to contracts for the Township’s Housing and
              1991     Community Development Program, Contract No. 306-89-0069
                       Authorizing the President and the Secretary to execute the Consent for Right of Entry
Res. 1991-18  7/18/    Agreement to conduct project activity consisting of Access to the Borehole, and
              1991     Stemming the Borehole and related activities as part of Government Project Number AD
                       387
Res. 1991-20  8/8/1991 Approving, adopting and placing into immediate effect the Emergency Operations Plan
Res. 1991-22  8/8/1991 Authorizing the execution of amendment to a contract for the Township’s Housing and
                       Community Development Program, Contract No. 306-89-0069
Res. 1991-25  10/10/   Objecting to the Reapportionment Plan adopted by the Legislative Reapportionment
              1991     Commission on September 25, 1991
              12/12/   Authorizing settlement of Equity Action No. 122-E of 1989 that was filed against Sam
Res. 1991-26  1991     Weinstein t/d/b/a Harry’s, and authorizing the Solicitor to file a Praecipe with the
                       Prothonotary marking Equity Action No. 122-E of 1989 settled and discontinued
              12/12/   Appointing the following individuals as new Trustee(s) of the Plains Township Non-
Res. 1991-27  1991     uniformed Employees Pension Plan: Patricia Sluhocki, Plan Administrator; Maryanne
                       Toole, Trustee; Ronald Wincke, Trustee; and Phillip Lukas, Trustee
              12/12/   Appointing the following individuals as new Trustee(s) of the Plains Township
Res. 1991-28  1991     Firemen’s Pension Plan and Trust: Robert Panatieri, Trustee; Carl Baker, Trustee;
                       Edward Suchoski, Trustee; and William Murray
Res. 1991-29  12/12/   Authorizing the execution of an agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of
              1991     Environmental Resources for a Municipal Recycling Program and other related actions
              2/13/    Authorizing the execution of a contract with the Pennsylvania Department of Community
Res. 1992-3   1992     Affairs for the Legislative Initiative Program and other related actions, Contract
                       No. 181-91-0382
              3/12/    Authorizing for the Township to deposit the following funds in the First Eastern
Res. 1992-8   1992     Bank, N.A.: General Fund Account; Payroll Account; State Wide Account; Disaster Fund
                       Accout; Sinking Fund Account; and Community Development Account
Res. 1992-9   3/12/    Specifically authorizing for the Township to deposit refuse funds in a refuse fund
              1992     account, as well as a money market account in the Merchants Bank
Res. 1992-10  3/12/    Specifically authorizing for the Township to deposit community development funds in a
              1992     community development fund account in the United Penn Bank
              3/16/    Fixing the amount of the additional Fidelity Bond of the Treasurer/Tax Collector, for
Res. 1992-11  1992     the benefit of the Township, Wilkes-Barre School District, Luzerne County [including
                       the institutional district], in the amount of $2,378,008.34
Res. 1992-12  3/16/    Fixing the amount of the additional Fidelity Bond of the Treasurer/Tax Collector to
              1992     be in the amount of $750,000
              3/16/    Fixing the time for monthly reports to the taxing body giving the names of the
Res. 1992-13  1992     taxable, the amounts collected from each, along with discounts granted or penalties
                       applied
Res. 1992-14  3/12/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
              1992     Environmental Resources for the Municipal Recycling Performance Grant for 1991
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., General Fund Checking
Res. 1992-15  3/12/    Account, 380-512-4, and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures
              1992     from the following officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Joseph Kropiewnick,
                       Treasurer; Kathleen Levisky, Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., Payroll Checking Account,
Res. 1992-16  3/12/    380-544-7, and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from the
              1992     following officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Joseph Kropiewnick, Treasurer;
                       Kathleen Levisky, Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., Community Development
              3/12/    Checking Account, 000-123-0, and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving
Res. 1992-17  1992     signatures from the following officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Joseph
                       Kropiewnick, Treasurer; Kathleen Levisky, Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant
                       Secretary
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., Sinking Fund Checking
Res. 1992-18  3/12/    Account, 380-576-9, and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures
              1992     from the following officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Joseph Kropiewnick,
                       Treasurer; Kathleen Levisky, Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., State Aid Checking Account,
Res. 1992-19  3/12/    380-608-0, and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from the
              1992     following officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Joseph Kropiewnick, Treasurer;
                       Kathleen Levisky, Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
              3/12/    Authorizing officers to open a deposit account to Merchants Bank North: Joseph
Res. 1992-20  1992     Niemiec, Chairperson; Joseph Kropiewnicki, Treasurer; Kathleen Levisky, Secretary;
                       and Patricia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., General Fund Checking
Res. 1992-21  3/23/    Account, 380-512-4, and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures
              1992     from the following officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Arthur Fanelli, Treasurer;
                       Kathleen Levisky, Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., Payroll Checking Account
Res. 1992-22  3/23/    and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from the following
              1992     officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Arthur Fanelli, Treasurer; Kathleen Levisky,
                       Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., Sinking Fund Checking
Res. 1992-23  3/23/    Account and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from the
              1992     following officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Arthur Fanelli, Treasurer; Kathleen
                       Levisky, Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., State Aid Checking Account
Res. 1992-24  3/23/    and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from the following
              1992     officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Arthur Fanelli, Treasurer; Kathleen Levisky,
                       Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., Community Development
Res. 1992-25  3/23/    Checking Account and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures
              1992     from the following officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Arthur Fanelli, Treasurer;
                       Kathleen Levisky, Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
              3/23/    Authorizing officers to open a deposit account to Merchants Bank North: Joseph
Res. 1992-26  1992     Niemiec, Chairperson; Kathleen Levisky, Secretary; and Patricia Sluhocki, Assistant
                       Secretary
Res. 1992-27  4/9/1992 Authorizing savings deposit account subject to telephone transfer, State Aid Account,
                       C/A#380-608-0, in the First Eastern Bank, N.A.
Res. 1992-28  4/9/1992 Authorizing savings deposit account subject to telephone transfer, State Aid Account,
                       in the First Eastern Bank, N.A.
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., State Aid Savings Account
Res. 1992-29  4/9/1992 and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from the following
                       officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Arthur Fanelli, Treasurer; Kathleen Levisky,
                       Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., Sinking Fund Savings
Res. 1992-30  4/9/1992 Account and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from the
                       following officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Arthur Fanelli, Treasurer; Kathleen
                       Levisky, Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
Res. 1992-31  4/9/1992 Authorizing savings deposit account subject to telephone transfer, Sinking Fund, C/
                       A#380-576-9, in the First Eastern Bank, N.A.
Res. 1992-32  4/9/1992 Authorizing savings deposit account subject to telephone transfer, Sinking Fund, in
                       the First Eastern Bank, N.A.
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., General Fund Savings
Res. 1992-33  4/9/1992 Account and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from the
                       following officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Arthur Fanelli, Treasurer; Kathleen
                       Levisky, Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
Res. 1992-34  4/9/1992 Authorizing savings deposit account subject to telephone transfer, General Fund, C/
                       A#380-512-4, in the First Eastern Bank, N.A.
Res. 1992-35  4/9/1992 Authorizing savings deposit account subject to telephone transfer, General Fund, in
                       the First Eastern Bank, N.A.
                       Authorizing the execution of a contract with the Pennsylvania Department of Community
Res. 1992-36  4/9/1992 Affairs for the Legislative Initiative Program and other related actions, Contract
                       No. 181-91-1725
              5/14/    Authorizing officers to open a deposit account to Merchants Bank North: Joseph
Res. 1992-37  1992     Niemiec, Chairperson; Arthur Fanelli, Treasurer; Kathleen Levisky, Secretary; and
                       Patricia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
Res. 1992-39  5/14/    Increasing the compensation of the Contract for Professional Services with Bernard W.
              1992     Szot from $5,600 to $6,600
              5/14/    Authorizing grant services necessary for the execution of an agreement with the
Res. 1992-40  1992     Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources for a Municipal Recycling Program
                       Grant ME 91530
Res. 1992-42  7/16/    Authorizing the execution of a modification to the site improvement plan for the
              1992     Township’s Housing and Community Development Program, Contract No. 306-89-0069
Res. 1992-43  8/13/    Requesting permission to participate in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Cooperative
              1992     Purchasing Program
Res. 1992-43A 9/10/    Urging the Luzerne County Board of Commissioners to conduct a County-Wide
              1992     Reassessment of Real Estate
Res. 1992-46  11/12/   Authorizing the filing of proposals for funds under the Penna. Legislative Initiative
              1992     Program
Res. 1992-47  12/10/   Appointing Donald A. Olszewski to the position of Township Manager, effective January
              1992     1, 1993 for a period of 3 years
                       Authorizing that no contributions be made or deducted from the wages of members of
Res. 1992-48  12/10/   the Plains Township Police Department who are eligible, and who participate in the
              1992     Plains Township Police Pension Fund for the period commencing January 1, 1993, to and
                       including December 31, 1993
Res. 1992-49  12/10/   Ratifying and agreeing to said definition and conditions concerning the Review
              1992     Committee, and agreeing to appoint a person to serve on said Review Committee
Ord. 1993-1   1/14/    Ordinance of the Township of Plains Binding Ballot Question Referendum
              1993
Ord. 1993-4   2/11/    Rescinding Binding Ballot Question Referendum
              1993
Res. 1993-6   1/14/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
              1993     Environmental Resources for a Municipal Recycling Performance Grant for 1992
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., General Fund Checking
Res. 1993-7   2/26/    Account and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from the
              1993     following officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Mary Jayne K. Milkanin, Treasurer;
                       Kathleen Levisky, Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., General Account, 0404800-
Res. 1993-8   2/26/    016-7, and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from the
              1993     following officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Mary Jayne K. Milkanin, Treasurer;
                       Kathleen Levisky, Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., Payroll Checking Account,
Res. 1993-9   2/26/    380-544-7, and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from the
              1993     following officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Mary Jayne K. Milkanin, Treasurer;
                       Kathleen Levisky, Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., (BIA) Savings Account, 04-
Res. 1993-10  2/26/    4800-0141-1, and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from
              1993     the following officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Mary Jayne K. Milkanin,
                       Treasurer; Kathleen Levisky, Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., Sinking Fund Checking
Res. 1993-11  2/26/    Account, 380-576-9, and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures
              1993     from the following officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Mary Jayne K. Milkanin,
                       Treasurer; Kathleen Levisky, Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., Sinking Fund Savings
              2/26/    Account, 04-4800-015-4, and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving
Res. 1993-12  1993     signatures from the following officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Mary Jayne K.
                       Milkanin, Treasurer; Kathleen Levisky, Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant
                       Secretary
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., Community Development
              2/26/    Checking Account, 000-123-0, and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving
Res. 1993-13  1993     signatures from the following officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Mary Jayne K.
                       Milkanin, Treasurer; Kathleen Levisky, Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant
                       Secretary
                       Designating bank as depository, First Eastern Bank, N.A., State Aid Checking Account,
Res. 1993-14  2/26/    380-608-0, and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from the
              1993     following officers: Joseph Niemiec, Chairperson; Mary Jayne K. Milkanin, Treasurer;
                       Kathleen Levisky, Secretary; and Particia Sluhocki, Assistant Secretary
Res. 1993-16  3/11/    Recognizing and acknowledging the efforts of the Lehigh to Susquehanna Trail
              1993     Feasibility Study Task Force
Res. 1993-16A 3/11/    Authorizing and directing the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners to sign the
              1993     attached agreement
Res. 1993-    3/11/    Amending the wage provisions of the Employment Contract for Chief John Timko, with
              1993     regard to the bi-weekly base rate
Res. 1993-19  7/8/1993 Authorizing the execution of amendments to contracts for the Township’s Housing and
                       Community Development Program, Contract No. 306-89-0069
Res. 1993-20  7/8/1993 To compensate Donald A. Olszewski, Township Manager, for the 10 days of vacation due
                       him that will go unused at his per diem rate
                       Authorizing the execution of a contract with the Pennsylvania Department of Community
Res. 1993-21  7/9/1993 Affairs for the Legislative Initiative Program and other related actions, Contract
                       No. 181-91-4084
Res. 1993-22  8/3/1993 Authorizing the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners to forward a letter to the
                       Chairperson of the Civil Service Commission outlining the criteria set forth
Res. 1993-23  8/12/    Requesting that the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation perform a traffic study
              1993     on North Main Street
Res. 1993-24  9/9/1993 Appointing Kenneth Johnson to the position of Township Manager, effective immediately
Res. 1993-25  9/9/1993 Authorizing the filing of a proposal for funds with the Department of Community
                       Affairs
              9/16/    Approving the Indemnification Agreement and Highway Occupancy Permit Obligation Bond,
Res. 1993-28  1993     and authorizing the Chairperson and Secretary to execute the Indemnification
                       Agreement and Highway Occupancy Permit Obligation Bond
Res. 1993-30  11/11/   Fixing the amount of the additional Fidelity Bond of the Treasurer/Tax Collector to
              1993     be in the amount of $750,000
                       Authorizing a corrective deed for the purposes of correcting the lack of a Notary on
Res. 1993-33  12/9/    the previous deed that the Township prepared and executed, dated December 8, 1992,
              1993     conveying Lot No. 1 on the Atherton Street Subdivision to John S. Pappadakis and
                       Josette Pappadakis, his wife
Ord. 1993-9   12/9/    Municipal Cooperation Agreement between the Township and the Housing Authority of
              1993     Luzerne County
                       Authorizing the Secretary of the Board of Commissioners to forward a letter to each
              12/30/   Housing Board member appointed informing him/her of his appointment and a letter to
Res. 1993-36  1993     the Township Manager directing him to schedule a organizational meeting of the
                       Housing Board; Gerald Cross, Father Michael Kloton, Peter Hrycenko, William Kozerski
                       and Attorney Lesa Geib
Res. 1993-37  12/30/   That Kenneth Johnson, the current Township Manager, received in addition to other
              1993     fringe benefits previously approved, the pension benefit specified
              12/30/   Fixing the police contributions by members of the Plains Township Police Department
Res. 1993-38  1993     to the Plains Township Police Pension Fund at 3 percent for the period commencing
                       January 1, 1994, to and including, December 31, 1994
Res. 1994-1   1/3/1994 Designating First Eastern Bank, N.A., as depository for General Fund C/A#380-512-4
Res. 1994-2   1/3/1994 Designating First Eastern Bank, N.A., as depository for General Fund S/A#04-4800-016-
                       7
Res. 1994-3   1/3/1994 Designating First Eastern Bank, N.A., as depository for General Fund S/A#04-4800-016-
                       7
Res. 1994-4   1/3/1994 Designating First Eastern Bank, N.A., as depository for Refuse Collection C/A#3010-
                       308-9
Res. 1994-5   1/3/1994 Designating First Eastern Bank, N.A., as depository for Refuse Collection S/A 04-
                       4800-019-6
Res. 1994-6   1/3/1994 Authorizing savings deposit account subject to telephone transfer, Refuse Collection,
                       to be paid into a savings account in the First Eastern Bank, N.A.
Res. 1994-7   1/3/1994 Designating First Eastern Bank, N.A., as depository for Laurel Run Corp. Escrow
                       Account C/A#3010-302-2
Res. 1994-8   1/3/1994 Designating First Eastern Bank, N.A., as depository for Payroll Account C/A#380-544-7
Res. 1994-9   1/3/1994 Designating First Eastern Bank, N.A., as depository for Community Development Account
                       C/A#000-123-0
Res. 1994-10  1/3/1994 Designating First Eastern Bank, N.A., as depository for State Aid Account C/A#380-
                       608-0
Res. 1994-11  1/3/1994 Designating First Eastern Bank, N.A., as depository for State Aid Account S/A#04-
                       4800-014-1
Res. 1994-12  1/3/1994 Authorizing savings deposit account subject to telephone transfer, State Aid Account,
                       to be paid into a savings account in the First Eastern Bank, N.A.
Res. 1994-13  1/3/1994 Designating First Eastern Bank, N.A., as depository for Sinking Fund C/A#380-576-9
Res. 1994-14  1/3/1994 Designating First Eastern Bank, N.A., as depository for Sinking Fund S/A#04-4800-015-
                       4
Res. 1994-15  1/3/1994 Authorizing savings deposit account subject to telephone transfer, Sinking Fund, to
                       be paid into a savings account in the First Eastern Bank, N.A.
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
                       and Commissions within the Township: Municipal Sanitary Sewer Authority, Simon
              1/13/    Russin, 4-year term to expire 12/31/1997 and Joseph Falchek, 4-year term to expire
Res. 1994-16  1994     12/31/1997; Park and Recreation Board, Louis Cardoni, 4-year term to expire 12/31/
                       1997, John Kozerski, 4-year term to expire 12/31/1997 and John Million, 4-year term
                       to expire 12/31/1997; and the Zoning Hearing Board, Robert Post, 3-year term to
                       expire 12/31/1996 and Mario Ercolani, filling unexpired term–12/31/1994
              1/13/    Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 1994-17  1994     and Commissions within the Township: Civil Service Commission, Joseph Canerini, 6-
                       year term to expire 12/31/1999
Res. 1994-21  3/23/    Authorizing the Chairperson to sign Reimbursement Agreement #041154
              1994
              5/12/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
Res. 1994-22  1994     Environmental Protection, for a Municipal Recycling Performance Grant for the year of
                       1993
                       To release and hold harmless the County of Luzerne from all claims, causes of actions
Res. 1994-23  6/9/1994 brought by the property owners or any other party as a result of demolition of
                       property located on 50 Slope Street
                       Authorizing the execution of a contract with the Pennsylvania Department of Community
Res. 1994-24  6/9/1994 Affairs for the Legislative Initiative Program and other related actions, Contract
                       No. 181-93-2795
                       Authorizing and ratifying the signing of the “EJCDC Standard Form of Agreement
              7/14/    Between Owner and Contractor on the Basis of Stipulated Price” to be entered into by
Res. 1994-25  1994     and between Greater Wilkes-Barre Industrial Fund, Inc. and Plains Township and
                       American Asphalt Paving Company for planned construction improvements to East
                       Mountain Boulevard and Jumper Road for the East Mountain Business Park Project
Res. 1994-27  7/14/    Authorizing the filing of a proposal for funds with the Department of Community
              1994     Affairs
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the State Aid Account Money Market 92-8502-
Res. 1994-28  8/11/    883-2 and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of
              1994     its following officers: Thomas Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Canterini, Vice
                       Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James E. Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the State Aid Account Checking 92-0380-608-
Res. 1994-29  8/11/    0 and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
              1994     following officers: Thomas Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Canterini, Vice Chairperson;
                       Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James E. Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Payroll Checking 92-0380-544-0 and
Res. 1994-30  8/11/    authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
              1994     following officers: Thomas Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Canterini, Vice Chairperson;
                       Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James E. Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Sinking Fund Money Market 92-85-2-884-
Res. 1994-31  8/11/    0 and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
              1994     following officers: Thomas Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Canterini, Vice Chairperson;
                       Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James E. Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Sinking fund Checking 92-0380-576-6 and
Res. 1994-32  8/11/    authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
              1994     following officers: Thomas Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Canterini, Vice Chairperson;
                       Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James E. Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Refuse Collection Account Money Market
Res. 1994-33  8/11/    92-8502-886-7 and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from
              1994     three of its following officers: Thomas Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Canterini, Vice
                       Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James E. Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Refuse Collection Account Checking 92-
Res. 1994-34  8/11/    3010-308-1 and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from
              1994     three of its following officers: Thomas Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Canterini, Vice
                       Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James E. Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the General Fund Checking 92-0380-512-5 and
Res. 1994-35  8/11/    authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
              1994     following officers: Thomas Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Canterini, Vice Chairperson;
                       Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James E. Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the General Fund Money Market 9285028859 and
Res. 1994-36  8/11/    authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
              1994     following officers: Thomas Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Canterini, Vice Chairperson;
                       Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James E. Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Kaurek Run Corp Escrow Acct. 92-3010-
Res. 1994-37  8/11/    302-2 and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of
              1994     its following officers: Thomas Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Canterini, Vice
                       Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James E. Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Birchwood Hills Trust Agreement 1993 CD
Res. 1994-38  8/11/    #504-035-1944943 and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures
              1994     from three of its following officers: Thomas Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Canterini,
                       Vice Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James E. Chiucchi, Treasurer
Res. 1994-39  8/11/    Stating that no purchase order shall be issued for capital equipment purchases
              1994     without prior approval from the Board of Commissioners
Ord. 1994-2   8/11/    Authorizing entry into the Municipal Cooperation Agreement in regard to the Traffic
              1994     Signal Master Interconnect Controller Maintenance Agreement
Res. 1994-41  10/13/   Authorizing the appointment of one temporary Deputy Fire Chief to the Plains Township
              1994     Fire Department
              10/13/   Authorizing the execution of a contract with the Pennsylvania Department of Community
Res. 1994-42  1994     Affairs for a F.Y. 1993 Housing and Development Assistance Program, Contract No. 306-
                       93-0058
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the General Fund Account Money Market
Res. 1994-43  11/17/   Checking 92-0380-5125 and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving
              1994     signatures from three of its following officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson,
                       Secretary and Treasurer
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the State Aid Account Money Market Savings
Res. 1994-44  11/17/   9285028832 and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from
              1994     three of its following officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary and
                       Treasurer
              11/17/   Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the State Aid Checking Account #9203806080
Res. 1994-45  1994     and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
                       following officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer
              11/17/   Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Payroll Checking Account #92-0380-5440
Res. 1994-46  1994     and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
                       following officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the General Fund Money Market Savings 92-
Res. 1994-47  11/17/   8502-8859 and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from
              1994     three of its following officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary and
                       Treasurer
              11/17/   Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Sinking Fund Account Checking #92-0380-
Res. 1994-48  1994     5766 and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of
                       its following officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Refuse Account Money Market Checking 93-
Res. 1994-49  11/17/   3010-3081 and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from
              1994     three of its following officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary and
                       Treasurer
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Sinking Fund Money Market Savings
Res. 1994-50  11/17/   #9285028840 and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from
              1994     three of its following officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary and
                       Treasurer
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Refuse Collection Account Money Market
Res. 1994-51  11/17/   Savings 92-8502-886-7 and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving
              1994     signatures from three of its following officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson,
                       Secretary and Treasurer
Res. 1995-1   1/12/    Authorizing the appointment of one temporary Sergeant to the Plains Township Police
              1995     Department
              1/12/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
Res. 1995-3   1995     Environmental Protection, for a Municipal Recycling Performance Grant for the year of
                       1994
              1/12/    Fixing the police contributions by members of the Plains Township Police Department
Res. 1995-4   1995     to the Plains Township Police Pension Fund at 3 percent for the period commencing
                       January 1, 1995, to and including, December 31, 1995
              1/12/    Fixing the police contributions by members of the Plains Township Police Department
Res. 1995-5   1995     to the Plains Township Police Pension Fund at 3 percent for the period commencing
                       January 1, 1994, to and including, December 31, 1994
Res. 1995-6   2/9/1995 Authorizing certain actions regarding the Township’s FY 1993 Pennsylvania Housing and
                       Development Assistance Program, Contract No. 306-93-0058
                       Authorizing Joseph Hoinski, Fire Chief; Frank Pizzelli, Police Commissioner; Louis
Res. 1995-8   3/9/1995 Cardeni, Recreation Board Vice Chairperson; and Thomas Karalick, Commissioner to
                       apply for participation in and acquire Federal surplus property from the Pennsylvania
                       Federal Surplus Property Program
                       Fixing the police contributions by members of the Plains Township Police Department
Res. 1995-9   –/–/1to the Plains Township Police Pension Fund at 3 percent for the period commencing
                       January 1, 1992, to and including, December 31, 1992
Res. 1995-10  3/9/1995 Authorizing execution of various grant documents and application for funding under
                       the Copsmore Program
Res. 1995-11  4/13/    Defining duties and increasing compensation for the positions of Township Secretary
              1995     and Assistant Secretary
              4/13/    Joining with other local governmental units in accordance with the Intergovernmental
Ord. 1995-1   1995     Cooperation Act and other similar Acts by becoming settlor of the Pennsylvania Local
                       Government Investment Trust
Res. 1995-13  6/8/1995 Authorizing execution and delivery of the certification and request for payment on
                       behalf of the Township for approve project costs (fire apparatus)
Res. 1995-15  8/10/    Authorizing the filing of a proposal for funds with the Department of Community
              1995     Affairs
Res. 1995-18  9/14/    Authorizing and direction the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners to sign the
              1995     attached grant
Res. 1995-19  9/14/    Authorizing the removal of one temporary Sergeant and appointment of one Sergeant to
              1995     the Plains Township Police Department
              10/12/   To release and hold harmless the County of Luzerne from all claims, causes of actions
Res. 1995-20  1995     brought by the property owners or any other party as a result of demolition of
                       property located on 197 Courtright Street
              11/9/    Agreeing to be bound by the terms and conditions as the Central Westmoreland Council
Res. 1995-21  1995     of Governments may prescribe and be responsible for the direct payment to a vendor or
                       supplier or goods, services and/or equipment
Ord. 1995-6   12/14/   Including the Township Commissioners in the Township’s insurance programs
              1995
Ord. 1995-7   12/14/   Establishing the compensation of the Township Commissioners
              1995
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the General Fund Account #92-380-512-5 and
Res. 1996-1   1/2/1996 authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
                       officers
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Payroll Account #92-0380-544-0 and
Res. 1996-2   1/2/1996 authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
                       officers
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Sinking Fund Account #92-0380-576-6 and
Res. 1996-3   1/2/1996 authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
                       officers
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the State Aid Account #92-0380-608-0 and
Res. 1996-4   1/2/1996 authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
                       officers
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Laurel Run Escrow Account #9230103023
Res. 1996-5   1/2/1996 and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
                       officers
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the State Aid Money Market 92-8502-883-2 and
Res. 1996-6   1/2/1996 authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
                       officers
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the General Fund Money Market 9285028859 and
Res. 1996-7   1/2/1996 authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
                       officers
                       Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Sinking Fund Money Market 92-8502-884-
Res. 1996-8   1/2/1996 0 and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
                       officers
Res. 1996-9   1/18/    Desiring to develop the Plains Township Municipal Park, Keystone Recreation, Park and
              1996     Conservation Fund Community Grant Program
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
              1/18/    and Commissions within the Township: Municipal Sanitary Sewer Authority, Andrew
Res. 1996-10  1996     Lazar, 5-year term to expire December 31, 2000; Planning Commission, Frank Westawski,
                       5-year term to expire December 31, 2000; and the Recreation Board, Leo Fedor, 5-year
                       term to expire December 31, 2000
Res. 1996-14  2/8/1996 That the Wilkes-Barre Area School District designate the new school in Plains
                       Township as the Plains Memorial Educational Complex
              2/22/    Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Disaster Account and authorizing
Res. 1996-15  1996     payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its following
                       officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer
                       Authorizing Thomas Kovalick–Frank Pizzella, Chairperson–Commissioner, to execute for
Res. 1996-16  2/22/    and in behalf of the Township Board of Commissioners for the purpose of obtaining
              1996     financial assistance under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency
                       Assistance Act
Res. 1996-18  3/14/    Authorizing the Township to enter into a Cooperation Agreement with the Redevelopment
              1996     Authority of Luzerne County
              3/14/    Authorizing Thomas Kovalick–Brigid O’Connor, Commissioners, to execute for and in
Res. 1996-17  1996     behalf of the Township Board of Commissioners for the purpose of obtaining financial
                       assistance under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
              4/11/    Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Sinking Fund 9285028840 and authorizing
Res. 1996-19  1996     payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its following
                       officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer
              4/11/    Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the General Fund 9203805125 and authorizing
Res. 1996-20  1996     payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its following
                       officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer
              4/11/    Designating PNC Bank as a depository for 9285028859 and authorizing payments from the
Res. 1996-21  1996     fund after receiving signatures from three of its following officers: Chairperson,
                       Vice Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer
              4/11/    Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Payroll Account 9203805440 and
Res. 1996-22  1996     authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
                       following officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer
              4/11/    Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the State Aid Fund 9203806080 and
Res. 1996-23  1996     authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
                       following officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer
              4/11/    Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Laruel Run Corp. Esc. Acct. 9230103022
Res. 1996-24  1996     and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
                       following officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer
              4/11/    Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Sinking Fund 9203805766 and authorizing
Res. 1996-25  1996     payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its following
                       officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer
              4/11/    Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Community Development Account 920001236
Res. 1996-26  1996     and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
                       following officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer
              4/11/    Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the State Aid Account 9285028832 and
Res. 1996-27  1996     authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
                       following officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer
              4/11/    Designating PNC Bank as a depository for the Disaster Account 9000445318 and
Res. 1996-28  1996     authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures from three of its
                       following officers: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer
              4/11/    To release and hold harmless the County of Luzerne from all claims, causes of actions
Res. 1996-29  1996     brought by the property owners or any other party as a result of demolition of
                       property located on 18 Miner Street
Res. 1996-30  5/9/1996 Desiring of obtaining funds from the Department of Community Affairs, for a Housing
                       and Redevelopment Assistance Program Grant for the “Irishtown/Miner Street Project”
Res. 1996-31  5/9/1996 Authorizing the filing of a proposal for funds with the Department of Community
                       Affairs, “Irishtown/Miner Street Project”
              6/13/    To release and hold harmless the County of Luzerne from all claims, causes of actions
Res. 1996-32  1996     brought by the property owners or any other party as a result of demolition of
                       property located on 2-3 Cemetery Street
              6/13/    Acknowledging that the Tourist Promotion Agency of Luzerne County will be designated
Res. 1996-35  1996     county entity for the promotion of tourism and economic development, and the
                       designated agency to receive appropriate funding from the PA Department of Commerce
              7/11/    To release and hold harmless the County of Luzerne from all claims, causes of actions
Res. 1996-36  1996     brought by the property owners or any other party as a result of demolition of
                       property located rear of 113 Henry Street
              12/12/   Keystone Recreation, Park and Conservation Fund Acquisition and Development Grant
Res. 1996-39  1996     Programs; desiring to develop/rehabilitate Municipal Park Roadway and Restroom
                       Facility
Res. 1996-40  1/1/1997 Reestablishing Police Pension Committee and designating the members thereof
Res. 1996-41  12/12/   Supporting the proposed trail from Duryea to Luzerne County Courthouse in Wilkes-
              1996     Barre
                       Designating Robert Stella, Chairperson and/or Brigid O’Connor, when acting as
Res. 1997-1   1/9/1997 chairperson, as authorized signatories of Federal Aid Reimbursement Agreement No.
                       041568 for Laird Street reconstruction
              3/13/    Objecting to any consideration to consolidate, close or to any degree, impede the
Res. 1997-7   1997     effectiveness of the State Police Crime Lab at Wyoming Barracks and urge Governor
                       Ridge to reject any such proposals from the PRIME Laboratory Task Force
Res. 1997-9   3/13/    Authorizing the filing of a request for a waiver with the United States Department of
              1997     Justice and other related actions
              3/13/    Appointing Bernard W. Szot to act as Grants Co-ordinator/Recycling Co-ordinator; and
Res. 1997-10  1997     shall be compensated the sum of $5,500 for the investigation and preparation and
                       submission of an application to obtain funds for a Municipal Recycling Program Grant
              4/10/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
Res. 1997-11  1997     Environmental Protection, for a Municipal Recycling Performance Grant for the year of
                       1996
                       Designating First Heritage Bank as the depository for funds of the Township’s Shade
              4/10/    Tree Commissioners and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving signatures
Res. 1997-12  1997     from three of it’s following officers: Robert Stella, Chairperson; Brigid M.
                       O’Connor, Vice Chairperson; James Chiucchi, Treasurer; and Kathleen O’Boyle,
                       Secretary
                       Designating First Heritage Bank as the depository for funds of the Township’s
              3/20/    Community Policing Program and authorizing payments from the fund after receiving
Res. 1997-13  1997     signatures from three of it’s following officers: Robert Stella, Chairperson; Brigid
                       M. O’Connor, Vice Chairperson; James Chiucchi, Treasurer; and Kathleen O’Boyle,
                       Secretary
              5/14/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
Res. 1997-15  1997     Environmental Protection in the amount of $118,000 for Municipal Recycling Program
                       Grants
                       Recognizing the Board of Education of the Wilkes-Barre Area School District for
Res. 1997-19  8/–/199replacing three elementary schools and one junior high school with the construction
                       of a new state of the art elementary through junior high school building in Plains
                       Township
Ord. 1997-5   10/9/    Setting the rate of compensation for the Township Treasurer
              1997
                       Amending the Firemen’s Money Purchase Pension Plan to incorporate participant
Res. 1997-25  10/9/    directed accounts within the Pension Trust and approving the appointment of Manulife
              1997     Financial as the Plan’s Trustee and Investment Manager, and terminating the services
                       of Safeco Life and Provident Mutual for said Pension Plan
              11/13/   To release and hold harmless the County of Luzerne from all claims, causes of actions
Res. 1997-26  1997     brought by the property owners or any other party as a result of demolition of
                       property located on 105 South Main Street
              11/13/   To release and hold harmless the County of Luzerne from all claims, causes of actions
Res. 1997-27  1997     brought by the property owners or any other party as a result of demolition of
                       property located rear of 112 Cleveland Street
Res. 1997-28  11/13/   Authorizing the execution of amendments to contracts for the Township’s Housing and
              1997     Community Development Program Contract No. 306-93-0058
Res. 1998-1   1/8/1998 Reducing the contributions to the Plains Township Police Pension Fund to 3 percent of
                       the members compensation for the calendar year 1998
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
                       and Commissions within the Township: Sewer Authority, Joseph Parada, 5-year term to
                       expire 12/31/2002 and Stanley Rowny, 5-year term to expire 12/31/2002; Park and
Res. 1998-2   1/8/1998 Recreation Board, John Million, Jr., 4-year term to expire 12/31/2001, Louis Cardoni,
                       4-year term to expire 12/31/2001 and John Kozerski, 4-year term to expire 12/31/2001;
                       Planning Commission, Robert Stella, Sr., 4-year term to expire 12/31/2001; and Civil
                       Service Commission, William Biniek, 4-year term to expire 12/31/2001
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 1998-3   2/12/    and Commissions within the Township: Housing Board, Nancy Conlon, 4-year term to
              1998     expire 12/31/2001, Keith Graham, 4-year term to expire 12/31/2001 and Anthony Dente,
                       4-year term to expire 12/31/2001
              2/12/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
Res. 1998-4   1998     Environmental Protection, for a Municipal Recycling Performance Grant for the year of
                       1997
Res. 1998-5   3/19/    To participate in a Luzerne County Criminal Intelligence and Analysis Support Unit
              1998     operated by the Luzerne County Sheriff’s office
Res. 1998-8   4/30/    Approving an application for Community Development Block Grant Funding and the filing
              1998     of an application for financial assistance
              9/10/    To release and hold harmless the County of Luzerne from all claims, causes of actions
Res. 1998-11  1998     brought by the property owners or any other party as a result of demolition of
                       property located on 193 Ridgewood Road
              10/8/    To release and hold harmless the County of Luzerne from all claims, causes of actions
Res. 1998-12  1998     brought by the property owners or any other party as a result of demolition of
                       property located on 187 Seminole Avenue
Res. 1998-14  12/14/   Authorizing and directing the Chairperson of the Township to sign the Agility
              1998     Agreement
                       Contingently exempting real property taxes within a specific geographic area in
              12/29/   Luzerne and Lackawanna Counties designated as a proposed Keystone Opportunities Zone
Res. 1998-14A 1998     in order to foster economic opportunities, stimulate industrial, commercial,
                       residential improvements and prevent physical and infrastructure deterioration within
                       areas of Luzerne and Lackawanna Counties
              1/14/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
Res. 1999-1   1999     Environmental Protection, for a Municipal Recycling Performance Grant for the year of
                       1998
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
                       and Commissions within the Township: Parks and Recreation Board, Pat Delessandro, 4-
Res. 1999-2   2/11/    year term to expire 12/31/2002; Zoning Hearing Board, Mario Ercolani, 4-year term to
              1999     expire 12/31/2002 and Carl Stella, 4-year term to expire 12/31/2002; Planning
                       Commission, Gerald Yozwiak, 4-year term to expire 12/31/2002; and the Civil Service
                       Commission, Lenny Sarnick, 4-year term to expire 12/31/2002
Res. 1999-3   2/11/    Eliminating Parcel No. 1 from consideration as a proposed Keystone Opportunity Zone
              1999
                       Contingently exempting real property taxes within a specific geographic area in
              2/11/    Luzerne and Lackawanna Counties designated as a proposed Keystone Opportunities Zone
Res. 1999-    1999     in order to foster economic opportunities, stimulate industrial, commercial,
                       residential improvements and prevent physical and infrastructure deterioration within
                       areas of Luzerne and Lackawanna Counties
                       Authorizing a designation under the Local Economic Revitalization Tax Assistance Act,
Res. 1999-5A  4/8/1999 or LERTA, for approximately 18.19 acres of real property known as Parcel Nos. 19, 27
                       and 29 of the East Mountain Corporate Center and providing for a tax exemption with
                       respect thereto
                       Authorizing a designation under the Local Economic Revitalization Tax Assistance Act,
Res. 1999-6   5/13/    or LERTA, for approximately 18.19 acres of real property known as Parcel Nos. 19, 27
              1999     and 29 of the East Mountain Corporate Center and providing for a tax exemption with
                       respect thereto
Res. 1999-7   6/10/    Requesting permission to participate in the Pennsylvania Department of General
              1999     Services Cooperative Purchasing Program
Res. 1999-8   7/15/    Enabling resolution for Plains Township Local Taxpayer Bill of Rights
              1999
              7/15/    To release and hold harmless the County of Luzerne from all claims, causes of actions
Res. 1999-9   1999     brought by the property owners or any other party as a result of demolition of
                       property located at 131 Hilldale Avenue
              8/13/    To release and hold harmless the County of Luzerne from all claims, causes of actions
Res. 1999-13  1999     brought by the property owners or any other party as a result of demolition of
                       property located at 200 Bear Creek Boulevard
Res. 1999-15  9/9/1999 Keystone Recreation, Park and Conservation Fund Acquisition and Development Grant
                       Program; desiring to develop/rehabilitate Plains Township Municipal Park
              10/14/   Supporting a change in the use restrictions on lot 2 in the East Mountain Corporate
Res. 1999-16  1999     Center to permit commercial uses allowed under the Zoning Ordinance for the Highway
                       Commercial (B-3) District
                       Supporting the Susquehanna River Watch/Luzerne County Rail with Trail from the
Res. 1999-18  12/9/    Borough of Duryea, passing through the Township to the City of Wilkes-Barre along the
              1999     former Lehigh Valley Railroad to provide an exemplary recreational outlet for our
                       area and all of Wyoming Valley
Ord. 1999-2   12/9/    Granting a one-time-cost-of-living adjustment of 2 percent to current retired members
              1999     of the Plains Township Police Department and the effect on the pension fund assets
                       Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2000-1   1/6/2000 General Fund deposit account by Ciro Cinti, Chairperson; Tom Kovalick, Assistant
                       Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2000-2   1/6/2000 Payroll deposit account by Ciro Cinti, Chairperson; Tom Kovalick, Assistant
                       Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2000-3   1/6/2000 Community Policing program deposit account by Ciro Cinti, Chairperson; Tom Kovalick,
                       Assistant Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2000-4   1/6/2000 Disaster deposit account by Ciro Cinti, Chairperson; Tom Kovalick, Assistant
                       Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2000-5   1/6/2000 Recycling deposit account by Ciro Cinti, Chairperson; Tom Kovalick, Assistant
                       Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2000-6   1/6/2000 Community Development Fund deposit account by Ciro Cinti, Chairperson; Tom Kovalick,
                       Assistant Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2000-7   1/6/2000 State Aid deposit account by Ciro Cinti, Chairperson; Tom Kovalick, Assistant
                       Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2000-8   1/6/2000 Sinking Fund deposit account by Ciro Cinti, Chairperson; Tom Kovalick, Assistant
                       Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer
Res. 2000-9   1/13/    Reducing the contributions to the Plains Township Police Pension Fund to 3 percent of
              2000     the members compensation for the calendar years 1999 and 2000
              1/13/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
Res. 2000-10  2000     Environmental Protection, for a Municipal Recycling Performance Grant for the year of
                       1999
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2000-12  1/13/    and Commissions within the Township: Zoning Hearing Board, Robert Sax, 3-year term to
              2000     expire 12/31/2002; and the Civil Service Commission, Joseph Canterini, 2 or 6-year
                       term to expire 12/31/–
              2/10/    Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2000-13  2000     and Commissions within the Township: Civil Service Commission, Joseph Canterini, 6-
                       year term to expire 12/31/2005
              4/13/    Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2000-15  2000     and Commissions within the Township: Wyoming Valley Sanitary Authority, Gerald Cross,
                       5-year term to expire 12/31/2005
              7/13/    To release and hold harmless the County of Luzerne from all claims, causes of actions
Res. 2000-17  2000     brought by the property owners or any other party as a result of demolition of
                       property located at 38-40 Laurel Street
Res. 2000-18  –/–/2Authorizing and directing the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners to sign the
                       right of entry and indemnification agreement for the emergency access to the LVIH
              8/10/    Authorizing the development of a hazard mitigation plan; establishing a Mitigation
Res. 2000-19  2000     Planning Commission consisting of the following members: Leonard Kasaba, Helen
                       Mikelski, Leonard Sarnick, Richard Poplawski, Gerald Cross and Ciro Cinti
Res. 2000-20  9/14/    Granting authorization for the Chairperson to execute contracts and contract
              2000     amendments for Keystone Recreation, Park and Conservation Grants
              10/12/   To release and hold harmless the County of Luzerne from all claims, causes of actions
Res. 2000-22  2000     brought by the property owners or any other party as a result of demolition of
                       property located at 9-11 Hancock Street
Res. 2000-24  12/21/   Amending Safeco Plan Document dated February 26, 1988 (A Pension Plan for the Non-
              2000     Uniformed Employees of Plains Township)
Res. 2000-26  12/21/   Reducing the contributions to the Plains Township Police Pension Fund to 3 percent of
              2000     the members compensation for the calendar year 2001
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
                       and Commissions within the Township: Sewer Authority, Andrew Lazar, 5-year term to
              1/11/    expire 12/31/2005; Park and Recreation Board, Guy Handza, 5-year term to expire 12/
Res. 2001-1   2001     31/2005; Zoning Hearing Board, William Rogaski, 4-year term to expire 12/31/2004 and
                       Michael Wascavage, 4-year term to expire 12/31/2004; and the Planning Commission,
                       Frank Westawski, 5-year term to expire 12/31/2005, Herb Newhart, 4-year term to
                       expire 12/31/2004 and Michael Lambert, 4-year term to expire 12/31/2004
Res. 2001-2   2/8/2001 Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
                       Environmental Protection, for a Municipal Recycling Grant for the year of 2000
Res. 2001-3   2/8/2001 Authorizing the temporary rank of Captain to Coincide with the Fire Inspector’s
                       position with the Plains Township Fire Department
Res. 2001-4   3/27/    Applying to the Community Rating System
              2001
Res. 2001-5   4/12/    Authorizing and directing the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners to sign the
              2001     attached agreement
              6/14/    To release and hold harmless the County of Luzerne from all claims, causes of actions
Res. 2001-6   2001     brought by the property owners or any other party as a result of demolition of
                       property located rear of 113 Henry Street
Res. 2001-7   8/9/2001 Applying to the Community Rating System
                       Designating Ciro Cinti, Chairperson and/or Thomas Kovalick, when acting as
Res. 2001-8   8/9/2001 Chairperson as authorized signatories to The Bear Creek Boulevard agreement No.
                       048118 (Federal Aid Design Reimbursement Agreement)
              1/10/    Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2002-1   2002     General Fund deposit account by Tom Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Zawatski, Vice
                       Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer
              1/10/    Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2002-2   2002     Payroll deposit account by Tom Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Zawatski, Vice
                       Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer
              1/10/    Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2002-3   2002     Recycling deposit account by Tom Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Zawatski, Vice
                       Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2002-4   1/10/    Community Development Fund deposit account by Tom Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph
              2002     Zawatski, Vice Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi,
                       Treasurer
                       Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2002-5   1/10/    Community Policing Fund deposit account by Tom Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph
              2002     Zawatski, Vice Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi,
                       Treasurer
              1/10/    Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2002-6   2002     Benefits Escrow deposit account by Tom Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Zawatski, Vice
                       Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2002-7   1/10/    Police Department D.U.I Equipment deposit account by Tom Kovalick, Chairperson;
              2002     Joseph Zawatski, Vice Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi,
                       Treasurer
                       Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2002-8   1/10/    Community Policing Program deposit account by Tom Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph
              2002     Zawatski, Vice Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi,
                       Treasurer
              1/10/    Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2002-9   2002     State Aid deposit account by Tom Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Zawatski, Vice
                       Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer
              1/10/    Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2002-10  2002     Sinking Fund deposit account by Tom Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Zawatski, Vice
                       Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer
              1/10/    Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2002-11  2002     Disaster deposit account by Tom Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Zawatski, Vice
                       Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer
                       Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2002-12  1/10/    Community Policing Program deposit account by Tom Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph
              2002     Zawatski, Vice Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi,
                       Treasurer
              1/10/    Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2002-13  2002     Birchwood Hills Trust deposit account by Tom Kovalick, Chairperson; Joseph Zawatski,
                       Vice Chairperson; Kathleen O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer
Res. 2002-14  –/–/2Authorizing and directing the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners to sign a
                       Traffic Signal Maintenance Agreement
Res. 2002-15  1/10/    Reducing the contributions to the Plains Township Police Pension Fund to 3 percent of
              2002     the members compensation for the calendar year 2002
Res. 2002-16  2/14/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
              2002     Environmental Protection, for a Municipal Recycling Grant for the year of 2001
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
                       and Commissions within the Township: Recreation Board, Sherry O’Malia, 1-year term to
              3/14/    expire 12/31/2002, John Million, 3-year term to expire 12/31/2004, Thomas Salus, 3-
Res. 2002-17  2002     year term to expire 12/31/2004, Louis Cardoni, 5-year term to expire 12/31/2006 and
                       John Kozerski, 5-year term to expire 12/31/2006; Sewer Authority, John Moore, 5-year
                       term to expire 12/31/2006 and the Planning Commission, Robert Stella, 4-year term to
                       expire 12/31/2005
Res. 2002-18  3/14/    Superseding previous plans developed for response to major emergency or disaster
              2002
Res. 2002-20  9/12/    Approving the transfer of restaurant liquor license: LID#14677/#R-10998 into the
              2002     Township from West Wyoming Borough
Res. 2002-21  10/10/   Approving changes and contract revisions for the Police and Non-uniformed Employees
              2002     Pension Plan
Ord. 2002-2   10/10/   Amending the Police Pension Plan by providing a special AD HOC Postretirement Cost of
              2002     Living adjustment pursuant to Act 64 of 2002
Res. 2002-22  11/14/   Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
              2002     Environmental Protection, for a Municipal Recycling Grant for the year of 2002
Res. 2002-23  11/14/   Authorizing payment of $1, 235.04 to Linda Davis, widow of Robert A. Davis for the
              2002     benefits due under the U.F.C.W. Local 1776 labor contract
              12/12/   Approving the application of Horseman’s Cafeteria for the proposed intermunicipal
Res. 2002-26  2002     transfer of a Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board restaurant liquor license to premises
                       at Pocono Downs, 1280 Highway 315
Res. 2003-1   1/9/2003 Adopting the Open Records Policy as its policy for access to public records
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
                       and Commissions within the Township: Recreation Board, Emilio Artiz, 3-year term to
                       expire 12/31/2005; Zoning Hearing Board, Mario Ercolani, 4-year term to expire 12/31/
Res. 2003-2   1/9/2003 2006, Michael Smoga, 4-year term to expire 12/31/2006, Robert Sax, 3-year term to
                       expire 12/31/2005 and Norman Krulack (alternate); Sewer Authority, Joseph Parada, 5-
                       year term to expire 12/31/2007; Planning Commission, Gerald Yozwiak, 4-year term to
                       expire 12/31/2006; and the Civil Service Commission, Leonard Sarnick, 4-year term to
                       expire 12/31/2006
              2/13/    Approving the application of Luongo Hospitality, LP for the proposed intermunicipal
Res. 2003-3   2003     transfer of a Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board Restaurant Liquor License Number R-
                       14710 to the premises at 1140 Highway 315
Res. 2003-4   4/10/    Declaring the 1998 Zoning Ordinance to be substantively invalid with respect to the
              2003     use of property for the purpose of operating a methadone treatment facility
Res. 2003-5   4/10/    Findings/Declaration of Invalidity, with respect to the use of property for the
              2003     purposes of operating a methadone treatment facility
Res. 2003-6   5/20/    Adopting and placing into immediate effect the Emergency Operations Plan of Plains
              2003     Township
                       Designating Thomas Kovalick, Chairperson and/or Joseph Zawatski, Vice Chairperson
Res. 2003-7   5/8/2003 (when acting as Chairperson) as authorized signatories of any and all documents
                       approved by the Board pertaining to the Bear Creek Boulevard agreement No. 048118
                       (Federal Aid Design Reimbursement Agreement)
              6/12/    Designating Thomas Kovalick, Chairperson and/or Joseph Zawatski, Vice Chairperson
Res. 2003-8   2003     (when acting as Chairperson) as authorized signatories of any and all documents
                       approved by the Board pertaining to electronic access to PennDOT Systems
              9/11/    Desiring to undertake the Development and Rehabilitation of Plains Township and Park
Res. 2003-9   2003     System; desiring to apply to the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources for
                       a grant
Res. 2003-10  9/11/    Authorizing the appointment of one temporary Deputy Fire Chief to the Plains Township
              2003     Fire Department
Res. 2003-11  9/11/    Authorizing the temporary rank of Captain to coincide with the Fire Inspector’s
              2003     position with the Plains Township Fire Department
Res. 2003-13  12/18/   Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
              2003     Environmental Protection, for a Municipal Recycling Grant for the year of 2003
Res. 2003-16  12/18/   Reducing the contributions to the Plains Township Police Pension Fund to 3 percent of
              2003     the members compensation for the calendar year 2004
Res. 2004-2   2/12/    Amending § 6.2 of the Plains Township Non-uniformed Employees Pension Plan
              2004
Res. 2004-6   5/13/    Renaming the Hilldale Ball Park to “The John L. Mosko Park”
              2004
              5/13/    Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2004-7   2004     and Commissions within the Township: Civil Service, Ronald Filippini, 6-year term to
                       expire 12/31/2009
              5/13/    Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2004-8   2004     and Commissions within the Township: Civil Service, William Biniek (unexpired) term
                       to 12/31/2007
              5/13/    Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2004-9   2004     and Commissions within the Township: Sewer Authority, Stanley Rowny, 5-year term to
                       expire 12/31/2008
                       Amending the Police Pension Fund, by establishing and continuing a Police pension
                       Plan pursuant to Act 600 of 1956, 53 P.S. 761 et seq., and providing for
                       administration, eligibility for benefits, source and allocation of funds, calculation
Ord. 2004-3   5/13/    of retirement benefits, return of participant contributions, vesting terms of
              2004     retirement benefits, disability retirement, death benefits, return of participant
                       contributions, vesting terms of continuation of the Police Pension Plan pursuant to
                       the terms and conditions of the amendment and restatement of the Plains Township
                       Police Pension Fund
              6/10/    Approving the application of Spengler/Care Enterprises, LLC for the proposed
Res. 2004-10  2004     Intermunicipal Transfer of a Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board Restaurant Liquor
                       License to premises at Waterfront Professional Park 670 North River Street
              8/23/    Approving the application of the Spot, L.L.C. for the proposed Intermunicipal
Res. 2004-11  2004     Transfer of a Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board Restaurant Liquor License R-10501 to
                       premises at 279 South River Street
Res. 2004-12  9/9/2004 Requesting permission to participate in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Department
                       of General Services, Cooperative Purchasing Program
              10/14/   Authorizing adoption of the Township’s Hazard Mitigation Plan and its submittal to
Res. 2004-14  2004     the Pennsylvania Emergency Management Agency and the Federal Emergency Management
                       Agency
              10/14/   Authorizing Charles Krommes, EMA Coordinator to execute for and in behalf of the
Res. 2004-14A 2004     Township for the purpose of obtaining financial assistance under the Robert T.
                       Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
              11/11/   Giving preliminary approval to a proposed Tax Increment District in the County of
Res. 2004-16  2004     Luzerne; designating a representative to meet with the Redevelopment Authority of the
                       County of Luzerne to discuss said Tax Increment District; and taking related actions
Res. 2004-17  –/–/2Establishing a Board of Appeals as required under the Uniform Construction Code
Res. 2005-1   1/13/    Authorizing and directing the Chairperson of the Township to sign an Agreement on
              2005     Amendment on it’s behalf
              1/13/    Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2005-2   2005     and Commissions within the Township: Wyoming Valley Sanitary Authority, Gerald Cross,
                       5-year term to expire 12/31/2010
Res. 2005-3   2/10/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
              2005     Environmental Protection for a municipal recycling grant for the year 2004
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
                       and Commissions within the Township: Recreation Board, John Million, term to expire
              3/10/    December 31, 2009 and Thomas Salus, term to expire December 31, 2009; Zoning Hearing
Res. 2005-4   2005     Board, Michael Wascavage, term to expire December 31, 2008 and Mark Hasaka, term to
                       expire December 31, 2008; Sewer Authority, Gerald Cross, term to expire December 31,
                       2009; and the Planning Commission, Michael Lambert, term to expire December 31, 2009
                       and Herb Newhart, term to expire December 31, 2009
Res. 2005-5   4/14/    Authorizing the appointment of one temporary Deputy Fire Chief to the Plains Township
              2005     Fire Department
                       To release and hold harmless the County of Luzerne from all claims, causes of actions
Res. 2005-6   –/–/2brought by the property owners or any other party as a result of demolition of
                       property located at 145 North Main Street
                       Authorizing Charles Krommes, EMA Coordinator to execute for and in behalf of the
Res. 2005-7   6/9/2005 Township for the purpose of obtaining financial assistance under the Robert T.
                       Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
Res. 2005-8   6/9/2005 Designation of the National Incident Management System (NIMS) as the basis for all
                       incident management in the Township
Res. 2005-9   7/14/    Approving and adopting the Wyoming Valley Sanitary Authority’s amendment to its
              2005     Articles of Incorporation
              10/13/   Approving the application of Plains Ambulance Banquet Facility, Inc. for the proposed
Res. 2005-10  2005     intermunicipal transfer of a Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board Restaurant Liquor
                       License R-10685 to premises at 90 Maffett Street
              12/22/   Authorizing Ronald Filippini, Chairperson; Rose Corcoran, Vice-Chairperson; Kathleen
Res. 2006-1   2005     O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer access to the Plains Township
                       General Fund at PNC Bank
              12/22/   Authorizing Ronald Filippini, Chairperson; Rose Corcoran, Vice-Chairperson; Kathleen
Res. 2006-2   2005     O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer access to the Plains Township
                       Payroll Account at PNC Bank
              12/22/   Authorizing Ronald Filippini, Chairperson; Rose Corcoran, Vice-Chairperson; Kathleen
Res. 2006-3   2005     O’Boyle, Secretary; and James Chiucchi, Treasurer access to the Plains Township State
                       Aid Account at PNC Bank
                       Amending the Non-uniformed Employees Pension Plan, by establishing and continuing a
                       pension plan and providing for administration, eligibility for benefits, source and
Ord. 2006-2   –/–/2allocation of funds, calculation of retirement benefits, return of participant
                       contributions, vesting terms of retirement benefits, disability retirement, death
                       benefits and other matters associated with the established and continuation of the
                       pension plan and restatement of the Non-uniformed Employees Pension Plan
Res. 2006-4   1/12/    Adopting the Wyoming Valley Sanitary Authority’s amendment to its Articles of
              2006     Incorporation
                       Approving the application of Carriage Stop Beer Plaza LLC for the proposed
Res. 2006-6   2/9/2006 intermunicipal transfer of a Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board Restaurant Liquor
                       License 31849 to premises at 2500 East End Boulevard
Res. 2006-7   2/9/2006 Reducing the contributions to the Plains Township Police Pension Fund to 3 percent of
                       the members compensation for the calendar year 2003
Res. 2006-8   2/9/2006 Reducing the contributions to the Plains Township Police Pension Fund to 3 percent of
                       the members compensation for the calendar year 2005
Res. 2006-9   2/9/2006 Reducing the contributions to the Plains Township Police Pension Fund to 3 percent of
                       the members compensation for the calendar year 2006
Res. 2006-10  2/9/2006 Amending §A2.08(b) of the Pension Plan for the non-uniformed employees of the
                       Township
Res. 2006-11  3/9/2006 Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
                       Environmental Protection, for a Municipal Recycling Grant for the year 2005
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
                       and Commissions within the Township: Sewer Authority, Andrew Lazar, term to expire
                       December 31, 2010 and Mario Ercolani, Jr., term to expire December 31, 2008;
                       Recreation Board, Guy Handza, term to expire December 31, 2008 and Emilio Aritz, term
Res. 2006-14  3/9/2006 to expire December 31,2007; Zoning Hearing Board, Robert Sax, term to expire December
                       31, 2007, Norman Krulack, term to expire December 31, 2008, Karen Rubasky, term to
                       expire December 31, 2006 and alternate John Javick, term to expire December 31, 2007;
                       Civil Service, Norma Nardone, term to expire December 31, 2010; and the Planning
                       Commission, Martin O’Connor, term to expire December 31, 2010 and Edward Walsh, term
                       to expire December 31, 2008
Res. 2006-20  6/8/2006 Creating a Local Redevelopment Authority (LRA) in accordance with the Miliary Base
                       Reuse Act and appointing representatives to the LRA
Res. 2006-22  –/–/2Authorizing a representative of the Township to contact the United States Postal
                       Service to request that the Township be assigned its own zip code
                       Authorizing the Township to enter into an Intergovernmental Cooperation Agreement
Ord. 2006-4   8/28/    with the County of Luzerne and the City of Wilkes-Barre under the Pennsylvania
              2006     Intergovernmental Cooperation Act for the purpose of jointly cooperating in the
                       performance and exercise of certain governmental functions
              11/9/    Approving the application of Gersh Restaurant Group, LLC for the proposed
Res. 2006-23  2006     intermunicipal transfer of a Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board Restaurant Liquor
                       License R-2266 to premises at 667 North River Street
Res. 2006-25  10/12/   Authorizing the appointment of one temporary Captain/Fire Inspector to the Plains
              2006     Township Fire Department
Res. 2007-1   1/11/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
              2007     Environmental Protection for a Municipal Recycling Grant for the year of 2006
Res. 2007-2   2/24/    Awarding a Certificate of Recognition to Kevin Blaum and Thomas Tigue for their years
              2007     of service
              1/13/    Rescinding the LERTA designation and concomitant tax abatement under LERTA
Res. 2007-3   2007     legislation with respect to the improvements to be constructed on Parcel No. 10 of
                       the East Mountain Corporate Center
Res. 2007-4   1/11/    Reducing the contributions to the Plains Township Police Pension Fund to 3 percent of
              2007     the members compensation for the calendar year 2007
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2007-5   2/8/2007 and Commissions within the Township: Sewer Authority, Nat Lussi, term to expire 12/
                       31/2011
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2007-6   2/8/2007 and Commissions within the Township: Zoning Hearing Board, John Javick, term to
                       expire 12/31/2008
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2007-7   2/8/2007 and Commissions within the Township: Zoning Hearing Board, Michael Somoga, term to
                       expire 12/31/2009
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2007-8   2/8/2007 and Commissions within the Township: Zoning Hearing Board, Karen Rubasky, term to
                       expire 12/31/2010
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2007-9   2/8/2007 and Commissions within the Township: Recreation Board, Clarence Ozgo, term to expire
                       12/31/2008
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2007-10  2/8/2007 and Commissions within the Township: Recreation Board, Maureen Riley, term to expire
                       12/31/2010
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2007-11  2/8/2007 and Commissions within the Township: Recreation Board, Louis Cardoni, term to expire
                       12/31/2011
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2007-12  2/8/2007 and Commissions within the Township: Recreation Board, John Kozerski, term to expire
                       12/31/2011
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2007-13  2/8/2007 and Commissions within the Township: Planning Commission, Rock Stahovic, term to
                       expire 12/31/2008
                       Authorizing Charles Krommes, EMA Coordinator to execute for and in behalf of the
Res. 2007-14  3/8/2007 Township for the purpose of obtaining financial assistance under the Robert T.
                       Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
              6/14/    Authorizing to execute the Consent for Right of Entry Agreement to conduct project
Res. 2007-19  2007     activity consisting of performing a mine reclamation project as part of government
                       project number OSM 40(2165) 101.1
                       Directing the appropriate Township officials to use their best efforts to obtain the
Res. 2007-22  10/11/   maximum amount of grants collectively and the maximum amount available under each
              2007     specific grant for the East Side Landfill Development, Sewer Improvements and
                       Drainage Repair projects
                       Supporting the application by the Luzerne County Municipal Cooperation Commission
Res. 2007-23  11/8/    (MCC) for the establishment of a police services asset inventory to be comprised of
              2007     the Township, municipalities contiguous to the Township and other municipalities in
                       the county directly impacted by the Mohegan Sun Casino at Pocono Downs
              12/20/   Participating in the Lackawanna County Automotive and Equipment Contract by
Res. 2007-25  2007     purchasing supplies and services from the contract and based upon the terms and
                       conditions of the contract and at the same prices
Res. 2008-1   –/–/2Account registration and agreement with PNC Bank
Res. 2008-2   1/10/    Reducing the contributions to the Plains Township Police Pension Fund to 3 percent of
              2008     the members compensation for the calendar year 2008
Res. 2008-3   1/10/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
              2008     Environmental Protection, for a Municipal Recycling Grant for the year of 2007
              2/14/    Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2008-4   2008     and Commissions within the Township: Recreation Board, Emil Artiz, term to expire 12/
                       31/2012
              2/14/    Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2008-5   2008     and Commissions within the Township: Sewer Authority, Joseph Parada, term to expire
                       12/31/2012
              2/14/    Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2008-6   2008     and Commissions within the Township: Zoning Hearing Board, Robert Sax, term to expire
                       12/31/2012
              2/20/    Approving transfer of a liquor license owned by McKenna’s Gold ‘N’ Guns Saloon, Inc.,
Res. 2008-7   2008     having a license number of R-5278 and LID number 42476 which is located at 362 Scott
                       Street, Wilkes-Barre City, to 670 North River Street, Plains Township
              4/10/    Desiring to apply to the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources for a grant
Res. 2008-8   2008     for the purpose of carrying out the Plains Township Municipal Park Improvements
                       project
Res. 2008-10  4/10/    Appointing the following individuals to the Flood Hazard Mitigation Committee:
              2008     Charles Krommes, George Blom, Susan Fisher, David Achey, Tim Westawski
Ord. 2008-1   4/10/    Amending the Non-uniformed Employees Pension Plan
              2008
              4/10/    Supporting a change in the use restrictions on lot 2 in the East Mountain Corporate
Res. 2008-9   2008     Center to permit retail and service uses allowed under the Zoning Ordinance for the
                       Highway Business (B-3) District
Res. 2008-11  4/10/    Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
              2008     and Commissions within the Township: Planning Commission, Walter Shubilla
              4/10/    Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2008-12  2008     and Commissions within the Township: Planning Commission, Ken Evans to replace Herb
                       Newhart, term to expire 12/31/2009
Res. 2008-13  4/10/    Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
              2008     and Commissions within the Township: Zoning Hearing Board, Joseph McGuire
              4/10/    Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2008-14  2008     and Commissions within the Township: Civil Service Commission, Bill Biniek, term to
                       expire 12/31/2012
Res. 2008-20  6/12/    Approving the transfer of restaurant liquor license no. R-2266 into the Township,
              2008     East Coast Restaurants, Inc., which will trade as Bar Louie
              6/12/    Approving the transfer of restaurant liquor license no. R-11386 by Metz Concepts, LLC
Res. 2008-21  2008     to restaurant facilities within the Township to be located at premises no. 1301 and
                       1302 at Mohegan Sun at Pocono Downs, 1280 Highway 315
Res. 2008-22  6/12/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
              2008     Environmental Protections for a 902 Municipal Recycling Grant for the year of 2007
Res. 2008-23  7/10/    Approving the certificate requesting termination of the East Side Landfill Authority
              2008
Res. 2008-24  7/28/    Establishing the East Mountain Business Site LERTA District encompassing lot 12 and
              2008     lot 20 in the East Mountain Business Park
              10/22/   Authorizing the submission of a Local Share application to DCED to secure funding in
Res. 2008-25  2008     the amount of $931,370 to purchase a new aerial ladder truck to ensure adequate fire
                       protection
Res. 2008-26  11/13/   Amending and restating in its entirety the Plan and Trust Agreement to confirm to the
              2008     Plan and Trust document entitled “Plains Township Firemen’s Pension Plan”
              12/11/   Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2008-27  2008     and Commissions within the Township: Zoning Hearing Board, John Javick, term to
                       expire December 31, 2011
              12/11/   Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2008-28  2008     and Commissions within the Township: Zoning Hearing Board, Norman Krulack, term to
                       expire December 31, 2013
              12/11/   Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2008-29  2008     and Commissions within the Township: Planning Commission, Rock Stahovic, term to
                       expire December 31, 2012
              12/11/   Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2008-30  2008     and Commissions within the Township: Planning Commission, Walter Shubilla, term to
                       expire December 31, 2011
              12/11/   Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2008-31  2008     and Commissions within the Township: Recreation Board, Clarence Ozgo, term to expire
                       December 31, 2013
              12/31/   Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
Res. 2008-32  2008     and Commissions within the Township: Sewer Authority, Mario Ercolani, Jr., term to
                       expire December 31, 2013
Res. 2009-1   1/8/2009 Reducing the contributions to the Plains Township Police Pension Fund to 3 percent of
                       the members compensation for the calendar year 2008
Res. 2009-2   1/8/2009 Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
                       Environmental Protections for a Municipal Recycling Grant for the year of 2008
              3/12/    Authorizing and directing the Secretary of the Township to sign the application for a
Res. 2009-4   2009     permit to install and operate traffic signals on SR 309 & SR 315 North Bound Exit
                       Ramp
              3/12/    Desiring to undertake the Plains Township Municipal Park Playground Improvements
Res. 2009-5   2009     project and desiring to receive from the Department of Conservation and Natural
                       Resources a grant for the purpose of carrying out this project
Res. 2009-6   5/14/    Approving the transfer of Liquor License No. R-5677 (LID No. 27224), from J&M Conroy
              2009     Corp. to Carmenello, LLC, 15 North River Street
              5/14/    Authorizing the payment of $15,703.49 to the Estate of Robert J. Kubicki for the
Res. 2009-8   2009     benefits due under the International Association of Firefighters Local 840 labor
                       contract
                       Agreeing to use the dotGrants on-line reporting system to file the required liquid
              5/14/    fuel forms annually and designates Patricia Sluhocki, Secretary and Kathleen O’Boyle,
Res. 2009-9   2009     Assistant Secretary to execute and provide all information necessary for the
                       completion of said application and to execute all documents necessary to effect such
                       an agreement
                       Confirming support of the petition of the Township to the Pennsylvania Liquor Control
Res. 2009-10  7/2/2009 Board for exemption of a certain portion of the Township from the regulations of the
                       Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board governing amplified music being heard off of a
                       premises subject to a liquor license
              9/10/    Appointing the following individuals as Tax Collection Committee delegates for the
Res. 2009-22  2009     Township: primary voting delegate, Ronald Filippini; first alternate voting delegate,
                       Patricia Sluhocki; second alternate voting delegate, Shawn Potter
Res. 2009-23  9/10/    Authorizing the creation of the positions of temporary Deputy Chief and temporary
              2009     Captain/Inspector to the Plains Township Fire Department
                       To release and hold harmless the County of Luzerne from all claims, causes of actions
Res. 2009-24  10/8/    brought by the property owners or any other party as a result of demolition of
              2009     property located at 96 Cleveland Street (aka 96-1/2 Cleveland Street), RR 100
                       Cleveland Street
Res. 2009-25  10/8/    Authorizing the creation of one position of temporary Captain/Inspector to the Plains
              2009     Township Fire Department
                       Authorizing Northeastern Pennsylvania Alliance (NEPA) to make an application for a
                       grant from the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection through the PA
Res. 2009-27  11/12/   Conservation Works Grant Program to coordinate and implement a traffic signal
              2009     conversion program designed to assist municipalities in realizing significant energy
                       and cost savings by converting and/or retrofitting existing traffic signal lights to
                       LED bulbs
Res. 2009-28  11/12/   Adopting Bi-county Hazard Mitigation Plan for the Counties of Lackawanna and Luzerne
              2009
              12/10/   Authorizing application for Local Share Account Funding to acquire a new aerial fire
Res. 2009-29  2009     truck to ensure the public safety for existing and pending development at and
                       surrounding Mohegan Sun and Pocono Downs along the Route 315 corridor
              12/10/   Authorizing application for Local Share Account Funding to make certain curbs,
Res. 2009-30  2009     sidewalk, roadway improvements, widening work, tree lawn and drainage improvements to
                       West Carey Street (SR 2011) from Main Street to River Street
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
                       and Commissions within the Township: Sewer Authority, Gerald Cross, term to expire
              12/10/   December 31, 2014; Recreation Board, John Million, term to expire December 31, 2014
Res. 2009-31  2009     and Thomas Salus, term to expire December 31, 2014; Zoning Hearing Board, Michael
                       Somoga, term to expire December 31, 2014, Joseph McGuire, term to expire December 31,
                       2012 and Alternate Michael Wascavage; and the Planning Commission, Ken Evans, term to
                       expire December 31, 2014 and James Bush, term to expire December 31, 2013
Ord. 2010-1   1/14/    Amending the Police Pension Fund
              2010
Res. 2010-1   1/14/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
              2010     Environmental Protections for a Municipal Recycling Grant for the year of 2009
Res. 2010-2   1/14/    Adopting the 5-year smoothing method to determine the actuarial value of assets for
              2010     the Township of Plains Police and Non-uniformed Employees Pension Plan
Res. 2010-3   2/11/    Reducing the contributions to the Plains Township Police Pension Fund to 3 percent of
              2010     the members compensation for the calendar year 2010
                       Authorizing an application for grant monies in the amount of $670,000 minimum to
Res. 2010-10  6/10/    correct a drainage problem in the Township and Chairperson Ronald Filippini is
              2010     authorized to execute all documents for the H2O grant for Boulevard Manor (Iroquois &
                       Seminole Avenues and Penrose, Kelly and Avon Streets)
Res. 2010-11  6/10/    Authorizing and directing the Chairperson of the Township to sign an Agility
              2010     Agreement on it’s behalf, Federal ID No. 24-6001523
Res. 2010-13  9/9/2010 Amending and appointing representatives to the LRA, Local Redevelopment Authority:
                       Robert Sax, Commissioner; and Gerald Yozwiak, Commissioner
Res. 2010-14  9/9/2010 For the calendar year of 2011, member contributions to the Police Pension Fund shall
                       be at 5 percent of the member’s compensation
Res. 2010-15  9/9/2010 Adopting the reduced amortization option for the Police and Non-uniformed Pension
                       Plans
Res. 2010-16  9/9/2010 Approving and adopting the amendment to the Plains Township Firemen’s Pension Plan
                       Approving transfer of a liquor license owned by Top of the Food Chain Restaurants,
Res. 2010-17  12/9/    Inc., having a license number of R-10632 and LID number 54027 which is located at 131
              2010     East Broad Street, Nanticoke City, to Craft Beer, Inc., 1574 Highway 315, Plains
                       Township
Res. 2010-18  12/9/    Authorizing application for Local Share Account funding West Carey Street; curbs,
              2010     sidewalks, widening work, tree lawn, and drainage and roadway improvements
Res. 2010-19  12/9/    Authorizing application for Local Share Account funding Plains Veteran’s Memorial
              2010     Educational Opportunity Center
Res. 2010-20  12/9/    Authorizing application for Local Share Account funding First Street Project;
              2010     drainage and roadway improvements, including curbs and sidewalks
Res. 2011-1   –/–/2Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
                       Environmental Protection, for a Municipal Recycling Grant for the year of 2010
Res. 2011-3   1/14/    Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
              2011     General Fund, Account Number 9852637256; Account Type, Municipal Investment NOW
              1/14/    Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2011-4   2011     General Fund, Account Number 15004214366210; Account Type, Municipal Money Market
                       Saving
Res. 2011-5   1/14/    Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
              2011     Payroll Account, Account Number 9852637389; Account Type, Municipal Investment NOW
Res. 2011-6   1/14/    Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
              2011     State Aid Account, Account Number 9852637397; Account Type, Municipal Investment NOW
              1/14/    Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2011-7   2011     State Aid Account, Account Number 15004214366228; Account Type, Municipal Money
                       Market Saving
              1/14/    Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2011-8   2011     Valley Crest Escrow Account, Account Number 15004214366236; Account Type, Municipal
                       Money Market Saving
              1/14/    Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2011-9   2011     Valley Crest Storm Water, Account Number 15004214366244; Account Type, Municipal
                       Money Market Saving
              1/14/    Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2011-10  2011     Geisinger Escrow Account, Account Number 15004214366260; Account Type, Municipal
                       Money Market Saving
              1/14/    Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2011-11  2011     Richland Real Estate Escrow Account, Account Number 15004214366252; Account Type,
                       Municipal Money Market Saving
              1/14/    Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company Public Funds; authorizing the opening of a
Res. 2011-12  2011     Recreation Board Grant by James E. Chiucchi, Kathleen O’Boyle, Brigid M. O’Connor and
                       Ronald D. Filippini
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
                       and Commissions within the Township: Sewer Authority, Andrew Lazar, term to expire
              1/13/    December 31, 2015; Recreation Board, Maureen Reilly, term to expire December 31,
Res. 2011-13  2011     2015; Zoning Hearing Board, Karen Rubasky, term to expire December 31, 2015; Planning
                       Commission, Martin O’Connor, term to expire December 31, 2015; and the Civil Service
                       Commission, Gerald Yozwiak, term to expire December 31, 2015 and Norma Nardone, term
                       to expire December 31, 2011
                       Confirming support of the petition of the Township to the Pennsylvania Liquor Control
Res. 2011-15  2/10/    Board for exemption of a certain portion of the Township from regulations of the
              2011     Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board governing amplified music being heard off of a
                       premises subject to a liquor license
Res. 2011-16  3/10/    Authorizing and directing the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners to sign the
              2011     attached agreement
Res. 2011-22  9/8/2011 Adopting the reduced amortization option for the Non-uniformed Employees’ Pension
                       Plan
Res. 2011-23  9/8/2011 Adopting the reduced amortization option for the Police Pension Plan
              10/13/   Authorizing Charles Krommes, EMA Coordinator to execute for and in behalf of the
Res. 2011-24  2011     Township all required forms and documents for the purpose of obtaining financial
                       assistance from FEMA
Res. 2011-26  12/10/   Authorizing application for Local Share Account Funding, Plains Veteran’s Memorial
              2011     Educational Opportunity Center
Res. 2011-27  11/10/   Authorizing an application for assistance through a Gaming Grant with the Department
              2011     of Community and Economic Development (DCE)
Res. 2011-28  11/10/   Appointing Luzerne County’s Flood Protection Authority to act as agent of the
              2011     Township relative to the Plains Township Hazard Mitigation Grant
                       Approving the application of Northeast Travel Planners, Inc. for the proposed
Res. 2012-1   1/5/2012 intermunicipal transfer of a Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board Restaurant Liquor
                       License R-17626 to premises located at 1073 Route 315
Res. 2012-2   1/12/    Authorizing the filing of an application for funds with the Department of
              2012     Environmental Protection, for a Municipal Recycling Grant for the Year of 2011
                       Clarifying the terms and time period of service to the various Authorities, Boards
                       and Commissions within the Township: Sewer Authority, Joseph Hoinski, term to expire
                       December 31, 2016; Recreation Board, Louis Cardoni, term to expire December 31, 2016
Res. 2012-4   2/9/2012 and John Kozerski, term to expire December 31, 2016; Zoning Hearing Board, John
                       Javick, term to expire December 31, 2016; Planning Commission, Gerry Gryboski, term
                       to expire December 31, 2016; and the Civil Service Commission, John A. Kelly, term to
                       expire December 31, 2013 and Norma Nardone, term to expire December 31, 2017
Res. 2012-7   3/8/2012 Modifying existing Intermunicipal Cooperation Agreement No. 040-C01
                       Authorizing and approving Ronald Filippini, as Chairperson, to sign any and all
Res. 2012-8   3/8/2012 documents in conjunction with the proposed First Street Section Ear Project, under
                       contract with PennDOT Agreement No. 04R085
                       Approving the application of Northeast Pennsylvania Travel Planners, Inc. for the
Res. 2012-9   1/5/2012 proposed intermunicipal transfer of a Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board Restaurant
                       Liquor License R-17626 to premises located at 1073 Route 315
Res. 2012-10  3/8/2012 Authorizing and directing the Secretary of the Township to sign the attached
                       agreement
Ord. 2014-3   6/ /2014 Authorizing exercise of police powers by officials within the Geisinger Health System
                       Institutional District
Ord. 2014-6   10/9/    Amending the Police Pension Fund; compensation
              2014
Ord. 2014-7   11/20/   Amending the Police Pension Fund; compensation
              2014
              8/13/    Approving the agreement and participation of the Police Department with the Luzerne
Ord. 2020-5   2020     County Drug Task Force, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Office of Attorney General and
                       Luzerne County District Attorney’s Office
              8/13/    Approving the agreement and participation of the Police Department with the Luzerne
Ord. 2020-6   2020     County Driving under the Influence Task Force and Luzerne County District Attorney’s
                       Office
Ord. 1-2023   3/9/2023 Creating and establishing a land bank authority
                      
 
Appendix E
Plan Approval
 
Ord./Res.       Date       Subject
Res. 12/29/1988 12/29/1988 Adopting the Luzerne County Solid Waste Management
                           Plan
Res. 1990-43    7/12/1990  Adopting the Luzerne County Municipal Waste Plan
Res. 1999-5     4/8/1999   Authorizing Varaly Associates to prepare a new
                           Comprehensive Plan
Res. 2007-16    4/12/2007  Authorizing and directing the Chairperson to sign
                           the attached Traffic Signal Maintenance Agreement
 
Appendix F
Public Property
Ord./Res. Date Subject
Ord./Res.  Date  Subject
Res. –/–/Authorizing the Township to acquire an easement from Blue Coal Company to fund
                 the Watershed Project
Res. 11/   11/
15/1967    15/   Acquiring property known as the Hilldale Playfield for public purposes
           1967
Ord. 4/30/ 4/30/ Authorizing the acquisition of land by eminent domain
1970       1970
Res. 10/   10/   Authorizing the purchase of 137 acres, more or less, and 10 acres, more or
31/1972    31/   less, in the Hilldale section for recreational purposes
           1972
Res. 1/15/ 1/15/ Accepting the Easement Agreement between Stanley P. Miller, et uz.,
1973       1973  transferring to the Township the right to construct, operate, maintain and
                 repair from time to time an underground storm sewer
Res. 3/29/ 3/29/ Authorizing the purchase of an additional 20 acres, more or less, in the
1973       1973  Hilldale section for recreational purposes
Res. 7/15/ 7/15/ Desiring to acquire certain lands situate on Abbott Street as part of its
1975       1975  recreation program
Res. 11/   11/   Authorizing the closing of the purchase of 1.21 acres of land, more or less, in
26/1975    26/   the Keystone section for recreational purposes
           1975
Res. 2/12/ 2/12/ Authorizing the sale of part of premises known as Hillside Avenue
1976       1976
Res. 5/13/ 5/13/ Authorizing the purchase and closing of Lot No. 4, Pocono Gardens, for
1976       1976  Municipal purposes
Res. 9/15/ 9/15/ Expressing the desire to accept the transfer of property owned by the First
1977       1977  Eastern Bank, N.A., known as No. 1 North Main Street
Res. 6/8/  6/8/  Authorizing the President and Secretary to execute an agreement between
1978       1978  Consolidated Rail Corporation and the Township for an easement to install a
                 storm sewer line at a point 0.09 mile South of the Station of Port Bowkley
Res. 6/8/  6/8/  Authorizing the President and Secretary to execute an agreement between
1978A      1978  Consolidated Rail Corporation and the Township for an easement to install water
                 pipes at a point in the Township East of the Station of Wilkes-Barre
                 The contract for the sale of land having a reuse value less than $60,000 by and
                 between the Redevelopment Authority of Luzerne County and Walter and Clara
                 Harding for the disposition of Parcel No. 5, located at 28 Robert Street, is
                 hereby repealed; the contract for the sale of land having a reuse value less
Res. 9/14/ 9/14/ than $60,000 by and between the Redevelopment Authority of Luzerne County and
1978       1978  John and Alice Tokach for the disposition of Parcel No. 5B, located at 30
                 Robert Street, is hereby repealed; and The contract for the sale of land having
                 a reuse value less than $60,000, said parcel being Lot No. 5 located at 28
                 Robert Street and Lot No. 5B, located at 30 Robert Street, by and between the
                 Redevelopment Authority of Luzerne County and George W. Faatz and Susan B.
                 Faatz, is hereby approved
                 The contract for the sale of land having a reuse value less than $60,000, said
                 parcel being Lot No. 5 located at 28 Robert Street and Lot No. 5B, located at
                 30 Robert Street, by and between the Redevelopment Authority of Luzerne County
                 and George W. Faatz and Susan B. Faatz, is hereby annulled; the contract for
Res. 10/   10/   the sale of land having a reuse value less than $60,000 by and between the
12/1978    12/   Redevelopment Authority of Luzerne County and Walter and Clara Harding for the
           1978  disposition of Parcel No. 5, located at 28 Robert Street, is hereby approved;
                 and the contract for the sale of land having a reuse value less than $60,000 by
                 and between the Redevelopment Authority of Luzerne County and John and Alice
                 Tokach for the disposition of Parcel No. 5B, located at 30 Robert Street, is
                 hereby approved
                 Authorizing the execution of a Supplemental Agreement for the installation of
Res. 5/10/ 5/10/ an additional storm drain, plus the authority to maintain and clean the water
1979A      1979  channel along the West side of River Street, between Poplar and Lathrop Streets
                 situate on property of Edward Romanansky
                 Approving a Redeveloper’s Contract by and between the Redevelopment Authority
Res. 5/2/  5/2/  of Luzerne County and Joseph J. And Anna Mae Shatrowsky for Disposition Parcel
1983       1983  #13 at 1-3 Pearl Street, with a frontage of 150 feet and containing 15,000
                 square feet at a purchase price of $675
Res. 1990- 4/12/ Authorizing the selling of three parcels of property marked as Parcel 1-a,
22         1990  Parcel 1-b and Parcel 1-c based upon the acceptance of bids
Res. 1990- 5/10/ Approving the sale of certain real estate that was purchased from Consolidated
33         1990  Railroad Corporation to residents of the Township
Res. 1991- 7/18/ Approving the sale of certain real estate that was purchased from Consolidated
15         1991  Railroad Corporation to residents of the Township
Res. 1991- 10/   Approving the sale of certain real estate that was purchased from Consolidated
24         10/   Railroad Corporation to residents of the Township
           1991
Res. 1993- 11/   Approving the sale of certain real estate that was purchased from Consolidated
31         11/   Railroad Corporation to residents of the Township
           1993
Res. 1995- 2/9/  Authorizing the execution of a Quit Claim Deed
7          1995
Res. 2003- 12/   Authorizing the purchase of fire ladder trucks with pump from Edwardsville
12         11/   Boroughs
           2003
Res. 2007- 6/14/ Providing for the sale of equipment
18         2007
Ord. 2007- 11/   Finding and certifying that a certain area of the Township is a “Deteriorated
6          19/   and Blighted Area”
           2007
Ord. 2007- 11/   Providing for the temporary exemption from real property taxation for specified
7          19/   time periods for increases in assessed valuation of the new construction and of
           2007  improvements
 
Appendix G
Sewers
Ord./Res. Date Subject
Ord./Res.  Date  Subject
Ord. –/–/Authorizing the construction of a sanitary sewer in Bergh Street
Deed 1/2/  1/2/  Deed of Stanley P. Miller and Anna Miller, his wife, with the
1973       1973  Township for sewer right-of-way
Res. 5/15/ 5/15/ For planned sewage revision for the creation of a commercial
1974       1974  holding tank sewage facility known as the temporary Giant Floor
                 Holding Tank Plan-Route 315
Res. 10/   10/   A proposed on-lot sewage system facility is consistent with the
30/1975    30/   approved public sanitary sewage facility as is proposed for the Fox
           1975  Hill Road
Res. 3/15/ 3/15/ For planned sewage revision for a creation of a commercial holding
1976       1976  tank sewage facility known as the temporary Plains Township Park
                 and Recreation Board Holding Tank Plan-Hilldale Section
Res. 4/15/ 4/15/ For planned sewage revision for a creation of a holding tank sewage
1976       1976  facility known as the temporary Santarelli Holding Tank Plan-46
                 Chamberlain Street
Res. 5/27/ 5/27/ For planned sewage revision for a creation of a holding tank sewage
1976       1976  facility known as the temporary Fazzi Holding Tank Plan-33 St.
                 James Street
Res. 5/27/ 5/27/ For planned sewage revision for a creation of a holding tank sewage
1976A      1976  facility known as the temporary Westminster Memorial Gardens
                 Holding Tank Plan-Westminster Road
Res. 6/15/ 6/15/ For planned sewage revision for a creation of a holding tank sewage
1976       1976  facility known as the temporary Jastremski Holding Tank Plan-Rear
                 58-64 Henry Street
                 Authorizing the President and Secretary to execute necessary
Res. 8/12/ 8/12/ documents for the hook-up of the Methodist Homes for the Aging of
1976       1976  the Wyoming Conference with the Township Sewerage System on East
                 Saylor Avenue
Res. 1/13/ 1/13/ Adopting and submitting to the Department of Environmental
1977       1977  Resources for its approval as a revision to the “Official Plan”
Grant 8/4/ 8/4/  Grant of right-of-way
1977       1977
Res. 4/13/ 4/13/ Authorizing the payment of a consideration of $3,375 for an
1978       1978  easement grant from Edward Romanansky for the construction of a
                 sewer line pursuant to the Township’s Public Works Program
Res. 8/29/ 8/29/ For Plan Revision, North Valley Swim & Tennis Club proposed
1978       1978  development of a parcel of land identified as North Valley Swim &
                 Tennis Club
Res. 5/10/ 5/10/ Authorizing the payment of a consideration of $3,375 for an
1979       1979  easement grant from Edward Romanansky for the construction of a
                 sewer line pursuant to the Township’s Public Works Program
Res. 5/8/  5/8/  Adopting the Plan of Improvements to Waste Water Interception and
1986       1986  Treatment Facilities, known as the 201 Facilities Plan
Res. 1990- 6/14/ For Plan Revision, Dale Realty proposed development of a parcel of
42         1990  land identified as River Ridge East and proposes that such
                 subdivision be served by community sewage systems
Res. 1990- 8/9/  For Plan Revision, Katzkidd Investment proposed development of a
44         1990  parcel of land identified as Midas Muffler Shop and proposes that
                 such subdivision be served by community sewage systems
                 For Plan Revision for new land development, Volunteers of America
Res. 1991- 4/11/ proposed development of a parcel of land identified as Plains
9          1991  Township V.O.A. Living Center and proposes that such subdivision be
                 served by sewer extension
                 For Plan Revision for new land development, Geisinger/Wyoming
Res. 1991- 7/1/  Valley Medical Center proposed development of a parcel of land
14         1991  identified as Geisinger/Wyoming Valley Cancer Clinic and proposes
                 that such subdivision be served by existing sewer tap-ins
Res. 1991- 8/8/  For Plan Revision for new land development, Plains Township
19         1991  proposed development of a parcel of land identified as Atherton
                 Street Subdivision
Res. 1991- 8/8/  Authorizing the Zoning Officer to review a Sewage Facilities
21         1991  Planning Module submitted for the proposed subdivision known as
                 Bald Mountain Estates
                 For Plan Revision for new land development, General Services
Res. 1991- 9/12/ Administration proposed development of a parcel of land identified
23         1991  as Social Security Administration Wilkes-Barre Data Operations
                 Center and proposes that such subdivision be served by sewer tap-
                 ins, sewer extension
                 For Plan Revision for new land development, Szeles Real Estate
Res. 1992- 3/12/ Development Company proposed development of a parcel of land
5          1992  identified as Cross Valley Corporate Center and proposes that such
                 subdivision be served by sewer tap-ins
Res. 1992- 3/12/ For Plan Revision for new land development, Frank Merlino proposed
6          1992  development of a parcel of land identified as Hudson Gardens IV and
                 proposes that such subdivision be served by sewer tap-ins
                 For Plan Revision for new land development, Michael Milkanin
Res. 1992- 3/12/ proposed development of a parcel of land identified as Milkanin
7          1992  Subdivision and proposes that such subdivision be served by sewer
                 tap-ins, sewer extension
                 For Plan Revision for new land development, The Greater Wilkes-
Res. 1992- 5/14/ Barre Industrial fund proposed development of a parcel of land
38         1992  identified as East Mountain Business Park and proposes that such
                 subdivision be served by sewer extension
                 For Plan Revision for new land development, The Housing Authority
Res. 1992- 6/11/ of Luzerne County proposed development of a parcel of land
41         1992  identified as Plains Township Elderly Housing and proposes that
                 such subdivision be served by sewer tap-ins
Res. 1992- 10/8/ For Plan Revision for new land development, Geisinger of Wyoming
45         1992  Valley proposed development of a parcel of land identified as East
                 Mountain Medical Arts Building
                 For Plan Revision for new land development, Louis Neare proposed
Res. 1992- 10/8/ development of a parcel of land identified as Pocono Trailer Court,
44         1992  Inc. and proposes that such subdivision be served by sewer
                 extension
                 For Plan Revision for new land development, Gino Dominick & Joan
Res. 1993- 5/20/ Marie Marchetti proposed development of a parcel of land identified
17         1993  as Marchetti Subdivision and proposes that such subdivision be
                 served by sewer tap-ins
                 For Plan Revision for new land development, Wilkes-Barre Area
Res. 1995- 6/8/  School District proposed development of a parcel of land identified
14         1995  as Wilkes-Barre K-8 School and proposes that such subdivision be
                 served by sewer tap-ins, sewer extension
                 For Plan Revision for new land development, United Diamond
Res. 1996- 2/8/  Corporation proposed development of a parcel of land identified as
12         1996  (existing) Cross Valley Centre and proposes that such subdivision
                 be served by sewer tap-ins
                 For Plan Revision for new land development, Robert Care proposed
Res. 1996- 2/8/  development of a parcel of land identified as Water Front
13         1996  Professional park and proposes that such subdivision be served by
                 sewer tap-ins
Res. 1997- 3/13/ Sewage Facilities Planning Module, Rank Pascucci, Jr., West side of
5          1997  S.R. 2039, 1 mile Northwest of Kresgeville School
Res. 2011- 11/   Adopting the recommendations of the Plan Update for the selected
25         10/   wastewater disposal alternative
           2011
 
Appendix H
Streets and Sidewalks
Street Activity Description Ord./Res. Date
Street      Activity     Description                          Ord./Res.    Date
Baltimore   Accepting    Located in the East Mountain         Res. 1993-29 9/16/
Drive                    Business Park                                     1993
                         Beginning at a corner where the
Certain                  Southeasterly line of Cotton Avenue  Res. 8/31/   8/31/
land        Conveying    extended intersects the              1967         1967
                         Northeasterly line of Bergh Street
                         extended
Cheryl      Adopting as  Beginning at Hill Street and ending
Street      Public       at Dead End TC                       Ord. 2007-5  8/9/2007
            Highways
East                     Charles Street East off South Main   Ord. 8/31/   8/31/
Charles     Designating  Street                               1967A        1967
Street
Enterprize  Adopting as  Beginning at SR2004 SR and ending at
Street      Public       Dead End TC                          Ord. 2007-5  8/9/2007
            Highways
                         Beginning at Miner Street in the
                         Township, known as State Highway
First       Maintaining  Route No. 40046 and extending to     Res. 4/30/   4/30/
Street                   Main Street in the City of Wilkes-   1965         1965
                         Barre, known as State Highway Route
                         No. 40045
            Adopting as  Beginning at Dead End TC and ending
Gail Drive  Public       at Jay Drive                         Ord. 2007-5  8/9/2007
            Highways
            Adopting as  Beginning at Jay Drive and ending at
Gail Drive  Public       SR2015 SR                            Ord. 2007-5  8/9/2007
            Highways
Gallagher   Accepting                                         Res. 2007-20 8/9/2007
Drive
                         Perpendicular to South River Street,
Gallagher   Naming       bordered by the Zawatski property on Res. 11/9/   11/9/
Road                     the North the Romanowski property on 1989         1989
                         the South
Garden      Changing     Now known as Grace Drive             Res. 1990-15 –/–/1990
Drive       name
Gibbons     Accepting                                         Res. 2007-20 8/9/2007
Lane
Grace Drive Accepting    Certain parcel of property           Res. 10/15/  10/15/
                                                              1987         1987
Grace Drive
(formerly                From Frank J. Merlino and Grace V.
known as    Accepting    Merlino, his wife                    Res. 1990-15 –/–/–
Garden
Drive)
            Adopting as  Beginning at Bergh Street and ending
Hill Street Public       at Michelle Street                   Ord. 2007-5  8/9/2007
            Highways
            Adopting as  Beginning at Cheryl Street and
Hill Street Public       ending at Louis Street               Ord. 2007-5  8/9/2007
            Highways
            Adopting as  Beginning at Louis Street and ending
Hill Street Public       at Sandra Street                     Ord. 2007-5  8/9/2007
            Highways
            Adopting as  Beginning at Michelle Street and
Hill Street Public       ending at Cheryl Street              Ord. 2007-5  8/9/2007
            Highways
Hollenback
Avenue, a/               All or a portion of the vacated
k/          Transferring Hollenback Avenue a/k/a Hollenback   Res. 9/12/   9/12/
a                        Street                               1978         1978
Hollenback
Street
Hollenback
Avenue, a/
k/          Vacating     The Easterly portion of Hollenback   Ord. 9/14/   9/14/
a                        Avenue, a/k/a Hollenback Street      1978         1978
Hollenback
Street
Islands                  Located in the Birchwood Hills                    12/30/
Nos. 1 and  Accepting    Development                          Res. 1993-39 1993
2
            Adopting as  Beginning at SR2015 SR and ending at
Jay Drive   Public       Gail Drive                           Ord. 2007-5  8/9/2007
            Highways
Laflin Road
or          Changing the Running from North Main Street       Res. 10/28/  10/28/
Legislative name         Easterly to the Jenkins Township     1971         1971
Route No.                line be known as East Saylor Avenue
40038
Laflin Road              The roadway that runs from North
or          Changing the Main Street Westerly to River Street Res. 10/28/  10/28/
Legislative name         just below the Jenkins Township line 1971         1971
Route No.                be known as West Saylor Avenue
40038
Lan Creek   Accepting    Certain parcel of property           Res. 10/15/  10/15/
Road                                                          1987         1987
Louis       Adopting as  Beginning at Hill Street and ending
Street      Public       at Dead End TC                       Ord. 2007-5  8/9/2007
            Highways
Michelle    Adopting as  Beginning at Hill Street and ending
Street      Public       at Dead End TC                       Ord. 2007-5  8/9/2007
            Highways
Mitchell    Adopting as  Beginning at Abbott Street and
Street      Public       ending at SR2011 SR                  Ord. 2007-5  8/9/2007
            Highways
            Resolving
Napoli      house        Of the Keystone Section              Res. 10/–/ 10/–/
Street      numbering                                         1986         1986
            disputes
Napoli      Running      To run Easterly from Ridgewood Road  Res. 8/10/   8/10/
Street                   to Route 315                         1978         1978
            Resolving
Ridgewood   house        Of the Keystone Section              Res. 10/–/ 10/–/
Road        numbering                                         1986         1986
            disputes
Ridgewood   Running      To run Easterly from the now         Res. 8/10/   8/10/
Road                     designated Union Street to Route 315 1978         1978
Sandra      Adopting as  Beginning at Hill Street and ending
Street      Public       at Dead End TC                       Ord. 2007-5  8/9/2007
            Highways
South River              A portion of an alleyway located in
Street      Vacating     the Second Ward, to the rear of 225  Res. –/–/–/–/–
                         South River Street
            Grading,
St. James   paving and   Between St. Mary’s Street and Rose Ord. 10/14/  10/14/
Street      necessary    Avenue                               1959         1959
            draining
Sunset      Adopting as  Beginning at Dead End TC and ending
Drive       Public       at Sunset Drive                      Ord. 2007-5  8/9/2007
            Highways
Sunset      Adopting as  Beginning at SR0315 SR and ending at
Drive       Public       Sunset Drive                         Ord. 2007-5  8/9/2007
            Highways
Sunset      Adopting as  Beginning at Sunset Drive and ending
Drive       Public       at Dead End TC                       Ord. 2007-5  8/9/2007
            Highways
            Resolving
Sunset      house        Of the Keystone Section              Res. 10/–/ 10/–/
Drive       numbering                                         1986         1986
            disputes
Sunset                   To run Easterly from Route 315 to an Res. 8/10/   8/10/
Drive       Running      intersection-thence running North    1978         1978
                         and South
Tamarack    Approving    Certain property of Joseph Balent    Res. 8/29/   8/29/
Road        the purchase                                      1975         1975
                         Beyond the Delaware & Hudson right-
Union                    of-way within the Keystone Section,  Res. 8/10/   8/10/
Street      Extending    to continue from the Delaware &      1978         1978
                         Hudson right-of-way Northerly to the
                         Laflin Borough territorial line
            Resolving
Union       house        Of the Keystone Section              Res. 10/–/ 10/–/
Street      numbering                                         1986         1986
            disputes
Various     Maintaining                                       Res. 9/14/   9/14/
Roadways                                                      1989         1989
Various     Accepting    From NPW Medical Center of N.E.      Res. –/–/–/–/–
Roadways                 Penna., Inc.
Warner                   A portion of an alleyway located in
Street      Vacating     the Second Ward, to the rear of 73   Res. –/–/–/–/–
                         Warner Street
West                     Charles Street West of Maffett       Ord. 8/31/   8/31/
Charles     Designating  Street                               1967         1967
Street
 
Appendix I
Water
Ord./Res. Date Subject
Ord./Res.       Date       Subject
Res. –/–/––/–/–Requesting additional fire hydrants, one hydrant on
                           River Street in the area of Stopay’s Candy Store
                           Installing one hydrant in the area of the Carriage
Res. –/–/198–/–/198Stop Inn, one hydrant on Center Street in the
                           Irishtown Section and one hydrant at the corner of
                           Nicholson and Burke Streets
Res. 9/3/1981   9/3/1981   Installing one fire hydrant at a spot 600 feet South
                           of the nearest hydrant on East Merritt Street
Res. 3/13/1986  3/13/1986  Requesting additional fire hydrants, 10 hydrants in
                           various locations
                           Requesting additional fire hydrants, three hydrants
Res. 11/13/1986 11/13/1986 on West Minister Road and one hydrant on Briar Creek
                           Road near Lan Creek Road, Mill Creek Acres
                           Approving installation of fire hydrants placed at
Res. 1990-16    2/8/1990   Grace Drive (near Garden Drive); one hydrant at the
                           Carriage Stop Inn, Route 115; and three hydrants at
                           West Minister Road
                           Requesting additional fire hydrants, one hydrant on
Res. 1993-32    12/9/1993  West Minister Road at a location marked with blue
                           paint on the roadway & telephone pole by the Fire
                           Chief
                           Requesting additional fire hydrants, one hydrant at
Res. 1995-12    4/13/1995  the end of Powell Street at a location marked by the
                           Fire Chief
                           Requesting additional fire hydrants, one hydrant on
Res. 1996-33    6/13/1996  S. River Street by the Wyoming Valley Sewer
                           Authorities Pumping Station as marked by the Fire
                           Chief
                           Requesting additional fire hydrants, one hydrant at
Res. 1996-38    12/12/1996 the end of 8 inch main that is going to be installed
                           by the water co. on Mill Creek Road (Mill Creek
                           Acres)
                           Requesting additional fire hydrants, one hydrant on
Res. 1997-16    7/10/1997  Abbott Street near Bailey Street that is going to be
                           installed by the Water Company
                           Requesting additional fire hydrants, one hydrant in
Res. 1999-11    7/15/1999  the middle of Stoney Creek Road to be installed by
                           the Water Company (Mill Creek Acres)
Res. 2000-11    1/13/2000  Requesting additional fire hydrants, one hydrant
                           Requesting additional fire hydrants, one hydrant on
Res. 2002-24    12/12/2002 the North end of Perkins Street at the end of the
                           roadway
 
Appendix J
Zoning; Prior Ordinances
Ord./Res. Date Subject
Ord./Res.   Date   Subject
Ord. 1/16/  1/16/  Amending and revising the Veterans Administration Hospital Zoning Ordinance
1955        1955   and the map showing the location and boundaries of the zones therein
                   established
Ord. 7/31/  7/31/  Repealing the Zoning Ordinance known as the “Veterans Administration Hospital
1962        1962   Zoning Ordinance”
Ord. 1/28/  1/28/  Adopting a Zoning Ordinance
1966        1966
Ord. 3/31/  3/31/  Amending Article 9, § 9.05 of the Zoning Ordinance
1970        1970
Ord. 4/27/  4/27/  Amending certain sections of the Zoning Ordinance
1972        1972
Ord. 7/31/  7/31/  Amending certain sections of the Zoning Ordinance
1973        1973
Ord. 11/27/ 11/27/ Making it illegal and improper to hunt for any and all types of game in the R-
1974        1974   1 and R-2
                   Rezoning the area commencing from the intersection of East Ann Street and
Ord. 6/30/  6/30/  South Main Street running along the Westerly side of South Main Street at a
1975        1975   depth of 200 feet to the Township–Wilkes-Barre City boundary as a commercial
                   area
Ord. 11/13/ 11/13/ Amending § 10-02 of the Zoning Ordinance
1975A       1975
Ord. 11/15/ 11/15/ Rezoning the area on the Westerly side of North Main Street from R-2 (single-
1976        1976   family and two-family residence) to B-1 (neighborhood commercial use)
Ord. 5/5/   5/5/   Adopting a Zoning Ordinance
1977A       1977
Ord. 9/25/  9/25/  Rezoning approximately 50 acres located generally in the area to the North of
1978        1978   Wilkes-Barre Area Vocational-Technical School, East of Interstate 81 and West
                   of Pocono Park Trailer Court from C-1 to R-3
                   Eliminating the Commercial Recreation Use as set forth in District B-2 General
Ord. 11/8/  11/8/  Commercial and B-3 Highway Commercial; eliminating Entertainment Facilities
1979        1979   Use B-1 Neighborhood Commercial and Shopping Center and B-2 General Commercial
                   and B-3 Highway Commercial; eliminating that Rock Concerts Use set forth in
                   District C-1 Conservation
Ord. 12/5/  12/5/  Prohibitive use amendment, that nuclear waste disposal sites are a dangerously
1979        1979   hazardous use prohibited within any and all zoned districts within the
                   Township
Ord. 12/20/ 12/20/ Rezoning approximately 174.37 acres bounded by Interstate 81 and the
1979        1979   Westminster Road from C-1 to I-1
Ord. 12/20/ 12/20/ Rezoning approximately 23, 645 square feet located on the Southerly side of
1979A       1979   Miner Street bounded by Gibbons Lane and the Delaware and Hudson Railroad
                   Company from an R-2 to B-1
Ord. 12/20/ 12/20/ Rezoning approximately 23,645 square feet located on the Southerly side of
1979B       1979   Miner Street bounded by Gibbons Lane and the Delaware and Hudson Railroad
                   Company from R-2 to B-1
Ord. 3/–/ 3/–/ Amending §§ 4.05, 4.06 and adding § 12.0165 of the Zoning Ordinance
1982        1982
Ord. 4/5/   4/5/   Amending § 8.011 of the Zoning Ordinance
1982        1982
Ord. 5/3/   5/3/   Amending §§ 6.25 and 8.0421 of the Zoning Ordinance
1982        1982
Ord. 5/20/  5/20/  Repealing § 101-12.1 of the Zoning Ordinance and enacting Article 14
1983        1983
Ord. 9/5/   9/5/   Rezoning the parcel of property with 47 feet frontage and 135.4 feet depth on
1983        1983   Stocker Street and 150 feet distance from the corner of East Carey Street and
                   Stocker Street from R-2 Residential to B-2 General Commercial
Ord. 5/17/  5/17/  Rezoning the parcel of property located on the Northerly side of Fox Hill
1984        1984   Road, East of the side entrance to Pocono Downs, consisting of approx. 6 acres
                   of land, from B-3 Highway Commercial to R-3 Multi-family Residential
Ord. 6/13/  6/13/  Rezoning the parcel of property located at 42 East Carey Street, presently
1985        1985   owned by Anthony Burko and Frances A. Burko to B-2
Ord. 10/22/ 10/22/ Rezoning the parcel of property located at the corner of North Main Street and
1985        1985   East Saylor Avenue consisting of approx. 4-1/2 acres of land, from R-1 to B-3
Ord. 8/21/  8/21/  Amending certain provisions of the Zoning Ordinance
1986        1986
Ord. 8/13/  8/13/  Rezoning the parcel of property owned by Sylvester Kondracki, known as 11 Mill
1987        1987   Street, having measurements of 160 feet by 43.6 feet by 140 feet by 50 feet
                   from R-2 Residential to B-2 General Commercial
Ord. 1991-2 5/9/   Replacing Article 14 of the Zoning Ordinance
            1991
Ord. 1995-2 7/13/  Amending § 2.05117 of the Zoning Ordinance
            1995
Ord. 1995-4 11/16/ Amending certain provisions of the Zoning Ordinance
            1995
Ord. 1996-  12/12/ Amending certain provisions of the Zoning Ordinance
6A          1996
Ord. 1997-4 8/5/   Amending the Zoning Map
            1997
 
Fee Schedule
Subject Code Section Fees
Subject                                                                                Code    Fees
                                                                                       Section
ADMINISTRATION AND GOVERNMENT
   recording of deeds
      deed filing fee                                                                    $1.50
   tax collector; authorization                                                     § 1-701
      duplicate, non original tax bills, data disk or copies of other information        $10
ANIMALS
   carrier pigeons
      permit issuance; duration; fee; limitations on number                      § 2-203
         carrier pigeon permit                                                        $10 annual
         reissue permit fee                                                           $10
   prohibited animals
      permit application; fee; duration                                          § 2-303
         permit fee                                                                   $5
   excessive number of cats and/or dogs as a nuisance
      maximum number of animals; dogs and/or cats                                § 2-421
         permit to increase number of allowable animals                               $25
CODE ENFORCEMENT
   building, electrical, plumbing and demolition fees
      residential building permits; based on the total cost of work
         cost of work
            $1 to $500                                                             $20
            $500.01 to $600                                                        $25
            $600.01 to $700                                                        $30
            $700.01 to $800                                                        $35
            $800.01 to $900                                                        $40
            $900.01 to $1000                                                       $45
            $1,000.01 to $2,000                                                    $60
            $2,000.01 to $3,000                                                    $75
            $3,000.01 to $4,000                                                    $90
            $4,000.01 to $5,000                                                    $105
            $5,000.01 to $6,000                                                    $120
            $6,000.01 to $7,000                                                    $135
$7,000.01 to $8,000                                                                            $150
            $8,000.01 to $9,000                                                    $165
            $9,000.01 to $10,000                                                   $180
            Over $10,000.01 valuation, the fees shall be $200 plus $7.50 for each additional thousand
dollar valuation of fraction thereof.
   licensing of buildings, electrical and plumbing contractors
      fees                                                                       § 5-305
         general building contractor license                                          $125
         HVAC professional                                                            $125
         plumber                                                                      $125
         electrician                                                                  $125
      appeals procedure                                                          § 5-308
         appeal fee                                                                   $50
GRADING AND EXCAVATING
   grading and grubbing fees (by district)
      B-1                                                                                $100
      B-2                                                                                $150
      B-3                                                                                $200
      B-4                                                                                $500
      C-1                                                                                $250
      C-2                                                                                $350
      R-1                                                                                $25
      R-2                                                                                $50
      R-3                                                                                $75
HEALTH AND SAFETY
   outdoor solid fuel furnaces
      permit and permit fees                                                     § 10-
                                                                                       105
         issuance of permit fee                                                       $40
   alarm devices
      fee for systems connected to fire or police department                     § 10-
                                                                                       302
         annual connection fee                                                        $100
HOUSING
   landlord/tenant regulations, licensing and occupancy
      fees                                                                       § 11-
                                                                                       116
         inspection
            residential                                                            $50/unit
            commercial                                                             $100/unit
         re-inspection
            residential                                                            $25/unit
            commercial                                                             $50/unit
      filing of appeal                                                           § 11-
                                                                                       120
         fee                                                                          $150
LICENSES, PERMITS AND GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   peddling and soliciting
      fees                                                                       § 13-
                                                                                       108
         issuance of registration certificate fee                                     $50
   regulations for special events, concerts and activities
      license fee                                                                § 13-
                                                                                       204
         application fee                                                              $100
   mechanical amusement devices
      license required; fee                                                      § 13-
                                                                                       301
         license fee                                                                  $75
   alarm devices
      permit fee                                                                 § 13-
                                                                                       401
         first permit year                                                            $100
         annual renewal rate                                                          $50
      non-transferable license fee                                               § 13-  $25
                                                                                       402
      false alarms                                                               § 13-
                                                                                       404
         medical alert
            one to three false alarms                                              Free
            four to six false alarms                                               $15
            seven to nine false alarms                                             $25
            10 or more                                                             Revocation
         burglar alarms
            one to three false alarms                                              Free
                                                                                               $50 per
            any false alarm in excess of three                                     alarm or
                                                                                               activation
         hold-up/panic alarms
            one false alarm                                                        Free
                                                                                               $50 per
            two to three false alarms                                              alarm or
                                                                                               activation
                                                                                               $100 per
            three or more false alarms                                             alarm or
                                                                                               activation
         fire alarms
            one to two false alarm                                                 Free
            three to five false alarms
               per fire apparatus responding                                    $50
               per firefighter responding                                       $50
            six to 10 alarms
               per fire apparatus responding                                    $100
               per firefighter responding                                       $75
            11 to 14 false alarms
               per fire apparatus responding                                    $150
               per firefight responding                                         $100
            15 or more false alarms                                                Revocation
                                                                                               of permit
   liquor license transfers
      filing fee                                                                 § 13-  $500
                                                                                       502
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
   handicapped parking
      application procedure                                                      § 15-
                                                                                       903
         application fee                                                              $25
         renewal fee                                                                  $10
SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
   on-lot disposal system
      conventional systems
         permit fee                                                           § 18-
                                                                                       103
            permit fee                                                             $25
   individual sewage systems
      application for permit                                                             $50
      minor subdivision module review and sign off                                       $75
      major subdivision module review and sign off                                       $125
      soil probe                                                                         $75
      additional test pits                                                               $25
      design review and permit issuance                                                  $50
      perc test                                                                          $150
      chisel plow inspection                                                             $50
      sand inspection                                                                    $50
      final inspection                                                                   $50
      application for repair permit (tank replacement)                                   $50
      verification of prior testing                                                      $50
      re-application of expired permit                                                   $60
      other S.E.O. services                                                              $35 per
                                                                                               hour
      mileage                                                                            $0.35 per
                                                                                               mile
SOLID WASTE
   municipal collection and disposal service for garbage and rubbish
      disposal by Township and residents
         fees                                                                 § 20-
                                                                                       112
            garbage bags (50)                                                      $0.50 each
      disposal by private haulers
         licensing of contractors                                             § 20-
                                                                                       121
            stickers for vehicles used in the garbage/trash collection             $5 each
            residential license fee
               per collector, per year                                          $300
                  per vehicle, per year                                      $10
               complexes with 10 or more units                                  $2 per
                                                                                               unit
            commercial license fee
               per business, per year                                           $30
                  per vehicle                                                $10
      unacceptable waste                                                         § 20-
                                                                                       144
         application
            fee                                                                    $1,000
            proof of liability insurance                                           $500,000
   waste dumpsters
      permit fee                                                                 § 20-
                                                                                       304
         construction or nonconstruction waste dumpster permit fee                    $15
      license                                                                    § 20-
                                                                                       308
         annual license fee                                                           $100
            late charge                                                            $25
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   pave cuts and street excavations
      parking meters                                                             § 21-
                                                                                       136
                                                                                               $2 per
         fee for unavailable metered parking spaces                                   metered
                                                                                               space
      fee schedule                                                               21,
                                                                                       Part 1
         processing and issuing a permit                                              $75
         processing issuing a permit to close a road                                  No Charge
                                                                                               direct
                                                                                               cost
         testing and boring                                                           passed
                                                                                               through to
                                                                                               applicant
         inspection
            per hour or part thereof, 1 hour minimum                               $50
                                                                                               $50 per
         cost of cutting new pavement                                                 square
                                                                                               yard
SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
   major subdivision
      for the base application fee, plus the cost of all engineering fees and/or other   $200 plus
consulting fees related to the review of the plans, application and site inspection            $50 per
work. Said fees shall include, but shall not be limited to, charges for the following          lot
types of services for the submission of a preliminary and/or final plan:
         site inspection
         review of plans
         written reports on plan reviews
         certification of cost estimates for required improvements
         inspection of required improvements during the course of the construction and
installation of said improvements
         final inspection of the subdivision and/or required improvements contained
therein
      In addition to the above fees, the developer, subdivider or agent thereof shall also be required to
pay any and all additional fees, charges or costs that may be charged by any other municipal agency
(other than the Township) for any fees connected with the review of the plans, additional reports or
other such services which may be required or necessitated as a result of the application or any change(s)
made to the application, proposed plans or preliminary and/or final plans by the developer, subdivider or
agent thereof, either of their own initiative or as required by the Plains Township Planning Commission
in order that said application, proposed plan or preliminary plan and/or final plan conforms or complies
with the applicable requirements of the Plains Township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance. The
applicant will also be responsible for all engineering testing, and inspection required in the approval
process of a Major Subdivision Plan.
   minor subdivision
      for the base application fee, plus the cost of all engineering fees and/or other   $150 plus
consulting fees related to the review of the plans, application and site inspection            $50 per
work                                                                                           lot
   major land development
      for the base application fee, plus the cost of all engineering fees and/or other   $200 plus
consulting fees related to the review of the plans, application and site inspection            $50 per
work. Said fees shall include, but shall not be limited to, charges for the following          building
types of services for the submission of a preliminary and/or final plan:                       and/or
                                                                                               tenant
         site inspection
         review of plans
         written reports on plan reviews
         certification of cost estimates for required improvements
         inspection of required improvements during the course of the construction and
installation of said improvements
         final inspection of the subdivision and/or required improvements contained
therein
      In addition to the above fees, the developer, subdivider or agent thereof shall also be required to
pay any and all additional fees, charges or costs that may be charged by any other municipal agency
(other than the Township) for any fees connected with the review of the plans, additional calculations,
additional reports or other such services which may be required or necessitated as a result of the
application or any change(s) made to the application, proposed plans or preliminary and/or final plans by
the developer, subdivider or agent thereof, either of their own initiative or as required by the Plains
Township Planning Commission in order that said application, proposed plan or preliminary plan and/or
final plan conforms or complies with the applicable requirements of the Plains Township Subdivision and
Land Development Ordinance. The applicant will also be responsible for all engineering testing, and
inspection required in the approval process of a Major Land Development Plan.
   minor land development
      for the base application fee, plus the cost of all engineering fees and/or other   $150 plus
consulting fees related to the review of the plans, application and site inspection            $50 per
work                                                                                           building
   subdivision and land development ordinance
      per copy                                                                           $25
ZONING
   conditional uses
      planned residential developments                                           § 27-
                                                                                       713
         application fee per housing unit                                             $250 plus
                                                                                               $75
   zoning schedule of fees
      zoning permits
         residential uses
            new construction                                                       $100
            additions                                                              $50
            accessory structures and/or uses, including but not limited to swimming$25
pools
         nonresidential uses
            new construction and/or use of property without structure              $200
            additions                                                              $100
            accessory structures and/or uses                                       $75
         signs
            identification sign for home occupation                                $10
            institutional uses, public/semipublic uses                             $25
            commercial/industrial uses                                             $50
            bench signs                                                            $50
            billboards                                                             $200
            yearly inspection fee
               bench signs                                                      $50
               billboard                                                        $150
      The above fees apply to the construction of a new sign, and the replacement, relocation or
enlargement of an existing sign.
      certificate of zoning compliance
         residential uses (per unit)                                                  $50
         nonresidential uses (per unit)                                               $70
      A certificate of Zoning Compliance (occupancy permit) is required upon the completion of the use
(including new tenant/owner) development and/or activity indicated upon an approved Zoning Permit, which
verifies to both the property owner and the Township that the use, development and/or activity has been
completed and/or implemented in conformance with the approved Zoning Permit. Accessory residential
structures shall be exempt.
      certificate of nonconformity
         residential uses                                                             $25
         nonresidential uses                                                          $50
      applications to the Zoning Hearing Board
         residential use/structure                                                    $165
         nonresidential use/structure                                                 $300
      In addition to the above referenced fees, the applicant shall be responsible for the cost incurred
by the Township for the publication of the public notice, for the hearing and for ½ the appearance fee of
the stenographer. The cost of the original transcript, when required or requested, shall be governed by §
27-1506.I of the Zoning Ordinance.
      conditional use permit
                                                                                               $350 plus
                                                                                               $25 per
         residential use                                                              dwelling
                                                                                               unit or
                                                                                               mobile
                                                                                               home
                                                                                               $500 plus
                                                                                               $25 per
                                                                                               structure
         nonresidential use                                                           or per
                                                                                               acre if
                                                                                               there are
                                                                                               no
                                                                                               structures
      In addition to the above referenced fees, the applicant shall be responsible for the cost incurred
by the Township for publication of the public notice for the hearing and for ½ the appearance fee of the
stenographer. The cost of the original transcript, when required or requested, shall be governed by § 27-
1506.I of the Zoning Ordinance.
      amendments
         amendments to text of ordinance                                              $300
         amendments to the Zoning Map                                                 $300
         amendments submitted as curative amendments                                  $500*
      *In addition to the above referenced fees, the applicant shall be responsible
for the cost incurred by the Township for publication of the public notice for the
hearing and for one-half the appearance fee of the stenographer. The cost of the
original transcript, when required or requested, shall be governed by § 27-1506.I of
the Zoning Ordinance.
      materials
         zoning ordinance                                                             $25
         subdivision/land development ordinance                                       $25
         zoning map                                                                   $35
 
Table of Disposition of All Ordinances
Ordinance Date Disposition Subject
Ordinance   Date                      Disposition          Subject
–/–/– –/–/–               Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
–/–/– –/–/–               Appendix G           Sewers
–/–/– –/–/–               Realty Transfer Tax   
–/–/– –/–/–               Mechanical Device     
                                      Tax
                                      License fee for
–/–/– –/–/–               entertainment         
                                      devices for 1962
–/–/– –/–/–               Superseded by 1990-1  
–/–/– –/–/–               Superseded by 12/5/  Code Enforcement
                                      1973C
1950-5      9/19/1950                 Appendix C-A         Franchises and
                                                           Services
                                                           Governmental and
10/16/1951  10/16/1951                Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
7/21/1953   7/21/1953                 Superseded by 2006-6  
                                      Repealed by 2/26/    Licenses, Permits
3/6/1954    3/6/1954                  1976                 and General Business
                                                           Regulations
3/16/1954   3/16/1954                 Superseded by A.O.    
4/20/1954   4/20/1954                 Superseded by 11/27/ Taxation; Special
                                      1974
                                                           Governmental and
5/11/1954   5/11/1954                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
1/16/1955   1/16/1955                 Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
                                      Superseded by 3/23/  Licenses, Permits
3/4/1955    3/4/1955                  1959                 and General Business
                                                           Regulations
8/2/1955    8/2/1955                  Superseded by 8/24/  Streets and
                                      1988                 Sidewalks
3/26/1956   3/26/1956                 Per Capita Tax for    
                                      1956
1/6/1958    1/6/1958                  Superseded by 1990-1 Administration and
                                                           Government
                                                           Governmental and
1/6/1958A   1/6/1958                  Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
1958-3      3/14/1958                 Tax rate for 1958     
3/27/1958   3/27/1958                 Per Capita Tax of     
                                      1958
8/8/1958    8/8/1958                  Superseded by 5/29/  Health and Safety
                                      1975
8/29/1958   8/29/1958                 Superseded by 5/29/  Motor Vehicles and
                                      1975                 Traffic
2/27/1959   2/27/1959                 Superseded by 2007-2 Taxation; Special
                                                           Licenses, Permits
3/23/1959   3/23/1959                 Superseded by A.O.   and General Business
                                                           Regulations
                                                           Licenses, Permits
8/28/1959   8/28/1959                 Superseded by 2008-4 and General Business
                                                           Regulations
10/14/1959  10/14/1959                Appendix H           Streets and
                                                           Sidewalks
1962-15     –/–/1962                                  Administration and
                                                           Government
1/15/1962   1/15/1962                 Superseded by 2007-2 Taxation; Special
4/13/1962   4/13/1962                 Per Capita Tax Rate   
                                      for 1963
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
7/31/1962   7/31/1962                 Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
                                                           Governmental and
10/12/1962  10/12/1962                Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
10/31/1962  10/31/1962                Superseded by 5/29/  Motor Vehicles and
                                      1975                 Traffic
2/13/1963   2/13/1963                 Per Capita Tax        
2/13/1963A  2/13/1963                 Real Estate Transfer  
                                      Tax
                                                           Licenses, Permits
3/15/1963   3/15/1963                 Superseded by A.O.   and General Business
                                                           Regulations
11/29/1963  11/29/1963                Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
1963-20     12/13/1963                Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
1/15/1964   1/15/1964                 Superseded by 1990-1 Administration and
                                                           Government
1/15/1964A  1/15/1964                 Realty Transfer Tax   
                                                           Governmental and
3/13/1964   3/13/1964                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
8/19/1964   8/19/1964                 Superseded by 1990-  Solid Waste
                                      11
8/31/1964   8/31/1964                 Superseded by A.O.   Conduct
3/12/1965   3/12/1965                 Per Capita Tax        
3/12/1965A  3/12/1965                 Fixing tax rate for   
                                      1965
5/14/1965   5/14/1965                 §§                 Administration and
                                      1-501–1-502        Government
6/1/1965    6/1/1965                  §§                 Taxation; Special
                                      24-501–24-508
6/1/1965A   6/1/1965                  Superseded by State  Taxation; Special
                                      law
7/30/1965   7/30/1965                 Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
1/14/1966   1/14/1966                 Superseded by 1990-1 Administration and
                                                           Government
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
1/28/1966   1/28/1966                 Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
2/25/1966   2/25/1966                 Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
3/25/1966   3/25/1966                 Superseded by 2005-1 Taxation; Special
3/30/1966   3/30/1966                 Fixing tax rate for   
                                      1966
4/29/1966   4/29/1966                 Appendix C-A         Franchises and
                                                           Services
4/29/1966A  4/29/1966                 Per Capita Tax Rate   
                                      for 1967
4/29/1966B  4/29/1966                 Parking Lot Tax       
4/29/1966C  4/29/1966                 Mechanical Device     
                                      Tax
6/10/1966A  6/10/1966                 §§                 Administration and
                                      1-601–1-604        Government
6/10/1966B  6/10/1966                 Superseded by 1998-1  
9/15/1966   9/15/1966                 Superseded by 5/29/  Motor Vehicles and
                                      1975                 Traffic
1967-1      2/15/1967                 Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
3/15/1967   3/15/1967                 Fixing tax rate for   
                                      1967
4/13/1967   4/13/1967                 Superseded by 12/13/ Taxation; Special
                                      1968
4/13/1967A  4/13/1967                 Per Capita Tax Rate   
                                      for 1968
4/13/1967B  4/13/1967                 Parking Lot Tax       
4/13/1967C  4/13/1967                 Mechanical Device     
                                      Tax
5/12/1967   5/12/1967                 Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
8/31/1967   8/31/1967                 Superseded by 5/29/  Motor Vehicles and
                                      1975                 Traffic
8/31/1967A  8/31/1967                 Appendix H           Streets and
                                                           Sidewalks
9/7/1967    9/7/1967                  Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
12/29/1967  12/29/1967                Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
1/2/1968    1/2/1968                  Superseded by 1990-1 Administration and
                                                           Government
                                      §§
4/30/1968A  4/30/1968                 2-301–             Animals
                                      2-307
                                      §§
4/30/1968B  4/30/1968                 2-201–             Animals
                                      2-205
8/30/1968   8/30/1968                 Superseded by 5/29/  Motor Vehicles and
                                      1975                 Traffic
2/14/1969   2/14/1969                 Superseded by 5/29/  Motor Vehicles and
                                      1975                 Traffic
2/28/1969   2/28/1969                 Superseded by 5/29/  Motor Vehicles and
                                      1975                 Traffic
5/15/1969   5/15/1969                 Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
                                      §§
10/15/1969  10/15/1969                10-301–            Health and Safety
                                      10-306
                                      Superseded by 4/4/   Licenses, Permits
10/15/1969A 10/15/1969                1988                 and General Business
                                                           Regulations
                                      §§
12/13/1969  12/13/1969                24-201–            Taxation; Special
                                      24-207
1/15/1970   1/15/1970                 Superseded by 1990-1 Administration and
                                                           Government
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
3/31/1970   3/31/1970                 Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
3/31/1970A  3/31/1970                 Superseded by Res.    
                                      1998-7
4/30/1970   4/30/1970                 Appendix F           Public Property
                                      §§                 Sewers and Sewage
5/15/1970   5/15/1970                 18-101–            Disposal
                                      18-103
                                      §                   Administration and
8/31/1970   8/31/1970                 1-301–             Government
                                      1-306
10/15/1970  10/15/1970                Superseded by 5/29/  Motor Vehicles and
                                      1975                 Traffic
1970-1      12/30/1970                Annual Budget for     
                                      1971
–/–/1971–/–/1971              Superseded by 5/29/  Motor Vehicles and
                                      1975                 Traffic
7/15/1971   7/15/1971                 Superseded by 5/29/  Motor Vehicles and
                                      1975                 Traffic
                                      Superseded by 5/29/  Licenses, Permits
8/12/1971   8/12/1971                 1975                 and General Business
                                                           Regulations
9/30/1971   9/30/1971                 Superseded by 5/29/  Motor Vehicles and
                                      1975                 Traffic
1971-1      12/30/1971                Annual Budget for     
                                      1972
1/10/1972   1/10/1972                                     Administration and
                                                           Government
                                      §§
2/29/1972   2/29/1972                 24-401–            Taxation; Special
                                      24-412
3/15/1972   3/15/1972                 Superseded by 2005-1 Taxation; Special
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
4/27/1972   4/27/1972                 Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
8/15/1972   8/15/1972                 Superseded by 1991-3 Conduct
11/30/1972  11/30/1972                Superseded by 5/29/  Motor Vehicles and
                                      1975                 Traffic
12/28/1972  12/28/1972                Superseded by 5/6/   Subdivision and Land
                                      1977                 Development
1972-1      12/30/1972                Annual Budget for     
                                      1973
3/15/1973   3/15/1973                 Amending 1972-1       
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
7/31/1973   7/31/1973                 Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
                                                           Governmental and
8/30/1973   8/30/1973                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
12/5/1973A  12/5/1973                 §§                 Code Enforcement
                                      5-201–5-254
12/5/1973B  12/5/1973                 Superseded by 2010-2 Code Enforcement
12/5/1973C  12/5/1973                 Superseded by 2010-2 Code Enforcement
12/5/1973D  12/5/1973                 Superseded by 2010-2 Code Enforcement
12/5/1973E  12/5/1973                 Superseded by 2010-2 Code Enforcement
                                      Superseded by 5/29/  Licenses, Permits
4/15/1974   4/15/1974                 1975                 and General Business
                                                           Regulations
4/15/1974A  4/15/1974                 Amending Budget of    
                                      1974
4/30/1974   4/30/1974                 Superseded by 2010-2 Code Enforcement
5/15/1974A  5/15/1974                 §                   Code Enforcement
                                      5-223
5/15/1974B  5/15/1974                 §                   Code Enforcement
                                      5-223
                                      §§                 Sewers and Sewage
5/30/1974   5/30/1974                 18-111–            Disposal
                                      18-120
8/15/1974   8/15/1974                 Superseded by 1997-3 Conduct
8/15/1974A  8/15/1974                 Superseded by 5/29/  Motor Vehicles and
                                      1975                 Traffic
8/29/1974   8/28/1974                 Superseded by 5/29/  Motor Vehicles and
                                      1975                 Traffic
9/30/1974   9/30/1974                 Per Capita Tax Rate   
                                      for 1975
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
11/27/1974  11/27/1974                Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
                                      §§
11/27/1974A 11/27/1974                24-101–            Taxation; Special
                                      24-110
5/29/1975   5/29/1975                                     Taxation; Special
   § 18-14                        §                   Code Enforcement
                                      5-232
   § 46-1                         Superseded by 6/1/   Conduct
                                      1988
                                      §§
   §§ 12-1–12-3                10-201–            Health and Safety
                                      10-203
   § 93-1                         Superseded by 1996-1 Health and Safety
                                      §§                 Licenses, Permits
   §§ 53-1–53-13               13-101–            and General Business
                                      13-113               Regulations
   §§ 95-1–95-43               Superseded by 1993-  Motor Vehicles and
                                      12                   Traffic
   §§ 80-5, 80-7, 80-8, 80-12    Superseded by 8/24/  Streets and
                                      1988                 Sidewalks
                                      §§
                                      24-401–
   §§ 88-16–88-19, 88-22, 88-2724-404,              Taxation; Special
                                      24-406,
                                      24-411–
                                      24-412
   § 88-47                        §                   Taxation; Special
                                      24-508
   § 88-57                        Superseded by 2007-2 Taxation; Special
   §§ 88-29, 22-34, 88-35, 88-39 Superseded by 2005-1 Taxation; Special
                                      Repealed by 2/26/    Licenses, Permits
6/12/1975   6/12/1975                 1976                 and General Business
                                                           Regulations
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
6/30/1975   6/30/1975                 Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
                                      §§
8/28/1975   8/28/1975                 6-501–             Conduct
                                      6-509
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
11/13/1975A 11/13/1975                Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
11/13/1975B 11/13/1975                §§                 Streets and
                                      21-301–21-303      Sidewalks
11/13/1975C 11/13/1975                §§                 Administration and
                                      1-303–1-306        Government
1975-1      11/26/1975                Annual Budget for     
                                      1976
                                      §§                 Sewers and Sewage
–/–/1976–/–/1976              18-201–            Disposal
                                      18-208
                                                           Licenses, Permits
2/26/1976   2/26/1976                 Superseded by 2-2022 and General Business
                                                           Regulations
6/15/1976   6/15/1976                 Superseded by 5/6/   Subdivision and Land
                                      1977                 Development
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
11/15/1976  11/15/1976                Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
2/28/1977   2/28/1977                 Superseded by 1990-1 Administration and
                                                           Government
                                      §§
5/5/1977    5/5/1977                  24-801–            Taxation; Special
                                      24-803
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
5/5/1977A   5/5/1977                  Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
5/6/1977    5/6/1977                  Superseded by 1997-7 Subdivision and Land
                                                           Development
6/16/1977   6/16/1977                 Superseded by 2010-2 Code Enforcement
1977-1      11/29/1977                Annual Budget for     
                                      1978
                                      §                   Licenses, Permits
12/1/1977   12/1/1977                 13-108               and General Business
                                                           Regulations
12/29/1977  12/29/1977                Superseded by 1993-  Motor Vehicles and
                                      12                   Traffic
–/–/1978–/–/1978              Superseded by 1990-1 Administration and
                                                           Government
1/5/1978    1/5/1978                  Superseded by 1990-1 Administration and
                                                           Government
3/9/1978    3/9/1978                  §                   Administration and
                                      1-301                Government
9/14/1978   9/14/1978                 Appendix H           Streets and
                                                           Sidewalks
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
9/25/1978   9/25/1978                 Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
                                                           Governmental and
12/28/1978  12/28/1978                Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
2/8/1979    2/8/1979                  Superseded by 1993-  Motor Vehicles and
                                      12                   Traffic
                                                           Governmental and
4/15/1979   4/15/1979                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
                                                           Governmental and
5/10/1979   5/10/1979                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
                                                           Governmental and
9/6/1979    9/6/1979                  Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
11/8/1979   11/8/1979                 Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
12/5/1979   12/5/1979                 Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
12/5/1979A  12/5/1979                 Superseded by A.O.   Health and Safety
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
12/20/1979  12/20/1979                Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
12/20/1979A 12/20/1979                Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
12/20/1979B 12/20/1979                Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
2/7/1980    2/7/1980                  §                   Code Enforcement
                                      5-223
1980-1      12/30/1980                Annual Budget for     
                                      1981
4/2/1981    4/2/1981                  §                   Sewers and Sewage
                                      18-201               Disposal
4/2/1981A   4/2/1981                  Superseded by A.O.   Health and Safety
4/2/1981B   4/2/1981                  Superseded by 1993-  Motor Vehicles and
                                      12                   Traffic
1981-5      12/3/1981                 Superseded by 1990-1 Administration and
                                                           Government
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
3/–/1982  3/–/1982                Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
4/5/1982    4/5/1982                  Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
5/3/1982    5/3/1982                  Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
                                                           Governmental and
8/2/1982    8/2/1982                  Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
                                                           Governmental and
8/2/1982A   8/2/1982                  Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
9/1/1982    9/1/1982                  Superseded by 2009-6 Emergency Management
                                      §§                 Sewers and Sewage
1/3/1983    1/3/1983                  18-401–            Disposal
                                      18-408
1/3/1983A   1/3/1983                  Superseded by 1990-  Solid Waste
                                      11
2/7/1983    2/7/1983                  Superseded by 1990-  Solid Waste
                                      11
3/7/1983    3/7/1983                  Superseded by 1993-  Motor Vehicles and
                                      12                   Traffic
5/2/1983    5/2/1983                  Superseded by 1990-  Solid Waste
                                      11
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
5/20/1983   5/20/1983                 Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
6/6/1983    6/6/1983                  Superseded by 2009-6 Emergency Management
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
9/5/1983    9/5/1983                  Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
                                                           Governmental and
10/–/1983 10/–/1983               Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
1983-1      12/30/1983                Annual Budget for     
                                      1984
1984-1      1/–/1984                Amending 1983-1       
                                                           Licenses, Permits
1/2/1984    1/2/1984                  Superseded by 2-2022 and General Business
                                                           Regulations
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
5/17/1984   5/17/1984                 Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
12/13/1984  12/13/1984                Superseded by 1990-  Solid Waste
                                      11
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
6/13/1985   6/13/1985                 Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
10/22/1985  10/22/1985                Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
                                      §§
3/13/1986   3/13/1986                 2-411–             Animals
                                      2-413
                                      §§                 Streets and
5/8/1986    5/8/1986                  21-201–            Sidewalks
                                      21-204
5/8/1986A   5/8/1986                  Superseded by 1993-  Motor Vehicles and
                                      12                   Traffic
5/8/1986B   5/8/1986                  Superseded by 1993-  Motor Vehicles and
                                      12                   Traffic
6/12/1986   6/12/1986                 Superseded by 1993-  Motor Vehicles and
                                      12                   Traffic
                                      §§                 Administration and
6/12/1986A  6/12/1986                 1-311–             Government
                                      1-320
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
8/21/1986   8/21/1986                 Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
3/12/1987   3/12/1987                 Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
8/13/1987   8/13/1987                 Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
                                      §§
12/16/1987  12/16/1987                24-601–            Taxation; Special
                                      24-609
                                                           Licenses, Permits
4/4/1988    4/4/1988                  Superseded by 1997-1 and General Business
                                                           Regulations
5/12/1988   5/12/1988                 Appendix C-A         Franchises and
                                                           Services
6/1/1988    6/1/1988                  §§                 Conduct
                                      6-301–6-303
8/12/1988   8/12/1988                 Superseded by 1993-  Motor Vehicles and
                                      12                   Traffic
                                      §§                 Streets and
8/24/1988   8/24/1988                 21-101–            Sidewalks
                                      21-164
                                                           Licenses, Permits
8/24/1988A  8/24/1988                 Superseded by 2009-7 and General Business
                                                           Regulations
11/18/1988  11/18/1988                Superseded by 1990-  Solid Waste
                                      11
–/–/1989–/–/1989              Superseded by 1997-7 Subdivision and Land
                                                           Development
                                                           Governmental and
1/12/1989   1/12/1989                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
1/12/1989A  1/12/1989                 Superseded by 2009-6 Emergency Management
2/9/1989    2/9/1989                  Superseded by 1998-1  
                                                           Governmental and
12/31/1989  12/31/1989                Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
1990-1      1/25/1990                 §                   Administration and
                                      1-201                Government
1990-2      2/8/1990                  Amending the Budget   
                                      of 1990
1990-3      1/25/1990                 Superseded by 1993-7 Administration and
                                                           Government
                                                           Governmental and
1990-4      6/14/1990                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
1990-5      7/12/1990                 Superseded by 1993-  Motor Vehicles and
                                      12                   Traffic
                                      §§
1990-6      9/26/1990                 20-201–            Solid Waste
                                      20-211
1990-7      11/8/1990                 Superseded by 1993-7 Administration and
                                                           Government
1990-8      12/13/1900                Annual Budget for     
                                      1991
1990-9      12/13/1990                Superseded by 2000-7 Emergency Management
1990-10     12/13/1990                Superseded by 2009-  Code Enforcement
                                      5A
                                      §§
1990-11     12/13/1990                20-101–            Solid Waste
                                      20-112,
                                      20-131
1990-12     12/13/1990                §                   Sewers and Sewage
                                      18-408               Disposal`
1991-1      4/11/1991                 Repealed by Ord.     Sewers and Sewage
                                      2012-4               Disposal
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
1991-2      5/9/1991                  Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
1991-3      8/8/1991                  Superseded by 2009-6 Emergency Management
1991-3A     9/12/1991                 Superseded by 1996-7 Conduct
1991-4                               Missing Ordinance     
1991-5      12/12/1991                §                   Code Enforcement
                                      5-223
1991-6      12/12/1991                §                   Solid Waste
                                      20-112
1991-7      12/12/1991                Superseded by 2009-  Code Enforcement
                                      5A
1991-8      12/12/1991                Superseded by 1996-7 Conduct
1991-9      12/12/1991                Annual Budget for     
                                      1992
1992-1      4/9/1992                  Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
1992-2      7/16/1992                 Superseded by 2009-6 Emergency Management
1992-3      12/10/1992                Superseded by 2009-6 Emergency Management
1992-4      12/10/1992                Superseded by 1993-7 Administration and
                                                           Government
1992-5      12/10/1992                Annual Budget for     
                                      1993
                                                           Governmental and
1993-1      1/14/1993                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
1993-2      2/11/1993                 Superseded by 1993-  Motor Vehicles and
                                      12                   Traffic
1993-3      2/11/1993                 §                   Code Enforcement
                                      5-223
                                                           Governmental and
1993-4      2/11/1993                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
1993-5      4/8/1993                  Superseded by 1993-  Motor Vehicles and
                                      12                   Traffic
1993-6      7/8/1993                  Superseded by 1993-  Motor Vehicles and
                                      12                   Traffic
                                      §§                 Administration and
1993-7      9/9/1993                  1-401–             Government
                                      1-411
                                                           Licenses, Permits
1993-8      10/14/1993                Superseded by 2-2022 and General Business
                                                           Regulations
                                                           Governmental and
1993-9      12/9/1993                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
1993-10     12/30/1993                Annual Budget for     
                                      1994
                                      §§                 Administration and
1993-11     12/30/1993                1-331–             Government
                                      1-336
                                      §§                 Motor Vehicles and
1993-12     –/–/1993              15-101–            Traffic
                                      15-601
                                      §§
1994-1      4/14/1994                 20-141–            Solid Waste
                                      20-145
                                                           Governmental and
1994-2      8/11/1994                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
1994-3      12/19/1994                Annual Budget of      
                                      1995
                                                           Governmental and
1995-1      4/13/1995                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
1995-2      7/13/1995                 Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
1995-3      9/14/1995                 Appendix C-          Franchises and
                                      A                    Services
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
1995-4      11/16/1995                Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
1995-5      12/14/1995                Annual Budget for     
                                      1996
                                                           Governmental and
1995-6      12/14/1995                Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
                                                           Governmental and
1995-7      12/14/1995                Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
                                      §§
1996-1      6/13/1996                 10-401–            Health and Safety
                                      10-409
1996-2      6/13/1996                 §§                 Health and Safety
                                      10-501–10-514
                                      §§
1996-3      8/8/1996                  7-401–             Emergency Management
                                      7-418
1996-4      –/–/1996              §§                 Conduct
                                      6-601–6-606
                                      §§
1996-5      12/9/1996                 16-101–            Parks and Recreation
                                      16-106
1996-6      11/14/1996                §                   Motor Vehicles and
                                      15-401               Traffic
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
1996-6A     12/12/1996                Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
                                      §§
1996-7      12/12/1996                6-201–             Conduct
                                      6-204
1996-8      –/–/1996              Annual Budget for     
                                      1997
                                                           Licenses, Permits
1997-1      3/13/1997                 Superseded by 1998-2 and General Business
                                                           Regulations
1997-2      6/12/1997                 §                   Motor Vehicles and
                                      15-401               Traffic
                                      §§
1997-3      6/22/1997                 6-101–             Conduct
                                      6-103
                                      Superseded by 1998-1 Zoning
1997-4      8/5/1997                  Appendix J           Zoning; Prior
                                                           Ordinances
                                                           Governmental and
1997-5      10/9/1997                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
1997-6      11/13/1997                Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
                                      §§                 Subdivision and Land
1997-7      11/13/1997                22-101–            Development
                                      22-902
1997-8      12/11/1997                Superseded by 2009-6 Emergency Management
1997-9      12/11/1997                §                   Solid Waste
                                      20-112
1997-10     –/–/1997              Annual Budget for     
                                      1998
1998-1      3/19/1998                 Repealed by 2012-3   Zoning
                                      §§
                                      13-404,              Licenses, Permits
1998-2      5/14/1998                 13-407,              and General Business
                                      13-408 (Partially    Regulations
                                      repealed by 2020-4)
                                      §§
1998-3      5/14/1998                 15-401,              Motor Vehicles and
                                      15-505,              Traffic
                                      15-906
1998-4      6/11/1998                 §                   Motor Vehicles and
                                      15-404               Traffic
1998-5      7/16/1998                 Zoning Map Amendment Zoning
1998-6      10/8/1998                 Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
1998-7      –/–/1998              Annual Budget for     
                                      1999
1999-1      12/9/1999                 Annual Budget for     
                                      2000
                                                           Governmental and
1999-2      12/9/1999                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
                                      §§
2000-1      2/10/2000                 27-506,              Zoning
                                      27-508,
                                      27-1003
                                      §§
                                      24-202–
2000-2      3/9/2000                  24-203,              Taxation; Special
                                      24-208–
                                      24-210
2000-3      –/–/2000              Superseded by 2009-6 Emergency Management
                                      §§                 Motor Vehicles and
2000-4      6/8/2000                  15-901–            Traffic
                                      15-905
2000-5      7/13/2000                 §                   Streets and
                                      21-130               Sidewalks
2000-6      9/14/2000                 §                   Zoning
                                      27-507
2000-7      10/12/2000                §                   Emergency Management
                                      7-201
                                      §§                 Motor Vehicles and
2000-8      10/12/2000                15-801–            Traffic
                                      15-806
2000-9      –/–/2000              Superseded by 2009-6 Emergency Management
2000-10     12/21/2000                Annual Budget for     
                                      2001
2001-1      11/8/2001                 Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
2001-2      11/8/2001                 Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
2001-3      12/13/2001                Annual Budget for     
                                      2002
                                      §§                 Motor Vehicles and
2002-1      9/12/2002                 15-208,              Traffic
                                      15-216
                                                           Governmental and
2002-2      10/10/2002                Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
2002-3      11/14/2002                §                   Zoning
                                      27-307
2002-4      12/12/2002                §                   Solid Waste
                                      20-112
2002-5      12/12/2002                §                   Administration and
                                      1-701                Government
2002-6      –/–/2002              Annual Budget for     
                                      2003
                                      §§                 Licenses, Permits
2003-1      1/9/2003                  13-501–            and General Business
                                      13-502               Regulations
2003-2      –/–/2003              §                   Motor Vehicles and
                                      15-404               Traffic
                                      §§
2003-3      –/–/2003              27-202,              Zoning
                                      27-506,
                                      27-707
                                      §§
                                      27-202,
                                      27-404,
2003-4      10/6/2003                 27-509,              Zoning
                                      27-707,
                                      27-714,
                                      27-802,
                                      27-1117
2003-5      –/–/2003              Annual Budget for     
                                      2004
2004-1      3/11/2004                 Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
                                      §                   Licenses, Permits
2004-2      5/13/2004                 13-404               and General Business
                                                           Regulations
                                                           Governmental and
2004-3      5/13/2004                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
2004-4      6/10/2001                 §                   Code Enforcement
                                      5-101
2004-5                               Missing Ordinance     
2004-6      11/–/2004               §                   Zoning
                                      27-1012
2005-1      1/10/2005                 Superseded by 2007-9 Taxation; Special
                                      Revision of the
2005-2      –/–/2005              Annual Budget for     
                                      2005
2005-3      3/10/2005                 §§                 Solid Waste
                                      20-301–20-310
2005-4      3/10/2005                 Superseded by 2006-3 Stormwater
                                                           Management
                                      §§
                                      27-202,
                                      27-502–
                                      27-503,
2005-5      3/10/2005                 27-506,              Zoning
                                      27-707,
                                      27-713,
                                      27-1117,
                                      27-1506
                                      Zoning Map Amendment
                                      §§                 Licenses, Permits
2005-6      5/12/2005                 13-701–            and General Business
                                      13-731               Regulations
2005-7      5/12/2005                 §                   Administration and
                                      1-701                Government
2005-8      –/–/2005              Annual Budget for     
                                      2006
2006-1      1/12/2006                 §                   Subdivision and Land
                                      22-102               Development
                                                           Governmental and
2006-2      –/–/2006              Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
2006-3      2/9/2006                  Superseded by 2012-2 Stormwater
                                                           Management
                                                           Governmental and
2006-4      8/28/2006                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
2006-5      10/2/2006                 Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
                                      §§
2006-6      –/–/2006              5-501–             Code Enforcement
                                      5-504
2006-7      –/–/2006              Annual Budget for     
                                      2007
                                      §§
2007-1      5/10/2007                 6-701–             Conduct
                                      6-703
                                      §§
2007-2      7/19/2007                 24-701–            Taxation; Special
                                      24-703
                                      §§
2007-3      7/19/2007                 7-301–             Emergency Management
                                      7-306
2007-4      7/19/2007                 §                   Motor Vehicles and
                                      15-402               Traffic
2007-5      8/9/2007                  Appendix H           Streets and
                                                           Sidewalks
                                      §§
                                      27-202,
                                      27-319,
                                      27-322–
                                      27-323,
                                      27-404,
2007-5A     9/19/2007                 27-501–            Zoning
                                      27-510,
                                      27-711,
                                      27-714–
                                      27-715,
                                      27-802,
                                      27-1004–
                                      27-1005
2007-6      11/19/2007                Appendix F           Public Property
2007-7      11/19/2007                Appendix F           Public Property
2007-8      12/20/2007                §                   Solid Waste
                                      20-112
                                      §§
2007-9      12/20/2007                24-301–            Taxation; Special
                                      24-313
2007-10     –/–/2007              Annual Budget for     
                                      2008
                                                           Governmental and
2008-1      4/10/2008                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
2008-2      –/–/2008              Superseded by 2011-1 Animals
                                      §§
2008-3      6/12/2008                 5-401–             Code Enforcement
                                      5-405
                                      §§                 Licenses, Permits
2008-4      10/9/2008                 13-601–            and General Business
                                      13-602               Regulations
                                      §§
2009-1      1/8/2009                  6-401–             Conduct
                                      6-407
                                      §§
2009-2      1/8/2009                  10-101–            Health and Safety
                                      10-108
2009-3      5/14/2009                 §§                 Animals
                                      2-401–2-404
2009-4      5/14/2009                 §                   Subdivision and Land
                                      22-202               Development
2009-5      –/–/2009              Annual Budget of      
                                      2009
                                      §§
2009-5A     6/11/2009                 5-301–             Code Enforcement
                                      5-309
                                      §§
                                      27-202,
                                      27-312,
                                      27-324,
2009-5B     5/14/2009                 27-501–            Zoning
                                      27-505,
                                      27-507–
                                      27-510,
                                      27-802
                                      §§
2009-6      7/9/2009                  7-101–             Emergency Management
                                      7-106
                                      §§                 Licenses, Permits
2009-7      9/10/2009                 13-201–            and General Business
                                      13-209               Regulations
                                      §§                 Motor Vehicles and
2009-8      9/10/2009                 15-701–            Traffic
                                      15-706
                                      §§
2009-9      9/10/2009                 2-421–             Animals
                                      2-424
2009-10     9/10/2009                 §                   Motor Vehicles and
                                      15-401               Traffic
2009-11     –/–/2009              Annual Budget for     
                                      2010
                                                           Governmental and
2010-1      1/14/2010                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
2010-2      3/11/2010                 §                   Code Enforcement
                                      5-111
2010-3      8/12/2010                 §                   Solid Waste
                                      20-111
2010-4                               Missing               
2010-5      12/9/2010                 Annual Budget for     
                                      2011
                                      §§
2011-1      3/10/2011                 2-101–             Animals
                                      2-105
                                      §§                 Licenses, Permits
2011-2      3/11/2011                 13-202–            and General Business
                                      13-209               Regulations
                                      §§
2011-3      7/14/2011                 27-1001–           Zoning
                                      27-1002
2011-4      12/8/2011                 Annual Budget of      
                                      2012
                                      §§
2012-1      5/10/2012                 27-1701–           Zoning
                                      27-1712
                                      §§                 Stormwater
2012-2      5/10/2012                 23-101–            Management
                                      23-901
                                      §§
2012-3      8/9/2012                  27-1201–           Zoning
                                      27-1231
                                      §§
2012-4      9/13/2012                 18-301–            Sewers
                                      18-361
2012-5      12/13/2012                Annual Budget of      
                                      2013
                                      §§
2013-1      1/10/2013                 11-101–            Housing
                                      11-129
2013-2      1/10/2013                 Appendix C-          Franchises and
                                      A                    Services
                                      §§
2013-3      10/10/2013                27-1707–           Zoning
                                      27-1712
2013-4      -/-/----                  Annual Budget of      
                                      2014
                                      §§
2014-1      1/9/2014                  10-501–            Health and Safety
                                      10-512
                                      §                   Motor Vehicles and
2014-2      3/13/2014                 15-803,              Traffic
                                      15-806
2014-3      6/-/2014                  Appendix D           Motor Vehicles and
                                                           Traffic
2014-4      8/14/2014                 §                   Motor Vehicles and
                                      15-401               Traffic
                                      §§
                                      10-502;
2014-5      8/14/2014                 10-504;              Health and Safety
                                      10-506;
                                      10-509;
                                      10-512
2014-6      10/9/2014                 Appendix D           Police Pension Fund
2014-7      11/20/2014                Appendix D           Police Pension Fund
2014-8      -/-/----                  Annual Budget of      
                                      2015
                                      §§
2015-1      5/14/2015                 7-101–             Emergency Management
                                      7-106
                                      §§
                                      21-101,
                                      21-115,
                                      21-118,
                                      21-119,
                                      21-128,
                                      21-130,
                                      21-131,
                                      21-135,
2015-2      5/14/2015                 21-138,              Streets and
                                      21-145,              Sidewalks
                                      21-146,
                                      21-154,
                                      21-155,
                                      21-156,
                                      21-157,
                                      21-158,
                                      21-161,
                                      21-162,
                                      21-163, Fee Schedule
                                      §§
2015-3      6/11/2015                 20-111,              Solid Waste
                                      20-131
                                      §§
2015-4      6/11/2015                 24-1001–           Taxation
                                      24-1004
                                      §§                 Motor Vehicles and
2015-5      7/9/2015                  15-803,              Traffic
                                      15-806
                                      §§
                                      27-202,
2015-6      9/10/2015                 27-511,              Zoning
                                      27-1005, Zoning Map
                                      Amendment
2015-7      - -                       Annual Budget of      
                                      2016
                                      §§
                                      27-202,
2016-1      2/11/2016                 27-501,              Zoning
                                      27-502,
                                      27-503,
                                      27-510
                                      §§                 Licenses, Permits
2016-2      6/9/2016                  13-801–            and General Business
                                      13-806               Regulations
2016-3      7/14/2016                 §                   Solid Waste
                                      20-111
2016-4      -/-/----                  Annual Budget - Tax   
                                      Rate for 2017
                                      §§
                                      27-202,
2017-1      6/8/2017                  27-503,              Zoning
                                      27-506,
                                      27-507,
                                      27-509
2017-2      7/13/2017                 §                   Wyoming Sanitary
                                      1-510                Authority
2017-3      7/13/2017                 §                   Wyoming Sanitary
                                      1-510                Authority
                                      §§                 Disabled, Inoperable
2017-4      8/10/2017                 10-401,              Vehicles, etc.
                                      10-408
                                      §§
2017-5      8/19/2017                 10-601-              Knox boxes
                                      10-606
6           -/-/----                  Annual Budget - Tax   
                                      Rate for 2018
2018-1      3/8/2018                  Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
                                                           Licenses, Permits
2018-2      3/8/2018                  13-602               and General Business
                                                           Regulations
2018-3      5/10/2018                 Adopting Ordinance    
2018-4      8/9/2018                  Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
2018-5      8/9/2018                  §                   Disabled, Inoperable
                                      10-401               Vehicles, etc.
2018-6      8/9/2018                  §                   Motor Vehicles and
                                      15-303               Traffic
                                      §§
                                      27-202,
                                      27-325 -
2018-7      9/13/2018                 27-328,              Zoning
                                      27-505,
                                      27-506,
                                      27-508,
                                      27-509
2018-8      9/13/2018                 §                   Zoning
                                      27-506
2018-9      9/13/2018                 §                   Zoning
                                      27-202
2018-10     12/13/2018                §                   Code Enforcement
                                      5-111
2018-11     12/13/2018                §                   Zoning
                                      27-307
12          -/-/----                  Annual Budget - Tax   
                                      Rate for 2019
2019-1      2/14/2019                 §                   Motor Vehicles and
                                      15-504               Traffic
2019-3      -/-/----                  Annual Budget - Tax   
                                      Rate for 2020
2020-1      3/12/2020                 §                   Conduct
                                      6-802
2020-2      3/12/2020                 §                   Conduct
                                      6-801
2020-3      6/11/2020                 §                   Conduct
                                      6-803
                                      §                   Licenses, Permits
2020-4      6/11/2020                 13-401               and General Business
                                                           Regulations
                                                           Governmental and
2020-5      8/13/2020                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
                                                           Governmental and
2020-6      8/13/2020                 Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
7-2020      -/- /----                 Annual Budget - Tax   
                                      Rate for 2021
                                      §§                 Licenses, Permits
1-2021      7/8/2021                  13-901 - 13-         and General Business
                                                           Regulations
2-2021      8/12/2021                 Appendix B           Debt and Bond Issues
3-2021      -/-/----                  Annual Budget - Tax   
                                      Rate for 2022
1-2022      3/10/2022                 §                   Solid Waste
                                      20-111
                                      §§                 Licenses, Permits
2-2022      8/11/2022                 13-301 -             and General Business
                                      13-304               Regulations
                                      §§                 Stormwater
3-2022      9/22/2022                 23-101 -             Management
                                      23-901
4-2022      -/-/----                  Annual Budget - Tax   
                                      Rate for 2023
                                                           Governmental and
1-2023      3/9/2023                  Appendix D           Intergovernmental
                                                           Affairs
2-2023      4/13/2023                 §                   Motor Vehicles and
                                      15-306               Traffic
                                      §§
3-2023      5/11/2023                 24-1001 -            Taxation; Special
                                      24-1004
4-2023      -/-/----                  Annual Budget - Tax   
                                      Rate for 2024
                                                         
 
Table of Disposition of Significant Resolutions
Resolution Date Disposition Subject
Resolution      Date         Disposition              Subject
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix F               Public Property
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix I               Water
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix C-A             Franchises and Services
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
–/–/–     –/–/–  Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
49              –/–/–  Misnumbered               
6/5/1950        6/5/1950     Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
12/7/1954       12/7/1954    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
12/6/1955       12/6/1955    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
6/–/1956      6/–/1956   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
6/4/1957        6/4/1957     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
9/30/1959       9/30/1959    Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
1/31/1962       1/31/1962    Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
7/31/1962       7/31/1962    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
9/17/1962       9/17/1962    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
11/1/1962       11/1/1962    Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
11/29/1963      11/29/1963   Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
1/15/1964       1/15/1964    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
3/12/1965       3/12/1965    Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
3/30/1965       3/30/1965    Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
4/30/1965       4/30/1965    Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
7/15/1965       7/15/1965    Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
12/15/1965      12/15/1965   Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
12/31/1965      12/31/1965   Realty Transfer Tax of    
                             1966
1/14/1966       1/14/1966    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
4/29/1966       4/29/1966    Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
1/13/1967       1/13/1967    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
8/15/1967       8/15/1967    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
8/31/1967       8/31/1967    Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
9/29/1967       9/29/1967    Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
11/15/1967      11/15/1967   Appendix F               Public Property
11/30/1967      11/30/1967   Superseded by Ord. 5/29/ Motor Vehicles and
                             1975                     Traffic
1/31/1968       1/31/1968    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
10/31/1968      10/31/1968   Appendix C-A             Franchises and Services
1/31/1969       1/31/1969    Appendix C-A             Franchises and Services
5/15/1969       5/15/1969    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
6/27/1969       6/27/1969    Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
9/15/1969       9/15/1969    Appendix C-A             Franchises and Services
10/31/1969      10/31/1969   Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
11/14/1969      11/14/1969   Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
1/15/1970       1/15/1970    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
6/30/1970       6/30/1970    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
9/15/1970       9/15/1970    Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
10/15/1970      10/15/1970   Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
10/14/1971      10/14/1971   Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
10/28/1971      10/28/1971   Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
10/31/1972      10/31/1972   Appendix F               Public Property
10/31/1972 A    10/31/1972   Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
10/31/1972 B    10/31/1972   Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
11/15/1972      11/15/1972   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
Deed 1/2/1973   1/2/1973     Appendix G               Sewers
1/15/1973       1/15/1973    Appendix F               Public Property
2/28/1973       2/28/1973    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2/28/1973A      2/28/1973    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
3/29/1973       3/29/1973    Appendix F               Public Property
4/12/1973       4/12/1973    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
5/15/1974       5/15/1974    Appendix G               Sewers
8/29/1974       8/29/1974    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
7/15/1975       7/15/1975    Appendix F               Public Property
8/29/1975       8/29/1975    Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
10/30/1975      10/30/1975   Appendix G               Sewers
11/26/1975      11/26/1975   Appendix F               Public Property
2/12/1976       2/12/1976    Appendix F               Public Property
3/15/1976       3/15/1976    Appendix G               Sewers
4/15/1976       4/15/1976    Appendix G               Sewers
5/13/1976       5/13/1976    Appendix F               Public Property
5/27/1976       5/27/1976    Appendix G               Sewers
5/27/1976A      5/27/1976    Appendix G               Sewers
6/15/1976       6/15/1976    Appendix G               Sewers
8/12/1976       8/12/1976    Appendix G               Sewers
10/28/1976      10/28/1976   Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
1/13/1977       1/13/1977    Appendix G               Sewers
Agrmt. 5/5/1977 5/5/1977     Appendix C-A             Franchises and Services
Grant 8/4/1977  8/4/1977     Appendix G               Sewers
9/15/1977       9/15/1977    Appendix F               Public Property
11/17/1977      11/17/1977   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
11/17/1977 A    11/17/1977   Superseded by Ord. 1993- Motor Vehicles and
                             12                       Traffic
4/13/1978       4/13/1978    Appendix G               Sewers
6/8/1978        6/8/1978     Appendix F               Public Property
6/8/1978A       6/8/1978     Appendix F               Public Property
7/13/1978       7/13/1978    Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
7/13/1978A      7/13/1978    Appendix C-A             Franchises and Services
8/10/1978       8/10/1978    Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
8/29/1978       8/29/1978    Appendix G               Sewers
9/12/1978       9/12/1978    Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
9/14/1978       9/14/1978    Appendix F               Public Property
10/12/1978      10/12/1978   Appendix F               Public Property
5/10/1979       5/10/1979    Appendix G               Sewers
5/10/1979A      5/10/1979    Appendix F               Public Property
8/2/1979        8/2/1979     Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
2/7/1980        2/7/1980     Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
3/20/1980       3/20/1980    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
–/–/1981    –/–/1981 Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
–/–/1981A   –/–/1981 Appendix I               Water
9/3/1981        9/3/1981     Appendix I               Water
12/30/1981      12/30/1981   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2/1/1982        2/1/1982     Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
2/1/1982A       2/1/1982     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2/1/1982B       2/1/1982     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2/2/1982        2/2/1982     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
8/2/1982        8/2/1982     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
9/1/1982        9/1/1982     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
5/2/1983        5/2/1983     Appendix F               Public Property
7/4/1983        7/4/1983     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
8/15/1983       8/15/1983    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1/2/1984        1/2/1984     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2/9/1984        2/9/1984     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2/9/1984A       2/9/1984     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
4/26/1984       4/26/1984    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
5/17/1984       5/17/1984    Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
10/11/1984      10/11/1984   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1/10/1985       1/10/1985    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2/14/1985       2/14/1985    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1985-36         12/30/1985   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1/6/1986        1/6/1986     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1/9/1986        1/9/1986     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2/13/1986       2/13/1986    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
3/13/1986       3/13/1986    Appendix I               Water
4/10/1986       4/10/1986    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
5/8/1986        5/8/1986     Appendix G               Sewers
6/12/1986       6/12/1986    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
9/11/1986       9/11/1986    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
10/–/1986     10/–/1986  Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
10/9/1986       10/9/1986    Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
11/–/1986     11/–/1986  §§                     Taxation; Special
                             24-901–24-911
11/13/1986      11/13/1986   Appendix I               Water
12/11/1986      12/11/1986   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
12/11/1986 A    12/11/1986   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
12/11/1986 B    12/11/1986   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
3/13/1987       3/13/1987    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
5/14/1987       5/14/1987    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
5/14/1987A      5/14/1987    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
5/21/1987       5/21/1987    Per Capita Tax            
6/11/1987       6/11/1987    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
6/11/1987A      6/11/1987    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
7/9/1987        7/9/1987     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
8/13/1987       8/13/1987    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
8/13/1987A      8/13/1987    Superseded by Ord. 1993- Motor Vehicles and
                             12                       Traffic
8/13/1987B      8/13/1987    Superseded by Ord. 1993- Motor Vehicles and
                             12                       Traffic
10/15/1987      10/15/1987   Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
10/15/1987      10/15/1987   Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
12/10/1987      12/10/1987   §                       Taxation; Special
                             24-903
12/10/1987 A    12/10/1987   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
12/10/1987 B    12/10/1987   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1/1/1988        1/1/1988     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1/14/1988       1/14/1988    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2/11/1988       2/11/1988    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2/11/1988A      2/11/1988    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
2/25/1988       2/25/1988    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
4/14/1988       4/14/1988    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
4/14/1988A      4/14/1988    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
6/9/1988        6/9/1988     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
10/13/1988      10/13/1988   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
10/20/1988      10/20/1988   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
12/29/1988      12/29/1988   Appendix E               Plan Approval
2/9/1989        2/9/1989     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2/9/1989A       2/9/1989     Superseded by Ord. 1998-  
                             1
2/20/1989       2/20/1989    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
3/9/1989        3/9/1989     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
4/13/1989       4/13/1989    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
5/25/1989       5/25/1989    Superseded by Ord. 1993- Motor Vehicles and
                             12                       Traffic
5/25/1989A      5/25/1989    Superseded by Ord. 1993- Motor Vehicles and
                             12                       Traffic
9/14/1989       9/14/1989    Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
9/14/1989A      9/14/1989    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
11/9/1989       11/9/1989    Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
11/14/1989      11/14/1989   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-1          1/11/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-3          1/11/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-4          1/11/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-5          1/11/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-6          1/11/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-7          1/11/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-8          1/11/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-9          1/11/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-10         1/11/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-11         1/25/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-12         1/25/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-13         1/25/1990    Superseded by Ord. 1993- Motor Vehicles and
                             12                       Traffic
1990-14         –/–/1990 Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-15         –/–/1990 Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
1990-16         8/8/1990     Appendix I               Water
1990-17         3/8/1990     Appendix C-A             Franchises and Services
1990-18         3/8/1990     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-19         3/8/1990     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-20         3/8/1990     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-21         3/8/1990     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-22         4/12/1990    Appendix F               Public Property
1990-23         3/8/1990     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-24         3/8/1990     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-25         4/12/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-26         4/12/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-27         4/12/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-28         4/12/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-29         4/12/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-30         4/12/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-31         5/10/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-32         5/10/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-33         5/10/1990    Appendix F               Public Property
1990-34         5/10/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-35         5/10/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-36         5/10/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-37         5/10/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-38         5/24/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-39         5/24/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-40         5/24/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-41         6/14/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-42         6/14/1990    Appendix G               Sewers
1990-42A        7/12/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-43         7/12/1990    Appendix E               Plan Approval
1990-44         8/9/1990     Appendix G               Sewers
1990-45         8/9/1990     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
8/9/1990        8/9/1990     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-46         9/13/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-47         9/13/1990    1990 Budget Changes       
1990-48         10/11/1990   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-50         –/–/1990 Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-51         11/8/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-52         11/8/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-53         11/8/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-54         11/8/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-55         11/8/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1990-56         12/13/1990   Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
1991-1          1/10/1991    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
1990-2          1/10/1991    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-2          1/11/1990    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-3          2/14/1991    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-4          2/14/1991    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-5          2/14/1991    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-6          3/14/1991    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-7          3/14/1991    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-8          4/11/1991    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-9          4/11/1991    Appendix G               Sewers
1991-10         4/11/1991    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-12         5/9/1991     Superseded by Ord. 1993- Motor Vehicles and
                             12                       Traffic
1991-13         6/6/1991     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-14         7/1/1991     Appendix G               Sewers
1991-15         7/18/1991    Appendix F               Public Property
1991-16         7/18/1991    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-17         7/18/1991    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-18         7/18/1991    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-19         8/8/1991     Appendix G               Sewers
1991-20         8/8/1991     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-21         8/8/1991     Appendix G               Sewers
1991-22         8/8/1991     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-23         9/12/1991    Appendix G               Sewers
1991-24         10/10/1991   Appendix F               Public Property
1991-25         10/10/1991   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-26         12/12/1991   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-27         12/12/1991   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-28         12/12/1991   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1991-29         12/12/1991   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-1          1/30/1992    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
1992-2          2/13/1992    Superseded by A.O.       Fee Schedule
1992-3          2/13/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-4          2/13/1992    Superseded by Ord. 1993- Motor Vehicles and
                             12                       Traffic
1992-5          3/12/1992    Appendix G               Sewers
1992-6          3/12/1992    Appendix G               Sewers
1992-7          3/12/1992    Appendix G               Sewers
1992-8          3/12/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-9          3/12/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-10         3/12/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-11         3/16/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-12         3/16/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-13         3/16/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-14         3/12/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-15         3/12/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-16         3/12/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-17         3/12/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-18         3/12/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-19         3/12/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-20         3/12/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-21         3/23/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-22         3/23/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-23         3/23/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-24         3/23/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-25         3/23/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-26         3/23/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-27         4/9/1992     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-28         4/9/1992     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-29         4/9/1992     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-30         4/9/1992     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-31         4/9/1992     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-32         4/9/1992     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-33         4/9/1992     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-34         4/9/1992     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-35         4/9/1992     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-36         4/9/1992     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-37         5/14/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-38         5/14/1992    Appendix G               Sewers
1992-39         5/14/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-40         5/14/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-41         6/11/1992    Appendix G               Sewers
1992-42         7/16/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-43         8/13/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-43A        9/10/1992    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-44         10/8/1992    Appendix G               Sewers
1992-45         10/8/1992    Appendix G               Sewers
1992-46         11/12/1992   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-47         12/10/1992   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-48         12/10/1992   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1992-49         12/10/1992   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-1          1/14/1993    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
1993-2          1/14/1993    Superseded by Ord. 1993- Motor Vehicles and
                             12                       Traffic
1993-3          1/14/1993    Superseded by Ord. 1993- Motor Vehicles and
                             12                       Traffic
1993-4          1/14/1993    Superseded by Ord. 1993- Motor Vehicles and
                             12                       Traffic
1993-5          1/14/1993    Superseded by Ord. 1993- Motor Vehicles and
                             12                       Traffic
1993-6          1/14/1993    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-7          2/26/1993    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-8          2/26/1993    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-9          2/26/1993    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-10         2/26/1993    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-11         2/26/1993    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-12         2/26/1993    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-13         2/26/1993    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-14         2/26/1993    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-           3/11/1993    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-16         3/11/1993    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-16A        3/11/1993    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-17         5/20/1993    Appendix G               Sewers
1993-18         6/10/1993    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
1993-19         7/8/1993     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-20         7/8/1993     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-21         7/9/1993     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-22         –/–/1993 Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-23         8/12/1993    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-24         9/9/1993     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-25         9/9/1993     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
9/9/1993        9/9/1993     §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
1993-27         9/9/1993     §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
1993-28         9/16/1993    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-29         9/16/1993    Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
1993-30         11/11/1993   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-31         11/11/1993   Appendix F               Public Property
1993-32         12/9/1993    Appendix I               Water
1993-33         12/9/1993    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-34         12/9/1993    Appendix C-B             Franchises and Services
1993-35         12/30/1993   Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
1993-36         12/30/1993   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-37         12/30/1993   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-38         12/30/1993   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1993-39         12/30/1993   Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
1994-1          1/3/1994     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-2          1/3/1994     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-3          1/3/1994     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-4          1/3/1994     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-5          1/3/1994     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-6          1/3/1994     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-7          1/3/1994     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-8          1/3/1994     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-9          1/3/1994     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-10         1/3/1994     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-11         1/3/1994     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-12         1/3/1994     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-13         1/3/1994     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-14         1/3/1994     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-15         1/3/1994     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-16         1/13/1994    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-17         1/13/1994    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-18         3/10/1994    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
1994-19         3/10/1994    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
1994-20         3/23/1994    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
1994-21         3/23/1994    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-22         5/12/1994    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-23         6/9/1994     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-24         6/9/1994     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-25         7/14/1994    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-26         7/14/1994    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
1994-27         7/14/1994    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-28         8/11/1994    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-29         8/11/1994    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-30         8/11/1994    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-31         8/11/1994    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-32         8/11/1994    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-33         8/11/1994    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-34         8/11/1994    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-35         8/11/1994    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-36         8/11/1994    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-37         8/11/1994    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-38         8/11/1994    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-39         8/11/1994    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-40         8/11/1994    §                       Administration and
                             1-321                    Government
1994-41         10/13/1994   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-42         10/13/1994   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-43         11/17/1994   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-44         11/17/1994   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-45         11/17/1994   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-46         11/17/1994   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-47         11/17/1994   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-48         11/17/1994   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-49         11/17/1994   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-50         11/17/1994   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1994-51         11/17/1994   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1995-1          1/12/1995    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1995-2          –/–/1995 Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
1995-3          1/12/1995    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1995-4          1/12/1995    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1995-5          1/12/1995    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1995-6          2/9/1995     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1995-7          2/9/1995     Appendix F               Public Property
1995-8          3/9/1995     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1995-9          –/–/1995 Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1995-10         3/9/1995     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1995-11         4/13/1995    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1995-12         4/13/1995    Appendix I               Water
1995-13         6/8/1995     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1995-14         6/8/1995     Appendix G               Sewers
1995-15         8/10/1995    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                Intergovernmental Affairs
1995-16         8/18/1995    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-401                   Traffic
1995-17         9/14/1995    Budget Changes            
1995-18         9/14/1995    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1995-19         9/14/1995    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1995-20         10/12/1995   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1995-21         11/9/1995    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1995-22         11/16/1995   §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-401                   Traffic
1996-1          1/2/1996     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-2          1/2/1996     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-3          1/2/1996     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-4          1/2/1996     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-5          1/2/1996     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-6          1/2/1996     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-7          1/2/1996     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-8          1/2/1996     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-9          1/18/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-10         1/18/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-11         1/18/1996    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
1996-12         2/8/1996     Appendix G               Sewers
1996-13         2/8/1996     Appendix G               Sewers
1996-14         2/8/1996     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-15         2/22/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-16         2/22/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-17         3/14/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-18         3/14/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-19         4/11/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-20         4/11/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-21         4/11/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-22         4/11/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-23         4/11/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-24         4/11/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-25         4/11/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-26         4/11/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-27         4/11/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-29         4/11/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-28         4/11/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-30         5/9/1996     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-31         5/9/1996     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-32         6/13/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-33         6/13/1996    Appendix I               Water
1996-34         6/13/1996    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-305                   Traffic
1996-35         6/13/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-36         7/11/1996    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-37         10/10/1996   §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-401                   Traffic
1996-38         12/12/1996   Appendix I               Water
1996-39         12/12/1996   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-40         12/12/1996   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1996-41         12/12/1996   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1997-1          1/9/1997     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1997-2          2/13/1997    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
1997-3          2/13/1997    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-401                   Traffic
1997-4          2/13/1997    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-401                   Traffic
1997-5          3/13/1997    Appendix G               Sewers
1997-6          –/–/1997 §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
1997-7          3/13/1997    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1997-8          3/13/1997    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-906                   Traffic
1997-9          3/13/1997    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1997-10         3/13/1997    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1997-11         4/10/1997    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1997-12         4/10/1997    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1997-13         3/20/1997    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1997-14         5/8/1997     §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-402                   Traffic
1997-15         5/14/1997    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1997-16         7/10/1997    Appendix I               Water
1997-17         7/10/1997    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-208                   Traffic
1997-18         8/14/1997    Budget Changes            
1997-19         8/–/1997   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1997-20         8/14/1997    §§                     Motor Vehicles and
                             15-208, 15-401           Traffic
1997-21         8/14/1997    §§                     Motor Vehicles and
                             15-401, 15-906           Traffic
1997-22         8/14/1997    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
1997-23         8/14/1997    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
1997-24         9/11/1997    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
1997-25         10/9/1997    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1997-26         11/13/1997   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1997-27         11/13/1997   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1997-28         11/13/1997   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1997-29         12/11/1997   Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
1998-1          1/8/1998     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1998-2          1/8/1998     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1998-3          2/12/1998    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1998-4          2/12/1998    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1998-5          3/19/1998    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1998-6          3/19/1998    Superseded by A.O.       Fee Schedule
1998-7          3/19/1998    Superseded by A.O.       Fee Schedule
1998-8          4/30/1998    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1998-9          5/14/1998    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-402                   Traffic
1998-10         7/16/1998    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
1998-11         9/10/1998    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1998-12         10/8/1998    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1998-10-9       10/9/1998    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
1998-13         11/12/1998   Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
1998-14         12/14/1998   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1998-14A        12/29/1998   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1999-1          1/14/1999    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1999-2          2/11/1999    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1999-3          2/11/1999    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1999-           2/11/1999    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1999-5          4/8/1999     Appendix E               Plan Approval
1999-5A         4/8/1999     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1999-6          5/13/1999    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1999-7          6/10/1999    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1999-8          7/15/1999    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1999-8          7/15/1999                            Taxation; Special
1999-9          7/15/1999    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1999-10         8/15/1999    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-216                   Traffic
1999-11         7/15/1999    Appendix I               Water
1999-12         8/12/1999    1999 Budget Changes       
1999-13         8/13/1999    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1999-14         9/10/1999    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-906                   Traffic
1999-15         9/9/1999     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1999-16         10/14/1999   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1999-17         10/14/1999   §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-216                   Traffic
1999-18         12/9/1999    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
1999-19         12/9/1999    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
2000-1          1/6/2000     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-2          1/6/2000     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-3          1/6/2000     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-4          1/6/2000     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-5          1/6/2000     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-6          1/6/2000     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-7          1/6/2000     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-8          1/6/2000     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-9          1/13/2000    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-10         1/13/2000    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-11         1/13/2000    Appendix I               Water
2000-12         1/13/2000    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-13         2/10/2000    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-14         3/9/2000     §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-906                   Traffic
2000-15         4/13/2000    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-16         7/13/2000    Budget Changes            
2000-17         7/13/2000    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-18         –/–/2000 Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-19         8/10/2000    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-20         9/14/2000    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-21         9/14/2000    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-803                   Traffic
2000-22         10/12/2000   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-23         11/9/2000    Superseded by A.O.       Fee Schedule
2000-24         12/21/2000   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2000-25         12/21/2000   Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
2000-26         12/21/2000   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2001-1          1/11/2001    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2001-2          2/8/2001     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2001-3          2/8/2001     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2001-4          3/27/2001    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2001-5          4/12/2001    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2001-6          6/14/2001    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2001-7          8/9/2001     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2001-8          8/9/2001     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2001-9          9/13/2001    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2001-10         11/8/2001    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-401                   Traffic
2001-11         12/27/2001   Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
2001-12         12/27/2001   Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
2002-1          1/10/2002    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-2          1/10/2002    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-3          1/10/2002    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-4          1/10/2002    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-5          1/10/2002    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-6          1/10/2002    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-7          1/10/2002    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-8          1/10/2002    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-9          1/10/2002    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-10         1/10/2002    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-11         1/10/2002    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-12         1/10/2002    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-13         1/10/2002    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-14         –/–/2002 Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-15         1/10/2002    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-16         2/14/2002    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-17         3/14/2002    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-18         3/14/2002    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-19         9/12/2002    Superseded by A.O.       Fee Schedule
2002-20         9/12/2002    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-21         10/10/2002   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-22         11/14/2002   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-23         11/14/2002   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2002-24         12/12/2002   Appendix I               Water
2002-25         12/12/2002   Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
2002-26         12/12/2002   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2003-1          1/9/2003     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2003-2          1/9/2003     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2003-3          2/13/2003    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2003-4          4/10/2003    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2003-5          4/10/2003    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2003-6          5/20/2003    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2003-7          5/8/2003     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2003-8          6/12/2003    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2003-9          9/11/2003    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2003-10         9/11/2003    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2003-11         9/11/2003    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2003-12         12/16/2003   Appendix F               Public Property
2003-13         12/18/2003   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2003-14         12/18/2003   Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
2003-15         12/18/2003   Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
2003-16         12/18/2003   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2004-1          1/8/2004     §                       Administration and
                             1-503                    Government
2004-2          2/12/2004    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2004-3          2/12/2004    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
2004-4          3/11/2004    Superseded by A.O.       Fee Schedule
2004-5          3/11/2004    Superseded by A.O.       Fee Schedule
2004-6          5/13/2004    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2004-7          5/13/2004    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2004-8          5/13/2004    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2004-9          5/13/2004    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2004-10         6/10/2004    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2004-11         8/23/2004    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2004-12         9/9/2004     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2004-14         10/14/2004   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2004-14A        10/14/2004   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2004-15         11/11/2004   Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
2004-16         11/11/2004   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2004-17         –/–/2004 Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2005-1          1/13/2005    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2005-2          1/13/2005    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2005-3          2/10/2005    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2005-4          3/10/2005    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2005-5          4/14/2005    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2005-6          –/–/2005 Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2005-7          6/9/2005     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2005-8          6/9/2005     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2005-9          7/14/2005    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2005-10         10/13/2005   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2005-12         11/10/2005   Superseded by A.O.       Fee Schedule
2005-13         9/8/2005     §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-401                   Traffic
2005-14         12/8/2005    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-401                   Traffic
2006-1          12/22/2005   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2006-2          12/22/2005   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2006-3          12/22/2005   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2006-4          1/12/2006    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2006-5          1/12/2006    Superseded by A.O.       Fee Schedule
2006-6          2/9/2006     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2006-7          2/9/2006     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2006-8          2/9/2006     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2006-9          2/9/2006     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2006-10         2/9/2006     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2006-11         3/9/2006     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2006-12         3/9/2006     §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-208                   Traffic
2006-13         3/9/2006     §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-208                   Traffic
2006-14         3/9/2006     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2006-15         4/13/2006    Superseded by A.O.       Fee Schedule
2006-16         5/11/2006    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2006-17         5/11/2006    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2006-19         5/11/2006    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2006-18         5/11/2006    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2006-20         6/8/2006     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2006-21         7/13/2006    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
2006-22         –/–/2006 Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2006-23         11/9/2006    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2006-24         –/–/2006 Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
2006-25         10/12/2006   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2007-1          1/11/2007    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2007-2          2/24/2007    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2007-3          1/13/2007    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2007-4          1/11/2007    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2007-5          2/8/2007     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2007-6          2/8/2007     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2007-7          2/8/2007     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2007-8          2/8/2007     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2007-9          2/8/2007     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2007-10         2/8/2007     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2007-11         2/8/2007     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2007-12         2/8/2007     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2007-13         2/8/2007     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2007-14         3/8/2007     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2007-15         –/–/2007 Superseded by A.O.       Fee Schedule
2007-16         4/12/2007    Appendix E               Plan Approval
2007-17         4/12/2007    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-402                   Traffic
2007-18         6/14/2007    Appendix F               Public Property
2007-19         6/14/2007    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2007-20         8/9/2007     Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
2007-21         8/9/2007     §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-402                   Traffic
2007-22         10/11/2007   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2007-23         11/8/2007    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2007-25         12/20/2007   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-1          1/7/2008     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-2          1/10/2008    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-3          1/10/2008    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-4          2/14/2008    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-5          2/14/2008    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-6          2/14/2008    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-7          2/20/2008    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-8          4/10/2008    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-9          4/10/2008    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-10         4/10/2008    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-11         4/10/2008    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-12         4/10/2008    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-13         4/10/2008    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-14         4/10/2008    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-15         5/8/2008     §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2008-16         5/8/2008     §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2008-17         5/8/2008     §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2008-18         5/8/2008     §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2008-19         6/12/2008    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2008-20         6/12/2008    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-21         6/12/2008    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-22         6/12/2008    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-23         7/10/2008    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-24         7/28/2008    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-25         10/22/2008   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-26         11/13/2008   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-27         12/11/2008   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-28         12/11/2008   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-29         12/11/2008   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-30         12/11/2008   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-31         12/11/2008   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2008-32         12/31/2008   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2009-1          1/8/2009     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2009-2          1/8/2009     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2009-3          2/12/2009    Superseded by A.O.       Fee Schedule
2009-4          3/12/2009    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2009-5          3/12/2009    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2009-6          5/14/2009    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2009-7          5/14/2009    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-401                   Traffic
2009-8          5/14/2009    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2009-9          5/14/2009    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2009-10         7/2/2009     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2009-11         8/13/2009    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2009-12         8/13/2009    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2009-13         8/13/2009    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2009-14         8/13/2009    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2009-15         8/13/2009    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2009-16         8/13/2009    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2009-17         –/–/2009 Not used                  
2009-18         8/13/2009    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-216                   Traffic
2009-19         8/13/2009    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-401                   Traffic
2009-20         8/13/2009    Superseded by A.O.       Fee Schedule
2009-21         9/10/2009    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2009-22         9/10/2009    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2009-23         9/10/2009    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2009-24         10/8/2009    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2009-25         10/8/2009    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2009-26         11/12/2009   §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-201                   Traffic
2009-27         11/12/2009   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2009-28         11/12/2009   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2009-29         12/10/2009   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2009-30         12/10/2009   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2009-31         12/10/2009   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2010-1          1/14/2010    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2010-2          1/14/2010    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2010-3          2/11/2010    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2010-4          2/11/2010    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-216                   Traffic
2010-5          3/11/2010    Superseded by A.O.       Fee Schedule
2010-6          5/14/2010    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-401                   Traffic
2010-7          5/14/2010    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-216                   Traffic
2010-8          5/14/2010    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-216                   Traffic
2010-9          6/10/2010    Superseded by A.O.       Fee Schedule
2010-10         6/10/2010    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2010-11         6/10/2010    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2010-12         8/12/2010    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-216                   Traffic
2010-13         9/9/2010     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2010-14         9/9/2010     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2010-14A        2/10/2010    Superseded by A.O.       Fee Schedule
2010-15         9/9/2010     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2010-16         9/9/2010     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2010-17         12/9/2010    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2010-18         12/9/2010    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2010-19         12/9/2010    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2010-20         12/9/2010    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-1          –/–/2011 Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-2          1/13/2011    Appendix B               Debt and Bond Issues
2011-3          1/14/2011    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-4          1/14/2011    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-5          1/14/2011    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-6          1/14/2011    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-7          1/14/2011    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-8          1/14/2011    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-9          1/14/2011    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-10         1/14/2011    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-11         1/14/2011    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-12         1/14/2011    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-13         1/13/2011    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-15         2/10/2011    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-16         3/10/2011    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-16A        3/10/2011    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2011-17         6/9/2011     Superseded by A.O.       Fee Schedule
2011-18         8/12/2011    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-208                   Traffic
2011-19         8/12/2011    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-216                   Traffic
2011-20         9/9/2011     §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-303                   Traffic
2011-21         8/12/2011    §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-208                   Traffic
2011-22         9/8/2011     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-23         9/8/2011     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-24         10/13/2011   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-25         11/10/2011   Appendix G               Sewers
2011-26         12/10/2011   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-27         11/10/2011   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2011-28         11/10/2011   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2012-1          1/5/2012     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2012-2          1/12/2012    Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2012-3          2/9/2012     §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2012-4          2/9/2012     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2012-5          3/8/2012     §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2012-6          3/8/2012     §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-206                   Traffic
2012-7          3/8/2012     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2012-8          3/8/2012     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2012-9          1/5/2012     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2012-10         3/8/2012     Appendix D               Governmental and
                                                      Intergovernmental Affairs
2012-11         4/3/2012     §                       Motor Vehicles and
                             15-216                   Traffic
 
 
